

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
ĥ
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS * T 5 EACH.
DECEMBER HANDICAP, CANT EH BURY, DECEMBER 2nd 1000 @ 5 Each, _
SUMMER CUP, KANDWTCK, DECEMBER 26th @ 5 EACHt
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0,, Brisbane, Queensland.
mining
G. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Street, Sydney,
-—FOR—
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
£
t
>
NJ
*
O
o
o
*
<RAck A. r
o
o
o
&
o
A
A
V
o
h
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff,' tile Earl of Jersey,
Lord Carixoton, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND RAGS, ktc.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
53T - Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
--r-rTjX
rx
C i
0
o*
fHj-
rofiS
111 M
ra
■37to.e Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor,
--THE-.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD ICE CO,
(LIMITED)
FOR
JHILk .. .. The Purest Country.
( BEAM .. Double or Single.
H'E .. . . The Clearest Crystal.
Iti iiEIC .. “ Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
FISH .. .. Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
dAME .. .. The Choicest Sorts.
I'OIILTKV .. From the famed Farms of the Colony
I’AsTKA, «Sc. .. The most Exquisite.
IW” The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony;—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Ist July, 1893.
11. I*.vn;SOY,
Manager.
ħ
J. sz> c.
Agents in Wew Sonth.
HOWARD.
Walea for Messrs. Clayton and. Shuttleworth.
\
mm
liP :
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS,
CLAY.TOU & SHUIILtWOSnS UKCQUUi/g&a
IMPROVED PORTABLE EXGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
improved portable thrashing machine.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
ELECTRIC lighting engines,
J. & c.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines-of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelter!
WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. £3° Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application;
Howard, 280 i Pitt Street, Sydney,
$
aSsi;
pi
HOWARD'S SOLTI) STEEL ERA ME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE. OIL, ETC., BTC.
The Bulletin
Yol 13. —No. 720,]
[Saturday, December 2, 1893.
Kegistered at the Generaf Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OOEAN BEACH)*
‘act*.® Brighton of Mew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Eishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families,
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
-b
ikdCsrs. ZEZZXj»3MZI3XTS' , X e iE3ZE : 6. .... IProprietresa.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
kANAGtR FOR Australia ~-X*i J. Mac William, -297 GEORGE STREET; SYDNEY
mm
TRADE MARK
SS
REGISTERED,
H
.
C. r»A.SSA.U
AVI NO succeeded to the Business, of I.AZAItUS A <O., and their Scientific System of SIGHT-TESTING
spectacle-making, Corrects the most difficult oases of defective vision.
and
A Practical Optician employed on the premises for Cases of Compound Astigmatism.
Agents of the late Finn supplied with “ Specialite ” Goods at Reduced Prices.
All Rights and Trade-Marks covered. Unauthorised persons are hereby cautioned against any infringement of same.
FiEtiESID. C. PASSATJ,
OCULIST OPTICIAN. 491 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4 0 per Pair, Oculists’ Prescriptions executed in Dioptric measure.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
iKT APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. BE. FERRY
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT
There is not a country in the civilised world wher
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not beei
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinar
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at one
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their us
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu
factured only at 78 New Oxfoed-st., London. JST” Pur
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they an
SDurioua.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS afd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST. PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” — Ohas. H. Piesse,
M.E.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., P. 0.5., <fec., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The most refined of all Perfumes. ]
Sweet as the Bose itself. Imitated the j
world over, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the j
German kinds. It is more fragrant, ,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinson’s. 1
Of all Dealers. •
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION !—only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Rose
and address in full.
Miscellaneous.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Jt*ric© «»ci.
i[EHRY vfEATIfS
TRADE MAH®
£(Wo: Ctfoofr
Sole
Lgents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. 6d.
A Splendid liat for Boating 1 , Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three nthgligfi shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
Gr. rear, saaxri'xz & so isr,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
cndno
VHAA
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Kush for the
Spots,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each ;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
, , Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, If- ; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Bejant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. Maria Monk, 16, post
1/9. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should be by
Annie Besant, 1/-, by post 1,2. Wonderful Song Book
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, tco. I'd'
‘ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, i, 6. ’ '
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt price 5/-
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot!
16 Park Street, SYDNEY. y ’
manhood.
HEALTH , STRENGTH Am VIGOR RE STORE I
/u Lour I leeks by ihe use of
O* RI CO jrdW
L | FB :
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for S6s Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for Australasia—Perry <b Co., 73 Gertrude '
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Cd., Pitt-.st.,Sydney.
Tales of the convict system
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical
A- Xji 3D 3KT Q g
Cured and Prevented with
DE3 XT HOHKr»
It removes the cause, viz : Congestion of the Follicle,
and provides food for the hair. 5 - p CI . Bottle
h
grey hair
Whiskers, tyekrows, «&<• '
Quickly resume their own rich natural
colour with
Horn’s ‘‘ A cesma, ”
Non-poisonous, free from grease and
smell, does not stain the skin.
3,« and 5/,
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
‘■‘Horn’s Hair Solvent * (Beg.)
Leaves no mark.
2 « and 5, ■ per Bottle.
Testimonials from Medical Men derail-
mi.n, _ and analytical reports and press
opinions with each bottle. These will con
vtnee the most sceptical. Prepared by
■Rf’ ®* Hair Specialist,
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grimwade arid Co M P lhnn,„ o
and the New Zealand Drug Go., VVellington dhrl
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd. Svdneva d h ’
or for 1/6 extra from the Proprietor.’ A vfiSS
on “The Human Hair” (illustrated), post free'for
stamps.
NERVOUS MEN.
i
M
EUREKA
ELECTRIC B
nn \>>
BELTf^
' V’
tr\*
Z'
\
A NEVER RAILING CURE EOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic' Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS. Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on ■'
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to healt h ancf vigorous strength,
even the wmrst case permanently cured in three months!
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address or. receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage. '
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
h
ĥ
w
m
W
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorder,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
iufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that js required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If fed l6ll a . O-
- to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses win
be found to work wonders upon the most importan
organs in the human machine. They strengthen tn
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexio ,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into a ’■
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physioa*
energy of thehuman frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes in
continually by membeiS of all classes of society ; a
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debihtat
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patei
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Bills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness ck Breath, Tight!
and Oppression'©! the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these r
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppress
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbkciiam sgo
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will i
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by Bi®
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancasn .
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), ana
Es. 9d. ,(treble quantity). ' .
Sold by . all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dea
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
T A
LIS OF THE CONVICT
Price—One Shilling.
“the bulletin."
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
Tlie Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
111 list rated Newspaper.
“Tlie Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent, and dis-
tinctive Australiah National Poh ;y<
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded,
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System- one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolitionof Titles of so called ‘‘nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from , its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in , which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which oven took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian ■ journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity* unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushmau of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriknd
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum,
- Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi
aliens to be addressed to J. E, Archibald.


«Medical.
R
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by tiie Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
md Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years' continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Li ver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
it® any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Midden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr, >T. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE FOUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure oven the most obstinate eases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in wain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. d. vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory :results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, ,1 am prepared to allow any honest
ipersomto
test them free,
■or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
jinay be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
■Press, and
Cured Patients,
'that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
1 CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
S’ersona who suspect taint in their blood, or
Weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours Consultation t
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a,m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.rn. to 5 p.m.
Saturday— 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings : Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical*
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
si tuated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr- G-IBBOKTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and _ Scottish Universities, and comnleted Ids
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. lie
has made a life-long study of
Private, Mervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
■STO'O'JKrGJ- MBN
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time;; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure ; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen; impure blood;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
-On Receipt op 6d. tn Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book.,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure qf
debility,
and should be enclosed in >the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination .is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case,requires advice, and you cap either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
none need desea in,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed, lay Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
Locked Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel.
8
m
all
E
“ she Sydney feoffee Palace” Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
i i It II I .
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board :>( is
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &e.
i»l >( ItIPl IVi:.
Position in the very centre
of I lie City.
Overlooking Government
Domaili and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
A’ith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY I*ll BE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Medical.
INTO Cure, 3W o
MIViL
a y.
belt
tPHIS is the ONE and ONLY EJeotrio Belt which will
-L cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEARTH. This marvellous .Electric Belt drives a steady
soothing current,that can J>e felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Renumber, we give 1 a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what ,we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them,, or send for our EUECTRIO, ERA
and price-list (post,free),’which wtyl convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
u
IN
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from all parts of the wor.d and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’s
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
BELT. Bead the letters:
Prom Australia,
Me.'W, H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N, S. W., writes as follows:
."To W. H. Sohl & 00., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoon asit is placed on his body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
Prom England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 16 Astop.St., Birmingham,
speaksas follows: "I can say that 1 haveTfelt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” rrom America. w
Mb J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, al so, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got up as i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled meeversinceuntilltned your belt. For one year
now I have felt as I used to at so."
Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write for free descriptive ‘Pamphlet No. 2, and
We,rse mention thispaperv/henyou address: W. H. Soul & Co.,
158 Pitt St.. Sydney! Elliott Bros,, Brisbane; or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San Francisco, U. S. A.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing eases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most suo ess-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Woman’s Salvation.
The Greatest Discovery of the Age! His Treatise posted
FREE, undercover. Write. Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
mJmm
V
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSINu CHAIR,
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works eajy, is a nice, light-looking: chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
ns in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE,
tiSO «V (iH'i George Street, Sydney,
£»Vw
Hair Will Go Grey.
GOOCH’S
me WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditions,
an occasional application
only being necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
importer of Human Hair,
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 163 PALMER STREET.
yjg only/ fyrejfo
%
■lmpatient Housewife {to messenger): “ Wliat
Baking Powder is this you have
(brought me ? ”
Messenger : “That’s what was given me.”
Impatient Housewife {excitedly) : “ Then
take it back, and ask for—
BATHO’S Powder, for, you know,
That other brands deceive them
With “ads ” and jokes that pass as smokes,
They ,tempt you to believe them,
But oft my thoughts again repeat,
That BATHOS' Powder is the best,
And I know it can’t be beat.”
(Soldene.)
ROMARf!
i
v.o
CROMTY
Whisky
Greenlees Brothers
QIftSCOW IDHOON AND
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Q IJ. FOR A MOUSTACH R!-
Capillarine!
g-W The Lightning Moustache Producer. itft
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CK4IG A AITKIN, Sole Agents.
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield liiil, SYDNEY.
fW” NOW PUBLTSTTKT).
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.


Business Announcements.
ħ
“Clothed with Air.”
Cellular Cloth
i||rc66 ißhirt^
WITH
TAnen Fronts &■ Cuffs «
0/6 & 7/0
Just Opened.
Cellular Cloth Whirls.
French Print Fronts and
Cuffs: 3-stud; various
patterns—(JO.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention s'ze of neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents:
B RAH AM Si MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SVDNF.V.
rjULES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,
PRICE—let. ; Per TOST, Is. 3d.
Business Announcements.
l^m s
Mercer*-
HATS
at once
proclaim
THE
MAN.
THEY" give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W" orld-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGS STREET (opposite Lassetter’s),
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
h
SjF
f
\
15 THE
Before purchasing any other
SEND FOR CIRCULAR Or askyoilr
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
fH 6
f
HOME
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY'
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BAKER’S ENGLISH SHEFFIELD RAZOR.
Ir recommends itseJt. Try one. 6/ 6(U‘L, post free throughout Australasia.
W. JNO. BAKER, CUTLER, 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
MSWTON & LAMB
Have now Displayed,
in their well-known
and commodious
Warerooms, a
Large and Varied
STOCK
FURNITURE
Suitable for the Summer.
Verandah, Lawn and Deck Chairs, Seats and Lounges,
in Rattan, Willow, Cane, etc., in infinite variety, at
LOWEST PRICES.
CARDER SEATS, with Rustic Cgst-Iron Standards. 6ft. loner,
•• H/6, 19/-, 25/-, 30/- each,
A Very LARGE SELECTION of the NEW
Hush & Pith, Cane & Plaited Straw
FUR3NTITURE.
NOVEL in DESIGN. LIGHT in STRUCTURE and COOL in
APPEARANCE and USE, comprising
Occasional Chairs, Armchairs, Hocking Chairs, Easels,
Tables, Eire Screens and Settees.
These being of Sydney Manufacture, SUITES or SINGLE ARTICLES
- can be supplied to order.
JAPANESE BLINDS, best Jskin fitted with Lines and Pulleys, complete, ready for fixing,
ICE CHESTS and REFRIGERATORS, in all sizes and best makes, at WHOLESALE PRICES.
NEWTON & LAMB,
SPBIUG Sc STREETS
SYDNEY.
pippBMpa.fe
Jnp
mmmm
ijlki I M **
m
itT
' ''. <>
11. T. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Bteam En S ines - Boilers, Engines
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY,
Write ns with roprard to any and every description of Machinery you
Prices quoted, and yom enquiries intelligently replied to'wi'tho
may want particular* of..
Ut any delay.
Medical.
Teeth.-a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other Arms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
,A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
l\ London Dental Institute’s Economical
System otters the following advantages :
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
|\r; HACKETT writes: “The London
il. y Dental Institute have one of the largest
pract ices in the world. ; . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
posr free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 08 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeto Beeta
UCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, Ac.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
PILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney*
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
mm mm pocket cases
(Made of Strong Polished Metal, lined with
Silk Velvet).
For Dr. MUELLER’S sue-
oessful treatment of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
jection of strychnine, con-
taining patent poison
sucker, best hypodermic
syringe, two hypodermic
needles, glass mortar and
pestle, two tubes of strych-
nine tabloids, which will
keep for years, and fum,
Directions for use.
Price, complete, *l-Postage paid to all parts of
Australia.
L BRUOK, 13 Oastlereagh-st., Sydney
vh
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... ~ 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can oiler special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager*
Business Announcements:
“A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold!”
TAYLOR BROS;.
VIVE MAKERS & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET*
S'YHDlsrS’Y'.
ĥ
The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES ir
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native VVoftds made into good Smoking Pipes.
JiMMlte Wood (Hakea Leucopterra)
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stem), 4 6
Ittyall Wood Pipe ditto 4 li
Vurraii Wood Pipe ditto t t;
Briar Boot I*lpe ditto 4 6
(Above Pipes with Silver Mount and Amber Stem, 7«'
Briar Boot Pipes* L. &Uo. in circle, 4-* 5 6/-* 7 -
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
The Briar Root is sweeter than any Other known.
Pipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
iES*” When ordering, please state shapes. Shapes
Square Block, Horn of Plenty Round Bent and Rottini
Bent Push, and Flat.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be sent (post free) to any address.
Wc are Purchasers of Needle-M ood Boot.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY , 2ft. S* WA LES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d, per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
AV. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets,
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, at Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Board and Residence at Moderate Charges
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc,
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders,
...
INCLUSIVE or SEPARATE TARIFF. AS DESIRED.
Luncheon, d la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner. Table D’Hote, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p,m„ 3s,
*° *• C " ,iw >' <*«*»•«• *«l VWW, mny ,l,vny, rely npor
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Pott Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 13™-Wo. 720,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1893.
Prior, 64.
NO MORE SR] mt 1
AfO ROQ 1
■life no re WMj
TRAINS or
TREAT RFs'
SRIIFLBS - Mo,
NOT ITINQ . . _
THE FALL OF MAN.
(SCENE: The Garden of Eden in the near future).
DOWNTRODDEN ADAM: “ You Lave robbed me of all my barmless little amusements : you have made life a desert. There's nothing left worth Hving for!"
EMANCIPATED EVE: “Nothing! Why, there’s ME! ”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Walks.
terms to subscribers
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly * ... Q 126
Quarterly o 6 G
NOTICE.
By - sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added ichere required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Sote, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
Ihe Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
I ei se, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:-!?. A. Thompson and Co., S Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, ivith 2s. 2d,
added for postage.
A o papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid, There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1893.
The State as a Pawnbroker.
Maoriland Government—by far the
most liberal and the most enterprising in
the Australasian provinces announces a
project for making land-mortgages practically
a State monopoly. The scheme itself, so
far as can be judged by the details at
present available, seems to be some
distance from perfection, but the mere
recognition that the pawnbroking indus-
try is an evil which requires State regu-
lation, like the drink and opium traffic and
the trade in immorality, is something
gained. Australia and Maoriland have
probably, in proportion to population, more
pawnbroking facilities than any other region
on earth. They have a greater pressure
of bank to the square inch of humanity
than any other country, and the Australian
banks do comparatively little “legitimate”
business, as the term is understood in
England, but deal enormously in loans on
real estate. And, in addition to them, every
city in Australasia is crowded with land
banks, building societies—which are mostly
land banks under a thin disguise—loan,
mortgage, finance, discount, trading, agency,
and every other kind of societies, also
private money-lenders and all manner of
assorted Lombards, all of whom live, to a
great extent, by making advances on mortgage
at rates of interest varying from seven per
cent, to whatever they can get. A few of
these institutions are conducted in a reason-
ably liberal fashion, but they are compara-
tively few. The dividends paid by the large
majority are incompatible with anything
even distantly resembling decent business.
Also, almost all of them, becoming possessed
sooner or later by an ambition to own the
whole earth, lose their balance in trying to
seize it.
* * •
This is one aspect of the evil, but there
are others as well. Most of the m mey lent
on mortgage in Australia comes, directly or
indirectly, from that universal capitalist, J.
Bull. And, consequently, most of the interest
ultimately gets back to England, and Bull,
the greatest and most inveterate absentee
on earth, takes the profit. He is the principal
shareholder- at from 8 to 15 per cent.—in
the biggest financial institutions ; and the
principal debenture-holder and depositor,
and therefore he gathers in the money
with both hands. How much he takes
from Australia annually in interest, and
what percentage he realises, are hard
things to ascertain, but the aggregate total
is certainly large, and the percentage, in
many cases, is enormous.
* » *
And the accumulation, through foreclosure
and otherwise, of vast estates in the hands of
companies and syndicates, is an evil even
worse than the percentage. The object of
every wise statesman is to settle the land
with a vast multitude of small proprietors or
Crown tenants, but instead of getting nearer,
this consummation, in Australia at all events,
grows more remote. Something like one-
fourth of the pastoral leases are now in the
hands of banks and loan corporations which
have foreclosed the mortgage, mostly in the
name of Bull, the eternal absentee. The
number of conditional purchases which drift
every year into the big estates of the money-
lending institutions is enormous. No matter
how fast the small landholders are settled
upon the soil, they are moved off it still
faster—to a great extent through the fore-
closure of the eternal mortgage which is
always falling due. And though much of
this land is resold—generally under another
mortgage which may also be foreclosed in
due time—the big estates of the banks and
other joint-stock loan-mongers keep growing
bigger every year.
• # #
The proposed State Mortgage Department
promises to furnish a remedy for some of
these evils, and a partial remedy for others.
The central idea is to borrow money, on the
security of the State, in England or in Aus-
tralasia or wherever else it may be offered,
at 3| or 4 per cent., and lend it out on land-
mortgages at 4j. If the interest is fixed at
4 per cent, a good deal of the capital .required
will probably be obtained in these provinces
and the balance will come from England ; if
the rate is reduced to per cent, the de-
partment, in its earlier years at all events,
will be principally dependent on English
capital. Maoriland securities now stand so
high that a very large sum would doubtless
be obtainable even at this low rate. As the
money now lent on mortgage is mostly
English capital, this means that the lender
would remain the same —it would be the in-
evitable J. Bull in either case — but owing
to the State guarantee, the interest would
be reduced to something like one-half. The
fractional difference between the price at
which the State would borrow and that at
which it would lend would cover working
expenses, and leave a margin for possible
losses. The borrower would pay interest
only—all the miscellaneous charges levied by
the private money-lender would be abolished.
He would have a merciful creditor, for, pro-
vided the security showed a sufficient margin,
the loan could run on practically for ever!
And as land mortgages, under this system,
would soon become, toallintentsand purposes,
a State monopoly, every foreclosure would
mean another addition to the public estate,
and another advance in the direction of land
nationalisation. Also, something like three-
fourths of the useless race of financiers would,
sooner or later, be driven to some other and
possibly more honest occupation, and as
the prosperity of a community depends on
the number of its producers, every pawn-
broker who is forced out to grow potatoes in
the wilderness, or to dig for coal, or to pros-
pect for gold, is a gain to the community at
large.
• • •
The scheme is no mere matter of theory.
The Government, or semi-Governmental,
Savings Banks already exist by exactly the
same process; they borrow money at low
interest on the security of a State guarantee,
and they lend a part of it, at all events, out
on mortgage at a slightly higher percentage
but still at one which is considerably below
ordinary market-rate. The only reason why
they have not already extinguished the private
or joint-stock Shylock is that their funds
are limited, and it is necessary to keep a
considerable portion in hand to meet sudden
withdrawals, and a considerable portion
more is borrowed by impecunious Treasurers
to fill the perpetual gap in the Financial
Statement. Still their experience, limited
as it is, proves that the State can conduct a
loan and mortgage department more cheaply,
honestly, safely, and efficiently than ‘the
private speculator. The experience of the
Maoriland State Insurance Department and
the Public Trust Office are further evidence
in the same direction. But, after all, the
question of cheapness is the only one to be
seriously regarded ; the honesty of the
Government Mortgage Department may be
left out of consideration. In Maoriland, it
might be reasonably honest, for—perhaps
through the absence of the original convict
taint, perhaps from other causes—that pro-
vince has always been blessed with an
infinitely more reputable order of politicians
than its Australian neighbours. In New
South Wales or Victoria it would probably
be a sink of corruption, alleviated only by
spasmodic “reforms” at uncertain intervals.
But even though it became a mere refuge for
the relatives of politicians and an asylum for
broken-down placemen, and its securities
fell to nearly the level of the Argentine
Cedillas, still it could not be worse than
the system now existing. The memories of
twelve reconstructed banks, and
like a hundred alleged “banks” which are
past all reconstruction, and several financiers
who are in gaol, and several dozens who are
not, and recollections of James Munro’s
defunct institutions and of the Mercantile
“ tentacles,” and other things of the kind
forbid the possibility.
• • •
The general lowering of the rate of in-
terest would undoubtedly involve some loss
to life insurance societies and similar insti-
tutions, but this would be a comparatively
small disaster. A greater danger is revealed
by the experience of Argentina which tried
a somewhat similar experiment a few years
ago. Partly through the inherent weakness
of the scheme itself, but chiefly through
the fact that it was mixed up with
a ghastly experiment in paper currency,
the Argentine project came to grief.
The reduction in interest led a number of
speculators to buy huge estates with bor-
rowed money. There was a land-boom such as
Argentina never saw before ; then a collapse
which reduced the value of land to such an
extent that even the lowest valuations left
insufficient margin ; a general foreclosure;
and a financial breakdown which brought
Cedulas so low that a cart-load of these
securities would scarcely have bought grease
for the four wheels of the vehicle. The
graduated land-tax would probably prevent
any such disaster in Maoriland, but if a
Government Mortgage Department were
created in New South Wales, where no such
tax exists as a check on land speculation,
the experience of the province might
be something akin to that of boom-stricken
Argentina.
The Contingent Vote: the Apotheosis of
Mediocrity.
Dear Bulletin, —If the object of those respon-
sible for the proposals to introduce the Contingent
Vote into N.S, Wales is the destruction of the
political Labour-party, their choice of a means
is a singularly effective one. The offspring in
politics of the scheming brain of Samuel
Griffith, the ablest, coolest, and craftiest foe
of Australian Democracy, the Contingent Vote
was designed to bar the entrance of Parliament
to men of pronounced opinions of a progressive
character, and to men of that character alone.
If the device worked alike all over the country,
reactionary Tories would be affected equally
with Radical Progressists ; but this is not the
case. Practically, the scheme only comes into
operation in the more important centres of
population, where a large democratic vote and
a plurality of candidates may be anticipated,
but in the agricultural and pastoral districts,
and generally in those where the population is
thin and scattered, it does not affect the return
of the most rigid Conservatives, for, in these
instances, the expense of the candidature tends
to prevent a multiplicity of aspirants. Thus,
the Contingent Vote, in these cases, is practi-
cally inoperative, and wherever the plutocratic
candidate is, through personal popularity, roads
and bridges influence, or the superior organisa-
tion of his friends, calculated to beat any single
candidate who may come against him, his
return absolutely unaffected by the instru-
ment which will, in the large centres of popula-
tion, act uniformly against the progressist candi-
Qd)C6S»
* * #
It was seen by Griffith, and the inspiration
was imparted to his abettors in the recesses of
the clubs and bank-parlours, that the effect
of the measure, in the large centres of
population where several candidates might
be expected for each seat, would be to favour
the “ moderate ” men—the milk-and-water indi-
viduals who would cultivate a little of everything
and very little of anything, except a sense of their
own importance and a sense of the necessity of
keeping the “extremists” down. It was
explained by the Queensland Castlereagh
that the contingent device would, in every case
where a plurality of candidates ensued, benefit
the persons who, whilst they gently depre-
cated the employment of harsh measures against
the unions by the big capitalists and their
confederates in the Government, would lose no
opportunity to denounce the new unionism and
the “ agitators ’’—the sort of men, in fact, who,
whilst mildly praising the spirit of the workers,
would simultaneously revile their leaders, and
who, though unobtrusively the effective allies of
the monopolists, would loudly parade, with their
desire for “good Government,” their belief in
salutary measures of reform when these were
brought forward in a judicious and gradual
manner. Under the operation of the Contingent
Vote, in a constituency where this sort of a
humbug puts up, in conjunction with a National
Ass man and a Social Democrat, it is ten to one
that he will get a contingent vote from the bulk
of the Ass man’s friends and also from a con-
siderable section of the Labour candidate’s sup-
porters, and thus, though he might have the
smallest primary vote of the three, his multi-
plicity of secondary votes would register him
the winner.
• * »
Take another case. There are three candi-
dates running for a constituency. Let us say
Fitzroy, and let us presume there are Reid
(Freetrader), Barton (Protectionist), and
Flowers (Labour). Well, lam a Freetrader ;
therefore, I want Reid elected, so I give him
my primary vote; but I remember that Bar-
ton, though a Protectionist, is a good man to
have in the House, and, in any case, I want to
keep out the “ agitator,” so, whilst giving the
preference to Reid, I want to have two chances
against the Labour man and, therefore, I give
Barton my secondary vote. If lam a’Protec-
tionist, I reason in a similar manner, only giving
Barton my first vote and Reid my second.
But, suppose I should be that poor but not
uncommon creature, a ‘ 1 moderate ” Labour man,
then, perhaps, with a hope that all will be well,
I give my primary suffrage to Flowers, and,
according as I may have Freetrade or Protec-
tionist proclivities, I decide to give Reid or Bar-
ton a secondary vote. I then stand by
and watch results—to find that the full
strength of the purely Freetrade and Protec-
tionist vote has been heaped upon Reid and
Barton, who have also received some share of
the Labour suffrages, with the final result that
the Labour candidate, who has received prac-
tically no help from the fiscal partisans, i a
defeated by the candidate who has obtained the
biggest accumulation of the secondary votes -
and this, though the Labour man’s primary
vote may far exceed that registered for either
of the fiscal candidates. It might be objected
to this that some of the electors who give a
primary vote to a fiscal partisan may register a
contingent vote for a Labour candidate.
Ihe objection is practically pointless; for at
this period of our history no voters who
prefer fiscalism to the cause of Democracy will
countenance a Labour candidate. The strictly
fiscal vote is an anti-Labour vote, and under
the contingent system the Labour candidates
are likely to be overwhelmed by a combination
of the forces of fiscalism.
* # »
There will be cases in which more than three l
candidates will offer themselves ; but the con-
tingent vote will in these circumstances operate
m the same manner against Labour. * The
Progressist candidates will always have only
the strictly Labour voters to rely on, whilst
the moderates, the all-things-to-all-men indi-
viduals, the personally popular men and the
town-pump personages will still command a.
monopoly of the contingency suffrages, and
thus, under the operation of that system, the
want of fixed principles and the general ability
to trim will be the most important factors in
the msurement of success. This is the prospect
which is opening up just at the time when there
is a very general feeling that the British Parlia-
mentary system abjectly fails to obtain a repre-
sentation of principles. Under that system it
is just possible that the result of a general
election may give a vague impression of the
state of opinion of the country on the leading
question of the hour ; but with a multitude of
issues distracting the electors, the result, even
on the one issue, is often obscure, and he
is a bold man who will rashly assert
that Freetrade or the town pump
Protection or cheap railways, fiscalism or
sectarianism, has been the chiefest factor in the
return of a candidate. When this is deplor-
ably the case, whilst men can only vote straight
for the candidates wdiom they believe in and
with whom they are identified in ideas, how-
will it be when the contingent vote system
permits of the return, and, as a matter of fact,
will insure the return of candidates who do not
represent the voters’ opinions on the leading
issue of moment, and who, when they have any
opinions at all -worth mentioning, will repre-
sent ideas with which their contingent
supporters are not identified? What sort
of a Parliament will result from votes given
for individuals, not because they have good
ideas, but because other men have bad ones
not because the candidate believes in this, but
because the other fellow believes in that ? ’The
answer is that a Parliament chosen under such
conditions will represent no principles except
stagnation, and that where men with principles
have succeeded in entering it, it will be in spite
of, and not because of, the Contingent Vote.
The introduction of that Vote is proposed
avowedly because a, multiplicity of candidates
is threatened and with the object of preventing
the representation of minorities; but Demo-
cracy would do well to beware of the gifts of
the Creek. No sense of the iniquity of minority
representation troubled the cold heart and
crafty mind of Samuel Griffith when he in-
flicted the system on the northern province.
His object was not to favour the representation !
of the majority, but to ensure the predomin-
ance of the over-franchised minority, and in like:
manner the cordial agreement on the subject of
the Contingent Vote observed between a Capi-
talistic Government and press in N.Si.
\\ ales bodes no good for the masses;.
Better for them to run the chance of a few
instances of minority representation than agree
to the infliction on themselves of an instrument
which will operate perpetually against the ad-
vance of Democracy. It is not the existence of
single electorates, and not the abolition of
money deposits, that causes a plethora of can-
didates. Both of these factors are in operation
in Maoriland, South Australia, Great Britain,
and the United States ; but we find no undue
number of candidates in those countries.
* • •
What causes the flocks of political aspirants
in N.S. V ales is partly because a new electoral
system is being tried ; but far more so because
the present Assembly of New South Wales has
been chronically on the eve of dissolution for
about 18 mouths, whilst all the time expecta-
tion has been kept up and attention concen-
trated on the possibilities of a general election.
Had the present Parliament come to an end like
all its predecessors, single electorates would have:
caused no rush of candidates, neither will they
do so on any future occasion where the circum-
stances are normal. The present prospects are:
absolutely abnormal, and the Contingent vote
would be a permanent infliction introduced tO'
deal with an exceptional circumstance. Minori-
ties may prevail (as they always have) in some’
cases this time ; but organisation will ensure;
that the majority will rule in the future.
Meantime, it should be remembered that the
Contingent Vote is the device of the monopolist
to overthrow the Labour-party and to ensure
the return of candidates pledged strongly to
nothing but to be “ moderate ” —and to down
the “extremists,” and it is good enough for
Democracy to shun it.—Yours truly, R.T.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Berry Again?
A rumour that Graham Berry may presently
be returned to London in his former capac ty
of Agent-General for Victoria has “ gone the
round of the press ” without eliciting a growl
of protest. The mere suggestion of such an,
appointment ought to have been nipped in the
bud by an indignation meeting, but Victoria,
lacks power to give expression to its opinion on
any matter of public interest, in the rare event
of an opinion being formed. There is no evi-
dence that Victoria has even troubled to con-
sider the impropriety of putting Berry back,
into the billet from which he was fortunately/
recalled ere the Mercantile Bank collapse came-
about. Eighteen months ago the British credi*


tors of this same bank were hooting at the name
of Berry, the chief of its London direc-
tors. They regarded him as the one mainly
responsible for all their troubles, inas-
much as they had deposited their money
upon the strength of his connection with the
board, if not at his direct invitation. Granting
that much of this indignation was undeserved
by its object, the fact that Graham Berry can
never shake off his connection with the Davies
scandal remains clear as daylight. Victoria
may be indifferent to scandal and utterly
unconscious of the damage suffered by the
.State these last few months, but the gentleman
who goes abroad as Agent-General will find
himself in a different moral atmosphere. Ex-
cuses, moreover, that are fairly urged for
Berry in Melbourne go for very little among
people who haven’t analysed the Mercantile
case and can’t be expected to do so. Enough
for them that his name has an unpleasant sound
in their ears. The name of James Munro, his
successor, doesn’t sound more unpleasant across
the sea, yet the idea of setting Jimmy up again
as a practical representative of Victoria would
seem monstrous. Then away with any notion
of resuscitating Graham Berry ! He left
London in time to escape being scorned and
insulted to his face, and has derived a certain
amount of credit from the erroneous assumption
that he cleared out because he saw what was
coming. If he were to return now, they would
regard him as another bit of Mercantile Bank
bluff—a cool attempt to persuade the world
that there are no grounds for dissatisfaction
with the conduct of that notorious enterprise.
♦
Government hy—What?
Premier Forrest, the ennobbled chief of the
family oligarchy that now runs Westralia, has
thrown down an arrogant challenge that should
be enthusiastically accepted. Flushed with
the viands of Newcastle (VV.A.) Show dinner,
thus the frog-like Forrest :
Party Government in other places means that favours
which Govt, has to bestow are given to those that sup-
port, and this will be the effect sooner or later in this
province. The electors should not lose sight of, this in
choosing their members for the new Parliament. The
Govt, has not, up to the present, made this distinction
between their supporters and their opponents, but
Ministers are only human, and this party motive may
play a larger part in the next parliament.
It is not often that one meets with the indivi-
dual audacity that publicly sandwich-boards
itself—“ Political Burglar by Profession, and
Proud of It !” John Forrest not only admits
ithat his idea of Party Government is fully
represented by political bribery and intimida-
tion, but he glories in the fact. And if his past
doings have been mild in comparison with what
ihe proposes to do in the future, what sort of
gigantic moves can he have planned out ? The
'Civil Service is honeycombed with relatives and
hangers-on of “ the families.” The Bayswater-
Busselton Railway, which cost the country
£386,000, looks as if specially built to improve
a few private estates. The Midland Railway
Co. was guaranteed to the National Bank to the
tune of £60,000, and without waiting for the con-
sent of Parliament. Etcetera, &c., &c. If all this
occurred in the days when the Forrest Govern-
ment was not “ good to its friends,” what may
be expected when this straddling Colossus
does start favouring his supporters ? If Wes-
tralian electors have any manly spunk, they
will take this King Bully by the ears and douse
him in the horse-pond of election defeat.
The Inner Australian.
Thus “Locust”
Dear Bulletin,— The Australian doesn’t know how to
live in harmony with his climatic environment. When
will he forswear the heavy beverages he now indulges in
for light native wines ? forsake his fondness for tough
meat three times a day, and fly to the vegetable, the
salad, the maccaroni, even the onion of Southern Europe?
At present the Australian, drivelling in a climate similar
to that of Southern Europe,' lives like an inhabitant of
cold and clammy Britain. Take the ordinary man of
business. He begins with a solid meat breakfast, goes to
Ms business, probably takes a glass and a snack at 11 a.m.
in a public-house, then eats a heavy roast-beef-Yorkshire-
pudding dinner in a stuffy dining-room at one o’clock.
This he washes down with stupefying beer or enervating
tei. After business hours he goes home to another meat-
and pudding gorge, and then becomes a prey to drowsy
indigestion. If aftei this he takes his women-folk to the
theatre or the concert-room, he does so under protest,
snores heavily during the Beethoven sonata or the tenor s
love song, or wakes with a guilty start when the
heroine screams for the police. A few years of this makes
him melancholic with dyspepsia, and finally he dies of
apoplexy, and is buried beneath a tombstone as heavy as
his dinners. A man of the same class in Paris, Rome, or
Milan, would have a light breakfast, consisting of a bowl
of coffee (such coffee, too !) and a roll of delicious bread
and butter—sometimes an omelette. At noon he would
eat a light meat and vegetable lunch, washed dowm with
native wines. At 6 p.m., or thereabouts, he would stroll
to his caf6 which, in summer, is fully open on to the
street or boulevard, with little tables set for two, three,
or four, on the footpath, or under the trees or awnings,
and there in the cool summer air eat his dinner, consisting
of two or three light dishes, soup, fish, entr6e, roti, sweet
oish, and desiert, washed down with light wine. Then he
would sit and smoke his cigar, and slowly sip his black
coffee and cognac, w'hile the lights of the city emerged
from the gathering twilight. Mixed with his food would
b -‘the sauce of conversation and laughter. There is no
greater contrast in the world than between the suspicious
and hostile silence of, say, four or five Englishmen
casually met at one table, and the convincing gaiety of
tbe same number of Frenchmen in like circumstances, all
talking at once like the chorus in the opera. There
' s ail opening for a Duval or a Gatti in Sydney and
Melbourne. There is a fortune awaiting the man
who will effectually introduce open-air dining, and light-
wine drinking ; the man who will save us from
tough meat, heavy beer, and dyspepsia ; who will make
native wines as commonly used as native oaths ; who will
deliver us from solemn silence and solid puddings, and
band us over to fresh air, gaiety, laughter, and skilled
cookery. Future generations would reverence the
memory of such a man, and the whole trend of history
j. 3 turned into another channel. Drunkenness would
disappear, profane language give place to wit and epi-
F ram i and political change become much more rapid than
>t ever would where the men and women are rendered
sleepy and dull by an unsuitable and mistaken diet, and
neurotic by unsuitable beverages. Thrift would be
encouraged, poverty would disappear, and the whole
social problem would be solved when the wine-growing
Australian learns to drink his own delightful wines in
Preference to tea and beer. I commend the above reflec-
llo"s to the patriotic National Ass, who, lam perfectly
sure, are confirmed dyspeptics to a man, or an ass, which-
ever it is.
The British Navy.
According to recent cable advices the British
fleet isn’t feeling particularly well. Something
like £27,000,000 has been scattered within the
last four years in building new iron-clads alone,
ever and above the ordinary naval expenditure,
and at the latter part of last year over 60 bulky
war -ships were approacliing completion.
Britain, in fact, has just finished building a
new navy, and now it is seriously declared that,
after allowing for the defence of outlying parts
of the empire, France can master a bigger fleet
in the vicinity of the Channel than the beloved
“mother-land,” and, therefore, it is necessary
to spend another £18,000,000 and build
another new navy to put things right.
Meanwhile it is stated, on good autho-
rity, that at least ten millions worth of
the new ironclads are top-heavy, unsea-
worthy, and practically useless. The state-
ment looks probable enough ; in fact, it is an
open question whether all ironclads are
not just about useless. A great naval
battle, nowadays, would probably send
£30,000,000 in steel and expensive machinery
to the bottom of the ocean, therefore the
Great Powers avoid naval battles as much as
possible, and the huge arks that are built of
boiler metal remain mostly matters of theory.
But whenever some small outlying disagreement
takes place the ironclads make a melancholy
show. The first unpleasant reflection on their
stability was the sea-fight at Lissa in 1866,
when the Austrian admiral, with an old timber
paddle-steamer, rammed down Persano’s great
iron ship, which the Italians regarded as the
strongest war-vessel in Europe, and sent her to
be a mass of oxidised ruins at the bottom of the
sea. The last trouble is the sinking in Rio
Janeiro harbour, by a shore battery, of a vessel
plated with a foot of solid steel, the ironclad
disappearing before even the crew had time to
get overboard and escape. In between these
events a good many unpleasant things have
happened to shake the public faith. The
mysterious going down in Carthagena harbour
of the Fernando el Cattalico has never yet been
explained : the iron monster was there over-
night, and in the morning she was only a mast-
head appearing above the water, and nothing
else’ is known of her. The loss of the Vanguard,
the Victoria and the Grosser Kurfiirst has
shown that when two first-class iron monsters
bump against each other accidentally in
calm water, the effect is much the same as
when a brick wall is struck by lightning. And
next to her capacity for mysteriously sinking in
calm water, the most remarkable thing about
the modern ironclad is her amazing tendency to
go to sea and never again be heard of. These
considerations rather tend to abate the joy of
the loyal Australian who drivels about the
advantages of belonging to the British h’empire
so that Britain’s ironclad fleet may rush to our
assistance in time of trouble. The modern fleet
has such an inclination to collapse whenever it
tries to move a little faster than usual that it
would probably either break down or sink or
burst on the way. The only satisfaction is
that the enemy’s fleet would most likely break
down also.
The Electric-Lighting 1 Boodler.
The Australian Star, which seems to exist
at present mainly for the purpose of whooping
up monopolies, publishes a bitter article to
show the extreme beauty of the scheme for
lighting Sydney by private instead of municipal
enterprise. The following are half-a-dozen
samples of the Star’s undue excitement: —
(1) If private enterprise is to be thwarted, as a section
of the Labour-party have determined it shall be, what
will become of this country ? .... (2) A portion at
least of the existing depression is due to the unreasoning
hostility to capitalists and to private enterprise shown
by a number of the members of the Assembly
(3) There is a great principle at stake in connection with
the Electric-Lighting Bill (4) Last week we
referred to the fact that the Municipality of Glasgow'
had a contract with a company—it expired some months
ago, we believe - for running trams in the city. There is
not a fragment of evidence that the citizens were
injured in any way by this arrangement; on the
contrary, they were greatly’ benefited
The council may at the present time be running the
trams on its own account, but if such be the case the
public did not demand that it should do so ; it was quite
satisfied with the old order of things. Other municipal
works in Glasgow, established for the convenience of the
people, have also, we understand, been farmed out. We
have an impression that the great municipal laundries
have been (5) If private enterprise is not to
be allowed to have anything to do with the production
of electric-light in Sydney it is probable that the city may
have to do without that illuminant, except in isolated
cases, for many years to come (6) In the
United States and Canada there are scores of small cities
no larger than Qoulburn that are lighted by electrical
agency. Private companies supply the illuminant, and
are doing so to the satisfaction of the consumers.
In regard to the first question, The Bulletin
doesn’t exactly know what will become of the
country, but it isn’t likely to be anything worse
than what became of it in the old Fat Man days.
(2) There is no hostility to genuine “ private
enterprise,” and there never has been, and
there is no sign that there ever will be.
It is pauper enterprise that is objected to—the
enterprise of the Australasian Rights Purchase
Bill description, which comes abjectly begging
for State assistance in the shape of a concession
worth at least £500,000 in cash —the enter-
prise of the mendicant syndicate, which is
partly begging and partly robbery. The kind
of enterprise that won’t be enterprising except
with an enormous subsidy from the State isn’t
worth having. (3) There is a great principle
at stake in re the Electric Lighting Bill.
Further comment would probably be libellous.
(4) The less said about the brilliant example of
the Glasgow tram syndicate the better. The
writer remembers these trams well, with their
exorbitant fares, and their general dilapi-
dation, and the tattered advertising bills
which hung from them in all directions, and
their bony, ill-fed horses, and the awful pro-
fanity they created throughout the city. (5) The
threat that electric-lighting will be blocked in
Sydney unless the profits go to private boodlers
is an interesting example of the unreasoning
hostility of the Fat Newspaper to public enter-
prise, and the truculent, unprincipled, and
utterly selfish and shameless fashion in
which it is prepared to stop all progress
unless the aggregate Fat Man is paid to stand
out of the "way. (6) The “satisfaction”
of the American consumer doesn’t exist.
Many U.S. towns are lighted by private
electric-lighting companies and a few by
municipal enterprise, and the difference between
the two is that the former consistently charges
enormously more than the latter. The “ satis-
faction ” of the people looks so much like
thinly-disguised murder that The Bulletin can
only hope no such form of contentment will
ever take root in Australia.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Fer. K.” (N., N.S.W.) : You may be only
16 years old ; but your verse isn’t 16 months. Stick to
droving while you're safe Not_ up to our
mark.... “ Englisher " (Melb.) : Australia isn’t “the
gumsucker’s heaven.” Gumsuekers know no heaven
“Satan Junior” : Have heard your “original” yarn ever
so many ways and times....“G.S.”: Will consider
“Station Hand ” (Narramine, K.S.W.) : You take Henry
Lawson’s affected cynicism too seriously; but we record
your objection that “crawlers” are not more frequent
among station-hands than among any other classes...
“Old Bush”: Thanks.... “ J.H.F.” : Will illustrate....
“Benedict” (Gunnedah, N.S.W.): The idea doesn’t in-
flame one’s artistic zeal; item, however, paragraphed... .
“ Marcus Nice album-verse; though “ drowsihed ”is
not permissible in any respectable album. ...“Oroweater”
(Camooweal, Q.): Right glad to hear from you.. ,
“ Monte ” : Monte is “ the 3-eard-triok ; ” a monte-man, a
spieler who plays it. Monte Carlo is one of the towns of
the little principality of Monaco, 6 sq. miles in area,
between Nice (France) and the Mediterranean ; its balmy
climate and the casino of Monte Carlo are all that it is
celebrated for “H.M.” (Sydney): Next week
“H.0.J.” (Nathalia): Your “philosophy” is verse in
ague... “Nemo” (Adavale, Q.): The big circulation of
The Bulletin and mail necessities prevent the “binding”
of the whole of each issue “Joe the Cook”: A
picturesque garb fora stale old romance told under all sorts
of disguises and conditions ; but unprintable, anyhow....
“Thomas A.”(Eulo.): No; he is a humbug. See an
oculist in Sydney or Melbourne, if you can ; if not, see a
qualified local doctor... “ Yankee ”: Thanks; but when
we want libels of that sort, we always make them on the
premises ...“A Chee"; It doubles over and conflicts
somewhat with verses already in hand “P.Y.C.”
(Gimbuna, Vic.): The first verse will make public your
rare talent as a poet:—
“ We’re Legion’s without a Possession
For Robbers have griped (!) all the Earth
But we’re told that we’re in for a Blessing
Here after we inherit the wealth
The future—we’re no speculators
We leave to the Rich an the great
What we want is a field an Potatoes
A roof an some tucker to Eat
Good meat
an Bread what a treat.”
....“J. B. Orbost” ; Thanks, one will do very well
“Opal”: As these deposit-receipts are accepted in pay-
ment of overdrafts up to 18s., it should be easy to draw
your own conclusions from the price at which they are
501 d...." Elliot Dene ” (G. Melb.): Average murder-cwm-
ghost story declined with thanks .. “ F.G.M.” (Croydon,
N.Q.): “ Lady Darling’s Kiss” tasteless, as administered.
... “El Chico”: Yes, we have heard of Caltowie,
but not of its “glory-grinding, devil-dodging hypo-
rites.” “ Lex Kingsley ” (Armidale, N.S.W.): You are
a trifle madder than most loonies who fancy themselves
bards “Mulgar Native” (Charleville, Q.); Get
hold of a lively incident, and you can write it up
well enough... .“Yarril” (Goondiwindi, Q.): (1) No.
(2) Swearing yarn a variant of a stock wheeze.. ..
“P.V.0.” (Gippsland); Lucky you registered your
doggerel. It is once more registered in w.p.b “8.E.”
(Melb.): Story of cleanly-dressed woman who had worked
98 hours a week for 2s. 6d., and begged a magistrate to
send her to gaol, or she must go on the streets, is over-
done ; she’d get work as a servant if she could toil like
that and really meant work “R.W.” (Leichhardt):
One verse:—
A rhyme about our brave yachtsmen
And of their yachting uniform
For promoting the welfare and renown
Of their Noble Australian Sea Port Town
And also for their lady Companions
Who they proudly confess
They press their hearts to theirs
To take a long kiss.
Remaining verses kept for private consumption
“Sea Flower" (Yeulbah, Q.): Tame, though possessing a
lilty swing. It would make a good commonplace song.
“Fitzroy”; Sorry, no chance at all just now
“ J.W.8.” (Brisbane, Q.): Your afflatus is a counterfeit.
By the way, why does no poet ever mingle fried-
pork nightmares with his vapours on “ Dream-
land ” ? “Shprail” (Cootamundra, N.S.W.): Stay on
“in the solemn, still hush of the primitive bush.”
“Salian” (S.A.): Take your grocer’s advice; eschew
authorship and pay for your groceries “Wurlie”
(Ad.): The sentiment that “ beer must come down ” does
you infinite honour, but “ hanging on with blind confi-
dence to a rainbow of Hope which soon evolutes into an
insolvent thunderbolt,” causes a suspicion that you mix
your liquors .. “Rip”: The “old Jimmy” who didn’t
know one of the twdns from the other till either identified
himself, is very stale ..." Claudia ” : Too long, anyhow,
for these columns. Love at first sight dissipating a family
vendetta and abrogating a death-bed vow, is not alto-
gether a new idea “ The Bailiff of Democracy ” : The
phrase makes an epigrammatic heading, but the matter
has all been said before “ Rastus ” : Paragraphed
“Yaranga”: Please call “Pallas” (S.A.); Original
and good ...“Maxw.” (Ad.): Where’s the point?
“ Waster” : Yes, but not for that sort of MS “ Molo”:
Convicts and business-men wear their hair short ; it is
only artists and savages who wear it long “Neil”
(B. Subscriber): Govt, don’t seem to be doing anything,
and Hope Atkinson has still the front to advertise with-
out giving particulars “ Buera-Ben-Dennie” : This is
a free enough country to allow anybody to use any word
he pleases, so long as he makes himself understood.
Since “ aborigines,” plural, is duly anglicised, this great
country is going to Australianise “aborigine,” singular,
despite your “aborigo.” This great country will use
“ aboriginal ” as the adjective and “aborigine” as the
noun “ Tui Thakau ” : Surely an author has a right to
invent the names of his localities 1 The story-writer of
whom you complain informed us beforehand that he had
shifted his scenery. You’re one of the people who
want to see a real murder on the stage. .. “O.
Almond and W. M'Donald ”: Please call for letters
“E.T.” (Lindfield): Idea anticipated in a story already
in type “K.M.D.”: Too late “P.M.”: “Per-
plexed” and “Love’s only Language ’’declined with
thanks “G.8.X.”: Your “light ahead” is seen through
a thick fog “D. J. M‘G.”: Saw the paper ere we
read your note. Wish you luck “ Iconoclast ” :
Haven’t seen the book named .. “ Hilda ” : Can’t spare
space to republish old Bulletin matter, unless very urgent
reasons pressed “ E.M.” (Euroa, Vic.) : Poor stuff, all
three; and the “comic” piece is the saddest of all. .
“ Inobetter” (Grafton, N.S.W.): You are the 34th to
deny Henry Lawson’s “ fallacies.” Enough now on the
subject “M.H.”: Noted “8.R.W.” (Echuca):
Poems about Dibbs’s alleged damning of the Pork City
are out of date. Besides, “ damner ” doesn’t rhyme with
“amour” “F.J.”: Theory chokefull of weak points.
For instance, who in all this continent filled you up with
the news that “ the mallee can be cleared, burnt, ploughed
and sown for 15s. an acre?”. .. “ C.H.E.” (Melb.); The
question of Washington’s hair doesn’t interest us
“TheTryer”: A good subject wasted “Whalebone" :
You seem to take the churches seriously, which is a
mistake. A church should be considered only in its
humorous aspect “ J.M.” (Melbourne): Too long
and afflicted with premeditated humour
“ Taramana ”: Unpublishable owing to blasphemy,
obscene language, coarse allusions to your intestines (the
public isn’t interested in your intestines) and general
dirtiness “ W.S.F.” (Melb.): About the weepingest
verse we remember. You have more soul-depression to
the square inch than any other poet in this country
“Optic”: Henry Lawson says the Australian mirage
doesn’t, look like water. You say it does. About 400 other
people write to say that it looks like 400 other things
“ Wurlie ” : Don’t care for hell “ neat.” “The Rover”
(Mt. Morgan): We are tired of hearing about “bluey”
and “ Matilda.” Give that miserable subject a rest for a
billion ages or so ..." M‘G.” : You “ fail to understand ”
how The Bulletin, which objected to MTlwraith’s cheap
Italian labourers, can encourage the “Dagoes” of the
Italian Opera Co. Well, said “Dagoes” don’t reduce
the Australian scale of wages -that’s the difference.
Also, you say, “it is time to get for Paraguay.” If a few
absolutely unobjectionable foreigners have no right to
visit your country what right have you or anv similar
person to go to the Paraguayan’s country ?
Lord Charles Beresford cautions young
men against over-indulgence in strong liquors,
which, he says, “cause a man to rise in the
morning with eyes like poached eggs, and a head
which felt as if it had a sparrow’s nest in it.”
A Verse-Maker.
(AS WE SEE HIM DAY BY DAY.)
Addressed to Mr. P. Luftig in respectful retaliation.
A pint of beer in a trembling fist,
A bleary eye and a mental twist;
Two long ears and a dirty shirt,
A conscience dull but a nose alert }
A shaky pen and a blotchy sheet,
A halting verse with trembling feet,
An ounce of sense in a yard of rhyme,
A fancy stale as a pantomime;
A wild debauch and a sober-up
In a silent cell in a dim lock-up;
A constant thirst and a swollen head,
A cask of beer to a slice of bread ;
A frequent oath or a hiccoughed curse —
And this is the man that makes the verse.
Sydney.
M.L.A.
“Where the Church of England is not
passive, it is hostile to the masses.” — Tom Mann.
“ Has anyone ever seen a Bishop’s portrait
on a cottage wall, like Spurgeon’s or Wesley’s?”
offensively asked a layman, at the English Church
Congress.
The Age counsel made a bold show of
having “cornered ” Speight with a question as to
the difference between commercial and practical
management of the Victorian railways. Speight
answered thus: —“I mean that a person ex-
perienced in any business, railways or otherwise,
in dealing with a matter from a practical point of
view, cannot ignore the commercial factors; but
it may be that if you look at it commercially and
say it must result in a profit, then the practical is
opposed to it.” Purves, Q.C. (and the Age com-
mentator of next day’s paper), professed to see no
sense in Speight’s explanation, which was left to
the understanding of a “helpless jury.” Most
people will think that a jury which couldn’t
understand Speight’s meaning would have to be
very helpless. How much railway extension
would be attempted by a manager who did
nothing except for an immediate profit?
The George Thompson, a lumber ship, on
her passage to Sydney from Puget Sound, called
at Savage Island (NiuS) and some natives boarded
her with fruit for sale; they said that no ship had
been there for three months. Three years ago, by
the way, the island suffered a tobacco famine.
None of the five white traders had any, and the
natives were ready to sell their souls for a smoke,
when word was passed along that a big American
ship was off the main town. The outlying traders
were frantically excited at the chance of buying
some tobacco, and sent a canoe off to the ship
with letters. But the native in charge of the
canoe was a genius. He loaded his craft up with
fruit and carefully sold it to the Yankee skipper
before delivering the letters. When he returned,
he brought a note from the ship—the Invincible,
bound to Port Pirie—saying the captain was
real sorry but he had sold all his tobacco—two
small cases—to the native for fruit ! The white
men felt “mad,” as the value of the fruit was
about 3d01., for which the cute native got 251 b.
tobacco, worth then 2dol. per lb. The general
idea held by the white traders of Polynesia is that
the Savage Islanders are the lost tribes of Israel
—nobody can cheat them.
Dear Bulletin, —I don’t understand how
any person can often mistake the mirage for water
and vice versa as stated by “Tom Collins.” The
first time I ever saw a mirage was about 30 years
ago on the plain between Breeza and Gunnedah,
N.S.W. It was a very hot day, and the plains
were parched and dry— strewn with dry roley-
poleys, looking like boulders of rock scattered in
the distance. It was my first visit to the locality,
and suddenly we came in sight of a large lake (or
what appeared to be one). A tongue of timber
running out from the slopes of Black Jack
mountain seemed to be on its further side.
The refraction magnified the timber, while
the roley-poleys, and remnants of tall kan-
garoo grass, all highly magnified, merged into
what appeared to be a rocky bank capped
with sedges, beneath which the reflection of the
trees beyond trembled and quivered most dis-
tinctly •, and some cattle, apparently very tall,
seemed to be walking along the bank. I thought
it was a lake, but Mr. Prank Darby—with whose
survey party I was—told me what it really was—
and although I have seen, perhaps, hundreds of
mirages since then I never again mistook one for
actual water. Perhaps the best-defined mirage I
ever saw was on Garnpang Lake, about 30 miles
back from Pooncarie on the Darling. This is an
old lake-bed through which the Willandra—a
billabong which leaves the Lachlan near Hillston
and after traversing about 200 miles westward
suddenly turns to the south and enters the Murray
just below the junction of the Murrumbidgee—
formerly ran. Garnpang Lake is at the
turn in the course of the Willandra, and is a
perfectly flat, dry lake-bed some seven miles
across. At the time of which I speak—the sum-
mer of 1885—there was absolutely no vegetation
whatever on it, and the rich, black alluvial of
which the bed is formed was as smooth as a
newly-harrowed field. The mirage was so close
that the fence-post four panels from where I stood
appeared to be standing in water, whilst its
reflected image was almost as clear as from a
mirror, and away into the distance the fence and
its reflection formed the most perfect atmospheric
illusion I ever saw. But even it could not for a
moment have been mistaken for real water by any
person who had any previous experience in
mirages. In fact, there are some charac-
teristics and unmistakeable differences between
the mirage and actual water. The reflection and
the reflected object in the mirage are always
separated by a film of rarefied air—whereas in
water the reflection and the object standing in the
water are always in contact. In the mirage, the
objects nearest the ground are more highly magni-
fied than those standing some distance above;
hence any objects lying on the ground—as in the
case of the roley-poleys—are merged into each
other and assume the appearance of a continuous
bank, but always the apparent bank is separated
from its reflection, and looks as though the water
penetrated under and beyond it. If a novice
is in any doubt as to whether what he sees
is a mirage or water—let him stoop down and
he will observe that the mirage will apparently
come closer in proportion to the height he brings
his eye above the ground, while the reflected
objects will appear taller, and be separated by a
deeper film from their reflections. This is pro-
bably the reason for the fact pointed out by
“Tom Collins” and “B,” that horses and cattle
never mistake the mirage for water. Indeed,
most probably stock see the mirage very often
when it is invisible to man in an erect position.
I have often, when lying down on a bare plain,
seen an embryo mirage which was quite invisible
when standing up. Try it the next hot day you
are at Moore Bark, or any of the flat open spaces
about Sydney.— W. Bede Christie. Renmark,
S.A., Nov. 2, 1893.


Ipticd to ||uit all Sight*.
7*
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5, - per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
i ( . • by the Facility, 10,6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX (Sc. ROBE RTS,
Jk’vrtm'.rv Showrooms,
S 3 U I A i t U »I K K ti l. BVD.MEK.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. Good a.nd Olaeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1088.
h
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO
PAYEKNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workfnftnship obtainable. They are longer, better filled andheauer than
iy other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, arid you know you get the genuine
nicle, by seeing our Name and 'J’rade .Mark round each bundle.
The 014 Blend
Whisky
fd
Edinburgh
of iKe
Wh ,teHoT®
LA P v
* LW MSTH T r" O MA D ruYt L Mr RS toVt
* L " MS *iHiuaio sco’ci MAJir
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
November 29,1893.
Mv Dear Moorabinda—
What “repeated marital cruelty” consists of
was elaborately explained by Judge Windeyer in
a recent Sydney divorce case—so elaborately that
I’m sure everybody is just as wise as ever.
“ Obviously the words meant the doing of a thing
more than once, but doing the thing twice did not
necessarily involve repetition within the meaning
of the act. If, however, a petitioner had been
beaten one day (!) and again the next day (! !)
and threatened with a third beating (!!!), she
would certainly be justified in seeking the protec-
tion of the court at once. On the other hand, he
must be understood to imply that an act must be
performed more than once to say it was done
repeatedly. In the case before him, the respon-
dent had received seven black eyes, and he con-
sidered that she had been cruelly assaulted and
beaten.”
But there ! nobody expects that a Judge would
clearly and succinctly state just how many blue
bruises make a decree nisi. An overwhelming
element of mystery hovers round the new Divorce
Act, and the husband who wants to be free has to
make his wicked calculations by rule of legal
thumb. However, seven sequential black eyes is
the nearest recipe for a successful divorce case that
interested parties can gather from Judge Win-
deyer’s oracular explanations.
His Honor’s feeling remarks on the subject of
how women shield their perfect brutes of husbands
somewhat amuse me. “It is the nature of women,
and it is their glory ” —to say they got that lovely
black eye through meeting the mantel-piece unex-
pectedly, or that they broke their front teeth
trying to eat a railway-station ham-sandwich for
a wager. But it isn’t the wish to shield the bad
old man so much as the desire to protect her own
vanity that actuates the average woman in such
cases. The main idea is to disarm and circumvent
the vigilant and complacent pity of the woman
next door—whose husband is afraid to thrash her.
Every woman yearns for a man of her very own
and when she has got one it cuts her to the soul
to publicly confess the experiment a failure. So
she rarely parts with her man unless she has got
another well in view.
A perfect orgie of juniors resulted at the local
Town Hall when the Sydney branch of the
S.P.C. A. gave the prizes and ’stificates to deserv-
ing State-school children who, for twelve calendar
months, hadn’t “caught blue-bottles their legs to
£ull,” or given the Zoo monkeys cayenne lozenges.
iady Duff—who arrived very late—presented the
prizes, and was backed up by Capt. Baird and
two small daughters, and Minister Suttor (who
presided) did most of the talking. The pro-
ceedings broke away from the usual thing. After
a preliminary hymn (by the way, professional
religion doesn’t suit the society’s raison d'etre —
the parson’s horse has a notoriously bad time of it
on Sunday), a youth came forth and warbled a
ballad which had no direct bearing on the plot or
proceedings—unless it may be that a highly-
sentiinental song at 3 p.m. in a hall full of rustling
children ought to come under the heading of
cruelty to animals. Mr. Suttor’s voice sounded
like the voice of a prophet crying out in a
forty-acre paddook, although he didn’t spare him-
self. A portable sounding-board ought to be
among the appointments of the Centennial.
The sight was gay and animated—the floor
looked as if somebody had strewn it with those
multi-coloured bills that flutter outside cheap-
Jaok establishments, and there was much im-
partial enthusiasm, of course. There is no strategy
required to work the Australian youth up to
cheering pitch—the real difficulty is to stop him.
But the tiling that really struck me was the per-
centage of prize-winning girls over the boys ! If
the society teaches the coming woman not to kick
the household cat, it will indeed have effected a
noble reform.
Minister Suttor’s remark at the “Cruelty to
Animals ” meeting, that he was “ pleased to be
told that there wasn’t a stuffed bird among the
audience,” is rather amusing, looked at in the
cold light that beats about the “season,” Birds
are “off” from September to March—the dyed-
calico rose and the cotton carnation, all ablowin’
and agrowin’in the shops, have their innings at
present. Flowers, not fowls, bloom in the spring,
tra-la, on feminine toppings-off, and the unslain
parrot has only Fashion to thank that he isn't
glaring with bead eyes at society from the crown
of a yellow bonnet. If Mr. Suttor is privileged
to address a P.C.A. meeting in furry June, he
will probably have to maintain a discreet silence
on the subject of pretty Joey.
Apropos of millinery, I was rather unnerved at
the queer display in a fashionable Melbourne
(Bourke-street) draper’s window during Cup-week
—but as nobody had adopted the ideas on the
lawn, re-assurance returned to me. The floor of
the window Was strewn with imitations of every
vegetable known to Chinese industry ? One
cluster was chillies, a head of cauliflower, and a
few sprigs of parsley ! A small cabbage was con-
sidered aesthetic enough to stand alone, while
little bunches of carrots, turnips, parsnips, and so
on were sprinkled temptingly about. But the
greatest shock of all was conveyed by a couple_ of
straw hats. One had a small boiled lobster racing
over the crown in pursuit of a couple of scared
boiled prawns placed well in front; the trimming
of the other was evidently a picturesque reminis-
cence of lobster salad—(boiled) crayfish nestling in
a frizz of shredded lettuce! I was devoutly
thankful that the attempt to idealise the fish-shop
and the kitchen-garden didn’t go beyond that
astonishing window, although we don’t yet know
what vagary the summer will introduce 1 Perhaps
fried fish in your hat. Who knows ?
The seventh concert of Sydney Quintette
Society was enthusiastically attended, if not
gorgeously apparelled. An amateur fiddleress
certainly displayed a pair of shoulders like a wax
doll’s, but, then, just behind her was a woman
huddled up in a woollen “cloud ” like a counter-
pane, and, after all, it’s the whole effect of a
crowd that matters. A couple of, let us call them
“official ” little girls, turned up in thefrontrow, and
I couldn’t help remarking the way they wore their
“ hairs,’’as the nursemaids say—combed over all
round, for all the world like a grass-tree. It’s
difficult to tell whether a high-class infant is going
away from or coming at you nowadays.
Musically, the concert was a success of two
numbers. The Grieg Quintette in G minor, ex-
pressively played by Poussard, Sohmellitscheck
(may fate never force me to spell this artist’s name
impromptu), Rice, and Straus, is so whistleable
that it seems scarcely a classic —you can’t help
thinking that it’s too pleasantly tuneful to be
really “high-class.” The other triumphant bit
was a Hertz polonaise with many trimmings,
which Madame Kellennann, assisted by Society,
had to give all over again to a magnetised house.
A lady vocalist, with a wire-drawn soprano,
kindly favoured the company while the instru-
mentalists paused for breath.
Mr. Alfred Nathan, solicitor and notary-public
—a popular figure in Sydney society—has calmly
thrown his splendid professional actualities and
prospects to the winds, and gone into continental
training for the operatic stage. Mr. Nathan has
a rich, expressive voice and a commanding pre-
sence, reminiscent of Billgreeno Verdi, and as,
while in Sydney, he was the “white-haired”
pupil of Mons. Deslouis, he has every chance of
success in the kingdom of Greasepaint. By the
way, about a year or two ago I informed a listen-
ing world that Mr. Nathan was going to study
music on the Continent, bub the gentleman in
question very politely asked me to contradict
myself, which I did in my very best style. Bub
just look at it now I
Talking about solicitors, reminds me that a
Southern limb of the law, who has an established
practice in a country town, lately wrote to a
friend bemoaning the absence of litigating fever
among the rustics. “ But there is always one
consolation for the lawyer,” he wrote, “ in these
peaceful, picturesque nooks : You can boil your
pot all the year round on affiliation-oases !”
It is cabled that Sylvia Grey, the dancer, has
achieved her destiny and married an Australian
millionaire. Dazzling luck, only I hope Sylvia
{she was as freckled as a mullet in full daylight)
is quite sure it isn’t Claude Melnotte done into
Australian ; “ This your squattage 1” as a wattle-
and-dab residence comes into view. The pre-
sumably happy husband of the Gaiety lady
(Nellie Barren won’t have ’em called gals) comes
from Bananaland, and his people are all rich, and
as bank-balances are catching in some families it
is probable that Sylvia has once more, in Gaiety
parlance, arrived there with both feet.
Yet another “society” recruit for the foot-
lights. Miss Bessie Tarrant—a daughter of the
well-known Sydney surgeon and M.L.O. —has
definitely decided to adopt the stage as her pro-
fession. As Miss Tarrant has a refined style and
a musical voice, and is one of Signora Majeroni’s
pet pupils, she may succeed very well.
I have received from Mr. Dymock, of the Book
Arcade, 428 Gaorge-street, Sydney, a series of
Australian bird-cards “wishing you,” in neat
golden letters, “the compliments of the season.”
Neville Cayley drew the pictures —the prettiest of
which are the lyre-bird just poised as if about to
begin the dance they are accredited with perform-
ing at odd times—and a wild-duck flying against
an opal-tinted sky over a bed of green rushes. It
is very probable that the Australian bird series-
said to be of local manufacture throughout—will
be the k’rect card this season.
A very full circle sampled “ Rustic Chivalry,”
although you don’t really see how many men there
are in the house until the bell rings for the Blue
Ballet. Mrs. J. M. Purves had on a well-cut
black-and-green gown ; one lady wore a fashion-
able dress with the bodice cut below the shoulder,
according to the latest style. I have heard one or
two women say they really wouldn’t wear that
kind of bodice, but it is the soul of (full-dress)
modesty, as a matter of fact. A bodice out below
the shoulders goes across in a high straight line,
rendering a deep frontal snip impossible. I was
rather amused at a dress in the front row.
The wearer was over seven, and her gown was
of white satin cut d la Juliet’s in the ball-
scene. With it went long black gloves, giving her
arms the effect of burnt matches ! It is always a
woman with arms like sugar-cane who clings to
long, black gloves.
In the Blue Ballet, D’Argo (“what shin of
beef-soup she’d make 1” sighed a gourmet!) was
the only woman who had a new frock—ultra-
marine blue tulle, studded in ’Murkan fashion
with golden stars. D’Argo certainly lacks the
abandon of Bartho, but I think she extracts more
sensation out of her half-a-hand or so of skirtlet
than the primibrv danscuse gets out of hers, altho’.
mind you, there are people who say that ballet-
dancing on the stork principle leaves so little to
the imagination that there isn’t any suggestion
left in it. A ballet-dancer frankly scudding under
bare poles never makes you catch your breath as
does an accordeon-pleated serpentiner, who comes
out and bows her thanks m a gaberdine that goes
from her ears to her ankles almost. By the way,
have W. and M. ukased that no flowers are to go
over the as the Criterion management once
commanded ? Not even a “ managerial ” has gone
up to any of the ladies on the occasions when I
have been sampling the opera and the cerulean
skip. The spectao'e of an excited youth in even-
ing dress tearing round the circle, and aiming a
bunch of something fair at the head of a lady on
the stage, apparently for the pleasure of seeing
her dodge it, has either gone for ever, or is waiting
for the next Gaiety co.
One or two minor differences crept into the
Lyceum programme last Saturday night—Giraud
added a Duff tartan scarf to his plum-colour
velveteen suit, for one thing. And, talking of
velveteen—l should strongly advise Messrs.
Giraud and Caruson to rest themselves on all-
fours while “ off ” —unless the management intend
to go it twice in the matter of rustic wardrobes.
Velveteen rubs white with the least wear, and
the artist who ventures to sit down under sar-
torial circumstances akin to the above is strongly
advised to make his exits backwards.
Del Torre (who, I happen to be aware, doesn’t
pad her hips, as has been whispered in feminine —
and masculine for all I know—circles) is certainly
a very charming woman, even if her facial make-
up does seem as if inspired by a Dutch doll. At
the same time I would rather have apoplexy
reproduced on a stage heroine’s cheeks than
anaemia (as a general thing), because it’s hopeless
to expect that every Thespienne will achieve the
naturalness of make-up displayed by Nellie
Stewart, Mrs. Brough and Kate Bishop. And,
after all, Italia Del Torre isn’t half so made-up as
Sara Bernhardt, whose frescoes came under the
heading of war-paint.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Melbourne, Nov. 23.
Last Tuesday night Mrs.BaronetClarke “at-homed” the
early Christians of Trinity Church. The hostess’ gown of
white and green looked cool, and showed her arras and
shoulders to advantage. Daughter Mary was girlish in a
simple white frock, and pa Clarke played the character of
a God-fearing baronet with quiet force. Miss Daisy
Madden, substantially jolly in red, sang “ Home, Sweet
Home," a ditty peculiarly suitable to the innocent
delights of a home that is sporting an “ at.” Some Pres-
byterian College girls (who came with a strong escort of
trusted warders) looked ‘‘sonsie ” and “ no’ to say thin,"
and if I thought the Shorter Catechism would have as
good an effect on my complexion, I would read it reso-
lutely every morning in bed. Among the performing
people I spotted Miss Hansen, one of our musical pro-
digies, just back from a tour round the European con-
servatoires.
I hear from the North that one of the vice-regal twigs
believes in following its own bent, rather than that of the
parental stem. At Gov. House packs faithful jackals are
kept busy running somebody to earth and bringing her
back to the maternal eye, which darkens visibly at the
thought of Norman Conquests in Australia. This was
the maiden who wept like a tropical rain, they say, when
His Excellency “cried off ” the Indian appointment.
Every week or so a Melb. newspaper serves up under
different titles, but over the same signature, a doleful
account of the miseries of old age. Can “Mary Gaunt”
be the agent for an Old Age Insurance Co. trying to appal
us, by her pictures of impecunious hoary-heads, into
taking out a policy? Or is she a disciple of Archer’s
suicide cult, endeavouring to popularise the idea that
there’s nothing to be gained by “ staying on " if you can’t
afford false teeth?
Miss Gaunthas done “Old Colonists ” and “Old Benevo-
lents ” and “ Old Incurables," and, worst of all, “ Old
Bubbishtarians,” who seem to subsist chiefly on such
victuals as the Little Sisters of the Poor can pick up,
and in each case, the advantages of immediate dissolution
are dimly suggested.
Talking of the Little Sisters, they took a benefit—at
least, it was a semi-amateur performance in aid of their
funds -at the Athenaeum Hall last Thursday night. In
the middle of the duet for piano and ’cello there was a
wild uprising of all the females in the front right-hand
seats. Some stood upon the chairs and shrieked. Others
were mostly engaged in bandaging their skirts around
the ankles. Then the rat, as people at the back of the
hall imagined, beat a retreat, and order was restored, also
the sad duet proceeded from where it had left off when
the riot struck up. I discovered anon that there hadn’t
been a rat, or even a mouse, in the case. It was a cock-
roach.
Judge Holroyd’s eldest daughter, Mrs. Von Assche, is
In Melbourne again on a flying visit to the font of her
native church, at St. Kilda. The Von Assches usually
live in Mauritius (where the judge’s son-in-law gathers
sugar on a large scale), but every other year or so they
bring over a baby to be christened. This is the second
bahy which has made the pilgrimage, and any girl who
marries to go abroad may be advised to stipulate for a
similar domestic arrangement. Periodical pleasure-trips
must help much to soften the blow of a large family.
Tiie Holroyds are enthusiasts on the subject of baptism
and amateur theatricals. Sometimes they manage to
secure half-a-pint of water from the Jordan, which smells
so holy that the lucky grandchild who gets it emptied
on his or her bald young head is always seized with
“ cramps.”
Someone once said (in a penny-illustrated paragraph):
“ How fond of you all the girls seem, Mrs. Honey-
tongue 1” “ Yes, I’m always nice to girls on principle.
Ole never knows whom they may marry.” If the sassiety
virgins of Townsville (Q’land) had followed this policy,
they wouldn’t be feeling so crushed at the present
moment. Itwashard.no doubt, that a “ gump ” little
thing from Bairnsdale (Vic.), whose face was her only
fortune, should carry off from under their noses the first
prize of the district, a Judge in posse.
There’s a storm raging at present over the delectable
subject of “Inspector of Meat,” and councillor Some-
body has denounced the Rabbi as a humbug who doesn’t
understand carcases. But, I’m sure the Rabbi isn’t a
humbug. He’s a harmless little family man, with about
12 small Leahs, and Miriams, and Gads, and Benjamins,
which makes it all the pluckier of him to speak out,
instead of letting diseases take their course into the in-
ternal arrangements of the Chosen.
11 Be Traist.” What does it mean?
Messrs. Innes and Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Head brand of Wines, inform us that it is old
Saxon, and means “be true.” As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines, which
are sold at all grocers’, from Is. per bottle up-
wards. Their invalid Port, at 3s. 6d., is a won-
derful wine, full of health-giving properties.*
Last Saturday, “ Building Society Hunt," J.P., Recha-
bite spook-hunter, had a temperance garden-party in hil
“spacious grounds,” and Mrs. Wrixon, looking smart in
pale-green, was turned on for the inaugural ceremony.
There was a gloom over the proceedings which puzzled
me, until a weary fragment explained the case. Henry
Wrixon, knight, had made a speech which smacked of
family confession. “ Nobody more than Lady Wrixon,”
said the absent minded Henry, “ realises the evils of
drinking.” Coming from a husband who seems rather
to have realised the respectable misery of never touching
it, this was a moat disturbing statement for a large tea-
party.
A certain Mount Morganaire has been basking here
in the sunshine of the Cup festivities, but he looks as if
still suffering from his chronic discontent. The old boys,
who shared their last drop of quinine with him in the
ague days on “Poverty Flat," say that he gets more
shortsighted every year. Wealth brings shortness of
vision as a natural consequence, I suppose. The eyesight
is impaired by hard staring at the bright main chance.
As usual, there was quite a crush at the Scotch College
sports, and thong'' many of the gowns were not in their
first bloom, the general effect was gay. The girls are
beginning to cast off their sack suits of holland, dungaree
or piqu6, and revert to soft cotton frocks in' pink, helio-
trope, and pale-green, prettily belaced and insertioned.
In the fancy-dress lancers, at the Polo ball, I saw the
two pretty sisters-in-law who some time ago did Melb.
hnsband-hunters a bad turn. When two scions of'the
handsome ’s buried themselves in the Queensland
back-blocks, the girls rhey left behind them didn’t de-
spair. “The Queensland women are simply orange-
coloured, don’t you know? Even dear Lady N is a
little sallow,” ran the local line of argument. However,
two lovely black eyes in a pokey up-country hole caught
one of the catches, and pink-cheeked sweet seventeen,
keeping house for papa “ way out West,” captured the
other. Poor old “Hard-up” stood gazing dismally at
their grandeur the other night. 1 left him rolling his
insolvent head and groaning “ What luck !”
Anyone wishing to acquire the very latest thing in
English academic pronunciation should sit. at the feet
of cherubic Harrison Moore, Professor of Laws at the
University. It sounds fetching from those rosy lips, but
nevertheless when Mr. Moore assisted in an'elect ioneer-
ing campaign in England his candidate was beaten by
at least 1000 votes, so there must be limits even to' the
charm of a high-class accent—especially in a land where
women don’t vote. After all, except for Gov. House
purposes, the old “ Colonial twang ” may be just as
useful in the end. Perhaps better, seeing that Lord
Hopetoun is one of the twangiest stars in the lower
heavens.
At Saturday’s Liedertafel, Mdme. Wiedefmann (Mrs.
Pinschof) wore a bright aspect, but why w’as her hat, like
the vail of the Temple, rent in twain, as if by an acci-
dental blow of the ancestral sword of the Pi schofsi
Ada Crossley was much girded up, but the effect was
becoming. Herr Hartung’s warbling didn’t seem to
warrant next day’s acid-drop from the Argus, whilst
Himmer had only a few word to sing, and “ go.ie are the
days ” when a mere glimpse of “ Rudolph ” set the gi Is’
hearts beating. He’s married now, and his hair is going
the way of all flesh.
Van M.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Man to Man. ”
Lyceum Italian Opera Co.
Theatre Royal ... . Maggie Moore.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Brough-Boucicault Fare
wells.
Bijou “Charley’s Aunt.”
Alhambra Variety Show.
“ Cavalleria Rusticana,”at Sydney Lyceum,
attracted a full house on its seventh repetition,
last Saturday, and will probably prove the crown-
ing achievement in Sydney of the Italian Opera
Co. With the exception of the “Drinking Song”
—a palpably weak spot pitchforked in to lighten
the score like the untimely witticisms of the
comic countryman in melodrama—“Cavalleria”
has you by the ear from the first upstroke of the
baton. Mascagni has put living emotion into his
never-artifioial music—he has not gone out of his
way to adorn his page with a cadenza or a classic
shake, but he has put human feeling into the
score—and so successfully that if the,heroine sang
like a cockatoo the overflowing orchestra down
below would interpret the expression for her. A
Eroof of this is the plaintive “ Intermezzo ” played
efore a blank stage—and always encored to the
echo.
• • •
Some portions of Signora Carmeui’s little
r6le of the “ mamma ” (after whom Tirriddu bleats
like a lost sheep when Alftobites his ear according
to Italian duello) recalls the uneven vocal efforts
of a hen —a great many medium-register remarks
and a sudden high note very suggestive of the
“ chooky-OHOOK-chook ” of the barn-yard—but
then Lucia’s part is too small to damage the en-
semble. Signora Olga Mettler (she would make
up into a very German Marguerite), as Lola, sang
the mocking song with all the necessary derision,
and the musio seems to suit her, but the blonde
Olga’s voice has a certain Jew’s-harp quality that
makes her success in more sentimental roles a
matter of speculation.
» • •
Signor Caruson, as Alfio, makes a solid
character of the well-plucked husband, and if his
voice wasn’t like a reed shaken by the wind
through over-much vibrato —which reminds the
imaginative of a marksman hitting all round the
bull’s-eye—his easy baritone would gain an encore
for the whip song. “ Cavalleria ” went in much
the same style on the seventh as on the first per-
formance, save that two flower-girls tacked across
the stage, instead of the embarrassed damsel who
bolted across in the pr&ni&re as if somebody had
shot her out of a catapult, and that the final
plaudits brought forth the conductor, but not Mr.
Musgrove, who, though called upon, didn’t appear,
as he was trimming the back of the circle in
morning dress. “ L’Amico Fritz ” goeth up this
(Saturday) evening, and “I Pagliacci ” and
“Faust” divide honours for the rest of the waning
season. Whether they will append the coruscat-
ing after-dance to Gounod’s opera isn’t announced
on the bill. If they do, it would be a neat com-
pliment to the operatic Devil to re-christen it
“The Blue Brimstone Ballet.”
m* * *
More revivals continue to be the order of
the day in Sydney, where—with the exception of
one melodrama, and a shapeless horror that need
not further be alluded to, and the undressed musi-
cal drama at the Lyceum—there has been nothing
really new for a good months. The latest
resurrection is “ Man to Man ’’—the drama with
the great railway accident —at Her Majesty’s. In
it, as usual, George Bignold is arrested by mis-
take at 8.50, and Albert Norman is handcuffed at
10.45 and led away gritting his teeth with baffled
fury. Mr. Norman is always arrested at 10.46,


New York Life Insurance Company,
ESTABLISHED 1845.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... .£28,292,016
Surplus, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... ... 3,457,808
Progress of the Company in 1892.
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS .. - .. ..
INCREASE IN ASSETS .. .. .. .. -. „ „ 3,376,935
INCREASE IN SUPLUS .. .. .. ... .. - 343,371
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN .. .. .. .. .. 4,308,660
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE .. .. .. .. 12,379,733
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over £2,000,000, than
the gain of any other Company in the world.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia.
Chief Office: Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
To Prospbctors. —The advertiser, who has ample capital
at command, also long mining experience, invites offers
of good gold-mining properties, to be worked for the
mine , not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic*
sluicing claims. Send offers, with f ulh st particulars, to
“Oro. 2 Pirie-street, Adelaide.
whatever the drama may be —except in a few oases
where he is shot at five minutes to 11. Mr. Frank
Harcourt takes the part of the principal profane
murderer in the convict prison—the character
which used to be filled by the stupendous
Augustus Glover—bub otherwise the cast is very
much as it used to be. The limp boy who forges
the cheque is apparently the same as ever, and the
complicated arrangement whereby Rignold and
Norman are each proved to be the other fellow on
the unsupported evidence of a dead gipsy who
told the fact before she died to another gipsy who
comes out and mentions it, remains in its old
condition of advanced improbability. The Xmas
pantomime of “Jack, the Giant Killer” is in
active preparation.
** * *
Maggie Moore’s season at Sydney Royal
ends in another ten days or so. A big double bill,
“ The Child of the Regiment ” and “ The Fool of
the Family,” is announced for the present week.
Unfortunately the new bill begins on Wednesday
night, and these rather vague and non-committal
statements are written on Tuesday, and The Bul-
letin makes its appearance on Thursday morning
and is dated for Saturday, therefore it is difficult
to get hold of the true grammatical aspect of the
case arid to decide whether the above productions
appeared to-morrow or are going to be staged last
night. Under these circumstances, much ground
and lofty eloquence is unavoidably held over.
** * »
Sydney Criterion remains empty and
desolate, and there is no positive news of its re-
opening. The Opera House is also desolate, and
there is tolerably positive news of its nob re-
opening this week. Some of the smaller houses
continue to have fitful awakenings at long
intervals and then fade away again, but they come
and go so unaccountably, and shut up with so
little notice, sometimes owing to disagreements
about the gas-bill, that it is difficult to keep the
run of their movements. A sure sign of the
theatrical depression is to be found in the fact
that one morning paper now puts the pill and
false teeth advertisements in the amusement
department —apparently for no purpose except to
pad the department out a little, and prevent all
the amusements going into one desolate half-
column. It is a ghastly commentary on the
sorrowfulness of the community that it regards
false teeth as an amusement these times.
*» * *
“ Charley’s Aunt ” should revive the
drooping fortunes of Melbourne Bijou, and carry
the present season through to a cheerful conclu-
sion. It is a farcical comedy in whioh all the
absurdity radiates from the name character,
played by Thornton. When he is not there the
other people are ration.J creatures, engaged in
weaving an exciting story from the cheapest of
raw material. Consequently the general effect of
“ Charley’s Aunt” resembles fireworks on a calm
cloudy night, many of the sparks being blue. It
is one of those “ wicked ” performances whioh
respectable ladies may enjoy without flinching.
Two Oxford undergraduates have invited their
respective girls to dine with them under the
management of an aunt (as yet unknown) who is
coming down to the University to visit her
nephew. The non-arrival of this aged relative
necessitates a wild, unpremeditated fraud. A
young lordling, who happens to get into the dis-
guise of a black-satin gown and false front, is pre-
sented to the company as “ Charley’s aunt from
Brazil.” The girls embrace, and confide in, this
scarecrow ; a couple of old men woo the imposter,
whilst the mock “ aunt ” himself is in a constant
state of rebellion, and has often to be held down
into his skirts by his two chums. On one occa-
sion he strips himself right down to his trousers
and vest, and attempts to bolt from the entangle-
ment, but they knock him back again into the
black satin. The deception goes on for a full
hour after the arrival of the real aunt, and the
usual explanations are neatly brought about.
• * *
Thornton plays the central part with plenty
of broad humour and physical activity, but the
idea of his being an Oxford chappie, forced into
impromptu drowning, is never before the audience.
He doesn’t seem to have a genuine personality at
all. He is Spalding, the curate of “ Private
Secretary,” turned into a reckless imitation of an
old woman, and one looks in vain for an Uncle
Cattermole to catch hold of Charley’s aunt by the
ear. Also, he is a constant reminder of Cannam,
another actor whose mannerisms have bo«n
acquired from the original W. S. Penley.
# # •
Still, Thornton is the life of a performance
that owes nothing much to the rest of the oast.
Messrs, Leonard and E. W. Thomas are satisfac-
tory as two elderly parties. Mr. Matthews does
fairly well for a young man of abnormal self-con-
fidence, although he shouts his lines, and the
ladies of the company are decidedly weak. A
dramatic sketch, called “A Bad Penny,’’precedes
the joke de resistance, and this is remarkable for
the strong resemblance borne by the aforesaid B.
W. Thomas to old friend Arthur Lawrence.
»» * »
For some not apparent reason the B. and B.
management is giving a whole week to “ Joseph’s
Sweetheart,” at Melbourne Princess’s. Buchanan’s
adaptation of “ Joseph Andrews ” certainly brings
an air of long ago into the theatre, and puffs the
scent of ancient manners across the foot-
lights, but it is not a very stirring play.
Joseph was intended as a satire on the
mawkish virtue of another character in another
novel. In the present version of himself, Joseph
seems no more interesting than a flunkey who
joins the Salvation Army, and the blushing Fanny
is put out of court by her passion for this snivel-
ling archangel. Most of the other characters
degrade themselves by taking a Christian interest
in the sickly pair. Boucicault’s forcible (but much
too juvenile) performance of a gipsy can be
admired, because he stole Joseph twenty years
earlier, and wisely swapped him away for a
brighter baby. When the dear, kind squire has a
mind to hang Boucicault for trying to poach
a rabbit, it is satisfactory to find that the
malefactor can arrange to live on and earn
-£lOO, instead of being swung off from a
cart at Tyburn. Lord Fallamar, played by
Greenaway, is another redeeming circumstance,
on account of his out-and-out viciousness and
sound endeavour to capture Fanny. There is a
moment when Parson Adams looks like scoring
off a game pie, but on the very brink of a huge
success he turns back to fetch Joseph, so that
Joseph may have first bite. A tiresome drama,
capitally acted —much better acted in the heroine
part than it used to be—but almost as tiresome as
ever.
# # #
On Saturday this respected company com-
mences a sorrowful farewell. Three nights of
“Diplomacy,’ one of “The Times,” one of
“ Dandy Dick,” and a grand final composite pro-
gramme, will bring B. and B. to the end of their
Melbourne visit, more’s the pity! Then the
Italians will positively consent —in spite of their
having already positively appeared for the last
time—to give 13 operatic performances, which is
balm in Gilead, anyhow.
At Poverty Point.
The Jews are the most universally stage-stricken people
on earth. Fortunately, they can act, as a rule, and if
they can’t act they make the Gentiles suffer. Melbourne
has lately felt the want of a coarse, brutal playgoer, such
as rises up occasionally in the pit of a London theatre to
observe that he will not refuse coppers if they will only
give him his money back.
“ What are the colours of musical sounds ?”—the Melb.
press is open to argument on this question. We should
say that the colour of a pretty girl’s melodious “ Yes ”
was a blush-pink, and that a leaden-grey represents her
“No.” The milkman’s morning “ Yeowh” is apt to be
sky-blue instead of cream-colour. The midnight note of
the second or third baby is about as black as the old
man’s hat. And so forth.
Louis Lohr left Melbourne on Saturday, en route to
Maoriland in advance of the Brough-Boucicault Co.
Hamilton Clarke, who was a poor conductor of the
Victorian Orchestra, has proved likewise for the Carl
Rosa Opera Co. After his withdrawal from the chair it
was said that Alfred Plumpton could have the billet if he
wanted it. A.P. is not always the most popular of con-
ductors with an orchestra, but he takes a kind interest
in the chorus.
An irritating fault in Pinero’s “ Lady Bountiful ” is the
closing scene, which introduces the absurdity of a stage
wedding. The stage-bride, with seedy supernumerary
bridesmaids following after, is always a joke, and in this
case she is not even an excuse for a “ strong” situation.
That marriage procession kil j a play whioh is fine in
some parts.
The Melb. picture placards of “ Charley’s Aunt ” are
catchy, with shaving materials, “As used by Charley’s
Aunt.”
The very young mercantile gent, was in a great hurry
rushing to the papers about his forthcoming marriage to
the operatic prima-donna.
Mrs. Brough shrinks from Mrs. Tanqueray, though
B. and B. have got this drama, and will star a new
English actress. They also have “A Woman of No
Importance,” and “Lady Windermere’s Pan,” the former
of which is likely to see the light, the latter not.
“ Memories of Harwood 1” writes Roscius, “ What un-
precedented versatility! The King, Polonius, Ghost, and
First Gravedigger, in ‘ Hamlet;’ the feminine Cassandra,
in ‘ Siege of Troy ’ burlesque; De Sartorys, in * Frou
Frou ;’ Mo Davis, in ‘ Flying Scud;’ Harlequin and
Clown, in the pantomime ; Mazeppa in the equestrian
drama.”
Alfred Dampier, when at Bourke (N.S.W.) with his co.,
declined to engage the local brass band to blare and
drum up the performance. Wherefore, the band waited
until the piece was well going, and then gave a gratis
babel just outside the hall, and had to be dispersed by a
general uprising of the angry audience.
Melb. Shakespeare Society announce a reading, by all
the members, of the “ Merchant of Venice,” in the draw-
ing-room of a most fashionable suburban mansion; ad-
mission by payment. A former reading of this piece by
the society was unfortunate. Verdon took Bassanio, and
a host of commensurate swells were in the cast, but a
newsman unluckily got in and wrote an outrageous
morning-paper skit. This, at one blast, cleared all the
“ monde ” out of the society.
Of E. J. Lonnen, in “ Little Christopher Columbus,”
thus Clement Scott; “He has recently returned from
Australia, and received a thoroughly cordial welcome.
The result was Ballyhooly run mad. It would be difficult
to say how many times Mr. Lonnen with genial good
humour changed his costume. He was even more like
Mr. Lonnen in the last disguise than in the first. As to
character, there was not a faint suspicion of it; as to
variety, it did not exist ; as to subtle changes and dis-
tinctions in whioh artists indulge, they were not
attempted or recognised.”
Romeo Greenaway, as a drawing-room reciter, has a
large and fashionable Melb. clientile.
Alexander, the Australian Blondin (now off to South
Africa), did fair biz. during eleven weeks’ stay in
Westralia, but advises big companies not to risk money
there.
Some Melbourne theatre rentals: Alexandra, £lO 10s.
per night! Royal, £lO a night; Bijou, £9O a week.
A certain well-advertised tragedian is accused of keep-
ing on his playbills the stage-name of a lady who has left
his co., and for whom he has found a substitute. Whether
for glory, or depreciation, there is thus one actress
usurping the stage-name of another, while the public are
getting confused as to the merits, or demerits, and iden-
tity of both. This forgetfulness on the part of the great
tragedian, concerning the departure of the actress from
his co., is all the more remarkable because of the fact
that she recently sued him for wages.
Max O’Rell: “ Occasionally people called at my hotel
and asked that they might kneel down and pray for my
conversion. I have always consented because they went
away happy.”
Lonnen draws £5O a week at London Lyric, whilst May
Yohe is on the £3O mark—and cheap at the money.
Gus Harris is determined to go on with his action for libel
against the World. He is not going to have it said that
he does not write the plays to which his name is
attached.
Between the acts of “Utopia, Limited” Carte, on the
first night, arranged a nice little dramatic touch—the
reconciliation in public of the long-estranged collaborators,
who warmly shook hands coram populo, amid tumultuous
applause. Of course the private renewal of friendship
had been long before a fact, for W.S.G. and A.S. have
dined together many times of late; but the little
theatrical effect was a great help to the mise en scene.
Melbourne so-so-ciety showed its hoof at the Princess
Theatre in the last act of “A Village Priest.” At that
grand climax in the sublime anguish of Torquenie—
almost the equal of Sydney Carton’s—when anyone who
can feel should be spell-bound at Brough’s magnificent
realism, the “ haut ton ” begin to rise up all over the
circle and put on their coats and wraps directly curtain-
fall nears. There is no “tag,” the breathless interest
endures to the last line, but the rustle of skirts and
crackling of shirt-fronts show how much “society” is
capable of being touched by anything but a pork-pie and
a nightmare.
Sarah Bernhardt, as manageress of a Paris theatre, is
bound to be a sensational failure. As fast as a profit
comes in, Sarah must spend it; when the losses come
Sarah will find her only resource in “giving fits” to
everybody who wants hard cash. Mong Doo 1 what a
treat to be Sarah’s treasurer I
Finale of the Wild Aboriginal Show that was to have
paralysed Chicago and Her Gracious. Meston sued Pur-
cell in Q. Supreme Court for £2OOO for alleged libel; Pur-
cell sued Meston for £l5OO for alleged libel and false
imprisonment. The Jury gave no damages in either
case of libel, but awarded Purcell £5O for false
imprisonment. And Sydney Daily Telegraph printed
the name of the world-famous Sacred Ibis as—Weston 1
Just as if the classical nonpareil of the North was a
common wizard-oil man I Fame is a busted bubble.
Dear Bulletin,— Be your “ Poverty Point ” note about
Stage-killings. The histrionically-stabbed actor always
drops on the instant—the actually punctured man hardly
ever. I saw a Javanese in Madura receive four—indivi-
dually fatal—kris-stabs, and he didn’t fall till loss of blood
brought him down. Once floored, however, the steel-
damaged party doesn’t—off the boards—sit up again to
make a neat dying oration, or to wail a tenor-wail about
the cussedness of things in general.—A.M.
Bessie Bonehill, of the London 'alls, has collected £125
in pence and small silver, thrown upon the stage by fools
when she sings a certain “ragged newsboy ’’song. This
money Bessie has banked in the name of her infant son.
Possibly she will be glad of it herself, one day. There
usually comes a time when the lady serio-comic is very
glad of anything she can get.
Why does the stage-manager call every lady, “My
Dtar?”
“You know, I can’t stand Hamlet by a foreigner.”
“ But Hamlet was a foreigner.”
The Duke of Teck has a cousin, a professional lady
skirt-dancer, on the German stage 1 Appallingl—consider
the contingencies.
When Charley Wright kept Melb. Coliseum, Walter
Carle made an enormously successful debut, in ragged
togs, with the song “ When these old clothes were new.”
Eccentric Charley summoned Gall, stage manager, and
exclaimed :“ What’s this? I won't have a man in rags
on my stage I” Another time there was a debutant in
“The Man that Never Got Warm.” Says Charley:
“Please, don’t have that song again. He sings ‘lt’s so
00-o-old,’ and the people say 1 So it is,’ and they walk
out.”
“ Private Tommy Atkins,” Charles Arnold’s new song,
has caught on in Melbourne. But it isn’t altogether
Arnold who gets the encores; its partly Ada Lee march-
ing about with a frying-pan.
EditorßULLßTiN,—Your correspondent, “J. Montague,”
is a little too positive. It is purely a matter of stage
management what distance separates Romeo from Juliet.
Whether the stage carpenter can be relied on, how strong
the balcony is, and—what amount of impassioned fervour
the actor and actress infuse into their parts. I have seen
more than one Romeo kiss Juliet in that scene. Forbes
Robertson climbed the pillar to reach Modjeska’s arms,
whioh she put around his neck. The assertion that “most
people who essay Shakesperean parts are not Shakesperean
scholars ’’ is absurdly untrue. If Miss Moore is so pro-
found a Shakesperean scholar as asserted, it is a pity she
does not, did not more closely, study the dress suitable
to the character she assumed. In the balcony scene, at
the benefit referred to, the costume she appeared in was
positively sacrilegious, from a stage point of view. An
ideal Juliet must have something more than words at her
command. —M.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The N.S.W. Government has already sold
£2,000,000 worth of its bonds to local investors, and is
getting well on into the third million. Very little, how-
ever, seems to be known about the disposal of the money.
When a big loan is floated in London it is necessary to
explain to Parliament how it is to be spent, but the local
borrowings come in so steadily and unobtrusively that
very little notice is taken of them. If the money
is going to redeem the great mass of outstanding Treasury
bills or to pay off old loans as they fall due, then the
system is a measure X)f wise economy. And otherwise-
well, where is the money going, and what is to happen
when £1,250,000 of temporary liabilities become due next
January ?
, • # «
The operation of the N.S.W. Banking Bill—the
law which, for the good of the people, makes paper-money
legal tender everywhere outside Sydney—has been limited
by consent of Govt, to 18 months. At the end of that
period it will either expire or be renewed, or its place will
be taken by an entirely new enactment. As the Bill,
according to Premier Dibbs’ assurance, is not a dangerous
concession to the banks but a blessing to the community,
th : s limitation is difficult to understand. When a Ministry
does an act of which it is undisguisedly proud, and con-
fers a great boon on the nation, it doesn’t generally try
to pacify the country by an assurance that the boon will
only last a year and a half, and at the end of that period
it will have the pleasure of dropping back into its original
misery.
•»••••
Another limitation was inserted in the Bill
providing that no bank shall have more than £1,000,000
of paper in circulation at one time. Therefore the note-
issue is now limited in three ways—all about equally
foolish. First, no bank shall issue notes to the extent of
more than one-third its paid-up capital and all its coin
and bullion on hand. Second, no bank shall issue more
than £666,666 in notes on the strength of its capital
alone. Third, on the suggestion of that awful financier,
M‘Millan, no bank shall issue more that £1,000,000
in notes, anyhow. Therefore, an insolvent bank with
practically no cash reserve and a nominal paid-up
capital of, say, £2,000,000 whioh is all lost, the loss being
concealed by smart accountancy, can issue notes to the
extent of £666,666 ; and a bank with £2,000,000 of gold
and bullion on hand can only issue to the extent of
£1,000,000. Under this system, the B.N.S.W. can issue
notes to the amount of only two-thirds of its coin reserve
in the province, while the Commercial of Australia can
issue nine times as many notes as it has sovereigns, the
National five times as many, the Q.N.8., City, and Lon-
don twice as many, the B.N.Z. three times as many, and
so on.
The system is utterly and hopelessly illogical.
The paid-up capital is no security whatever for note-
holders, because there is no guarantee that it isn’t lost, ©r
stolen, or tied up, or in England or elsewhere out of reach.
The note-holder, like the mill, cannot grind with the
water that is past, and the paid-up capital is generally a
matter of ancient history. The available cash in the pro-
vince is the principal security, and notes should be
issued against that alone, there might perhaps be
a semblance of logic in allowing paper to be issued
to some small extent against the unpaid capital, whioh
can be called up, if necessary, to pay note-holders;
but even this is not of much value as security. As for the
paid-up capital, it is no earthly security whatever. A
bank is never called upon to pay up all its notes till it
goes broke, and when a bank has once gone broke no
liquidator under heaven has ever been able to find the
paid-up capital, either to pay noteholders with or for any
other purpose.
• • •
When the Banking Bill was before N.S.W.
Assembly a proposal to abolish the Queensland National
Bank’s local note-issue was lost by 23 votes to 13.
* * *
A Victorian correspondent writes to ask for the
result of the drawing in the Mutual Freehold Property
Distribution of Sydney “ which took place on the 7th
November.” Tin? Bulletin regretfully informs thatcorres-
pondent that the drawing didn’t come off on 7th Novem-
ber, and, at time of writing, no oueapparently know s when
it is likely to come off. Also, money is still to be sent in to
“ Manager ’’—only that and nothing more, so that if there
should never be any ballot at all, it will be exceedingly
hard to identify him and hold him responsible for the
coin. Further, the same old mystery hangs over the
first prize and all the rest of the prizes, and everything
else connected with the speculation. The Bulletin’s
straight tip is that anyone who sends his cash to a perron
who doesn’t even give his name, and trusts entirely to the
unsupported assurances of a man—or it may he a woman
—who is only known as “ Manager” is a first-class fool.
* * *
The latest terms of reproach heaved at Account-
ant Simpson by the defence in I he Mercantile Bank case ;
“Professional wrecker,” “bloodhound bookkeeper,” ond
a man who should be arrested “ for indecently exposing
his figures.” “ Bloodhound bookkeeper ”is very fine.
The Bulletin observes, with satisfaction, Tem
pleton's final defeat for Benalla. Mr. Templeton has
quite enough to do to look after his big official liquida-
tions.
* • «
In N.S.W, Assembly, one night recently, Mr.
Molesworth, M.L.A., asked for the papers connected with
the prosecution of the directors of the Imperial Land,
Building, and Discount Co., whioh prosecution was
stopped by the Attorney-General after the directors had
been committed for trial. The answer given was that
the information to be obtained from the papers was not
sufficient to justify the cost of printing them.
* • •
This reply leaves the matter in a most unfinished
state. The Imperial was a particularly shady concern,
and its manager, Smairl—another example of the evil
results of wearing Percy for a front name—is now doing
a long term in gaol on account of this shadiness. There
was a general impression abroad that Smairl, if put in
the box, could have simply filled the court with staggering
revelations. And when the Attorney-General dropped
the case for want of evidence, it occurred to a good many
people that Mr. Barton was making a most serious
mistake, and that Smairl’s evidence was just the evidence
that was wanting. Of course, as Smairl is a convicted
man, his evidence wouldn’t necessarily be worth a row
of pins; still he knows all about whatever swindles have
happened, and should have been allowed to have his say.
His testimony would be well worth sifting.
• • #
The system whereby a single official may stop
the prosecution of men already committed for trial is
unfair to all concerned. When once any individual has
been committed no power on earth should be allowed to
interfere. He should go straight on to his trial by an
automatic process of law, and if he is acquitted he should
be acquitted openly by a jury—not privately by a tribunal
of one man.
• # •
There is a general disposition among the
Imperial victims to have another shot at the affair.
* • •
During the hearing of the Mercantile case the
prosecutor received a letter from one of the two “ dissent-
ing ” magistrates, whioh letter, being shown to an outside
counsel, was said to be “unauthorised and impudent."
It is not likely that the Vic. Crown Law Department will
take any notice of this matter. A magistrate who wrote
an impudent letter to Matthew Davies would doubtless be
called upon to resign next day. That’s just the difference
between the two sides of the Mercantile case.
• * *
The question of B. J. Fink’s famous “composi-
tion ’’ came again before Melb. Insolvency Court, the
other day, and settled in the mysterious Melbournian
manner common to such oases. The bank-manager who
was to dispute the genuineness of Fink’s private insol-
vency did not appear in support of his “ rule.” Neither
did Fink appear. The only thing that appeared was the
certainty that it had been thought advisable not to raise
the curtain on the farce.
• • *
By the time Wm. Simpson has concluded over
hauling the affairs of the S. Melb. Building Society, it
will be found that Mat. Larkin and his mates—whoever
they were—have got away with two-thirds of the suburb
# # «
Restoring confidence in Yio. ! “Millidge also
addressed the Bench, contending that the balance-sheet
was correct in substance, and in accordance with banking
practice. ”
# • •
“Tattersall” Adams will conduct the V.D.L.
Bank Lottery.
» * •
It was alleged in the course of some recent bank-
ruptcy proceedings that the bankrupt, five years ago,
had borrowed £5 from a Sydney money-lender, and had
paid £1 a month as interest for over four years, but had
somehow lately got into arrears! All told, he had paid
the money-god over £5O and was still £l7 in his debt.
Great Squeezer 1
• * *
L’Ayenir, a big brigantine, is to be the first
vessel in the newly-started Sydney whaling business.
More to follow. The other day some men who own a
long-laid-np steamer tried to get her accepted as a suitable
vessel “for Antarctic whaling.” Their hopes were cut
short with: “We want a ship, not an iron tank.” And
they only asked £5OO a month.
* # •
Bulletin.— Sir,—You remark that
the bottom was being knocked out of the N.S.W.
hotel industry. What about Melbourne, where many
hotels that two years ago were flourishing businesses,
don’t give a living now, even rent free. Graham Berry’s
beer-ai’d-spirit duties fairly “ bunged ” the Vic. hotel-
keepers.—Publican.
• • «
Easy to see that Minister Copeland’s only ex-
cuse for the 2J per cent, landlord’s gold-royalty was to
get the Mining on Private Property Bill through N.S.W.
Council. Better be without the bill for another ten years
than establish such a precedent. By then the Council
itself will probably be dead.
* » •
Somebody alleged to represent an English syn-
dicate has lodged at Braidwood mining office applications
for 200 sluice heads of water. Object—to tap the Shoal-
haven in the Braidwood district, and bring it down by
gravitation to the enormous area of auriferous drift
between Yellow Springs and Bungonia. Practically, to
carry out the scheme lately surveyed by Govt. As there
is no hope of Govt, doing the work, which will co-t over
£lOO,OOO, and the drift is too poor to pay, except by
hydraulic mining, the syndicate, if bona fide, should bo
allowed to go ahead and make or lose a heap.
* * «
Victory orushings continue insignificant com-
pared with those of a few short months ago. Shareholder!
are very solemn over it. Perhaps now the real motive
for increasing the capital of the concern can be measured
• * #
Why those up - and - down crushings by the
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo?
* m *
Peak Hill Proprietary has connected the 15
additional heads, and is now running 35 on a big ore-
body which for some months has averaged lOdwt. Recent
rains have filled the dam, and divs. should not be far off
if the whole truth has been told.
* « «
Mt. Lyell Go. has met with another rich vein
in the main shaft. Knox returns for fuller details re cost
of railway. So, anyhow, it is said.
• * •
Long Tunnel Extended, Vic., 1011 tons, 1084
ozs.— a magnificent yield ; div., 3s.
* * ■*
Surface improvements and more economical
underground working are reported to have taken place in
the Lucknow mines under consulting-superintendent
Collins and manager Drake. It would be a little more to
the point to say what these mines are really doing. The
London sharemarket is pretty sick.
• • •
When a competent, unassuming mining-manager
in N.S.W., of all countries in the world, throws up a berth
worth nearly £2OOO a year, then it looks like time to stem)
by ready for action.
* * *
Of the Amana, another offshoot of the Lucknow
mines, it is said: “ A drive is advancing under good
alluvial.” The shares, however, are receding under long-
deferred hopes set out in a very glowing prospectus.
At last Armidale estate, Blayney, has been
thrown open to prospectors. Terms, £1 per month each,
100 feet claims, to be ballotted for. Only £1 a month for
trespassing on the surface of 100 feet of ground! The
owner has no right to the gold, but wants a modest £1 a
month. A few cases like this will bring in the Mining on
Private Property Act.
(“Wild Cat ’ continued on page 18.)


f
<3-0 to HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDJN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.W.
m
d
1,11,11)
IIMIIII
re
i
/■Jill
a
m
iiii.iiiinm r «» 1,1 (iiiinii'ii'iiV
m
M
<ni>
UUlilllllli'll?
K'
»
m
w.w.v.:
ILK.
m
:*;*u
■'in
i»i*i
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
OOSTIVENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASE, and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedies
of the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and
renown. This is the greatest proof of their merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine articles as regret and disappointment are
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “all-
failing,” remedies so freely advertised. The repu-
tation and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic and
Fletcher’s Pills are the greatest proofs of their
appreciation by the public.they were not as
represented they would haWpaSsed out of memory
long ere this ; but instead %'heir sale is greater and
they are more 1 esti'enied by day and week by
week, and» this ■emphAtJcally proves their un-
disputed’ to no argument from
i nWweiWidtP pstnim rotoMtuftl the genuine articles and
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Personal Items.
David Syme is a shocking speller.
Mortimer Franklyn is rumoured dead.
Premier Patterson completed his 60th year
the other Sunday.
When the “war” is over. “Arise, Sir
Cecil !” (Buocaneer-in-Chief),
Bowell’s mission seems chiefly to have
related to that part of his anatomy.
R. L. Stevenson’s writing is little pin-
pointy stuff, like Charlotte Bronte’s—smaller than
Sala’s.
Phil May now contributes to London
Punch ; also to Judge and several other American
journals.
The Duchess of Cleveland is reported on
her way to Australia. The second live duchess to
visit this country.
Gov. Hopetoun suffers it to ooze out that he
spent £27,000 last year, only leaving him, poor
man, .£23,000 to the good.
The voice of the “ Loard,” when it calls a
distant parson to a new billet, must, to exact
obedience, have a decidedly metallic ring.
Woy Hoy, the Chinaman officially strangled
at Mudgee (N.S.W.), last week, specially re-
quested that his last breakfast might include
bacon.
Apropos of several recent events. As a
Roman Catholic, Victorian Chief Justice Madden
cannot be prejudiced in favour of the Shiels
Di vorce Act.
Francis Lochel, for over 40 years manager
of the West Australian Bank at Perth, died last
Thursday, aged 82 years. He founded the
Enquirer newspaper.
W. O. Hodgkinson, godfather of the
Hodgkinson River and goldfield (Q.), ex-Minister
of Mines, and ex-eversomany things, means to try
his luck in South Africa.
There is a widow-conducted Victorian
country paper. The owner is so fond of changing
her reporters that it is anticipated she will one
day again change her name.
A squatter magnate down South is said to
be rapidly qualifying for a lunatic asylum.
Financial losses the cause. When will the tale of
Boom victims be finally told ?
An omen of progress ? The names of five
of the seven Australasian Premiers end in “on ”
Nelson (Q.), Kingston (S.A.), Patterson (Vic.),
Dobson (Tas.), Seddon (M.L.).
Snobbery invades Melb. Anglican Cathe-
dral. There is a stained glass window to (say)
Buggins’s beloved brother-in-law—Sir John Some-
thing, Lord Mayor of London.
Mrs. HENRY PAREES.
Jacob’Garrard, one-time N.S.W. Minister
of the Crown and now superintendent of a
Wesleyan Sabbath school, professes to be prouder
of the latter dignity than of the former.
Lady Bowen, who died the other day is
commemorated in Queensland by her maiden
names, Roma and Diamantina. The latter is only
an approximation to her Greek first name.
Bishop Camidge is making the running
for the next vacancy in the Anglican Primacy of
Australia. He is a man of breadth, and the best
theoretic musician in the N.S.W. clerical guild.
There are at least two women of pro-
nouncedly democratic leanings in the Sydney
Women Suffrage League—the eloquent Mrs.
Summerfield and the cultured Miss Rose Scott.
Dear Bulletin, —Harry Lemon, son of
the late Mark Lemon, editor of London Punch,
does not live in Victoria. Harry died in Mel-
bourne Hospital on July 18, 1882. —An Old
Friend.
A N.S.W. citizen of 40 years’ standing
learned to his astonishment, one day lately, that
he never once filled up a Parliamentary ballot-
paper properly. He has, in every case, drawn his
pencil through the name of the candidate he
desired elected.
The Australian Star: —“Glasson i»
almost anxious for the arrival of the day of hi»
execution.” No, it is the day after the day of his*
execution that the condemned man is always;
anxious for.
Alfred Bennett, of Sydney E. News,
suing Richmond River Times for libel re state-
ments as to the treatment of men on his big sugar-
mill. The Times stands to its guns and refuses,
to apologise.
The reason why the Dibbs’ Testimonial!
Fund has been invested and guarded for the*
benefit of Dibbs and wife, is said to be a well-
founded fear that Dibbs would start paying off hia;
debts with it.
F. W. Ward, erstwhile the editor of the*
Foreign-trade, “ Liberal ” Sydney D.T., now
edits the Tory Brisbane (Q.) Courier, a thick-
and-thin worshipper of MTlwraith, who poses as
a Protectionist.
Irate deity of an Australian daily to
offending subordinate who had ventured to combat
his dictum :—"l’m proprietor of this paper, and
if I say it is so, it is so, whether it is so or not.’ 1
Exit culprit, crushed.
A N.S.W. country storekeeper, who
flowered some time ago into newspaper proprietor-
ship, proposed to his editor one day lately to put
in the balance of his time at the tea-and-sugar
counter of his bush establishment.
On three nights of one recent week an
Australian M.P. was with difficulty dissuaded by
friendly colleagues from moving the adjournment
of the House to call attention to the way his wife
and mother-in-law are treating him.
Two Melbournitea created a great
sensation in Westralia by wearing belltoppers
while driving to Ooolgardie. “ I hate fashionable
Victorians,” said the late Francis Adams, ‘‘they
are such snobs —they are worse than English
people. ”
E. W. Hornung, the Australian novelist,
whose “Bride from the Bush ” and “ The Luckiest
man in the Colony ” have been very successful,
was, the other day, married to a sister of Conan
Doyle. Gilbert Parker, erstwhile of Sydney, was
best man.
The Moderator of Melb. Presbyterian
Assembly out-Gorgoned the most gorgeous beadle,
heading a deputation to Education Minister
Baker, the other day. He was in a uniform,
including cocked hat, far more resplendent than
that of a Melb. city councillor.
John Roper, lately appointed Inspector
of Stock at Merriwa, N.S.W., is the last of the
Leichhardt expedition to Port Essington in ’46.
During a scrimmage with the blacks he lost an
eye,' and the naturalist Gilbert was killed.
Roper was the discoverer of the river of that
name.
When a most popular
and gentlemanly Australian
University professor first
started to lecture on Econo-
mics, he used invariably, in
illustrating the working of
a particular economic pro-
cess, to take the boot-trade
as an example. “Now,
gentlemen,” he would say,
“let us take boots.” It
was long ere the reason
for the explosive laughter
which always greeted the
proposition became plain to
him. The Professor’s boots
were the biggest and most
ungainly ever worn by mortal
man. He always uses bread
as an illustration now.
That great and “ gude”
mon, Laurence Rentoul, hav-
ing been reported : “ The
Melbourne secular journals
have gone mad on putri-
dity,” grabbed his bat and
rushed for the Age with ex-
planations. He “certainly
was not alluding to the
great daily organs of opinion.
They are not secular jour-
nals.” Of course not; with
papers as with men, the lat-
ter-day apostle never does
mean the “great” ones
when shaking his club at
iniquity. Nobody would
accuse Laurence of wishing
to offend “the great daily
organs of opinion.” He was
born much too far north for
that, ye ken.
Michelet, the French
historian, writing of the cot-
tage gardens of Kent, Eng-
land, over 30 years ago,
expressed sentiments almost
identical with those uttered
by Parkes when lately ex-
horting Australians to make
flower - plots before their
doors. “My books are my
companions.”
The Bishop of Perth died the other day,
and “ the funeral ceremonies, both in the Cathe-
dral and at the grave, were of the most impressive
character.” They would be, naturally. It is the
business of the Church to see that a bishop is
always an impressive character.
George Cathcart Craig is running a Sydney
Jingo periodical, entitled the Australasian
Army, Navy and Defence Review, and claims to
have on his subscription-list both Wales and
Connaught. It is to be hoped that Craig makes
the Guelphs pay up in advance.
Parkes's much-quoted joke about the
“outside buttress” and the “inside pillar” of
the church is very old. It was applied twelve
years ago, when the Duke of Beaufort (Connie
Gilchrist’s friend) bestowed one of his score of
livings on a poor clergyman, but it was stale even
then.
The Empress of Austria is quite mad now,
and they have provided her with a wax-doll,
which she nurses in mistake for her son Rudolph,
Rudolph was the young man whocommitted suicide
after (as was supposed) choking a beautiful
countess. Altogether the Hapsburg dynasty looks
healthy.
Speight’s ability never was so conspicuous
as in his evidence in the Syme case. His readiness
was amazing; the minutest railway details were
at his finger ends. Why was such a man lost to
the service ? _ Simply through dabbling in specula-
tion outside it, and dividing his mind. “Lay to
your book.”
It is under arrangement that Parkes, after
ibis return from West Australia, will pay a similar
THE PLAINT OF THE CHRONICALLY TIRED.
UNEMPLOYED SOLILOQUY: “It’s hard work to make a living without
working for it.”
visit to Queensland. Thus are the influences
being strung together which, in the event of
Federation, will leave him without a rival for the
Presidency of the Commonwealth. That is his
view, anyhow.
J. 0. Neild’s Commissions Extension Bill,
now before N.S.W. Parliament, is said to have
originated in a Sydney spiritualistic circle, a
medium having there stated that Queen Victoria
will be transferred to the Spirit World early in the
New Year. Neild’s Bill will, if passed, obviate
certain official difficulties which would arise were
the Queen to be suddenly carried off.
They are trying to make out that a certain
Australian officer (amateur), when introduced
lately to Queen Victoria by the Duke of Con-
naught, “shifted uneasily in his saddle, changed
his sword from one hand to the other, and finally
shamefacedly held out his fist, with ‘ How d’ye
do, ma’am?’” .But the gallant captain is just
one of the very last men in the world to be the
hero of such an adventure.
Once, when a certain great Australian
statesman was moving his ’appy ’ome, the
upholsterers were kept waiting for some material.
Asked by them if he had ordered it, the ancient
one answered, with a far-away look, “Yes, Hi
bordered hit.” “Oh ! well, it will soon be here.”
“ Ah !” sighed the delightful old boy, with a sly
wink and a wily shake of his mane, “Hi ham
not so sure of that, for Hi didn’t pay for it!”
An old identity has just departed at
Bathurst (N.S.W.) in the person of Mrs. Letitia
Kennedy, aged 72, widow of David Kennedy,
and youngest daughter of Major-General William
Stewart, who was Acting-Governor of N.S. Wales
for 12 days in the year 1825, before the arrival of
Ralph Darling. In that year Colonel Stewart
acquired the splendid Mount Pleasant estate of
some 15,000 acres, now occupied by his son, J. H.
Stewart.
Dr. Alexander, the slaughter - booming
Bishop of Derry, is an Ulster Jingo (bad form of
the disease !) who has elocuted himself into high
places, and has always been a little drunk with
his own verbosity. As a plain parson he used to
preach hysterical sermons which made himself
and his she-admirers weep. Snivel and ferocity
are not very far apart, after all. Blood and
hysterics, like lust and murder, have ever been
associated since the foundation of the world.
Parkes, as they noticed in Melbourne, the
other day, drops the “n ” from Government. A
man who, after 50 years of professional h’oratory,
fools with “h’s” and talks about “the Gover-
ment,” must be a hopeless egotist. His conceit
doesn’t allow him to recognise the faults of even
bis own English, which should be considered un-
pardonable in one who has long earned a living by
his tongue. A politician, just as much as an
actor, is expected to speak his words carefully
when “on the job,” although he may take no
trouble with his ordinary conversation.
The direct descendant in the fifth genera-
tion of one of England’s best-known and most
illustrious generals lives, or rather exists, in N.S.
Wales —in a perpetually closed and darkened
room. Save when the door is opened to admit or
let out his attendant, no air is permitted to pene-
trate the apartment except that which gets in
under the door, and, in obedience to the laws of
fluid-pressure, through unknown vents. This
scion of nobility believes himself too ill to get up
and walk, and therefore lies continually in bed ;
also, though his eyesight is not affected, he keeps
his eyes bandaged and fancies he cannot use them.
With utterly vacant mind, he lies thus always
idly in the dark, and his attendant has to feed
and otherwise assist him, always in the dark. He
is a man of means, and is fed on English game
and fish and all the delicacies of the season ;
he eats well and does not lose flesh. He was in
early life a somewhat distinguished scientist.
A Sunday paper would pay in Adelaide.
Primate Smith declares himself not merely
sad but angry at the large numbers of girls and
the few boys who crowd to his knees for confirms,-
tion. The Primate has several manly qualities,
and it is easy to believe that he often feels ashamed
at having, comparatively speaking, only women
and girls to teach.
jf a double-barrelled name means medio-
crity, a lot of the Sydney medicoes give them-
selves badly away when they spread out on their
door-plates whatever swagger middle-name will
put a coat of varnish over a plebeian hind-one.
Where there is snobbery there is folly. De
Oourcy Snooks might be just as good a healer as
plain Snooks, but the presumption would be all
t be other way.
Rev. A.
Har d i e la-
ments, before
Melb, Presby-
terian Assem-
bly, the pre-
vailing spirit
of irreverence
in the city. In
the country
districts, h e
said, “the
chair was care-
fully dusted
for the minis-
ter,” but in the
towns, it
seems, the
shepherd is
allowed to
wipe down the
furniture with
the hind part
of his gar-
ments. It is
a terrible thing
to find the peo-
ple at last ex-
tending to the
parson as little
consideration
as they have
long shown for
God.
Mr. Alfred Nathan, the rotund young
Sydney attorney-baritone, has renounced law for
the English stage. The Bulletin wishes Mr.
Nathan all the luck in the world, but regrets, for
his own sake, that he didn’t stick to the law.
Better for a man’s ultimate happiness to be even
the junior partner of the dreamy-eyed Mr. Mel-
bourne Macnamara than the best professional
baritone of a decade.
Mrs. Turner, widow of the late Rev.
Nathaniel Turner, died at Kew (Melb.) on
October 10, aged 95 years. The Rev. Nathaniel
Turner was the second Wesleyan minister
officially sent out to Australia; Rev. Samuel
Leigh being the first. Mr. Turner’s first station
was at the Bay of Islands, Maoriland, in ’23,
headquarters being at Wangawa, the natives of
which were then notorious as having massacred all
hands aboard the Boyd. A Maori chief once
brandished an axe over Mrs. Turner’s head,
threatening her life and asking her if she was not
afraid. The Wangawa mission had to be
abandoned, and the Turners returned to Sydney.
In ’27 they went to Tonga, where they remained
three years, when ill-health obliged them to
voyage to Hobart (Tas.), where they stayed
several years. Then they again superintended
the revived Maoriland mission, and afterwards
successively worked at Hobart and Launceston
(Tas.), Sydney and Parramatta. Mr. Turner
retired in ’54 and died in Brisbane (Q.) in ’64.
Mrs. Turner leaves 150 living descendants.
Zola doesn’t think the Englishwomen a
bit prudish. He says that dozens come to
see him and say to him : “We know all your
books, M. Zola, and we adore you ; please give me
an autograph.” Hum !
Before undergoing operative or other
treatment for Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharp on the
new and successful “ Cannalin ” treatment, 257
George-st,, close to Bridge-st., Sydney.*
Bundaberg has produced a co-operative,
democratic, semi-weekly paper, the Guardian,
the first issue of which exhibits a vitality that
promises a good lease of life. Its platform em-
braces—electoral reform on a one-arfu/tf-one-vote
basis; the referendum; payment of members;
abolition of the Upper House; the Australian
Republic; repeal of the conspiracy laws; anti-
Kauaka and anti-syndicate and anti-jobbery atti-
tude.
Messrs. Peat and Bloomfield have begun
business as financial and estate agents, at 93 Pitt-
street. John Peat has been for years conveyancer
in a leading Sydney legal office. Clement Bloom-
field, a Randwick alderman, has had 26 years’
banking in Sydney and suburbs, and has also
had considerable estate-agency experience.
Land lotteries are becoming the vogue for
the realisation of assets difficult to liquefy. In
another column will be found the prospectus of
the Australian Building Society, to be formed for
the Yarrabandin and Tamban distribution. There
are 118 prizes, of an estimated total value of
.£59,401, all freehold property in N.S.W. and
Southern Queensland. The first is valued at
.£11,643. Each £1 share gives a possibility of
winning 11 prizes, the acme of luck, presuming
the subscription fills, would win .£39,436 10s. The
lists will close March 31st, 1894. The names of
the Sydney and Brisbane committeemen and
other particulars are announced in the advt.


•IJJhotography.
Charlemont & Co .
Have REDUCED the Price of their Photographs,
as follows:
6 Cabinets - 7s. 6d.
12 do. -12 s. 6d.
Any Style or Pose.
As these Prices are not likely to last long, the
public would do well to avail of them. Sittings
Ma y be had at once, appointments not necessary.
VjA.<.tS
J^oiadcicJi(y
Ctth iu
tfc.
f
PHOTOGRAPHY!
Useful Christmas Presents.
Hand Cameras from One Guinea upwards.
Baker & Bouse
375 George Street, SYDNEY ;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE ;
46 Queen Street, BRISBANE ;
69 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Kanakooliechowland ! Where’s that ?
Premier Patterson says he will change the
Vic. £2500 Agent-General into, a £lOOO general
agent.
Treasurer Henry (Tas.) expects this year’s
deficit to be £380.000, and is fishing for a taxation
scheme to raise £BO,OOO extra.
During the last 36 years there have been
42 Ministries in office in S.A. The individual
Ministers number 96, of whom 35 are dead.
The members of S.A. Parliamentary
Labour party generally spend their occasional free
days in preaching Democracy in the country dis-
tricts.
The Adelaide National Ass calls on all
owners of land to form themselves into a phalanx,
and resist the encroachments of the Democratic
party.
MTntyre, Vic Lands Minister, is in
Maoriland, “ inquiring into ” half-a-score of Acts
and matters. M.L. is now the Australian poli-
tician’s Mecca.
Only about 155th part of N.S.W. enjoys
local Government of any sort, says G. H. Reid.
That’s because Parkes has been promising a Local
Government Bill for half a century.
One N.S.W. polit’eian has some £3OOO, in
small accounts, owing to him in his electorate,
which he dare not collect for fear of alienating
votes. fl M.P.” must be very dear to some men.
Samson Haynes is said to be coquetting
with Wellington (N.S.W.) electorate. Haynes
has his little peculiarities, but nobody can deny
that he is a live member and democratic. Traill,
Haynes, and Black all hailed from The Bulletin,
which is glad to see verified its belief that not one
of them would “ turn dog.”
AN ACT OF COVETOUSNESS.
THE BENCH (to defendant) : “Meeting complainant in a state of complete
intoxication, you struck him a murderous blow with a stick.
What prompted this cowardly act?”
COMPLAINANT (name of Hooligan) : “It was just pure invy, yer Washup."
Nmian Melville, Chairman of Committees
p the N.S.W. Assembly, has ruled that the
Committee cannot dissent from his ruling, no
matter what its opinion of that ruling may be.
speaker Abbott supported this absurd attitude
mid declared that the Committee had no power to
lelor the Chairman’s ruling to the Speaker. This
makes Melville an absolute and irresponsible gag
111 the mouth of the Committee.
To a job seeker in the Wide Bay (Q.)
district: “For whom did you vote last election ?”
‘Norman and Charley Powers. ” “No use you
hanging around, then; we only employ Tooth \
and Annear men.”
Young Yogel (the son of old Yogel), is a
candidate for Wellington (M.L.). the only
remarkable thing about him is that he unhesitat-
ingly advocates a new loan. The loan disease is
in the Yogel blood and bones.
Premier Dibbs (N.S.W.), cholerically, to
Labour-leader Cook: “The Government cannot
commit acts of violence like the body of men the
non. member represents.” This sort ot thing
is always remembered on reckoning day.
. The late Gr. R. Burns, M.P. for Towns-
ville (N.Q.), who died suddenly the other day,
was returned to Parliament by a majority of only
one vote over those polled for Anthony Ogden,
Labour candidate. A Labour-man ought to go in
easily now.
Minister Kidd’s standing “ad.” and stimu-
lant for the N.S.W. Cold-tea Party The
Postmaster-General is still desirous of bringing in
his Liquor Traffic Local Option Bill (No. 2), and
states that he will do so on the first opportunity.”
Kidding ’em !
S.A. Land Values Assessment Bill, emas-
culated in the Assembly, was thrown out by the
Council on the President’s casting-vote. The
National Ass and the Tory press now begin to
see what a splendid election-cry they have fur-
nished for the S.A. Labour-party.
Patterson, having “ saved the country”
and resuscitated credit, will not call Vic. Par-
liament together again till June, ’94 —an eight-
months’ spell. Patterson thinks nothing now
remains to be done. Of course. When the people
are “ done ” everything is done.
London Echo speaks of N.S.W. Attorney-
General Barton as the “ Idol of the Young
Colonial Party.” If the Echo means the Young
Australian Party, then Toby isn’t its Idol—not
yet, anyway. It will wait, for instance, to see
whether Toby will accept that K.C.M.G. ship
which the Echo said he was to get at the end of
the year.
Average men are malleable ; their shape
depends upon the wielder of the hammer. Hence
the rivals, Dibbs and Reid, are equally fervent in
congratulating N.S. W. Labour members on eman-
cipating themselves from the control of electoral
leagues. “Let us get them in the House,” cry the
old political parties, “ independent of outside com-
mittees, and we’ll shape them.”
Premier Dibbs evidently expects that
another Government will reign in N.S.W. after
the general elections.
The Vic. Bible in Schools League is again
holding meetings. Two-thirds of the teachers
disbelieve in the doctrines of the league. Children
read the Bible in class, and what more natural
than that they should ask their teacher the mean-
ing of the mysteries in which they dabble ? His
mouth is to be padlocked. Higinbotham offered
to the Protestant denominations, by his bill of 25
years ago, all they clamour for now, but they
rejected it, in order to kill the Catholics. In try-
ing to spite the Pope they cut off their own noses.
South Australia
has recently made a
harvest out of the
misfortunes of its
employes. For cash
deficiencies totalling
.£lOO (all repaid)
three railway and two
P. O. officials were
retrenched and four
others reduced. Pre-
viously, some large
retiring-allowances to
which P.O. men were
entitled were for-
feited for compara-
tively trivial misap-
propriations.
Mary Lee, priest-
ess of S. A. Women’s
Suffrage movement,
has been flouting the
local Legislature. She
told Blacker, M.P.,
that he is an idiot;
informed Batchelor,
M.P., that the Parlia-
mentary Labour men
are “ a lot of nincom-
poops and insulted
M'Pherson, M.P.
(Labour chairman),
by telling him that
he acta from interest,
and not from prin-
ciple. Yet, she hopes
to whip up enough
votes to enable the
Ministry to get the
third reading of the
Adult Suffrage Bill
through with the
Constitutionally - re-
quisite majority. It
lapsed before because
only 24 votes were
available, instead of 28
Of 82 peers
“created” by Glad-
stone, half voted
against his Home
Rule Bill.
A cabled attempt to blow up the Nelso 11
monument in Montreal reminds one that Quebe 0
—a much more French city than the other— doesn’t
seem to object to General Wolfe’s column on the
adjacent Plains of Abraham. Certainly the in-
scription borne by this memorial is simple and
discreet— 1 * Here fell Wolfe—victorious,” and the
stone merely marks the spot where a tough soldier
died. The Nelson monument in Montreal, having
no local historic interest, is a gratuitously offensive
reference to “ Hingland’s glory ” —as far as the,
French part of the population is concerned.
Premier Dibbs, in estimating the numbers
dependent on the unemployed, reckons three to a
family, but in estimating those dependent on bank
shareholders, counts six. Thus does a man with
an axe to grind make a world to suit his purpose.
One, “William Affleck,” asks why N.S.W.
meml ers of Parliament are not required to hand in
their rail way-passes on the day when the House
dissolves, instead of using them wherewith to
stump tire electorates on the cheap, while the new
J. A. HILL.
candidate has to go on the stump at his own
expense. The question is a very pertinent one,
but then, who is going to begin?
Mr. J. A. Hill, Town-clerk of Laura
(S.A.), helped to hoist the British flag on the
occasion of the landing of the first Governor' (Sir
John Hindmarsh) at Glenelg, on Dec. 28, 1836.
He is still bale and hearty. He came out in the
Africaine with the first type, presses, and printing-
plant, and assisted in setting up the proclamation
declaring South Australia a province of Great
Britain.
“The Labour members in Australia have
accomplished little,” crows the Argus. Which is
very true as regards Victoria, The only ones to
accomplish anything startling there have been
“capital” members of the Munro and Davies
class.
The Australian Star moralises over the
British Admiralty’s latest demand for
“for the further strengthening of the British
navy,” but says—
We lords of the marches of the world must keep our
guard on all waters.
“ We lords ” is about the snappiest thing heard
from the Star connection since Dibbs said,
“ Damn Chicago!”
TheN.S.W. Labour-party—out of Parlia-
ment—-has decided that the politician with a con-
science is a metaphysical fallacy not to be trusted;
and the intelligent voter is asked to appoint as his
lawmaker a delegated automaton, who shall vote
solidly on all questions affecting the life of a Min-
istry, “or calculated to establish a monopoly or
confer further privileges on the already privileged
classes ” ; which, if it means anything, means
every question as it arises in Parliament —for there
are only two kinds of questions in politics to-day :
the granting of privileges to the few, and the
granting of ameliorating palliatives for the many.
To enforce its opinions the majority at the Con-
ference “gagged” the minority, amongst whom
were the only M’s.L. A. who attended the Confer-
ence. Thus a democratic majority, having the
power, shows the same despotic indifference to the
feelings of its opponents as the plutocratic
minority has done for ages.
The programme should have said that the
concert was for the benefit of the “Church Fund,”
but the red-eyed compositor made it “Arch
Fiend,” and went home joyfully.
There are some curious features in the case
of the lately-discovered Newcastle (N.S.W.)
leper. The scaly Hindoo lodged for twelve
months next door to some Chinamen, who repre-
sented to his landlady, with monotonous per-
sistency, that he was a leper. She disregarded
them. After a time he found his way to Newcastle
Hospital, where he was treated for gangrene and
had one finger amputated, being then discharged
as cured. A few months after this he called in
another doctor, who ridiculed the special know-
ledge of the Chows. They, however, held
out against the medico, saying that they could
not be deceived, as they had seen lots of similar
cases in their own country. The result was that
the man was practically under medical observation
for a year before the faculty finally decided that
he was a leper. The doctors say that an opales-
cent look in the eye sis peculiarly and unmis-
takeably symptomatic of leprosy. Now, the man
was a well-known figure in Newcastle, as he in-
variably took up his stand in the one place, and
the singular sheen of his eyes, in which no pupil
was discernible, was a common subject of remark.
In fact, this opalescent glint and his invincible
taciturnity led to a rather general belief that he
was mad.
Dear Bulletin 1 , *— ltd the Polynesian
practice of dividing a rich dead man’s estate
' among the tribe, a similar custom obtained under
the ancient Celtic laws among the Irish. There
were wise men before Max Nordau.—Yours,
&c„ V.
With one or two exceptions, all the
shearers after last shearing passed through St.
George (Q.), whilom the scene of mad carousals,
without changing a cheque or drinking a glass of
liquor. Some attribute the change to the New
Australia propaganda, some to the growth of
worldly-wisdom in the breast of the bushman, and
some to the alleged fact that there was better
liquor farther on.
E. M. Clark’s sledge-hammer Bill
for flattening out N.S.W. gamblers
and gambling institutions does not
include the oleaginous cleric and his
worked - slippers bazaar. Clark was
asked to lay these with the rest on the
Parliamentary anvil, but his ears fell
back and he weakened along the spine.
N.S.W. Parliamentary repre-
sentatives reputedly stand thus re
religious convictions : Freethinkers
claim 18 representatives, Spiritualists
2, Atheists 5, and Agnostics 9; total,
34, or, in a house of 141 members, over
25 per cent, of the whole. On the other
hand, census returns give the total of
Freethinkers, Spiritualists, Atheists
and Agnostics combined as 6371, or
•6 per cent, of the population. Hence
it follows that *6 per cent, of the popu-
lation returns, on the basis of creed, 24
per cent, of the Parliamentary repre-
sentatives. Which suggests many
things, but obviously this : That dissent
from standard religions is in N.S.W.
allied with a special capacity for
political and social enterprise.
Arthur Rae, M.P. (who de-
nounced the N.S.W. Labour Confer-
ence as “a lot of tyrants”) will stand
for the Murrumbidgee as an Indepen
dent —or so it would seem from his"
recent utterances. Rae is the first to
break, and there are many to follow.
The so-called Labour Conference will,
in the end, have much to answer for.
T. Curran, M.P., in a speech in
Ireland, prophesies that Home Rule
will give Ireland an Administration
like Victoria’s, where Patteison, an
Orangeman, and O’Loghlen, one of
“the boys,” divide the Government
between them.
The Y. M.C.A., Melb., has also found it
necessary to economise, and now is only opened at
midday.
Grafton (N.S.W.) newspaper :
ANTED employment as Painter, generally useful
etc. Not afraid of work; moderate wages: good
references. No connection with Chinamen ; and as lam
a Christian and naturalised British subject, with house
rw?nr t ?. pay ’ a t, ' ial is efs mostly solicited.-JAMES AH
uuw. Bacon street, near Queen-street.
The scientific romancists have got a fable
about a venomous bird—“tho bird of death to
be found nowhere in the world save New Guinea.
Its b!t e causes “ excruciating pains in every part
or the body, loss of sight, convulsions, lockjaw
and certain death within two hours.” This must
be our old friend, the ivhackta’on tremenjvs.
* n , 1860 ’ Ital y had a public debt of
A,17,0C0,000 ; now the debt is =£484,000,000. It
is a costly thing to be one of the Great Powers of
Iturope, and, judging by the stupendous annual
deficiency, it looks as if Italy would ah o have to
We her schedule before long, and then there will
be another bad shock for J. Bull,
In Yolney’s “ Ruins” there is an excelh nt
account of an imaginary Universal Religious
g ou ““ I » Ia whlc iV , the Christian, Confucian,
liuddhist, Parsee, Mohammedan, and every other
species of sectarian took part. Its result was
liabel over again, and has been realised, down
almost to the smallest detail, in the recent Parlia-
ment of Religions at Chicago.
A Ballarat navvy was knocked down by a
train at 2.30 p.m., one day a few weeks back, and
was picked up, minus an arm. When his wife went
to draw his wages for the week, she found the three-
and-a-half hours of that day had been carefully
deducted, as well as the subsequent days. The
navvy is grateful he was not charged for the time
wasted by the men who picked him up and
packed him on a truck.
There is no greater foe to human happi-
ness than the disorders that spring from lack of
nerve vitality. The more, then, that we feel the
nervous organs of our bodies declining in strength
or diminishing in functional ability, the nearer
then we may be sure we are approaching to the
final extinction of our lives. The causes that
le . . up to this fading away of a man’s
existence, this waning of the pulse of life
are many and varied. Mr. Rainsford, 7
Moncur-st., Sydney, writes : “In order to get rid
of the remains of an attack of nervous debility
from overwork, I was induced, by reading your
advertisement, to try a bottle of Marshalls Tonic
Nervine, and I found it acting so beneficially that
I continued to use something like half-a-dozen
bottles. 1 am so pleased with its good effects
upon my system generally, that I shall recommend
it to any of my friends who may be suffering as I
was.” N,B. Marshall’s Tonio Nervine is a
scientific discovery. It is not a haphazard pre-
paration resulting from a few minutes’ thought
like many substitutes for it, but the outcome of
many years careful research into the cause of
weakness and anaemia in their many and varied
forms, it is a positive cure for weakness arising
from any and every cause, and can be obtained
from all medicine dealers. Do not be put off with
a substitute.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
whde to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt, on page
25 of this issue. 8
lire meed of merit for promoting personal
comeliness, is due to J. 0. Ayer & Go., whose
Hair Vigor is a universal beautifier of the hair.
Harmless, effective, and agreeable, it ranks
among the indispensible toilet articles.


df
It has become clear to Ministerartbat wel
no longer want an Agent-General as at]
figure heathy \Ye want a business man j
there who will see that we get the best j
value for whatever money we have to j
spend in the English market, and who j
will know how to open up new marts for)
©ur produce../ ,« ** _
nf*'
_2SW/“ mis Af /b i/sU off/c j
BUTTE: R
is
• %
X
f ,
V
<■ $
$ £
y
PfIIME.
V’ltTOßinN
Ml/TTOt^
d
fd
11' >
Ihes yniykT'juLts -e.
miner andl i€gl^ re ovv-iW* c *
I- c»
ffle French market)
being available for V.ctonan frozen mutton
in Agent-General fitted for Iris post would
gather up all the (acts concerning this, and
negotiate the first shipment for us. He
would do tbesame in BelgiumandGermany,
J, B.Ta'Z/et'SOn l*roz*-')ol
a -fz-ozan TneoCt'o&-//A
l/in. «/■ cZ/s7/*tcf'an
T\<£.
o f
DEP °SITS
—a s 77 to A/"he*, a A.
"7* Z~a ■?*. &fo i** '7a~Oy&£-ri' c<n STAe<~
&airt,A P
$
e. «
(V
■V&V
s' //./
vY
>rjr
an ornamonta* Agent*(ienerai would »>e as-
ftcceptablc as any other, provided only that
he were as well versed in tho_ vulgju art o t
buying and selling
f
THE VICTORIAN AGENT-GENERALSHIP.


Mr. M‘Gowen :
“ Education should be secular, cc»’y >ry
Hnd lice. ’ (Great, cheering.)
* I
K
jiMHHWI
[TWA
V
V
,
'
-C J® o^f 'Jfuqg*,
CHRISTIANITY AND POLITICS.
A conference of men, mostly laymen from
the various Christian bodies in and around
Petersham, was held in one of the All Saints’
schoolrooms on Tuesday evening, to consider
what could be done to influence public
opinion so as to secure the return of such
candidates aSHhe coining general election
' ' and the prevailing feeling of the
speakers was that it was their duty, as Chris-
tians and patriots, to pet their Christianity
before their politics in the coming election
Melbourne, Thursday.—A demonstratioh|
was held to-night at the Congregational
Church in favor of the extension of the
franchise to women. There was a very large!
attendance of women and girls, and no less*
than 15 resolutions were carried providing!
for reforms of a most sweeping and drastic!
character. The suppression of smoking alto-
gether was one of the modest demands, while;
the removal of the penny-in-the-slot cigarette]
machines from railway stations and the
abolition of the liquor traffic were asked for.
Protests were also entered against theatrical
j performances and Sunday trains. A
df
V*
-9:
M
Ip |
" Xlie persons who put out money for hire
are entitled to the same measure of protec-
tion as the humblest citizen iu the land.”
~ij>hbs
fjf SolotfOti /sucffs -
a
#
jr# 4
V.
%
\
London, Thursday Night.— Mr. -Ejyd-
fnty Buxton, Parliamentary Secretary, to
\ the Colonial Office, replying to a question
| in the House of Commons to-day, said
i that the Government would not forget
/ the chivalry displayed .by King Lobeu-
I girl a in having th® missionaries safely
escorted to the frontier of Mntalelcland
|on tho outbreak of hostilities.
Will {art W
tta<oo f« foreet m
fC)'Zrj\f $
Jrihjl rfofvtfyt
1 y f hotter op
fljachi^
. V»‘
d
tv^an
G-^)
London, Saturday Night.—The lrti«
penal Federation League has been dis.
solved.
jhh
A GENERAL LOOK-ROUND.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
<£lo each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr, W, J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
d
Wonderful discovery /.
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
rpHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sand;/ Blight,
L Inflamed Lyes and Lids, Dimness of Sit/hi.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Lyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
KT Manufactured Solely by 11. A. KOSE, i hcniisf,
631 GEORGE xTREET, SYDNEY.
Stop that cough, by the use of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral —the best specific for all throat and
lung diseases. It will allay inflammation, aid
respiration, and strengthen the vocal organs.
Ayer’s Almanacs are free to'all. Ask for one.
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
THE
“Won’t be happy
until he gets it ”
OF
Every Enlightened Man
and Woman in the
Universe.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
Society
Lady Boiven (whose decease is cabled) and
Lady Loch were the Governors’ wives who were
really social, in Melb. Lady Bowen launched
Rinkomania. In Auckland she exclaimed, “ How
like my own beautiful Isles of Greece!” Some
Mr. O’Shannaghan edited one of the papers, and
he wrote, “Has her ladyship ever kissed the
blarney stone?” Bowen, as a humble attache,
made a good catch in marrying her ladyship, a
Greek of noble birth. They used to say, in Mel-
bourne, he did not appreciate the honour of the
alliance as he ought. He tells good stories in his
autobiography, but not the best of all, about the
Botanic Gardens official and the horsewhip.
* # *
Between the professional philanthropist
and the social-gimlet sneak there is sometimes no
great gulf. The Children’s Protection Society
placards Sydney with a notification that in all
cases of cruelty to juveniles the names of “ in-
formants” will be kept strictly private. What’s
the matter with “informer” as a designation for
the bogus humanitarian who slinks in the back-
way to recount how Jones gave his eldest cub a
whack too much, or how Mrs. Brown sent Mary
Ann supperless to bed ? Information supplied on
the sly is, as often as not, rotten information, and
creatures of this sort will be pretty much on a
.level with the divorce-evidence jackal or the
anonymous-letter cur.
* * *
Mackenzie Bowell, the visitor from
Canada, and his party got a particularly humble
reception at Melbourne. There was no gorgeous
vehicle waiting for them—no brilliant deputation
—nothing. Two M.’sP. met Bowell and shook
hands with him, and then went off at a smart
pace on foot, leaving him a forlorn visitor in a
strange land. Then the astonished Canadian,
probably as a reflection on the character of his
hosts, hired the most dilapidated cab and the
most desolate-looking horse on the rank, and
struggled off along Collins-street, and that was all
the reception. The official hospitality of Victoria
didn’t even run to a threepenny beer. In N.S. W.,
on the other hand, the Bowell’s progress was a
fierce blaze of glory, culminating in a 500-man
steamboat (two steamboats) picnic, whereat fizz
flowed like water. When people heard that the
poor Treasury paid for all, they thought hard about
several things and winked.
* « •
IN THE SWIM.
AUSTRALIAN POET : “I want to join the Conservation of Wattles
deputation to the Minister.”
TANNER: “It can’t affect you.”
A. P. ( indignantly ):“I use as many wattles in my business as you do
in yours.”
An Australian city man, a shining suburban
church-light, who, a year or so back, created a sen-
sation by eloping with a certain young and
plump pantomime-actress, and who owes to church
influence the ease with which he got out of
trouble, was subsequently forgiven by his wife,
with whom he shortly after went “Home.” The
other day, with his wife proper, he returned to
Australia. At one of the intermediate ports,
however, the actress Came abroad as a passenger,
and celebrated the Voyage’s end by once more
levanting with her old “mash.” Great sympathy
is felt for the deserted wife, who, having already
once forgiven, can do so no more.
* • *
A Frenchwoman availed herself of the
regulations to visit her husband, a confinee in
Darlinghurst Gaol, one day last week, but on
attempting to talk in her native language was
peremptorily silenced. The warder in attendance,
so The Bulletin is told, demanded that the
conversation between the pair should be carried on
in English, so that he could understand its im-
port, but intimated that if the woman spoke
French only he would get an interpreter from
Sydney on her depositing the fee.
# * # #
Lady Sarah Wilson hadn’t been long stay-
ing at Ercildoune when the Hopetouns went
down to be the guests of Sir Salmon. Lively
Lady Sarah is a brand of nobility which the
Countess can put up with in eyery sense of the
term.
* * #
Sylvia Grey is lucky. Her dancing day
was very much on the wane, her beauty—never
very considerable —had dwindled down to vanish-
ing point, her attempts at “ brain ” acting had
all of them proved failures. In short,
Sylvia was about to sink below the horizon when
“a wealthy Australian gentleman named Fen-
wick ” came along and married her. Lucky man,
Fenwick! Fenwick, presumably, is more solid
than the Australian “ silver king ” who was going
to marry Letty Lind a few years ago.
* * *
The suicide of Rev. Hugh Young, of
Sydney, appears to have been an exceptionally
sad case. Arriving in Hobart, a comparative
stranger with mind deranged from over - study,
the poor fellow does not seem to have encountered
a single person sufficiently charitable to interest
himself on his behalf. A brother parson, on whom
he called, noted his despondent demeanour, advised
him to consult his son (a doctor), and evidently
felt that he had done his duty. Then, when pur-
chasing the revolver, Mr. Young questioned the
salesman closely as to the manner of using it, and
the effect of revolver shots on the person—these
queries were reported to the police after he had
departed, but no action was considered necessary.
# # *
Matthew Davies wearied a good deal of
reiterating his old “ explanations ” in Melb. Dis-
trict Court when he found that the papers didn’t
report him and the public remained resolutely
absent. However, he kept up the ghastly farce of
having “something to say” for about ten hours
altogether. Presently we shall know why Mr.
Davies went so carefully through a performance
that, on the face of it, was not only ridiculous, but
also calculated to make people more suspicious
than ever. There was a reason somewhere for
thus ekeing out time after a majority of the Bench
had come to a decision. Every extravagant
feature of the Mercantile case has had a powerful
reason in it, thus far.
As an instance of
the poverty in Vic-
toria and the utter
loss of dignity which
has come upon that
desolate city, the fol-
lowing story is unique.
In a recent divorce-case,
the wife being respon-
dent, the lawyer who
conducted the defence
took his fee in pawn-
tickets, as money was
unobtainable. The
principal article repre-
sented was a ring, and
when the solicitor went
to redeem it he found
that it had somehow
been given up to the
lady’s husband. A few
years ago a Melb. law-
yer would have lost a
dozen rings rather than
make it known that he
had taken his fee in
hypothecated jewellery
or pawned undercloth-
ing, but these times
have long since fled.
Nowadays he probably
wouldn’t mind if it
were known that he
took payment in sau-
sages (or in ducks, like
an historic Sydney
police-court attorney).
Anyhow, that parti-
cular lawyer sued the
defaulting three - ball
man, and got judgment.
# • *
Heated contro-
versy has raged in the
S.A. capital for many
days between Anglican
and Dissenting parsons
re a Bill in which Dr.
Kennion is styled “ the
Lord Bishop of Ade-
laide.” The most the
Episcopalians will con-
cede is that “ lord ”
shall be spelt with a
small “1.” A large hell
has already been raised
over the matter.
Joe Clarke, the friend of Mrs. Parker,
sold his specimen plants the other day. They
were laid out in the Melb. Athenaeum Hall, and
the world wondered whether the prices fetched at
auction were anything like the prices charged to
Joseph in the first instance. But, O ! there have
been even rarer specimen “ plants ” —grown, too,
in the Athenaeum Club —worked upon the rich
man. If an auctioneer could catalogue them we
should have an interesting little book. Joe used
to take first prizes with some plants, whilst the
other sort took prizes from Joe.
A Oollins-streeb (Melb.) luncheon-bar ad-
vertises :—“Three courses, Is., including tea or!
coffee and a small bottle of winef’
* * *
One-half of Melbourne householders have
apartments to let or vacancies for boarders. The
other half keep registry-offices.
« # *
A Sydney daily paper vigorously demands
that stray dogs should bo regularly advertised by
the police. Thus does the journalistic counter
make itself heard these hard times.
October No. of St. Nicholas (Amer.)sees
the end of the Australian story lately referred to
in The Bulletin. The last chapter makes men-
tion of two men tramping through an Australian
forest, one carrying a travelling-bag, the other a
portmanteau. Also, the author refers to gorges,
chasms, and the defeat of the wild blacks of
the Blue Mountains.
“Andrew Deir” writes in the Gentle-
man’s Magazine (London), an alleged Australian
story, “ The Maid of Doon !” This romancist (in
the first person) lands in Sydney in the seventies,
and goes to a cattle-station, 10 miles distant,
owned by an Australian named M‘Taggart, whom
he finds, on arrival, keeping at bay “10 naked
Maoris!” He shoots the Maoris, and he and
M’Taggart throw the bodies into the “ forest.”
* * *
What it has come to in Melbourne :
— Three gentlemen want Suits to
measure ; terms. State deposit weekly ; Fitzroy
P.O.
# # *
A Melbourne physician (L.R.0.P., Edin.,
and M.R.C.S., Eng.) advertises that his consulta-
tion-fee, with medicine, is now Is. 6d., and he
will visit patients at their residence for 2s. 6d. per
visit.
• • *
The Vic. railways were last week enriched
by a half-penny stamp, forwarded anonymously as
payment for “ excess fare ”
A perfectly new idea in wedding gifts has
been struck by a Bulletin man. He buys a strong
steel horn-handled corkscrew, has it silver-
mounted and superscribed—“ The Key to Happi-
ness. Antidote to Matrimony .” The bride is
always so pleased.
“Express messengers” are being prose-
cuted at Adelaide for delivering letters in the city
and so infringing the P.O. Act.
Customary magisterial remark from Centra 1
Q. J.Pi, who is also a storekeeper (to drunks):
“ Why don’t you ootne and pay me what you owe
WO, instead of drinking your money like this ?”
• « •
It is printed that a mail-steamer skipper
who chatted pleasantly several times to a pas-
senger Q.O. re a voyage scandal, received, when
in Melbourne, a bill for “conferring with you
concerning,” etc. This is, of course, the most
transparent of inventions, as “eminent counsel ”
deal only with attorneys.
The assembled
Presbyterians of
Victoria started
to fulminate
against the “verra
great iniquity” of
giving State school
children a holiday
on Cup Day, but
changed the sub-
ject suddenly
when reminded
that the Scotch
College and the
Presbyterian
Ladies’ College,
both parson-
bossed institutions
(and chiefly sup-
ported by the
squattooracy)
gave holidays on
that devil’s day.
* »
Rev. Martin
recommends Vic.
Baptist Union to
use brass-bands
“as a means of
attracting persons
to church ser-
vice.” Jee- rusa-
lem ! Why not
try leprosy ?
* *
TheS. A. Tele-
graph Department
is indeed a splen-
did service. The
operator at
Powell’s Creek—a
station in the in-
terior, hundreds of
miles from every
where after 12
years good and
honest work, gets
ss. a day wages.
The Chinee cook at
the same station
gets 4s. a day.
The S. A. Speaker reprimanded too-gallanb
members who placed an Assembly Committee-
room at the disposal of a Women’s Suffrage League
delegation. A legislator complained in the House
that “modest men were waylaid and canvassed
for their votes ” by the invading sisterhood—
against whom the doors are now shut and bolted.
• # *
The Women’s Christian Temperance
Union (Vic.) agitates for a State-aided manu-
facture of unfermented wine from the grape. Why
don’t they start a red-currant and gooseberry wine
industry of their own ? Properly made gooseberry
wine is excellent tipple, and a persevering con-
sumer may get very drunk on it. A good temper-
ance drunk is the one thing needful to an advancing
civilisation.
* * •
It is cabled from London that the Queen’s
Proctor has interfered with a view to annulling
the divorce lately granted to an actress named
Chester and her husband. His objection is that
there was “ collusion ” between the parties, and
the evidence of collusion lies principally in the
fact that they dined together after the divorce
was granted. Evidently J. Bull, in his strictly
moral and respectable aspects, has a strong ob-
jection to the common courtesies of life. No
doubt the Chesters found marriage a very
bad failure, but when the separation
was granted and their quarrels were all ended, it
is difficult for any reasonably polite mortal to see
why they shouldn’t dine together as a proof that
they parted without any needless ill-feeling. The
law had made them nothing bub acquaintances,
and surely a man ought to be able to invite
an acquaintance to dinner without having
objectionable comments cabled all over the
earth. Apparently, however, it is part of
the moral code in England that a man must
act like a hog to his divorced wife; if he is
suspected of acting towards her like a gentle-
man, and treating her as he would any other
lady—despite the fact that the law has made her,
so far as he is concerned, just the same as any
other lady—then his conduct is suspicious. If
Chester had thrown a brick at his late wife,
or had attacked her with a cane, all.would have
been well. It was the farewell dinner that broke
him up.
* * «
Sydney men, summoned to serve on
juries, have began to take provisions with them
to supplement Sheriff Cowper’s retrenched allow-
ances.
BARTHO
" L a / To Toe §
'
'jx,w LIKt COr\E.J <; OL% t
ytT W/SS swteTtST K^je
-Tou.o w O
i<i
J_/ac*a.da/ 1 r n e O
Up aso oowm rt\t st/A^e-
Coyi O
Ve.i\oanT bo/^ /ano BALP*\ £ - a ' d 5
,§> mukt /vtt /~\oi\t< O
c[ai> in nat'sTic r\i &T
I pvr 15 A cmi\oPooi VT
E.F.
THE HA'PENNY STAMP.
’Twas enclosed with a penitent letter,
A note breathing sorrow and pain,
From a party who means to be better—
Who'll never work swindles again.
Was it bought (which is joy to consider)
With the last honest coin of a tramp?
Did it come as a mite from a widder,
That ha’penny stamp ?
Sweet sign of a soul that was stricken
By sin it had pluck to confess,
Be a power to hasten and quicken
More sinners to pay the excess!
’Midst the gloom of a fraudulent city
Shine out like a virtuous lamp,
Teaching bankers to honour their “ kitty,”
That ha’penny stamp.
But, stay ! in the present condition
Of Melbourne, “good” men of renown
Are making a small composition.
And doing their creditors brown.
A thought through our brain is a-whirling ;
Is it merely a penitent “ ramp ”
Does it stand for one sovereign sterling,
That ha’penny stamp ?
Very likely some opulent “ bounder”
Has sent it along to the State—
Some lofty “one cent in the pounder”
Who piously passes the plate.
A “ quid” is the sum that he owes ’em
With the balance he’s free to decamp.
’Tis his ticket for Abraham’s 80- som,
That ha’penny stamp 1


Send Bd. in stamps for a copy of Xmas
Bulletin, posted to any Australasian address.
England and abroad, lOd. in stamps.
To The Deaf.—A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
»i
l/MITEJz-
Jstabushed iq 33
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OE PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAY and SONS, JULIUS FEU KICK
UEBEL and LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR " and THE “ BELLING."
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
The Australian women suffragists should
go might and main for raising the salaries of
female school-teachers to the level of males. In
that class of labour the hours of work are the same
and the results of the work can be authoritatively
tested, and where conditions are equal, salary
also should be equal.
* # *
Barrier Miner comments upon the
recent death-sentence passed on prisoner Vlark—
since commuted to five years’ gaol. The tenor of
those comments is that the utterance of the dread
sentence was a farce, but, all the same, it scared
subsequent juries into acquitting prisoners despite
convincing evidence. Very probably. One of the
incidentals of the gallows law is that it often
operates intimidatingly on the minds of jurors.
• • #
A Southern Don Juan wants to break off
an irregular intimacy, with a view to perpetrating
matrimony elsewhere. So far, his ex-inamorata
has blocked the path with boulders. She put up
a little bill—money lent, clothes supplied, &c.,
,£9O. The other lady’s relatives paid that; where-
upon the wicked one produced a bundle of love-
letters, and named some hundreds as the lowest
price at which they would be surrendered. The
interest attaching to the correspondence centres
round the fact that Juan refers frequently to the
lady whom he is now going to marry in such
endearing phrases as—“that warty rhinoceros,”
“pasty-faced giraffe,” “lean, angular drome-
dary,” &c., &c. Negotiations proceeding.
* # #
In the sixties, Wiramera (Vic.) swagmen
used to get their supper and breakfast at the
stations at which they put up for the night.
When the squatters began to think that labour
was plentiful and needy enough to enable them
to stop this general feeding, Samuel Wilson (since
ennobbled) started the reduction by continuing to
give supper, but no breakfast. Now, the next
squatter to Wilson was the famous Martin
Shanahan, whose statement—“Shure, if I don’t
feed ’em, Biddy will,” has passed into history.
The men who camped and supped at Wilson’s
used, therefore, to hop over to Shanahan’s for
breakfast. Shanahan’s cook “ bucked ” and
told Martin that he was feeding all Wil-
son’s travellers. A day or two later, so
goes the story, Wilson passed by, as Shana-
han was drafting sheep. “ Good day, Mr.
Wilson.” “ Good day, Mr. Shanahan.” “Is yer
bullocks very busy now, Mr. Wilson?” “Oh,
no.” “Thin, sind ’em over in the marnin ’, an’
I’ll give ye a ton of flour, and don’t have the
travellers come bothering my cook for their break-
fasts.” Salmon never said a word, but the
breakfasts were reinstituted at his station, until
the time when he stopped suppers and all.
# * »
A Maoriland. paper asserts that, since
ladies have now got what Fish, M.H.R., calls the
“ fran-cheese,” the marriage-service will be altered
to read : “Who dare take this female elector to
be his wedded wife And the bridegroom will
then brace himself up for a great effort, and
answer in an alarmed voice : “ I dare !”
« • »
R.C. Bishop Higgins, who the other day
opened a bazaar at Lithgow, N.S.W., bestowed
an episcopal blessing upon the local 0. of E.
clergyman for patronising the show, and made
some graceful remarks anenb inter-denominational
cordiality. Did any Bulletin reader ever see a
R.C. priest patronise a Protestant bazaar, though?
It recalls somehow Misthress O’Kooligan, who
had been a frequent borrower from Mrs. Aisy of
sugar, tay, starch, soap, buckets and trifles like
that, and who one day sent her neighbour the
following message :—“Misthress Kate O’Kooli-
gan’s complimints to Misthress Aisy, an’ she’s
bought a new pot, an’, for the fuchur, she doesn’t
intind aythur to borry or lind.”
Thus Max O’Rell:—
The colonial characteristics are hospitality, cheek, con-
eeit, and irreverence for everything that is respected. If
you are stuck up, don’t go to the colonies ; but if you are
willing to play the part of good fellow, and willing to fall
in with everything, then you may go. . . . The Aus-
tralian women are the most frivolous I have ever met.
They can think of nothing but lawn-tennis, tea-parties,
garden-parties and calls. They are very particular about
“ the set” with which they mix. In a little town called
Horsham, Vic., with only 3000 inhabitants, I remember
mentioning to one lady I had seen another lady in the
town. “Oh, yes,” she said, “I have heard of her, but
we don’t move in the same set.”
# # #
Divorce JJudge Windeyer (N.S.W.): “I
consider the conduct of petitioner towards her
husband has been angelic.” Judge Windeyer on
“Angels ” is wiggery in a new light. Even a
learned Judge who, after a few hours, or even a
few days, occupied in hearing evidence, pledges
his reputation, so to speak, that a certain woman
is an angel, is a presumptuous mortal. Many
couples live together, day and night, for a quarter
of a century, and the man doesn’t really know the
woman, nor the woman the man.
# # *
Husbands of the Maoriland future will
tell of how they first met their wives at the
polling-booth.
The franchise again ! Public-penance
advt. from a Dunedin (M.L.) paper :
Dear wife,—l humbly crave your pardon for the injury
l nave tried to do you. I have an unbearable temper,
but promise to never molest you again.—Your penitent
husband, Frank.
Moral hero, or first-class fool—which ?
• • •
Bishop Goe, a sturdy Low Churchman, is
disgusted at the theatrical mummeries forced on
him at Melb. Cathedral. The last is that a
verger, carrying a thing like a naked sword, paces
before the preacher, to the pulpit—a reduciio ad
absurdum of the Legislative biz.
* * *
A Maoriland “ cockatoo,” who had been
struck heavily by sickness and misfortune, was
other day for failing to send his
children to school. He pleaded that they were so
nearly that they couldn’t go out except
after dark. The offspring weren’t produced in
court owing to the impossibility of bringing them
along the road without exciting a riot, but evi-
dence was called that they were quite unfit for
inspection. Then the magistrate looked up the
Act to see if he could order a naked child to
attend school, and, finding nothing that bore
directly on the subject, he ordered that the family
must go to school anyhow, and that the house-
mother had better make them some clothes “ out
of old flour-bags.”
* # #
As the law stands : An Australian insti-
tuted divorce proceedings against his wife ; she,
as is usual in such cases, laid counter-charges
against him, and likewise applied for a divorce.
For want of funds principally (she had all his
property in her name) the husband withdrew his
charges, forgave, and lived with her ; and she left
him a week after. By again living with her he
condoned her previous offences, says the law;
pathless, her case is permitted to go on, because it
is principally based on charges of cruelty. She
has since won the suit.
* * *
Ladies now take off their hats in Melb.
Public Library.
There are three
Countesses of Glasgow
alive. The widow of
the sth Earl (Muskett,
the mighty sportsman)
is over 90 years old.
The other Dowager—
an Abercromby—is re-
sponsible, through de-
fault of male issue,
having only borne a
daughter —for Maori-
land’s present Gover-
nor, who was but a dis-
tant cousin, wearing
the coronet and title.
It has often occurred to
the writer to propound
to himself a question in
this vexed subject of
titledom, somewhat
parallel to the Sad-
ducean catch about the
woman who had con-
secutively the seven
brothers to husband
her, and yet made an
empty end to things.
Supposing there were
10 brothers, the elder
being an Earl, or Duke,
or something of the
sort, and .they all
married, but died, in
proper order of pre-
cedence, without results
—How many Dowager
and semi - Dowager
Countesses, or
Duchesses, as the case
might be, would there
be, without waiting for
the Resurrection ? It
requires some miracle
like that to bring forth
the beauties of aristo-
cracy in all its glory.
#* # ’
A Sydney lady lasfe
week expressed disgust)
that she was only
charged with bigamy,
whereas she had
achieved trigamy, but
consoled herself with—
“Glory,hallelujah! I’ll
lead Canon Rich’s choir
again” (the gaol choir).
Vic. Chief Justice Madden: “Women
enter into marriage much more lightly and hastily
than they used to. ” He blames Shiels’ Divorce
Law for it locally. Women marry carelessly, he
says, because they can divorce easily. Exactly :
marriage is a sin the absolution for which is
divorce. Here you have a touching picture of the
simple little maiden accepting Brown on the hop,
because she knows she can send him back and
have him (like the dress-piece she selects by gas-
light) changed if he doesn’t suit. But to scold
politician Shiels for this suddenness in woman is
as bad as it would be to bully politician Gillies
for Eve’s weakness in eating that apple ;
The Earl of Glasgow, anxious, no doubt, to
become acquainted with all the “best” people,
visited Pentridge stockade and the city gaol whilst
in Melbourne.
* * •
Two more divers paralysed at Thursday
Island (Q.)—the first results, presumably, of work-
ing “ just under 10 fathoms.”
“ MY PHILOSOPHY."
(From Experience.)
Prosperity has hosts of friends to share it,
Adversity—just grin and bear it.
Oomeragh.
» « •
Sara went into a way-back township with
Liz and interviewed the local registrar, who duly
married them at the police-office. “Is it all
serene, boss? ” asked Sam ; “ is me and Liz made
into one ? ” “ Oh, yes ; you are now man and
wife.” Then Sam commenced to unwrap a large
parcel, and, giving it a shake, caused a pair of
moleskin trousers to fall to the floor. “ Now look-
a-here, Liz ; let’s have a fair understanding before
we leave this church. Now, who’s a-goin’ to wear
these britches, me or you ? ” Liz dropped her
head, and answered—“ Wot yer givin’ us, Sam ?
I don’t wanter wear them things ; you wear ’em
yourself.” “ Well, now, that’s all right, Liz ; you
remember that all yer life, see? One on us has
got ter wear ’em, anyhow.” The audience roared,
and cheered the happy couple as they led the way
to the pub.
• # •
An abbreviated love-story : —■
{ 1
• • • X
1 1
9
* * *
A recent social function at Auckland
(M.L.) was badly broken up by the insertion of a
practical joke at an inopportune moment. A
local man of some importance was leaving, and his
colleagues got up the usual piece of plate as a tes-
timonial. The funny man of the office was un-
fortunately entrusted with the presentation, and
after a long and eloquent speech he handed over
the package. The recipient acknowledged the
gift in a voice of much emotion, and when he got
to his peroration he undid the wrapper and found
the contents to be an ordinary dinner-plate. Upon
this unexpected discovery he stopped short in his
oration and swelled to nearly three times his
natural size with indignation, and his eyes stood
ACCORDING TO HER LIGHTS.
SCHOOL MISTRESS (examining elementary-physiology class): “Now, Mary
Jones, tell me what it is you have inside you?”
MARY JONES (daughter of the Beejurk butcher): “Please Miss, a fry.”
so far out of his head that a hat and coat could
have been hung on them. Then he dashed the
plate into several thousand shivers, shook a palsied
hand at the deputation, and in a thick voice like
that of a man whose mouth was occupied with a large
potato, told the speaker of the evening that he was
a reptile. The office humourist grew alarmed at
this violence, and hurriedly explained that it was
only his own private joke, and presented the real
package; but the enraged recipient, assuming
that it contained another dinner-plate, dropped it
on the floor and stamped on it till it assumed a
terrifying shape something like the skull of a
deceased horse. Then he solemnly cursed the
deputation, and, after staving the present right
across the room, he cleared out, leaving behind
him an impression that somehow the entertain-
ment had been a failnre.
* • •
The fund raised for Mrs. Gribble, widow
of Rev. J. Gribble, the blackfellows’ energetic if
somewhat noisy, friend, has closed with .£254 17s.
and the widow and children have left JST.S.W. for
N. Q.
* * *
In a performance lately rehearsed at Fort-
street public-school, Sydney, the pupils were
taught to sing rollicking drinking songs in praise
of wine and beer. Teetotal parents want to know
what Dibbs’ Government means by that
* * *
What is the greatest evil of strong
wn k rT* f ■ member of the Melbourne
W.G.i.A. ihat is an easy one. The temperance
fanatic.
* # *
Recent disclosures re the shocking condi-
gn of local abattoirs give the impression that
Melb. butchers should only be permitted to sell
me*" under the same conditions as those applying
to the sale of poisons.
* # »
An old American swindle has been revived
at Wellington (ML,.). A dreadfully smart man
advertised in the Post, that he would supply a
hand-sewing-machine for 2s. 6d., the money to be
forwarded to “Blank, office of this paper ” The
“ hand-sewing-machine,’’ of course, was an ordi-
nary needle. The manager, however, “ dropped
to the swindle, and stopped delivery of the letters.
Also, he interviewed the advertiser and made him
refund the only half-crown he had received.
* * «
MY PHILOSOPHY.
There’s no philosophy at all, and naught
That I can see, that’s ever like to cause any ;
Besides, the world don’t want philosophy
And wouldn’t have it, even if there was any.
Titus Salt.
* » •
Sad to relate, yet another N, S. W. military
officer has gone to the asylum.
A BALLADE OF DEGREES.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Up to the ’Varsity freshmen crowd,
Eagerly seeking the prized degrees ;
Each with the sweetness of youth endowed,
Round the office they swam like bees
With pockets laden with great fat fees—
Useless to enter if coin you have none 1
Smiling, the “ chronic ” says, as he sees,
“ But what are the letters when all is done ?’*
Up for exams, come young backs bowed
After sessions devoid of ease,
Fearless and ready, or trembling and cowed,
Or possibly shaky about the knees
Prom trying to open with “cogs.” and “ keys”
The coffers of learning, till morning sun
Found them toiling like tired bargees—
But what are the letters when all is done ?
Long, lank faces on young men “ ploughed”—
Careless they of their Q.’s and P.’s,
Pouring epithets fierce and loud
On Professors they failed to please.
Brighter are they who contrived to squeeze
Though by the skin of their teeth. Who won
Places in honour-lists, proud are these 1
But what are the letters when all is done?
Youngsters, enter not here to tease
Your soul, till lost is the sense of fun I
You may be M.D.’s or LL.D.’s—
But what are the letters when all is done ?
STEELE GREY.
Jusiioe Madden, do not sadden
Mister Stiiels with all the blame ;
Girls won’t tarry ere they marry
With the fellow who is game.
If they would do as they should do,
They’d not wed till they had weighed,
But, as ever, “ Now or never I’ 1
Is the motto of the maid.
In the old tune girls would scold Time
’Till it brought the wedding day.
Though it vexes, still the sex is
Quick to give itself way.
Maids have stated if they waited
They might miss their chance to rights.
She who fishes what she wishes
Must entangle when it bites.
To Non-Subscribers and Readers remote
from Agents.
To ensure getting a copy of the literary treat of the
year, The Bulletin Xmas Number, mail to The Bulletin
Office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. Wales, Bd. in stamps.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be posted to any oversea
address, out of Australasia, for 9d. in stamps of any
country.
The Number will be of at least twice the usual Bulletin
size, and will contain original, specially-written contribu-
tions from over forty Australian writers and artists.
For 1/3 in stamps will be sent from The Bulletin Office,
to any Australasian address, a copy of those most suc-
cessful book —Price Warung’s “ Tales of the Convict
System,” or Ernest Favenc’s “ Last of Six: Tales of
the Austral Tropics.”
MORE LIKELY TO BREAK DOWN.
Who hasn’t beard of the good old Deacon in
America, and his idea of how a chaise should be
built so as to run for ever without repairs? I dare
say we all have, yet it hasn’t quite gone stale yet.
He said, you remember, that the reason chaises
broke down and didn’t wear out was that there
was always a weakest spot somewhere about them.
Now, said the Deacon, the way to fix it is to make
that spot as strong as the rest. Then the vehicle
might wear out, but couldn’t break down. He
built a chaise on that principle; it never broke
down; it ran a hundred years exactly, and then
one day it went to pieces all at once; all at once
and nothing first, just as bubbles do when they
burst. Its time was come; for, as the man says
who once told the story in rhyme, “little of all
we value here, wakes on the morn of its hundredth
year, without both feeling and looking queer.’’
Yes, and long before that time most of us begin
to look and feel queer. And it’s all on account of
that weak spot, too. If it wasn’t for that we
should be like the Deacon’s chaise—we should run
till we wear out. As it is we break down on the
road, often beyond repair. But not always.
Otherwise a certain man could never have used
these words, “I feel as smart to-day as I did
thirty years ago.” His story, in his own words,
runs this way :
“From my youth I was never properly well.
I had a bad taste in the mouth and pain after eat-
ing. Often I couldn’t touch food when it was set
before me. I felt a gnawing at the stomach and a
tightness at the chest and sides. Sometimes my
bowels were so swollen I had to loose my clothes.
I had violent pains in my head for days together.
This continued for years and years. About thirty
years ago I began to have rheumatic pains all over
me, especially in the back and legs. I got so bad
I couldn’t walk without a stick, and on my way to
and from my work I had to sit down and rest.
“ I got no proper sleep at night owing to the
pain. Day nor night, I never knew what it was
to be free from pain. As time went by I became
quite crippled. Doctor after doctor gave me
medicines and rubbing bottles, but none of the
things I tried did any good. The doctors said my
ailment was rheumatism and lumbago and made
light of it, but it was serious enough to me. For
thirty years I suffered dreadfully. My wife used
to rub me before the fire night after night and
apply flannels, relieving me only for the time. I
gave up all hope of ever being well again, when
in November, 1887, I read of the good Mother
Seigel’s Syrup had done in so many cases. I
began to use it, and after taking a few bottles all
my aches and pains left me and have never re-
turned since. This medicine seems to have driven
all the poison out of my system, and I feel as
smart to-day as I did thirty years ago, for which
I thank God and Seigel’s Syrup. Had I used it
sooner I should have been saved years of suffer-
ing.” (Signed) William Stoddaet, Douglas,
near Cork, Ireland, January 7th, 1892.
Mr. Stoddart is gardener at Mrs. Edwards’, the
Island, Rochestown, and has a shop at Douglas.
He is a very respectable man and has been in
service at Mrs. Edwards’ twenty years.
In his letter he further states that from boy-
hood he was a victim to indigestion and dyspepsia.
This fact explains the rheumatism, as it was the
cause of it. The bile acids from the torpid
stomach and liver filled the blood, lodged in the
joints and muscles, and gave rise to all the con-
sequences he describes. The effect of the Syrup
was to expel the acids from the body and set the
digestive machinery healthily at work, for the
first time in this man’s life.
This was the way the human vehicle broke down
in Mr. Stoddart’s case, but fortunately for him he
came across something that had power to repair
it. Better watch the weak spots. Delays are
dangerous.


BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
%
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
-THE-
Wentworth Hotel
&
&
WES
.CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Tariff: Bs. 6d. per Day.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Miscellaneous.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for .819
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for ,£5O.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for JBlOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and! UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
• CHAlRS—Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRB MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 66.]
[Established 1860.
WHAT CURES PIMPLES
The only really successful prevent-
ive and cure of pimples, blotches,
blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin,
and most complexional disfigurations*
is that greatest of all Skin Purifiers
and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuti-
CURA Soap. For irritating and scaly
humors of the scalp, with dry or fall-
ing hair, red, rough hands, chaps,
painful finger ends with shapeless
nails, and simple humors of the skin
and scalp of infancy and childhood, it
is simply infallible.
a
CUTICURA SOAP
A marvellous beautifier of world-wide celebrity, CuticurA Soap is simply incona
parable as a Skin-Purifying Soap, unequalled for the Toilet, and without a rival for
the Nursery. Absolutely pure, delicately medicated, exquisitely perfumed, it produces
the whitest, clearest skin, and softest hands, and prevents inflammation and clogging
of the pores, the cause of pimples, blotches, blackheads, red and oily skin, and most
complexional disfigurations. It derives its remarkable medicinal properties from
CUTICURA, the great skin cure, but so delicately are they blended with the purest of
toilet and nursery soap stocks that the result is a medicated toilet soap incomparably
superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and sur-
passing in purity the most noted and expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. For the
prevention of facial blemishes, for giving a brilliancy and to the com
plexion, and for cleansing the scalp arid invigorating the hair, it is without a peer.
Sale greater than the combined sales of all other skin soaps. Sold everywhere. 25c.
Skins on Fire
with Itching and Burning Eczemas, and other itching,
scaly, and blotchy skin and scalp diseases, are relieved
by a single application, and speedily, permanently, and
economically cured by Cuticura Remedies, the greatest Skin Cures, Blood Purifiers, and
Humor Remedies of modern times. Price: Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, 50 cents: Cuticura
Soap, as cents; Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, $l.OO. Prepared by Potter Drug
and Chemical Corporation. Boston, U- S. A. «3T “ All a lout the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and
Hair,” 64 Pages, 300 Diseases, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. r
~ V
>3
rm.
m
M
11
all
Through
erTTses
lives
Be wise. Ca// on
‘ * 1
mu
W
m
i\wmv fcß
Advertising /cents & Experts
CAMDEN BUILDING, 416,418,420 GEO S T
£sEmotes and advice g/ven
MADAME ARAMANDA,
THE CELEBRATED CLAIRVOYANT,
From L‘Exposition Internationale, Paris, may he
Consulted at
149 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
Daily, 2 to 5, and Mond., Thurs., and Sat., 7 to 9 p.m.
Madame secured highest awards at Kensington Hall
(London). Challenge Competition for recovery of lost
property, documents, missing friends, &o. The only
trained exponent of purely
Scientific Palmistry f
in Australia; pupil of M. Desharrolles; holding high
credentials from Parisian police for identification of
criminals. Phrenological Charts Prepared. Inspection
of credentials Invited.
Fees: 35., 55., 10s. 6d., and a Guinea.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
neuro dyne
(registered)
ACHE, LOSS OF mt-ain r
DEBILITY, LANGOUR, etc.
All Chemists.
Wholesale from ELLIOTT BROS., Limited,
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
m- STEELE’S GALVANIC
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion,
liver disease, &c. STEELE’S BELTS forwarded imme-
diately upon receipt of £2— registered letter, post-order,
or cheque. When ordering Belts, send waist measure
above the hips.
A.. R. Gregory,
Phcexix Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Over Washington Soul & Co.)
ELECTRIC BELTS "Si
Grand natatorium hotel, 396 to 402
Pitt-street, Haymarket, Sydney. These extensive
Premises offer every home comfort to visitors. Attached
to the hotel are the grandest sea-water swimming baths
in the world ; 1400 tons of warm flowing sea-water; a per-
fect luxury, free of charge, to our visitors. N.B.—Ths
Pitt-street Railway 'buses pass the door every few minutes
Musical Instruments! _
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given A ivay I! (only SO, OOO)
BE IN TIME.
Semi Four Penny Slumps and yon will rifflve
ireturn a 4s. Song Walt* or Plano Piece,
I’ K E E I
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
ICcineiuber this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT ;
ALSO,
Gnus & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
ea. per week: ea
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK 1
At 2d. and 3d. each.— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS ,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
K3T Write for Lists, and beware of WORTHLESS
imitations of our Goods.
Shipping.
|A N GLAND VIA AMERICA
-MA IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under.—
Tickets are available for 12' months; and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land ;
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £ 52 10s. and £57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES_MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
I Dates of Departure.
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON ; £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.- ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lot don and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
16 Maoquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANO, Principal Agent.
“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics," by Ernest Favenc, from Tub Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Co. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
M.L.A.—Mighty Liar Admitted.
An Irish squatter of Mouaro (N.S.W.)
superintends his own woolshed in the style of 40
years ago. He rings no bell after “smoke, oh 1
but merely says— “ Now, byes, let yez dart; but
if any uv yez dart before Oi sez ‘ dart,* yez’ll all
have to come back an’ dart agen.”
Mudgee gaol, in which Woy Hoy was
hanged last week, has a peculiar record. A former
governor of this gaol was tried for murder, found
guilty,'sentenced to death, ironed in his own con-
demned cell, watched by his own warders. He
was afterwards reprieved, and is now serving 14
years in Parramatta.
The shearers at M , where vegetables
are nut, heard of the arrival, at “the township,”
of a team laden with potatoes. A deputation
waited on the boss, who is also a son and heir,
with a view to arranging for a supply of the
“Irish apples.” “What! you want potatoes?
What the furious blankey is this vacant country
coming to ! A lot of like you, who’re
halt-starved for three parts of the asterisk year,
come here and get your kidneys lined with our
good mutton, and you want potatoes ! Potatoes ! 1
Oh, no; put the exclamation things out of your
heads; you’ll get none here.”
A giddy, girly correspondent of Modern
Society has much to say concerning the pleasure
of bathing in one’s “skin,” instead of a bathing
dress. She tried it once, and the “ deliciously
pleasant feel of the water” will never fade from
her memory. Her nom de plume is “ Mabel,” and
“Mabel,” whilst advising all girls who find them-
selves on a lonely shore to take a skin bath, also
exhorts them to “ beware of secluded coves,”
because “coves area snare ; a long stretch of open
flab shore is the safest, where you can see the
enemy for miles.” This is rather vague and
mixed, but The Bulletin agrees with “ Mabel ”
that secluded coves are things to be avoided.
Obscure chaps, too, contain elements of danger,
and secreted blokes must be carefully guarded
against by virgins who desire to dabble about in
their natural state.


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
Head. Office; 87 PITT
SOCIETY.
PROVIDENT
STREET, SY3DKTEY.
Directors - The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; BENJAMIN SHORT. Esq., J P,- J T WALKER Kao •
and ROBTERT J. KING, Esq. H ’ 4 ‘*
All Policies effected from now till the end of the Year will share in the Division of Profits as at 31st December, 1893. Amount of CASH BONUS Distributed amcnest Policy-
holders for the One Year. 1892, exceeded HALF-A-MILLION STERLING. amongst policy
the Profit°s r 7orthis t year iedlately ° D Policies attainln K * duration of two years. Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in applications early, either direct or trough the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of
General Manager and Actuary RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., E.F.A.
ROBERT B. CA MBit ON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
Queensland. Cup — December 11. 50,000 at 5.
Summer Cup December 26. 10,000 at 10.
Carrington Stakes. 25,000 at XO.
“ TATTKItviII,,”
Care of Gkormk Adams,,
“The Telesrraph ” Chambers,.
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane, Queensland
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
Retail Booksellers and Stationers,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Smith (Goldwin), United States, 1492 1871 8 6 posted 10/-
Anstey (F.), Man from Blankley’s .. 6/- „ 77-
Grand (Sarati), Ideala .. .. .. 3 6 „ 4/6
Boys, Vol. I. .. .. .. ..7/6 „ io/6
Hatton (Joseph), Under the Great Seal 3/6 „ 4/6
Flnrscheim, Rent, Interest and Wages 1/- „ 1/2
Passing of a Mood, Pseudonym Library 1/6 „ 1/10
Meggendorffer, Humorous Picture Book 3/- „ 4/-
~ Monkey Theatre ~ 7/6 „ 8/6
Kipling (Rudyard), Many Inventions .. 6/- „ 7/-
NBW SERIAL VOLUMES.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
Cafe
MARTIN
Moore
mid Pitt Sts.,
City Dinner
(A Specialty).
MARTIN
CHAMBERS,
opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
First-class Grill Room & Restaurant.
The Coolest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-class Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE and TABLE SERVICE.
N.B.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready—l/- to 3/6.
Public Banquets. Private Dinners. Smoke Concerts.
For Estimates, apply H. GARDNER, Manager.
ENERGY. AMBITION,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
May be secured by all who follow the example
of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. a(a 15th
St., Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A.
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
“ Every spring for years I have had intolerable
headaches, and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and pain. My
druggist had known me from childhood and
advised me to take, early in the epring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I commenced using it in March, and
have not had, since then, the first symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, and I perform
my da'ly duties with a cheerfulness and energy
that surprises myself. I take p’easure in telling
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use.”— Lizzib W.
Dm Veau, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
M.dj by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
lias cured others, will cure you.
in Sydney.
Cheerfulness, Strength,
and JPer/ect Health,
READ THIS STATEMENT:
Special Advertisements
GOLDSBROUGH,
MORT & CO.
(LIMITED.)
Hon. UGKK¥ MORT,
Advisee.
JOSEPH ABBOTT, I LESLEY HERRING,
Shipping Manager. | Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
—AND—
Station Agents.
STORES:
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
Carter & Co?
J3uauTabi,e
NON REVERSIBLE
T'HIS Ingeniously Constructed KItUAKI) IMMVG-
TAISLE! is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—2S to Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St, Melbourne. Factory, Universlty-St.
CASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR'S GUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
CAPSULES
Full directions.
All Chemists.
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsule *
Amusements.
IT HR MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... ' Mr. George Kignold.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING!
Wm. Bourne’s Great Sensational Drama,
“ 3MC -A. IST T O 3VE .A. 3XT.”
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as James Gordon.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
■TIHE LYCEUM THEATRE
* (Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Last Nights of the Italian Opera Season.
Thursday and Friday,
Cavalleria Ruaticana*
At 9.50 o’clock, “Turquoisette, or A Study in Blue."
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 2,
“L’AMICO FRITZ."
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
rpHEATRE ROYAL.
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
or Maggie Moore ra
The Child of the Regiment & The Fool of the Family
Box Plan Open Daily at the Theatre.
POPULAR PRICES —Ss, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE
Business Manager, Mr. J. E. Moore.
■|IHE CRYSTAL MAZE.
A REVELATION I A REVELATION I
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of this NOVEL and DELIGHT"
FUL EXHIBITION,
The most extraordinary and unique spectacle ever
witnessed in Sydney.
Location— THE STRAND (Pitt Street Entrance).
ADMISSION—One Shilling; Children, 6d.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
W. MACMAHON, Director.
fjOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
w Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6am
toll 10 P-m. Ftor LADIES Dally from 10 till 2 o’clock.'
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Public Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesday Evening.
CHE A P MUS I C.
New Song, “ After the Ball,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes,
Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
261 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
iefSMoanio 1
f-in nf-irmn
*
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE EKESEE.VIV s'.tuated 63i
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other i<
the “ POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. .. CEO. W. ELLIS.
M. &J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
£3T Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events: —
Queensland Cup.
SUMMER CUP.
CARRINGTON STAKES.
5. EACH.
fd
5. EACH-
MON
st£s
fd
fd
ON THIS
DECEMBER HANDICAP.
Canterbury, December 2nd.
At 6 Each 4000 At 5 Each
a XT M M E Ft C IT p.
Randwick, December 26th.
At 5 Each 10,000 At 5 Each
0T" Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” o/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 A PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
Telegraphic Code —“ Westbrook, Sydney. ”
I .
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
colonies. Starting Price on all events. Doubles now open
on Summer and Tattersall’s Cups, Carrington Stakes and
Tattersall’s Cup. Double and Straight-out on all the
principal events during the year. Telegrams, &c., must
be prepaid, and no commission considered executed
unless a reply is received.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selec on for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “ Roocrt le Diable,"
“ Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each-Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.
London, and 251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
JSJLOO
GIVEN AWAY
In Presents.
FOR GUESSES ON THIS REBUS.
Which represents, when properly arranged, fVip
name of a prominent Australian City. To the First Five Persons sending us correct answer on or
before December 20th, 1893, we will give to each, A Genuine Gold Hunting Cane Lever
Watch. Value *.5. To each of the next Six we will give a Sterling- Silver Hunting’ Clase
Lever Watch, Value £'AlO.«. To each of the next Ten we will 'give a Genuine 'Nickel
silver Keyless W atch, Value tl. To each of the last Five sending correct answer we will
give A Genuine Gold Hunting- Case lever Watch, Value £>. To each of the
next Six we will give A Sterling Silver Hunting- CaseAever Watch, Value £ £ lOs.
To each of the next Ten we will give A Genuine Nickel Silver Keyless Watch, Value £l
1 his Re DUS admits of °nl y one answer and does not convey a double meaning. It is no catchpenny
Aclvt. , but a Genuine distribution of Christmas Presents to be faithfully conducted as above stated.
Competition Closes at 5 p.m. f December 20th, next. With your answer we require you to
send FIFTEEN PENNY STAMPS for a box of “ Star Antihilions I'ills,” the Best Liver,
Kidnea and Bowel Regulator ever used, made from choicest medicinal Herbs, Sngat coated, they act
gently, yet promptly, without griping, 24 doses, in box. List of Names and Addresses of Prize winners
will be posted to each person answering this Advt., write at once.— Address— National Drug
Couiuanr. Humcll Street. Melbourne.
f
A
d
SPORTING NOTIONS.
It looked a good thing. Ikey Mo, owned by
foolum, a well-known backer, had been let in the Way-
back Handicap (C.Q.), one mile, at 6st. 101 b.; and the
public, scenting a “dead cop," had rushed it down to
6t04 in a field of six. The stable did not fancy this
price, and decided to run a bye. To avert suspicion,
Foolum rushed into the market, and took 60 to 40, send-
ing Ikey Mo to evens. All the time, however, one of the
stable had been backing the only other horse with a
chance, for all he could get, and, at the flag-fall, Foolum
stood to win £5OO if Tranto got home, besides being
partners with a bookmaker who was laying Ikey Mo for
all he was worth. The race was duly run, and, true to
instructions, Ikey’s rider succeeded, after a desperate
finish, in losing by a neck. On returning to scale, the
crowd began to yell, “Rub him out!" “Oh, you stiff
’un, Foolum I” &o. Foolum got a bit uneasy, and hastily
whispered his jock to enter a protest for “ boring," which
the latter duly did. Foolum then got consideration of
the protest deferred until before the last race, and,
during the interval, succeeded in laying £2OO to £lOO on
Tranto for the protest, as he considered it had not the
slightest chance of being upheld. Thus, he stood to win
some £7OO (including his share of the hook) if the protest
was dismissed. At last the board was hoisted. It read—
“ Protest sustained.” . . . The Stewards had, to a
man, hacked Ikey Mo.
• * «
Michael Rush, the veteran Grafton sculler, has
taken up his residence in Sydney.
• * •
At a Western bush crioket-match, the bowler
overstepped the crease in delivering the ball, which also
started very wide of the line of aim, hut, striking a nuhhly
obstruction ha'f-way, diverged at an angle and took the
wicket. The umpire, during the course of this one hall,
gave these extraordinary decisions—“ No hall Wide
Out!’’
The photos nowadays show that not a singl®
horse ever comes in, at a race finish, with the exteude®
action familiar on paintings and engravings from tim e
immemorial. For one thing, a horse is baked after a
long race, and the best only shambles in. Even the
fastest gallop, as photoed, only shows propsticks, sug-
gestive of the knacker’s three legs and a swinger.
# # #
Mr. Samuel Hordern has engaged Mr. Ike
Earnshaw to take charge of his racing stable. Ike entered
on his duties last Monday.
# # *
“Jack” Fitzgerald, the Vio. athlete, pulled off
the amateur sculling championship of that province in
the morning ot one day recently, and same afternoon
finished first in one bicycle race and second in another.
He is but 10st. odd, and has won half-a-dozen sculling
championships, but though this season is his first on the
saddle he is fancied for the big Austral Wheel Race.
« • *
“Herr” Nitohke, the Adelaide warbler im-
ported to Melb. for the performance of Wagner’s
“ Parsifal,” previously visited the smellful city in '9O as
a member of the S.A. football team, and at the smoke-
night given them by the Vic. Association he brought
down the house by a Marseillaisian patriotic song,
“Australia,” of his own composition. After Nitchke's
example, we may yet hope to hear a tival player cursed
in G major, or the emotional intensity of O employed in
inciting somebody to stoust. an umpire.
* * *
Wesleyan-parson Berry, of Adelaide, has begun
a crusade against gambling, and stigmatises the M’s.P.
who got up a Melb. Cup sweep as a disgrace to the Legis-
lature. Yet the parsonage in which he lives is insured
against fire. In a word, Mr. Berry’s church “ takes the
odds ” without giving any equivalent if the co. chances
to lose?
* * «
is now definitely settled, despite all pre-
judiced reports to the contrary, that there never were
any real dissensions amongst the members of the Aus-
tralian Eleven, during their recent tour in England.”—
Melb. paper.
It is true that one gentleman did
Call another “ an (adjective) kid,"
Even pay him some fistic attentions;
And it’s true that the gentle reply
Was a muscular biff in the eye—
But there never were any dissensions.
It’s admitted that one “jealous goat”
Took his luckier friend by the throat,
With, no doubt, the most playful intentions;
That the person assaulted uprose
And then landed him one on the nose—
But there never were any dissensions.
It isn’t considered good form,
On the field, at your captain, to storm—
A fact some authority mentions;
And you can’t call a fellow a trump
Who fractures your head with a stump 1—
But there never were any dissensions.
# # *
“Tam o’ Shanter” (Tas. Mail) was not the
the only scribe to name Tarcoola. N.Z. Mail mentioned
him as “ the only outsider to be feared, and the possible
winner."
• • •
The charge against J. J. Miller and others
(Melb.) of keeping a gambling-office has been dismissed
by a majority of the Bench that heard the case. Pol.
Mag. Fantou dissented.
M'Buruey. Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool. —We held our usual weekly sale yesterday at the
Wool Exchange. The attendance of buyers wai up to the
standard, and competition decidedly stronger than in the
earlier part of the week for all classes of greasy. Our
catalogue contained principally medium wools, but every
lot was eagerly sought after, and we were, therefore, en-
abled to clear nearly the whole of the catalogue. For a
line m irked EM/Muttama, from Muttama, 7jd was
obtained. This lot was well grown, sound, and freely
skirted, the pieces realising 4d and the bellies 4£d.
Another lot very creditably got up was the MBL/
Five Mile, from Qundagai, being well skirted, free,
but rather yolky, realised 7d per lb., the pieces and
bellies making 4|d, bellies, 4id,. and locks 2Jd per lb. JG
overArgoon, from Jerilderie, fetched 6jd; this lot was
rather seedy and burry. A further lot of the CY/Mudgee
again fetched 6|d, and the MM/WV, from Temora, and
JH/New England, from New England, the same figure.
AW/4, from Deepwater, and CVM, from New England,
bot h brought 6id. For crossbred we obtained 7}d for a
small line marked GAM. Scoured wool was in fair
demand ; for a well-known town-scouring we secured lljd
for 29 bales Ist skin, and 9Jd for second quality.
Hidbs.—There was a strong demand for all classes at
the sales to-day. Best heavies to 3Jd, some lines higher;
heavies 2d to 2£d, medium IJd to IJd, dry to 2d per lb.
Tallow.—The market was easier to-day, best mutton
selling up to £23 2s 6d; best mixed, £22 5s to £22 12s 6d ;
beef, £22 to £22 10s; broken and inferior from £l7 per
ton. The principal lines were “ testers," Fooks and Co.,
BS & Co., YBD, BS, M. Gearin, NW, TH, and JH brands.
We sold 97 packages.
Sheepskins.—The market showed a decided improve-
ment to day, as compared with rates ruling on Tuesday.
Best full-woolled to 4Jd ; medium, BJd to 4Jd ; pelts, 2d to
3d per lb. Butchers’ green skins : tops to 52d ; medium,
30d to 40d ; pelts, to ltd each.
Hair. -Horse, 9d to 13Jd ; cow, 6d to lOd; stump, 2d
to 7d.
Horns.— Large, £1 to £1 10a ; medium, 10s to 17s 6d;
tips, from 2s per 100.
Bones.— Common, to £26s; knuckles, to £2los ; shank.
£3 15s to £4 15s per ton.
Hoofs, £2 10s per ton.
Marsupial Skins.— The market was somewhat easier on
Tuesday for all descriptions. Large grey kangaroo, 40d
to 50d ; medium. 20d to 30d ; small, Id to 18d. Wallaby,
swamp. Id to 14d ; scrub, Jd to I4d; rock, id to 2d each.
Opossum, grey, 6s to 10s; seconds, 3s to ss; rough and
rumped, from 6d per dozen.
Sydney, 24th November, 1893.
What is wanted in this enervating climate
of ours is a drink that is easily made, pleasant to
taste and withal strengthening. Fry’s Malted
Cocoa is just that article, and each cup made at
home will only cost you the trifling sum of one
halfpenny, milk and sugar included.
T. Bavister, M.P. for Canterbury, accounts
for the peculiarities of the recent N.S.W. Labour
Conference, by stating that one man held 50
proxies to nominate delegates, and he used them
to appoint city men all belonging to one political
section, so that the resolutions were all foregone
conclusions.
Dear Bulletin, —In re your pars, last
week anent personal dirt being a good ground for
divorce. I was stopping at a country boarding-
house the other day, and my bedroom was separ-
ated from next door by a regular sounding-board
of a partition, on the other side of which were a
man and his wife and some children. Obviously
the worthy couple were sleeping head to tail to
accommodate the olive-branches, for after half-an-
hour of silence the man’s voice rose plaintively
on the midnight air : “ Mary, will you do me a
favour?” “ What is it?” came in sleepy tones.
“ Well, then— do get up and wash your feet!
Yours, &c., Twopenny.


von.
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS and CO.
is te 19 *§at§ with tbi lata Firm of MORT & 00., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Xilberal Cash. Advances if required.
RECTA T. ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce. PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Eafcto. Department managed Dy a member of the Firm.
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Wool Warehouses! Margaret Street. Produce Stores: Circular Quay. Offices: Macquarie
Street North, SYDNEY.
SN, M'BVRNMt \
( E, S. WALLI& J
Henson J 7
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s nils are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell.
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Pills—is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
J\ Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK.
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
for the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from llic
richest and purest of milk, combii ed
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked
no milk is to be added ; it is quick h
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for I n •
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk,'
— Lancet. April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In
IfJL valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane,
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
c>
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN'S SWEET)
__ Lancet.
S SWEET)
tt> Ai
A
St. John's Works, London, W.C,
yATO O M B
The PHI OR Y.
A.
Gardens, Orchard, Ballroom, Tennis adjacent,
Dairy.
Terms ■ H'i 2s.
Mrs. J. W. FLETCHER.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
Cures
Indigestion,
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists
1/3,2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle.
KRUSE’S ELUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
£2T CAUTION. —Be Careful to Secure
BOSISTO’S “PARROT BRAND,” and avoid
the many crude and mixed oils now being offered
to the Public, which may not be only worthless,
from a remedial point of view, but actually harm-
ful in administration.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Clears the House, the Conservatory, and
the Garden of all Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Cleanses Domestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Is the only Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
and take none other.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Sold Everywhere, in Tins at 1/-, 1/6,
2/6, 5/- each.
fd
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate hut by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
sion. The smallest and easiest to take. _ Forty in a phial.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores .
npHE LAST OF SIX.
PRICE—Is, ; Pur POST, Is 3d.
Prospectus.
£59,401 worth of Freehold Property!
Australian Building Society.
YARRABANDINI & TANBAN
Monster Freehold Properly Distribution,
Comprising 10,652 acres of the well-known farms and
agricultural lands of Sydney Verge, Esqj., of the Macleay
Hiver, and several valuable TOWN LOTS in Kempsey and
the suburbs of Sydney, and a valuable GRAZING FARM
at Kingston and Loganlea Railway Stations, close to
Brisbane, all of which have been purchased by the Society
for its members.
The Macleay Properties have been valued by Mr. James
Johnston, J.P., Auctioneer and Valuator, of Kempsey,
and the Queensland Property by Messrs. Arthur Martin
and Co., Ltd.
The above Properties will be distributed amongst the
members of the
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
proposed (Issue of 59,401 (Shares
At Each.
Committee of management .
C. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L. A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in N. S. Wales,
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P. far the Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-May or of Kempsey.
ROBERT HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, Limited.
Messrs. THYNNE akd MACARTNEY, BRISBANE.
118 PRIZES, asunder:
FIRST PRIZE, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643.
f
8 Prizes from ±2560 to ±1650
13 „ „ £BB5 to ±5O
23 Prizes of £45 each
49 „ ±26 10s each
19 ~ £2O each
Total Value of Prizes, £59,101.
Each Shareholder, for every Share held by him, will
have Eleven Separate Chances, or a possibility of
w inning prizes to the value of £39,436 10s.
Payment of the sum of £1 will secure One Share in the
Society, upon which there will be no further liability.
The Drawing will be by Ballot, according to Rules of
Society, and lists will close 31st MARCH.
Transfers will be executed in favour of successful Share-
holders immediately after the Ballot, free of all mortgages,
rates, taxes and encumbrances.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must be made to
the Secretary, BARRON L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of 0. SMITH, No. 24
Imperial Arcade, Sydney ; or “ Secretary," care of J.
RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any
further particulars may be obtained.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes; add exchange if cheque sent.
Register letters.
The Committee invite the attention of intending Share-
holders to the value of the Properties for distribution, and
also to the Auctioneers’ description, which may be seen
at the office. Should the Lists not be filled, the Com-
mittee reserve the right to withdraw one or more lots,
according to the amount subscribed.
Business Announcements.
The CALIGRAPH Writing Machine.
an
n
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
Th 3 writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: -Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
AMBERG’S CABINET LETTER FILES.
rpilE most perfect and complete system for FILING
Correspondence. No numbering, folding, endorsing,
indexing, or pasting. All papers free from dust and
mutilation. Used extensively by Banks, Ins. Co.,
Shippers. No office complete without nt least a small
Cabinet. D. B. THOMAS, Agent, Vic. Arcade, Sydney.
A Lost Heathen.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ah Pax was a heathen, but, as the holder of a
Miner’s Right, he was on the County Roll. He
was, therefore, an elector and a citizen. Like all
his race, he sinuously morticed himself after the
white man. These Mongols dove-tail themselves
by undermining us. They spray opium into our
nostrils ; and they may have gangrene under their
shirts. Therefore they should be strictly confined to
China. The legislators who bring them here are
enemies of justice. In the town in which 1 lived,
ib'was a great custom to trot off pigeon-shooting
on an odd day. The Chinese began to do the
same. But when one of their countrymen got
lost at Duffer’s Creek, and died from exposure,
they desisted. They are scared of spiritual
conspiracy.
It was for Ah Pai to restore confidence. He
put a clock in a bag, and meandered into the
forest. I met him at mid day. I could hear the
ticking in the bag. I said : .
“ Allee same, what you got there ?”
“ Allee same, clock.”
“ Why fore?”
“No get ’em lost.”
“ How ?”
“ Allee same, Chinaman go Duffers, him lost,
him die; allee same, me got ’em clock, me look
sun, me see time, me no get ’em lost.”
That night citizen Ah Pai was lost, clock and
alh
When a heathen is going astray in the bush, he
breaks into a cold sweat. He makes in the direc-
tion indicated by reason, but he allows the nature
of the country to push him off the line. When he
doesn’t strike the expected, he is doubled com-
pletely up. This yielding nature of his is the
very thing that makes him so formidable a menace
to our welfare. However, we found Ah Pai two
days after, 100 yards from the road. I verily
believe that the ignorance of the Chinese as to
locality is caused by their sleeping all shapes,
heads, tails, and quantity. The motion of the
earth has not a chance to impress itself uncon-
sciously on Oonfucian brains.
POLYPE.
The- Siamese, in saluting, kiss one
another’s noses, and then, sniffing, remark :
“ Very fragrant, very fragrant.”
“General” Booth on the importance of
parity:—“Purify your heart by faith, and you
will not then stink so that God Almighty will
have to hold His nose every time He comes near
you.” Also—“ Make your heart sweet, so that
the angels will like to come near and have a lick. ’
Alexandre Dumas fils records a remark
made to him by a R.C. priest of high rank, to the
effect that at least 80 per cent, of his former girl-
pupils came to him a month after marriage, say-
ing that they were disappointed and regretted the
step. Because the ideal good match for a girl out
of a convent is a debauchee of 40 ?
The parson was absent, through indisposi-
tion, and the principal elder, who was also the
local storekeeper, filled the pulpit in his stead.
This temporary Boanerges was somewhat late in
arriving, and before beginning the service he
apologised : “Pardonmy tardiness, brethren, but
the fact is I was up very late last night opening
out the finest assortment of spring goods ever
shown in this town. We will now—ahem—sing
hymn 103.”
Tender love-story from Georgetown (Q.)
Wicker, aboriginal, sold his gin to an American
darkey for 275. fid.: next day he wanted his lump of
ebon delight back and tendered her purchaser 15s.
The ’Murkan person took the money but held on
to his bride, who reciprocated. Then a fierce mill
ensued and the first husband getting bested he
stabbed in the back the former partner of his
wood-grub and baked gohanna. Six months
hard.
A new publication, or re-publication, is
Hazlitt’s “Liber Amoris.” It was issued in his
lifetime, but his friends, greatly-' to his chagrin,
conspired to keep it out of the Reviews, because
they thought it a piece of aberration. The subject
is a most candid record of his philanderings with
a servant girl, named Sarah Walker, all being set
down ala Rousseau. Nowadays, his other writ-
ings are rococo, while the Sarah Walker business
is Balzaekian and Zolaistio —in all innocence.
Frederick James, a S.A. bushman, who
lately made a sensation in Hindley-street, Ade-
laide, by firing four barrels of a revolver into his
head, is now fully recovered. James, like most
other men, couldn’t find his own vital parts in four
successive tries, though the muzzle of his weapon
was planted so close to his skull that his hair was
combusted in two places. Probably he would have
made a better job of it if he had hit himself on the
head with an axe. After all, there is only one
dead sure mode of suicide. That is to swallow a
bottle of prussic acid and cut one’s throat with a
razor, and then discharge a big Colt’s revolver into
the ear and simultaneously fall off a ten-storey roof
on to a policeman. If the patient survives, he will
be hanged for killing the officer.
An amusing farce is enacted every day in
Melb. Practice Court. “ Chamber business,”
formerly taken in the Judges’ rooms, is now dis-
posed of in the Practice Court. But also business
of “ practice ” and procedure is taken there before
“ the court.” The two sorts of business are mixed
up, but when the Judge takes a chamber case he
has no wig on; if a “ court ” case is called he
assumes his wig, and no wigless lawyer can then
address him. Then, when a bit of chamber busi-
ness is taken, off goes the Judge’s wig again.
When the first “court” case is called, the crier
“opens” the court with the weather-beaten
formula; “ All persons having business with this
honourable court are commanded to give their
attendance and they shall be heard; God Save
the Queen.” But people who have business and
attend to it are there already, and those who have
business, but are absent, can’t hear him. Some-
times an absent-minded Judge will ask : “ Are we
in court or chambers ?”


Herr
RASSMUSSEN,
—THE—
Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Head Office:
547 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.'W.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
Qeorge-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
OS’ Herr RASSMUSSEN is in POSSESSION of
. Over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials
from grateful CURED SUFFERERS, as well as
SEVERAL COLD MEDALS,
and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have CURED more than all others put together
for the same complaint.
The ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves
no matter how caused, A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 48s. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WARNlNG.—lmitators will he Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
mmim!
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALF ALINE
VITALITY PILLS.
Special 1 owerful Course, 435. Gd., posted. Ordinary Course, 235, Gd. Boxes, Gs. and 12s,
Registered and. Purely Herbal.
Cured oyer 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
SWUSS
U AWARDED,
two GOLD
HI
m
ALFA LINE PILLS;
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD k NERVES,
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.’’— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted.
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3/- and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted. 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil,
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/-; posted, 1/6 and 2/6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OP
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES," SKIN
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 43 1. 6d.
Alfaline Leucorrhtea Powders,
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invlgorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr RASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney-
AIj SO -A.T HIS BHAUCHES
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaida
91 Lambton Quay, Wei’ton, N.Z
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C?
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power —Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager,
TWICKENHAM, ENGLAND.
THE
‘ ’
T HI
P lO
THE
‘!EMi JLxrx’
TH H brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
1 Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
MEN...
WOMEN
WHO HAVE USED “ Fuss’s LIVER EeSTORATIVE AND CONSTIPATION
Cure” have found it a certain cure for all Liver Com-
plaints, Flatulency, Costiveness, Bilious Headache, Dis-
agreeable Taste in the Mouth, Alternate Chills ani>
Flushings op Heat, Loss op Appetite, Alcoholism, Indiges-
tion, Disturbed Rest at Night, Nervous Tremors and
Debility. By continued use it cures Constipation
permanently.
Ladies will find it invaluable for the relief of
many Uterine Complaints and Efficacious in Producing and Restoring that
Regularity of Habit which is all important to their wellbeing.
We refrain from publishing* any of the many Testimonials
tve receive daily from persons who have taken this Valuable
71 edieine, as the Public has no guarantee of the g-ennineu ess
of Testimonials printed by Patent Medicine Manufacturers; but the
unprecedented success “ Puss’s Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure ”
has met with in all parts of the world, has induced the inventor of
this unsurpassed preparation to olfer to any purchaser of it the
refund of the Price of 2s. ©d. if the Medicine fails to cure
the ailments we recommended it for.
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE CHEMISTS AND PATENT MEDICINE YEKDQRS.
Should it not be procurable locally it will be sent Carriage Paid to any part of the
Colony on remittance of 3s. for one bottle, or 15s. for six bottles to the
COSMOS APOTHECARIES COY.,
the Agents for the Australian Colonies. 674 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
A NEW DEPARTURE !
A. Rare Opportunity to Country Residents.
J E. COLLINS & CO. (late SummerfielcTs)
Are now forwarding, CARRIAGE PAID, to anv Seaport or Railway Station in the Pel™,,
MEN’S, YOUTHS’ and BOYS’ COMPLETE OUTFITS at HALF USUAL PRICES
Read Carefully the following Lists, and send us a TRIAL ORDER.
Our Special 30s. Gent.’s Outfit-
comprising seventeen ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed Sac Suit, 1 White Shirt 1 Coloured
1 Straw or Soft lelt Hat, 3 prs Sox, 3 Collars, 2 Scarves, 2 Undershirts, Ipr Braces, 2 H’k’chfs '
Boys’ and Youths’ 225. 6d.
( Long \
VTrousers/
Outfit
Comprising TEN ARTICLES viz 1 Tweed or Serge Sac Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, Ip r Braces
2 Collars, 3 prs Sox, 1 Straw or Felt Hat. 1 traces,
Boys’ 12s. 6d. Outfit
fin Jacket or Sailor Shape—Suit to fit\
k Boys from 4 to 12 years )
Comprising NINE ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts 2
Stockings, Ipr Braces, 1 Straw or Felt Hat. Send age of Boy, and say whether stout
Collars, 2 prs
or otherwise.
TAILORING DEPART MEJXTT.
We are MAKING GENT.'S TWEED or SERGE SAC SUITS TO ORDER from 50s
TROUSERS TO ORDER, 12s. 6d.
PATTERNS and MEASUREMENT FORMS Free on Application Thi« ,
pportunity of purchasing your Drapery and Clothing at less than Sydney' Prices carriage' free
J. F. COLLINS & CO..
(Late SUMMERFIELD’S),
2u5, 2ot, 239 PITT STREET (near Market S-treet), SYDNEY.
To each man is appointed his particular
dread—the terror that, if he does not fight against
it, will cow him even to the loss of his manhood.
The Pope, it is cabled, foments the alliance
between Russia and France. This is highly im-
probable. The traditional foe of the Roman
Church is the Greek, their mutual hatred being
as strong as that between the Russian and German
military. The Pope has always favoured Turkey
as against Russia, because Turkey is an eminently
tolerant power.
“Premier Dibbs emphatically—and em-
phasis in his case means something like the kick
of a mule —declined to comply with the request.”
—Melbourne paper. But, then, the mule never
retracts his kick, and Dibbs nearly always retracts
his emphasis. Thus, he said emphatically that he
was a Republican, and that he would never take
a title, and then he took a title and declared
emphatically that he never said he was a Repub-
lican ; and later on, he said with awful emphasis
that he was going to abolish payment of members;
also, that N.S.W. was going to resume specie-
payments at once ; and he has been emphatic
about a whole lot of other things and has gone
back on his mental mule-kick almost every time.
To the poor, all things are poor.
“ Martial music smites heroism into the
dullest heart,” says Bishop Thornton, of Ballarat.
This_ is what they live on. The organ booms,
smiting heroism into the dull hearts, while the
bishop opens a baby-linen bazaar.
Ashantee has lately revolushed, and the
king was killed in theCoomassie streets. Ashantee
has never amounted to much since the British
swamped it about 540 years ago, and took the skull
of Sir Charles M'Carthy out of the temple. The
painted head-bone of that badly-defeated British
general brought luck to Ashantee for many years,
but when it was taken away the kingdom began to
flicker out.
In some districts of Japan criminals are
tried and convicted by ballot. When a crime is
committed each voter writes on his ballot-paper
the name of the person he suspects, and the one
who gets most votes is elected, and is shortly
afterwards hanged or otherwise disposed of
according to law. The result is that most of the
notoriously bad characters are disposed of sooner
or later. Probably very few of them are hanged
for their own crimes, but sooner or later they get
hanged for some one else’s crimes, which is about
the same thing.


Special Advertisements.
The people of Queensland, in
Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
azie),
where the FINEST STOCK in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts, Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockeryware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low-priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES!! This can be proved in the
most satisfactory manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the only reliable test. Everything
in their line can be had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S except shoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, and remittance to cover
amount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c., payable to FINNEY
ISLES & CO.
Samples, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for men’s or
women’s clothing, Price-lists, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will be immediately forwarded
on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers),
Brisbane, Maryborough & London,
m
•pCiu quick^wmJmg*.
taterbury-watchrequrres
a bout-five secondstovyind
It is now cased in coin-silver
fi(led-Qrold,jmicl<el. Low-
pncea accurate a durable
|S$tANt
Kucr!
IK!
Oi
$
u
*
I
-
I
Wlfr INjtANfuf
(jOiTf- i£/v\6*So« sviatha.soKh«»
ovS j t ffH ts> .of Trit Jot nTs • o&.
.NWHfc*
,
4K
MS'
Barry’s Tricopherous
for THE
HAIR a* d SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Make*
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Hew York.
<=>£
LG
<9
pa
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
*°ad Stre®' , 3'
Bewart of imitation*. The genuine Urigntd
bum Muuimnam '■
d
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
fd
Sample
copy sent
/ Gratis & Post
/ Free to any ad-
/ dress. State whether
you would like Song,
/ Plano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to Intro-
duce the new list of
fd
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
BROOMESWUSIC
INTO THE COLONIES.
«. H. BROOME. 18. Holborn. London. Eng.
Your Xmas Shopping!
riO IT WITH ITS.
Whether you live at the uttermost ends of Australia or reside next door makes no difference,
it will pay you to get
YOUR XMA3 TUCKER I YOUR XMAS FINERY I
A PRESENT FOR TOUR REST GIRL;
TOYS for the KIDDIES, and TOBACCOS for the Male members of the Flock, from
OUR WONDERFUL STORE!
ALL WE ASK IS
SFOT CASH :
In return for which we pass over, in any of the world’s commodities required, more hy Seventy-
five per cent, than any other firm in Australia. It’s a fact, Boss; ask your lady friends.
Country Orders for Xmas supplies should reach us as early in December as possible.
Our Only Address t
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HATMABKET (ONLY), SYDNEY,
TJITIYEESAL PEOYIDEES-
(OIoae to the Railway Station.)
Miscellaneous.
Ned Vesey* ,
ANY news of his REGENT or PRESENT
ADDRESS will be most gladly received
by his Friend, DICK WEATHERBY.
G. V. HELdLiIOAR, Solicitor,
BRISBANE.
j I>tUt*t*A*****4**4*AAAAA»
lucerne
AND
C
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING »
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keep* the Sum Cool and BanutsaaD in the Horn**
WCATBKX.
Entirely removes and prevents alt •
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, «C.
And preserves the THE SKIM from the effects of
exposure to the 1
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER, •
More effectually than any other preparation.
It is delightfully Cooling and Bantaißnia it applied to
the Face or Hands after being ont in the Btm, TennU-
playing. Yachting, Ac. It remove* all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, vrhieh Is ao dalighttol.
1 Price in England, la A 3s. 6d. Sol* Makar*: k
* M HKETHAM A SOM. Chemists, Cheltenham. Knslaad.. >
■vvvvrrvvvvlrTvv#vvvvv»vkvvf
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 28,1893.
f I TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
J_ SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Bridge, Wollondilly River at Lacy’s Crossing
Bridge, Wybong Creek, road Merriwa to Muswell-
brook
Bridge, Glennie’s Creek at Camberwell
Bridge, Murray River at Hawksview
Bridge, Yarramunmun Creek, road Nowra to
Y alwal
Construction of Main, Eastern Branch Sewer,
Western Suburbs Drainage. Time extended
Additions, Hospital for the Insane, Rj dalmere
Erection of Dining-room, &c., Hospital for the
Insane, Gladesville. Fresh tenders. Time
extended
Erection of Building for Dairy Agricultural
College, Richmond
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20.
Annual Contracts, 1894.
(A deposit of JEIO in respect of each Contract to
accompany Tender.)
Supply op
(To be Manufactured in New South Wales)
Awnings, Sails, Tents, &o. Furniture
Brooms, Brushes, &c. Ironmongery, No. 2
Clinker and Carvel-built Boats. Rope, &c.
Engineers’ Fittings, &c. Wrought Scrap Iron
Forgings
Oast and Wrought Copper, Lead, Zinc, &c, -
Leather Belting, Hose, &c. Wrought Iron
Paints, Colours, &0., No. 2. Window Blinds, &o.
Plumbers and Gasfitters’ Fittings and Materials,
No. 2
Iron, Brass and Gunmetal Castings
Stone for Parramatta District (N.S.W. quarries)
Stone for Maitland District ( do. )
Drain Pipes—
Metropolitan and Hlawarra District
Northern District. Western District
Southern District
Timber — . .
Hardwood (New South Wales). Kauri Pine
Colonial Pine, Baltic, &c.
Oregon and American Redwood
Coal, Supply for Sydney—
(Foreign or Colonial Manufacture)
Anchors, Chains, &o. Wire Rope, &c.
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleum, &o. Ship
Chandlery
Diving Gear. India Rubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Steel. Draftsman’s Materials
Engineers’ Stores. Draftsman’s and Surveyors'
Instruments
Oils, Paints, &o. Ironmongery, No. 1. Chairs,
&o. Clocks
Plumbers and Gasfitters’ Fittings and Materials,
No. 1. Plate Bar Iron, &c.
Conveyance op Gcal.
Newcastle to Clarence River
„ „ Hastings „
„ „ Maoleay „
M „ Manning „
„ Myall
ii ii NflinbucoA ii
„ Richmond ~
I; „ Tweed
„ „ Bellinger „
„ „ Cape Hawke,,
„ Camden Haven River
Wollongong to Moruya
„ to Shoalhaven
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1894.
Bridge, Cow Creek, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wakool River, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wilson River at Ballingarra. Time ex-
tended
Erection of Building in connection with the Hos
pital for the Insane at Kenmore
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Department of Mines and Agriculture,
Stock and Brands,
Sydney, 27th November, 1893.
DISEASES IN SHEEP ACTS AND PASTURES AND
STOCK PROTECTION ACTS.
THE attention of Owners or persons keeping
horses, cattle, and sheep, and butchers,
dealers and salesmen is called to notices in the
Government Gazette of 24th inst. respecting the
returns which must be made of the Stock under
the abovenamed Acts by 31st December next
under a penalty of <£2o.
R. D. JONES,
Acting Chief Inspecter of Stock.
Last week’s big Gympie orushingss Phoenix
Qolden Pile, 838 tons, 1930 z.; North N.Z., 671 tons,
13440 z. Divs. ior week, £lO,OOO.
• • •
Extraordinarily rich stone brought into Mur-
chison from the Mt. Magnet mine, the owners of which
are said to hare dollied SOOOoza. during the last tew
months.
• • •
Last week’s mining sensation—the declaration
of the Central Co.’s little sixpenny div. “Hang the
reserve-fund—let’s divide the coin while w# have it.
• • •
Poor Sydney is being tempted with a Westralian
prospectus—the Yalgoo O.M. Co.; capital, £12,500 in
50.000 ss. shares. Promoters want £lOOO cash and
10.000 fully paid-up shares.
• • •
Things cannot bo so bad on the Randt or a
number of Q. miners there would not be sending for their
families or advising their mates on the Towers to throw
up £3 a week.
• • •
The Golden Gully shareholders decidedly
negatived a proposal to wind up the co. and reconstruct;
hence things remain quiescent.
• • •
It is reported that bars of gold weighing over
50000 z., from Bayley’e Reward, are on their way to
Melbourne.
• • •
Howell estimates there are 3,000,000 tons of
oxidised ore left in the Proprietary, or double the quan-
tity treated during the last eight years; this quite irre-
spective of millions of tons of sulphides.
• • •
W. R. Wilson, the racing silver millionaire,
formerly chairman of the Proprietary, has gone to Wes-
tralia, en route for Coolgardie and Murobison. The boom
surely oometh.
* • • ■
Lewis Lloyd has resumed working the Burraga
copper mine. Copper has not gone up, but wages have
come down.
• • •
A good number of Charters Towers men left
Sydney by the Thermopylss last Friday for the Cape en
route for the Randt and Mashonaland. There were also
on the boat the wives and families of a number of mining
men already there.
• * *
Cabled that Mildura (Vic.) apricots have
realised, in London, 15 per cent, more than Californian
apricots.
• * «
The Oremorne (Sydney) coal is reported as all
right by the analyst. The Cremorne syndicate is not to
have it all its own way, though ; another crowd is
leasing a huge strip of the ocean, outside Sydney Heads.
The latter people have a good area of freehold to operate
from, and propose to make Watson’s Bay their head-
quarters. Capital required, (say) £250,000—t0 be raised
locally.
• • •
A big start has been made with cyanide in
South Australia—B4 tons tailings from the Virginia mine,
Wadnaminga, gave 540 z. gold. These tailings had gone
through the battery for about Joz. per ton. Cyanide vats
are going up on the adjoining mine. The Virginia
owners were the original holders of the Tarrawingee flux
quarries and have held on to the mine in the face of bank
smashes and other troubles. Cyanide, which has secured
many a mine from oblivion and will probably resurrect
many more, oame to their salvation and was appreciated
with champagne and cheers.
• 9 9
An evidence of great pluck or great distress—a
party of miners are working the Bear Hill mine on
tribute. In the boom, by the way, the mine got, by
reason of a well-worked corner, a market-value of about
half-a-million. A Bendigo man, knowing the mine to be
worth less, oversold thousands of shares—and had to pay
£23,000 to be let out by the bulls. However, he waited
his ohanoe and got even with the crowd in the Hopetoun
boom.
• * ' •
“Oapt, ” Oats, a cool-headed, capable miner,
manager of Fraser’s South, Southern Cross, W.A., says
after a oaretul examination that Coolgardie will have a
future of unprecedented wealth, and become the chief
place of mining activity in Australia.
• * «
The British concentrators, which it is desired
to lease to the Proprietary Co., have unfortunately been
erected right on the lode, immediately over an extensive
since-discovered ore body. The removal of this ore—
which the co. badly needs just now—would probably
result in the concentrators tumbling into the slopes.
# « «
Block 14 Adelaide directors, headed by the
aggressive Laughton, are determined to have the mine’s
smelting done at the seaboard. They will erect large
concentrating works at the mine for the treatment of
sulphides, and will then truck the resultant concentrates
to the seaboard, where the whole smelting outfit will also
be carted, according to present programme.
* * *
Strange that concentrators, over which, at
Broken Hill, more cash has been wasted than on any
other sort of machinery, should be once more coming
Into favour. Block 14 and South will treat their sulphides
on an extensive scale by the process; and the Proprie-
tary, whose concentrators of 1100 tons per week capacity
are at present sliding gradually into the open out, will
•rect a plant of double capacity immediately. The use of
Hancock’s jigs is responsible for most of this increase of
favour.
9 9 9
Broken Hill Proprietary promises a large in-
crease of output shortly, as the chlorination and leaching
works, which will soon be started, will utilise large
quantities of ore, the contents of which were not pre-
viously get-at-able.
• • •
The much-talked-of cross-cut Central-wards
from the 1330 ft. level of the Broken Hill Extended shaft
has at last been commenced. Central, Block 10, and
Extended Co.’s will equally share the expense. The cross-
cut will intercept the lode at about 1400 ft. below the
Central mine outcrop, and will determine largely whether
Broken Hill is to exist in the near future or not.
9*9
A fairly good start has been made by manager
Irwin, formerly of the Wentworth, with Brown’s Creek
Blaynay. Tha old machinery, however, is dilapidated.
With big money and Irwin’a management thl* might be
made a big mine.
• • •
Bulli coke works are offered for sale. A chance
for the Barrier crowd. The easiest way to get coke on to
the Barrier is by allowing them to own the works.
• • •
The creditors of the insolvent Marquis of
Aileebury find that he borrowed £lOO,OOO (another cable
makes it £180,000) from Sam. Lewis at 100 per cent, in-
terest. Presumably it was compound interest (it always
is, in such oases), and at this rate the marquis, who never
paid up, would owe Lewis, in ten years, £102,400,000.
• • *
The Union Pacific (U.S.) railway, which has
lust been put into the hands of a receiver, owes the
Federal Government between £10,000,000 and £11,000,000.
This is altogether apart from grants in land and money,
and represents simply a little I O U which this famous
“ private enterprise ” passed on to the State years ago,
and which it has flatly declined to pay ever since.
# • •
More than two-thirds of the Towers divs. leave
Queensland. London takes the lion’s share, and Sydney
comes next because of the presence of Dick Craven and
other big shareholders.
• • *
While the Towers divs. increase the calls con-
tinue to decrease. This is not as good as it looks: pros-
peeling work is being curtailed, and when two or three
of the big div. mines work out their ore reserves, like the
Victory, for instance, then Charters Towers will have a
bad time.
• • •
Extract from a Hannan’s rush prospector’s
letter; —“Bayley’s is a corker; when the men smash up
the quartz the gold cakes under the lf this
country had water, it would turn out millions in gold.
The prizes are big, but, as in every big sweep, there are
many blanks.”
• # *
If it costs .£2250 to make 2590 assays, the sooner
the assay branch of N.S.W. Mines Dept, shuts up the
better; and if it does work other than assaying for
prospectors, as the Minister alleges, he should give
particulars. Of these assays, 375 were made for M. sP.
Anyhow, the cost is grotesquely enormous.
• • •
The hopes entertained of the permanent
character of certain of the Croydon reefs have been some-
what dissipated. Slippery heads and cross courses, which
cut off reefs at any moment, characterise the field, and
often play havoc with the best-looking leases.
• t t
Gold-mining is improving in the Oobar district.
Already they have two or three div.-paying syndicates
there, and owners are, of course, putting their mines into
no liability cos.
* • •
Men who leave the Bast one month and are
back the next with Westralian gold-mines should be
cold-shouldered. The man who finds a gold-mine will
stay to work it, and the mines which Eastern mining
market men are likely to get under offer are, no doubt,
very much like themselves.
• # *
Although, in numberless cases, capital has been
withdrawn from gold-mines the history of which warrants
their continuous development, sheer necessity has caused
many to be worked. Slowly, but surely, Australian gold-
mining is lifting itself, and with hard work and less boom
it will next year find employment for thousands.
• * *
The Tom’s Lewis Ponds liquidator has resumed
his painful requests for the settlement of calls.
• • •
Mine-owners at Pambula and other N.S.W.
places where gold is very fine, begin to realise that dry
crushing is indispensable. Where there is much water
there must be much waste with fine gold.
• * •
The first local crushing at Mareba : 600 tons
stone from Queen Constance p.0. —6800z. smelted gold. It
paid for battery and other exes., left £3OO to credit and a
big hope of a div. next crushing.
• • •
An able-bodied thief lately walked off with the
copper-plates of an Etheridge (Q.) battery. It would be
graceful if, after cleaning the plates, he had replaced them.
The value of copper-plates hangs on three things—the
time they have been down, and the quantity and quality
of the stuff running over them. “Paddy ” Watson, after
crushing many thousand tons of rich quartz from the
Kentish mine, Bendigo, cleaned his plates at Koch’S
crushing-works for 1700 oz. gold.
* • •
A second and muoh-needed ferry service between
Sydney and Manly is in course of flotation; capital,
£5OOO, of which £2OOO is to be paid up. Proposed tariff-
single tickets, 6d.; return. 9d. But Manly will never be
fairly on its feet until it gets direct communication by
land with Sydney.
• • •
W. T. Stead proposes to start a morning daily
in London. He wants 100,000 admirers to send him 265.
for a year’s subscription; in return, each bill receives a
£1 debenture bond, bearing 5 to 10 per cent, interest,
according to paper’s circulation. Original.
• • •
On account of the good all-round work done at
Wallaroo smelting works (S.A.) ore is constantly being
received from the other provinces.
« « •
The Western silver-mine, Zeehan, Tas,, has
paid its first div. (Is.), and is doing, so it is said, good
work by the Luhrig system.
# • *
A bankrupt grocer testified in Sydney that his
bankruptcy was owing to rats having eaten his stock.
• • *
An English life-insurance co. has gone into the
hat line. If anyone is killed under one of its hats, the
heirs get £lOO.
• • •
Morals—Commercial Damnation.
• • •
The frozen meat exhibited in the N.S.W. Court
at the Imperial Institute (writes Thb B. correspondent) is
cleared out every day, and fetches sd. per lb. It is sold
principally to the workmen employed about the place,
the Curator refusing to let outsiders have It, though
much could be sold to wealthy residents of Queen’s Gate
t the price.


Colemane& Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
f
So.
Hff?
Rrc
By Special Appointment
TO
AND
*TcIT
d
mm
HIS ROYAL
Prince
HIGHNESS THE
of Wales
An Error of Judgment.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I.
I AM now staying at Crayley’s, and staying at
Crayley’s is a continuous horror. Crayley’s house
is of slabs, with a dirt floor, and is damp and
draughty and evil-smelling; The tucker at
Crayley’s is vile, and I mostly have to fossick
around for it myself, to say nothing of having to
wash my own crockery, it having been previously
used by the ploughmen. There are also five
“kids” of the most unengaging type, and of
soiled features, always about, and 1 have much
trouble in preventing these infants from
mg my clothes with bread and jam. There is a
baby which howls, an old woman who scolds, and
a tall youth who swears fiercely and borrows my
tobacco. I have to walk 2,1 miles to school—l
ain the schoolmaster—and have to take my lunch
with me. I lunch on sour bread, smeared witli
a very expressive kind of jam which Mrs.
Crayley makes out of pie-melons, and water from
the school-tank. The water is excellent.
Last week, and for ten months previously, I was
staying at M'Morrow’s. The teacher who comes
to Pilliball must stay either at M‘Monow’s or
Crayley’s, because there is no other available
place. Generally, it is Crayley’s, for Mrs.
M‘Morrow, who bosses the M'Morrow household,
is averse to accommodating lodgers. But the man
who does get in at M‘Morrow’s has a good time.
I had heard this, and so, when sent to Pillibah, I
used my best efforts to win Mrs. M‘Morrow’s
good graces, and, after a hard struggle, succeeded
in obtaining her sanction to my abiding at her
place.
I was most fortunate in being accepted by Mrs.
M‘Morrow as a lodger, for they live in great style,
do the M'Morrows. The real, genuine Scotch
farm-house style—four square meals a day, and
puddings and cakes without end. And cream—
such cream ! I was within a stone’s throw of
school, too, and there were no children at the
place. Why didn’t I remain there, then? Ah !
Miss M‘Morrow is nineteen, and has the most
fetching black eyes and red cheeks that ever a girl
possessed. She enjoys the best of health, is as
straight as a stringy-bark sapling, and weighs
about eleven stone. She is not a brilliant con-
versationalist, but when she looks you full in the
face with her eyes a-shine, and her white teeth
showing, and the dimple on her chin dodging
about like a sunbeam, you feel as if there was no
hereafter. I do, anyhow. Her mother has also
been a fine-looking woman, and has still a very
trim, erect figure. Her great fault is a belief that
no one ought to be ordinarily polite, even to Kitty,
and that Kitty’s sole duty is to keep all men at a
distance.
I don't know why this should be, for I’ll swear
Mrs. M'Morrow liked to be courted herself once—
but I was warned, before ever I went
to Pillibah, that if not very careful with regard
to Kitty I’d not reign long at M‘Morrow’s,
I was most circumspect for a long time, and
always called Kitty “ Miss M'Morrow.” But for
all that she looked so innocent and bush-like, we
gradually drifted into confidential chats, and
when by ourselves I used sometimes to call her
“ Kitty.”
. It was 9 p.m. I was sitting on the sofa, read-
ing. Mrs. M'Morrow was out in the kitchen,
making a cake. The old man was in the room
with us, but he’s a good old sort, and presently he
said he’d go and turn the horses out, and he
went. Then Kitty and I sat, at opposite ends of
the room, for fully five minutes, without speaking.
I couldn’t stand it any longer then, so I said, in
a low tone of voice (the kitchen wasn’t very far
Off)--
“ Kitty—dear !”
“Yes, Jack —dear!” she mimicked, putting
down her Sewing, and looking across my way.
“What do you think of this picture?” i said.
(I had to say something, and that was the least
idiotic remark I could think of.)
Now, I meant to hand her the paper across the
table, and let her look at the picture herself —I
swear I did —but she came round to where I was,
sat down on the sofa alongside me, and looked over
my shoulder at the picture—and I kept my eye on
the door for a while. But one of her curls tickled
my cheek, and I cast my eyes that way. And
just then she looked up, and when I saw her rosy
cheeks and her black eyes and her dimple and her
dear little mouth all within six inches of me—
well —I kissed her as if Mrs. M‘Morrow never was
and never would be. I believe that kiss was the
longest on record—except the next one and the
next ad infinitum. And—Heaven bless that cake!
It wouldn’t rise, or brown, or something, and Mrs.
M‘Morrow stayed in the kitchen all the time !
, , 11.
The kids at school next day did just as they
liked. I was too amiable for anything, and I let
them go half an hour early. But I was delayed,
after all, by an old hag who called in to have a
yarn about her children —my curse on her children,
and lierehildren’schildren!—and it was dusk before
I got home. In the hack verandah, as I came up, I
could see Kitty folding some clothes for ironing.
Her back was towards me, but there was no mis-
taking her outlines. 9o I tiptoed up, and put my
bands over her shoulders and under her chin, and
drew her head back lovingly, and planted a good,
solid kiss just where I thought it would do us both
most good. Then I began to say some foolish
things beginning with “Darling !” when—
Holy jumping gohanna! it was Mrs, M‘Morrow !
111.
And that is why I am staying at Crayley’s.
A. CHEE.
There is a child in Reefton (writes a
Maoriland correspondent to The Bulletin) des-
tined to survive the destruction of the planet. Its
name is Mitchell. Recently* after the terrible
Lyell coach accident, when tire coach toppled over
a precipice and bounced 100 ft. down, killing the
infant’s mother and terribly injuring some other
passengers, the child itself was found lying calmly
about 80ft. below, purring at the event. Then, on
Oct. 30, when in the arms of its step-sister, who,
with another, was croadng the Buffer in a buggy,
the horse broke clear of the trap in mid-stream.
A man entered with a horse and dray and urged
his beast to the spat. There was just time for the
young lady, a beautiful and accomplished girl, to
throw the child into the dray, when the buggy
revolved three or four times and the unfortunate
occupants were swept away and drowned, -fudged
by the disasters to the others of the family, Fate
will not dare to again menace that child. Its
life will turn out smoothly from the drum.
For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning.”
Send Bd. in stamps for a copy of Xmas
Bulletin, posted to any Australasian address.
England and abroad, lOd. in stamps,
A few days ago a Newcastle (N.S. W.) man
died while finishing a coffin. Adam Smith :
“The product of labour is the natural recompense
of labour.”
The South Africanders now engaged in
slaughtering the Matabele have each been
guaranteed, as a reward for success, a farm of
GOOD acres in Matabeleland.
Somewhere the writer has seen it stated
that the nest of the snipe has never been found in
Australia. There have been found several nests
of the painted snipe on Caiwarra station, about
37 nules north of Hungerford.
Providence does occasionally do the cor-
rect thing. When the Siamese paid the first lot
of the “indemnity” bluffed out of them by
France (=£120,000), the plunder was shipped on
the corvette Alouette, which, a few days after-
wards, foundered at sea.
The Tantanoola (S.A.) “tiger” that, for the
last 17 years has terrorised the local bucolic mind,
has been killed. He was a wild pig. The
manager of Mayura Station, who succeeded in
poisoning the animal after years of vain effort,
says that on Mayura alone the “ tiger ” killed 200
sheep annually. Hia depredations were always
by night and the dense ti-tree scrub his refuge by
day. “The brute was 3ft. Bm. high and from nose
to tail measured over Oft. ; and could run as fast
as any kangaroo dog.”
According to Geo. G. Turri, a Melbourne
patent-agent, the Patents Bill that has passed the
Vic. Leg. Council “contains not one important
reform, but omits many.” It departs both from
the existing and the British Act, which latter
some of the alterations are stated (deceptively) to
copy Section 59 indefinitely enlarges the special
privileges accorded to foreigners and from which
Vic. citizens are excluded, and attempts to steal a
march on local manufacturing interests. Foreign
inventors are privileged to retard Australian
industries. Generally speaking, Turri holds up
the U.S. patents law as worthy of imitation,
summing up his criticism on the existing Vie.
foreign-encouragement law; “When, a foreigner
holds the patent, he can laugh at the tariff ; for,
as no one has any right to make the goods
in Victoria, his monopoly is secure, and he
is free to do Ids manufacturing abroad.”
In many countries the law makes the patent
void if the article patented is not worked
in those countries within a stated period after the
patent is granted. The Vic. law insists on noth-
ing—not even that the issue of licenses toothers
to work a patented invention shall be, in some
cases, compulsory. Under this laxity, the Vic;
importers laugh grimly at the imbecility of pro-
tectionists. The Vic. law, by insisting that none
but a locally registered man may employ a patent
agent registered in the United Kingdom, unduly
hampers the taking out of patents in those
countries. As a foil to this arbitrary standard of
technical ability, the Vic. patent law permits
favoured persons to act as patent-agents without
having to pass the scorching examination insisted
upon with everyone else desiring to be registered.
Those favoured persons are—-barristers and solici-
tors, probably the most unsuitable professional
men who could be selected. Legal gtuldmen are
not exempted in Great Britain. If any exemption
should be made at all, it should be in favour of
engineers.
Mistaken Identity: An Old Story with a
Variant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sergeant Maloney was “mad,” and showed
it badly, as he pranced up and down the verandah
of the Half-way Shanty. After arresting a wanted
Chow at the Chinese camp 10 miles away and
getting him thus far safely on his way to the
township, that Chow had escaped from his bonds.
Maloney suspected the Chinese cook at the Half-
way, but what was the use of Suspicion ouiy ?
Mick Bandon, of the township, rode up, dis-
mounted, and hailed the policeman;
“Why, what's up, Tim?” .
“Oi’ve lost that dhirty Chinamail —that's all,”
was the finish of the narrative Sergeaiit Maloney
had to tell.
“Pooh, if that’s all, the divil a tilatthetv’
“ Bedad, it means a misfortune to me;"
“Terra, there’s plinty more Choynas.e where he
kern from, an* ivery divil uv Vm’s like ivery other
divil ; shute, just put the first wan into the gaol
and ilid it. Gaol’s too good for the loiko o’ theill
hay thins, anyway. Shore, I'll roide out to the
camp with yer and swear anything,”
“Come and have a drink, Mick.”
# # *
The prisoner that Tim and Mick safely
landed in the township lock-up next morning took
things like a lamb, but persistently bleated—No
savee. ’
Tim and Mick had a comfortable carouse before
each went to his separate home;
* # *
Next morning, Mick turned up to see
“ the haythin putt through.”
The sergeant met him with a face like a horse-
collar.
“ What’s up, Tim ? ”
“Mick Brandon, you (eternal) fool! that
purring) Chinaman ye cot yistherday was a
woman ! ”
KLOE.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Com pe-
tition No. 9 closes on Wednesday, Dec. 27. For
particulars see advt. inside back cover.
Dear Bulletin, — Bar. re the tall driving
of Jim M'Corrnack from Cunnamulla to Thar go.—
580 miles each week—the round trip. 1 know
Jim ; he’s a good man, but he’s got the fair luck
of it now. The work done Is about 83 miles a day,
With changes of teams probably every 25 miles,
with horses well-fed and looked after’, and on
good roads by comparison with some linesj In ’79
I ran same line, with saddle and pack, via the
Yowah, called 160 miles each way - 320 miles in
6J days; from Cunnamulla to Eulo, 50 miles,
without a change. At Eulo I got fresh (?) horse
and pack, which I rode through to Thargomindah
and back to Eulo—22o miles without changing.
Horses were hobbled out at night to pick for
themselves—no chaff, no corn, nor rugs at night.
In winter I rode the mail, and I can tell you that
the mails from the Warrego to Bullo were heavy
enough, I often requiring assistance to lift and
hang them on the pack-hooks. Old Harry Boran,
of Cobar (N.S. W.), the Mornsons, of Bourke and
Wilcannia, old Sproule and Colless, of Bourke,
could give you some records of post-haste trial
and endurance. —Yours, &c.,
JERRY.


Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine,
sousultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
Creet Arcade (George-street entrance.)
Colernane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eacalypte Pills stir one up.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Colemane & Sons’ Vie. Ointment is marvellous.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGEB’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD .
In Tins at Is- 6d., 2s- 6d-, ss-* and lOs- f of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade&Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
“In a Wet Season."
ALONG THE LINE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
FT was raining—“general rain.”
The train left Bourke, and then there began the
long, long agony of scrub and wire fence, with
here and there a natural “clearing” which seemed
even more dismal than the funereal “timber”
itself. The only thing which might seem in keep-
ing with one of these soddened flats would be the
ghost of a funeral going very slowly across from
the scrub on one side to the scrub on the other.
Sky like a wet, grey blanket, plains like dead seas
save for the tufts of “grass” sticking up out of
the water ; scrub indescribably dismal—everything
damp, dark, and unspeakably dreary.
Somewhere along here we saw a swagman’s
;amp—a square ot calico stretched across a hori-
zontal stick, some rags steaming on another stick
in front of a fire, two “ billies ” to the leeward of
the blaze. We knew by instinct that there was a
piece of beef in the larger one. Small, hopeless-
looking man standing with his back to the fire,
with his hands behind him, watching the train;
also, a damp, sorry-looking dingo warming itself
and shivering by the fire. The rain had held up
for a while. We saw two or three similar camps
further on—a temporary suburb of Byrock.
The population was on the platform, in old
overcoats and damp, soft-felt hats ; one trooper, in
a waterproof. The population looked cheerfully
and patiently dismal. The local “push” had
evidently turned up to see off some fair enslavers
from the city, who had been up country for the
cheque season, which was over. They got into
mother carriage. We were glad when the bell
rang.
The rain recommenced. We saw another swag-
man, about a mile on, struggling away from the
town, through mud and water. He didn’t seem
to have heart enough to bother about trying to
avoid the worst mud-holes. There was a low-
spirited dingo at his heels, whose sole object in
life was, seemingly, to keep his front paws in his
master’s last foot-print. The “ traveller’s ” body
was bent well forward, from the hips up; his long
arms—about six inches through his coat sleeves—
hung by his sides, like the arms of a dummy, with
a billy at the end of one and a bag at the end
of the other; but his head was thrown back
against the top end of the swag, his hat-brim
rolled up in front, and we saw a ghastly, beardless
face which turned neither to the right nor the left
.vs the train passed him.
After a long while we closed oifr nook, and,
looking through the window, saw a hawker’s turn-
out which was too sorrowful for description.
We looked out again, while the train was going
slowly, and saw a teamster’s camp : three or four
waggons covered with tarpaulins which hung down
in the mud all round and suggested death. A
long, narrow man, in a long, narrow overcoat and a
damp felt hat, was walking quickly along the road
past the camp. A sort of cattle-dog glided
silently and swiftly out from under a waggon,
“heeled” the man, and slithered back without
explaining. Here the scene vanished.
We remember stopping—for an age it seemed —
at half-a-dozen straggling shanties on a flat of
mud and water. There was a rotten weather-
board pub. with a low, dripping verandah, and
three wretchedly forlorn horses hanging, in the
rain, to a post outside. We saw no more, but we
knew that there were several apologies for men
“ hanging ” about the ricketty bar inside—or
round the parlour lire. Streams of cold, clay-
coloured water ran in all directions, cutting fresh
gutters, and raising a yeasty froth whenever the
water fell a few inches. As wo left, we saw a
big man in an overcoat, riding across a culvert;
the tails of the coat spread over the horse’s rump,
and almost hid it. Jn fancy still wo saw him —
hanging up his weary, hungry, little horse in the
rain, and swaggering into the bar ; and we almost
heard someone say, in a drawling tone : “ Elio,
Tom! ’Ovv are yer poppin’ up?” Such is the
average intelligence of my countrymen.
The train stopped (for about a year) within a
mile of the next station. Trucking-yards in the
foreground—like any other trucking-yards along
the line ; they looked drearier than usual, because
the rain had darkened the posts and rails. Small
plain beyond, covered with water and tufts of
grass. The inevitable, god-forgotten “timber,”
black in the distance ; dull, grey sky and misty
rain over all. A small, dark-looking flock of
sheep was crawling slowly in across the flat from
the unknown, with three men on horseback jog-
jogging patiently behind. The horses just moved
—that was all. One man wore an oilskin, one an
old tweed overcoat, and the third had a three-
bushel bag over his head and shoulders.
Had we returned an hour later, we would have
seen the sheep huddled together in a corner of
the yards, and the three horses hanging up out-
side the local shanty.
We stayed at Nyngan—which place we refrain
from sketching—for a few hours, because the five
trucks of cattle, of which we were in charge, were
shunted there —to be taken on by a very subse-
quent “goods train.” The Government allows
one man to every five trucks in a cattle-train.
We’ll pay our fare next time, even if we have not
a shilling left over and above. We had haunted
local influence at, say, “ Comanavadrink,” for two
long, anxious, heart-breaking weeks ere we got the
pass ; and we had put up with all the indignities,
the humiliation—we, in short, had suffered all
that poor devils suffer whilst besieging “ local in-
fluence.” We only thought of escaping from the
bush.
The “ pass ” said that we were John Smith,
drover, and that we were available for return by
ordinary passenger-train within two days, we
think—or words in that direction. Which didn’t
interest us. We might have given the pass away
to an unemployed in Orange, who wanted to go
Out Back, and who begged for it with tears in his
eyes ; but we didn’t like to injure a poor fool who
never injured us—who was a stranger to us. He
didn’t know what “Out Back” meant.
Local influence had given us a kind of nots of
introduction to be delivered to the cattle-agent at
the yards that morning; but the agent wasn’t
there—only two of his satellites : a cockney
colonial-experience man, and a scrub-town clerk
whom we’ll kindly ignore. We got on without
the note, and at Orange we amused ourself by
reading it. It said :
Dear Old Man,-Please send this on ; and 1 hope
he 1 l d Yn S hell-or wherever
w j, “ .
We had been led to believe that the bullocks were
going to .Sydney; We took no further interest in
tliose cattle.
After, Nyngan the bush grew darker and drearier
and the plains more like ghastly oceans; and here
and there the “ dominant note of Australian
scenery ” was accentuated, as it were, by naked,
white, ring-barked trees standing in the water and
haunting the ghostly surroundings.
We spent that night in a “ passenger *’compart-
ment of a van which had been originally attached
to old No. 1 engine. There was only one damp
cushion in the whole concern. We lent that to a
lady who travelled for a few hours in the next
“compartment.” The seats were about Din. wide
and sloped in at a sharp angle to the bare “ match-
board ” wall, witli a “ bead ” on the outer edge ;
and the cracks, having become well caulked with
the grease and dirt of generations, the seats held
several gallons of water each. We scuttled one,
rolled ourself in a rug, and tried to sleep ; but, all
night long, over-eoated and comfortered bushmen
would get in, let down all the windows, and then
get out again at the next station. Then we’d
wake up frozen.
Sometime in the night, a cheerful girl of about
40 got in from somewhere in the awful black
wilderness. She took a seat opposite us. She had
evidently something on her mind, and it soon
came out; she was boiling over with indignation,
It seemed that another woman had summoned her
to appear as a witness, on the other womans
behalf, in a maintenance case! “ What would
you think, she asked, indignantly, “of a woman
l.ke her, over 30 having up a young fellow of 19
on a case like that. And the nicest, quietest
young fellow you ever seen. And it am t the
first she s had neyther, I know . What will
Ins poor mother and father think ? they’re respect-
able peop e-what will they think of me ? . . .
What ml! my husband think when he comes
home. Hell say that I was thick with such a
woman. What does she want to have me up for,
of all the women of the world? I don’t know
nothing about it, never saw her above twice. I
seen the young feller turnin’ the mangle for
her—that was all. I know what 111 do. I’ll say
to the magistrate, What am I dragged up in
this case for. I don’t know nothing about it! I
don t know the woman from Adam,’and so on.
Then she put the case to us there were two of us
ows ’ . ✓
‘ Now, supposin it was you—a young feller
like one of you—that was led astray by a grown-
up woman like her, and through no fault of your
own ; and me—that yer never injured—was to go
up against yer and swear away yer character, and
bring trouble and disgrace on you and your people
—what would yer think of me?”
We were getting a bit uneasy, but we sympa-
thised and agreed with her in a general way. She
told us to lie down and sleep if we wanted to, and
not mind her ; but we preferred to stay awake.
She talked for two hours, and, after she had got
out, we heard her telling her troubles to a station-
master whom she knew, a porter, and two guards.
Thev seemed £?reatlv moved
I ney seemed greatly moved.
We dozed ott again, and woke at daylight, and
recognised the ridgy gum-country between Dubbo
and Orange. It didn’t look any drearier than the
country further V vest-because it couldn’t. There
is scarcely a part of the country out west which
i oo ks less inviting or more horrible than any other
part-
The weather cleared, and we had sunlight for
Orange, Bathurst, the Blue Mountains, and Syd-
ney. They deserve it; also as much rain as they
need.
HENRY LAWSON.
Dear Bulletin, —I am learning to be
thrifty a la Sydney “Saunders;” and this is
“me”up to date. Breakfast, bread and butter,
and one cup of alleged tea or coffee, 2d. ; lunch,
long beer and bar-snatch, 3d. ; dinner, grilled
steak or chop, mashed potatoes, bread, 3d. Kesult,
Bd. per diem.— Nem., Melbourne.
One of the wildest excuses on record for
relief from jury service was made by a Dubbo (N.S.
Wales) butcher to Judge Docker, About midnight
counsel were just warming to their work when one
of the jury suddenly jumped up: “Please, Mr.
Judge, will you let me go home and have a sleep?
I’ve got to get up early and help father kill
beef.”
A N.Q. paper objects to The Bulletin’s
quotation of J. Plumper Hoolan’s ferocious
remark ;
I would follow the man who applied the cat to ray. back
until I bad drunk bis heart’s blood.
The Bulletin does not advocate revenge, as the
paper argues. Certainly, it does not nearly so
much object to —or, rather, it would much more
readily excuse—the private vendetta of a wronged
man, than the cold-blooded devilishness of a
machine that should be as passionless as a stone
image, and has all the safety of recognised
authority at its back. Hoolan’s remark merely
proves The Bulletin's contention that the lash
breeds crime; in his case, even the far-off possi-
bility of the imagined lash breeds murder.
Editor Bulletin, — I was penetrated to
the gizzard with the tender and precious poesy
lately published by you, entitled “Florrie,” and
credited to a Maoriland poet, who puts new Hem-
brand tlike tones (so to speak) in the ordinary run
of Australian verse. In my opinion, he is deeper
than Browning. As a humble poetaster myself,
I take the liberty of flinging a bouquet of my own
on to the stage. Do not reject it; it is a soul-
wail :
FLOSSIE.
In a dim fane of goodness-graciousness,
Embosom’d from the Mob’s unhallowed stir,
In deep and awful spooniness of Her,
Appalled at all Her Moreness and my Less ;
Lo ! I beheld the Temple of Excess.
Yet, not beheld exactly, for the pall
Of glamour dimmed my vision bacchanal.
Blind to the Ladder-holes of Foozloucsi !
Not less to one who seldom uselh soap,
But adds to Nature rather than bereaves ;
An aromatic Radiancy like thee,
Shedding its henna on the horoscope,
Ever revealing to the Johnnies free
The muzzled muchness of thy vinous sleeves.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
P.S.—lf I have made myself as clear as
“Florrie’s” poet, you needn’t pay me for this
dum-de-doo.— Dipso.


“Men 1 Have Smiled With.”
E STAY at Jsacta.toxics,
, ig«n.g ,r in.ogi
Shxrxr&xx*
Give PULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &o.
First-class Accommodation.for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS: 30s. per WEEK,
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLI VUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
IP you VISIT Bristoaia©, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
BRISBANE.
Moxley’s- “ British Empire Hotel ” is a
Central Cosy Lounge.
■ V v" ■' BRISBANE.
Mrs. F. L. Moxley’s “Metropolitan” is the
SPORTING TEAMS’ HOME.
' r SOUTHPORT, Q.
Tweed heads coaches
Start from Haulim’s Pacific Hotel.
knowing -VISITORS
Prom Southern Queensland to Northern New
South Wales, travel from Southport to Tweed
Heads by Dodd’s Royal Mail Coaches, and
connect by STEAM LAUNCH with Stuart’s
Reliable Coaches at Cudgen, for quickest route
to Brunswick and the Richmond.
BRUNSWICK.
MARSHALL’S OCEAN VIEW HOTEL
Is the charming Half-way House between
The RICHMOND and the TWEED.
CASINO.
PARKER’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL ranks as
“ The Australia ” of the North Coast.
CLOUTIER’S BALLINA COACHES will be
BETTER PATRONISED than the Lismore to
the Tweed Railway.
LISMORE.
CRUICKSHANK’S Commercial Hotel is the
Travellers’ Home on the Northern Rivers,
OKA ETON.
#2. REAVES’ FAMILY
VT Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
HOTEL
SOUTH GRAFTON.
VOU CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S HOTEL
x By Much.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN.
rpRAYBLLERS and others pronounce Walter 1
Eoibigg’s Commercial Hotel Comine itfaut..
KATOOMBA.
Temora House,
A High-class BOARDING HOUSE, pleasantly
situated, well recommended. Porter meets all
trains. 355. a Week; 6s. a Day. Reduction
for Visitors remaining a Month, also for Families.
Mrs. DALE.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families: It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office* 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
J£ATOQMBA, BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Balmoral House.
Visitors, Tourists, or Invalids, will find comforts
of a refined HOME at above ; good airy rooms,
excellent table and attendance. Terms, Two
Guineas. Private suites if required. Trains
met. Address, MANAGER.
Miscellaneous.
>'•>/)
DOWS
IVEMBROCATION
"SSiISiS
/ H
m
%
f A'
m
f %OLD
everywhere! P
IP
fd
rjh A. LE S OF THE SYST EM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
“ A Crolden Shanty.”
6
ZMAS NUMBER.
( !
TO BE PUBLISHED
DECEMBER 16, 1893.
GreatSy Increased in Size.
And in addition will be given GRATIS a complete double-page
HUMOROUS SUPPLEMENT,
In Four Colours, Entitled,
‘ The Bulletin Christmas Supplement Competition,”
By “The Bullotin’s ” Special Artist,
LIVINGSTON HOPKINS.
The Literary and Artistic matter will be entirely Original and
Australian, and from the pens and pencils of leading writers and artists,
none of it being cribbed or purchased from other publications, foreign
or local.
No trouble or expense has been spared to make this number surpass
in originality and interest all previous Xmas editions.
Me Increase in Cost!
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 9.
H Ths BulletinV' Missing Word Competition Coupon.—Ko. 9.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Wednesday, December 27th, 1893.
It is proposed by some uneasy moralists that newspapers containing “ con-
sultation ” advts. shall not be allowed to pass through the post in N.S.W. This
means the abolition of the tolerably honest “sweeps,” and a legally-fortified
monopoly for the bookmakers. Therefore, there is much among the
profession that skins the lamb, and much shaking of not over-clean hands with
a profusion of jewellery thereon.
Name
A ddress __
Missing Word '
T7i« person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received—no deduction whatever being made, Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
Nm replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Couponr
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Wednesday, 27th
December, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will,
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
■ , ■ ■ ,■ ■ ■ - -
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner; worthy of the reputation of the paper.


Table Waters
A 8 SUPPLIED TO
The QUEEN.
c/s
yj
SODA, SELTZER,
LEMONADE,
GINGER ALE, &c
Box 1034, 1i.1'.0,
Telephone »J 3,
f
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Creeds
ctjt:
JIEL
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION,
SHEFFIELD.
SSlxo-w Elooms
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
MITCXISIiL’S
-CELEBRATED —
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS—
Fleas, Flies, Hugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to'Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer—K. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Kidney’s).
Tins, 1/-; Boxes, 16. On receipt ot stamps will be
forwarded post free,at 1/2 and 1,9.
BBOIT’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PKOMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD ix PARIS by
JT. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
ALES OP THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
THE LAST OF SIX
- Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Isiipiß
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY CO.
(LIMITED),
137 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Maclilnery
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies,
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
:E>ro ßr ietor 64 Pioneer ” Ore Treatine "ViToi-as-s
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and GWntration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
d
fd
■’i'v'cp^
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Solo Agent for. Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
\ our attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
M AIIK I OY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during .
the coining season. Ladies will find a refreshino- deli dit
/ o -t>
in a daily visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental •artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
Great is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES ! —One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
ARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
S3 "ST JO '\J 353 "ST.
• [ESTABLISHED OVER.A QUARTER OK A CEXTURV.J
IMOBT CENTRALLY SITUATED. M AC(JOMMODATTON UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Trailer Sidney (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
“XF’IRXVjA.T’IEI HOSPITAL' - J
VAMI>MN HOUSE,Mifsoi Point. SYDNEY.
9£i
vmg
Resident Medical Otficer—Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-R-O-S., Ena; etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Unsnil.n.l • 'flmwnmimt AlAlina!
3E5 ZS3 X* 3E3 XX I 3E3 TOT O 3ES IO TO" XT XX fB X TO* S - T ;F*.
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE -inclusive of llesidenc ', Medio»l AtteiHlnnc'', etc.
For MEDICAL, SUUGiCVT. and G V V.EOOLOG I.tf A U CASKS.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to thulicalth and
comfort of patients.
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
