

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST,
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS «■ 5 EACH.
CANTERBURY HANDICAP, JANUARY 13th .... 4000 AT 5 EACH
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, JANUARY 26th ... 10,000 AT 5 EACH
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.F.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining [Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
f
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PUKE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
Hi
A
zxj
4
o
o
o
K
<RAckAsocK>
<*■
o
o
c*
o
**
o
A
V
CJ
K. A. Herrey, Agent, t*B I’llt-s.t, Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Cahixgton, etc., •
335 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS, ETC.
A Single A tide Sold at Wholesale Price.
Orders of £S value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Tort.
r -
in
o *
x h£
rofi£
h 4
.cs—
in
The Oxford XSotel, King Street;, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
THE-^
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
(LIMITED)
KOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“ Golden Star ” Creamery, Kegd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite,
I • The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FOP,. WARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Eoultry, Pastry, etiO.
M. IMTKSOV,
Ist July, 1893. Manager.
MILK
CREAM ..
ICE
BITTER
FISH
CAME ..
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac,
TjfeU/KiAd
Bol« Agents in KTew South. Wales for Messrs. Clayton and.
Shuttleworth.
-
a.w/.s ENCLOSED t!EAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
strippers, winnowers, rakes,
11A R VEST E RS, RE A PERS.
CLAYTCm » SHUTILt«OMHUKtO\.»
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
mm
s
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., ETC.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. m
J. & O. Howard, 2802
* 1111 Catalogues ot Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application
Pitt ~ '
Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. 724 J
[Saturday, December 30, 1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of WTew SoutL Wales.
A. most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. TTTT.Ivri3XrS'rJE!R .... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
d
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. J. William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
.. O. ZEPatssa/u.,
WATCHMAKER, JEWELLER, and OCULIST OPTICIAN,
494 GEOEGB STIRIE IE T , SYDETEY,
lAS just received a NEW STOCK of reliable Gold and Silver Watches, Jewellery, Gold and Steel
Spectacles, suitable for Christina'? Presents and New Year’s Gifts.
REAL BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4/6 per i -ir. Complete Price-list forwarded on Application.
Medical.
The First Step
FOB
NERVOUS MEN
APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. TUI. FESUELIT,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEF DL—COMFORTING
COCOA
tl- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes n grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxford-st., London. i£P“” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious
Or. RE DOE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”- Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. VVh. Johnstons
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Free Prescriptiona
Are to be found in the “Lii’ht ami Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and, naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
fd
Sole Agents for
Frice
HENRY HEATH.
9s. od.
£OKC
v TRADE MAH*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. 6d.
A Splendid Hat lor Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They (all into two or three ndgligd shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
G-. XX. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
i
Impatient Housewife (to messenger): “What
Baking Powder is this you have
11 brought me ? ”
Messenger ; “ That’s what was given me.”
Impatient Housewife ( excitedly): “Then
take it back, and ask for—
BATHO S Powder, for, you know.
That other brands deceive them
With “ ads ” and Jokes that' pass as smokes,
They tempt you to believe them.
But oft my thoughts again repeat,
That BATHOS' Powder is the best,
And 1 know it can’t be beat.”
(Soldene.)
M A A IK) O 13.
health, strength and itgQr restore
Hi Four Weeks by Hie use of
■
O 5 R- JCORjos
cE, °? i_\ F £•
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Record s Essence, of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated, constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of ISs, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <b Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitsroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
Medical.
NERVOUS MEN.
8
EUREKA
)S
ELECTRIC BELT.*
AI ' \ < ..W . V\ . \^vV
i\<
a
A NEVER FAILING CURE POR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS.SYSTEM.
Complete Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has 'Treat improv nv nts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 clays trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what e represent them to be. Those belts arc
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of eleotriciiy through all-the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cuied in three months.
It is more convenient'to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these held
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will beforw'arded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
STEELE’S GALVANIC
GEIIMT’SBCU
f
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pastes, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Beit, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion,
liver disease, &c. STEELE’S BELTS forwarded imme-
diately upon receipt of £2 —registered letter, post-order,
or cheque. When ordering Bells, send waist measure
above the hips.
3Ft. Gregory,
Minerva Chambers,
126 PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
a?
*
PATENT
w
PILLS
&
£
*
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed-
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
mfferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and'
bring about all that is required. No femaic should
be without them. There is no medicine to he found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders'
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes died
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these rms
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ■« ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give BekchaM s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will m »
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 66 pills), and at
Es.9d. (treble quantity). „.. , _ ...
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Thales of the convict system.
Price—One Shilling.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tlie Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human' interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever si
The Bulletin is the only well-established .A us-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of halt the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the chums of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aerainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
BULLETIN will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushim. ii of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
sind best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Basinets communications to be addressed to
\v i lliam Maolkod, Managing Director, to whom
ail remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
aliens to be addressed to J. F. AkoHIBaWJ.


Medical.
i
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of Ne ,v South Wales.
.Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints,’
: and the last edition will be forwarded yjnmediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
'(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or yourrfriends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions:—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Hallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
vwith first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
dor Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
do any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
lend his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
'uaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Vlany persons have wasted large amounts in vain
mdeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
veakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
IPatienta may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.rn. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings ; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
3
112 PHILLIP ST SYDNEY.
'OS' Address all Communications :
Dr. J ECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE tiUOXE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabetli Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GrIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and comnleted his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOUNT& UVEiBiKr
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cojd hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILITY,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber aud write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
O Ft. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPA 111,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form,
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed Toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabetli Street, Sydney
{Two doors from Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONS ULT AT lON FREE.
Hotel.
m
c\\
“ghe (Sydney (goffee (Palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
26s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
SOs each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4a
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DGStKimVB,
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROxMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
•vith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland. Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY TUBE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STHKET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Medical.
3NTo Cur e, No Pay.
mlllS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
-Y cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
H M 1
rv
\ mK
Nit
■
d
fd
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from alt parts of the-world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualitiespossessed by Dr. Pierce’s
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Bead the letters:
From Australia.
f Me. W. H. Pkice, of Wells Silver Mine,
EmmaviUe, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul h (Jo., (Agents for Dr.
.Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebelt as soon asit isplaced on his body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” rrom America<
Me. J. W.Pohlman,Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“ Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. 1 fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got upas i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled meeversinceuntilltried your belt. For one year
now J have felt as I used to at 20,”
PCS*Avoid all inferior imitations o-f Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write for free descriptive “‘Pamphlet No. 2, and
please mention this paper when you address: W. H. Soul & Co.,
158 Pitt St., Sydney! Elliott Bros., Brisbane! or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San h eancisco, U. S. A.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Pull
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, he sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Write. Prof. HER-
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELB.
Prospectus.
559,401 Freehold Property.
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY.
YARRABANDINI & TANBAN
Monster freehold Properly Distribution,
Comprising 10,652 acres of the well-known farms and
agricultural lands of Sydney Verge, Esq., of the Macleay
River, and several valuable TOWN LOTS in Kempsey and
the suburbs of Sydney, and a valuable GRAZING FARM
at Kingston and Loganlea Railway Stations, close to
Brisbane, all of which have been purchased by the Society
fonts members.
The Macleay Properties have been valued by Mr. James
Johnston, J.P., Auctioneer and Valuator, of Kempsey,
and the Queensland Properly by Messrs. Arthur Martin
and Co., Ltd.
The above Properties will be distributed amongst the
members of the
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING- SOCIETY
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
proposed sssue of 59,401 (Shares
At £1 Each.
Committee of Management,
C. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in N.B, Wales.
P. CLARKE, Esq., M.P. for the Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBERT HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OP
SYDNEY, Limited.
Solicitors.
Messrs. TIIYNNE and MACARTNEY, BRISBANE.
118 PRIZES, asunder:
FIRST PRIZE, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643
2nd. Prize, £6724
3rd „ 6000
4th „ 5313
sth „ 3000
6th „ 2720
8 Prizes from £2560 to £1650
13 „ „ £BB5 to £5O
23 Prizes of £45 each
49 ~ £26 10s each
19 „ £2O each
Total Value of Prizes, £59,401.
Each Shareholder, for every Share held by him, will
have Eleven Separate Chances, or a possibility of
winning prizes to the value of £30,430 10s.
Payment of the sum of £1 will secure One Share in the
Society, upon which there will be no further liability.
The Drawing will be by Ballot, according to Rules of
Society, and lists will close 31st MARCH, 1894.
Transfers w ill be executed in favour of successful Share-
holders immediately after the Ballot, free of all mortgages,
rates, taxes and encumbrances.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must be made to
the Secretary, BARRON L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24
Imperial Arcade, Sydney ; or “ Secretary,” care of J.
RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any
further particulars may be obtained.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes; add exchange if cheque sent.
Register letters.
The Committee invite the attention of intending Share-
holders to the value of the Properties for distribution, and
also to the Auctioneers’ description, which may be seen
at the office. Should (he Lists not be filled, the Com-
mittee reserve the right to withdraw' one or more lots,
according to the amount subscribed.
Shipping.
I?N GLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OP SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sap Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, i.‘52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa|
at current rates.
For time cards, railway map, and guide book*
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIESJIARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follow's:—
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS. and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON; £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.


Hi
rt
m
U >
Petty’s Family Hotels Sydney*
WYWYARD fcQUARE,
la UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Bedrooms,
Hoi and Cold Water Baths.
Lakes’ Sc Gentlsm in's Dining Sc Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hute as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Perm anent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Business* Announcements.
&ANUFACTUH ! Efj
HATS,
O V®»5
Mercery
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
proclaim
tub
MAN.
T
HEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
World-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
433 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter s),
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
f
fW--
Siw& E3T
B.RBST
If 4
Before purchasing any oilier
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM -
HOMS
JMohnston&Co
•*
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
• 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BAKER’S ENGLISH SHEFFIELD RAZOR.
It recommends itselt. Try one. «/- each, post free throughout Australasia.
W. JNO. BAKER, CXTTLER. 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO SYDNEY
ARE INVITED TO
INSPECT
OUR IMMENSE
STOCK
OF
Household
—AT—
Lowest Prices.
SEASONABLE
i, EW YEAR’S GIFTS
—NOVELTIES—
IX
Hush and Pith and Cane and Plaited Straw
FURNITURE,
COMPRISING
ARM-CHAIRS, OCCASIONAL CHAIRS, TABLES,
Easels, Fire-Screens, Couches, etc.
INEXPENSIVE, COOL, LIGHT and DURABLE.
NEWTON & LAMB,
SPEING- & O’GOItTIDsrZEXjIj STREETS, S^nDHSrElfT.
EI>
nr.
II
<??■
ss
11. P. GREGORY & CO.
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Boilers, B*l I*xe a,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
U us card to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without anj delay.
Steam
Banking.
THIS
City Bank of Sydney.
Established 1863.
ON and AFTER SATURDAY, the 9th inst.,
the business of The City Bank of Sydney
will be CARRIED ON in their NEW PRE-
MISES, PITT STREET, SYDNEY (next the
Imperial Arcade, and opposite the Strand).
By order of the Board.
C. STANTON,
General Manager.
The City Bank of Sydney,
Gth December, 1893.
Medical.
T
A
D
S'
EETII. —A COMPLETE SET, ONE
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/G; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums. _
R. HACKETT writes; —“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
END or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
pose free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only addiesb, two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &e.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF <t CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
ITLLOCK & CO., Sydney.
p. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSES & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS, '
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY, YOUNG. N.S.W.
TAYLOR BROS.,
248 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ORIGINAL and . SOLE
MANUFAOTURKRS
OF TUB
TM-V
Celebrated NEEDLE WOOD PIPES
State Shape when ordering.
Silver-mounted and Vulcanite Stems.
Prices: 4/0 5/6* (i/G 7/G
NEEDLE WOOD is vastly superior to any-
thing yet discovered.
Taylor Bros, are prepared to return the money
to any gentleman who, on trial of Needle Wood
Pipe, can conscientiously declare that it is not the
Best, Sweetest, Coolest and Dryest Pipe he ever
smoked. This is the opinion of every purchaser
so far.
Pipes sent to any part of the world (post free)
on receipt of Postal Order for the above amount.
Banking.
THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can olloi* special facilities tor dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Lexers of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
mi I E ENGLISH, SCOTTISH and AUS
_L TRALIAN BANK, Utd.
The Stock Registers of The English, Scottish
and Australian Bank, Limited, will lie CLOSKD
FOR TRANSFERS from the 16th instant to the
2nd January next, for the purpose of determining
interest.
Holders of Stocks and Terminable Deposits are
notified that the Interest for the Six Months
ending 31st December, 1803, wilßbe PAYALLL
on and after 2nd JANUARY, 1894, upon appli-
cation at the offices of the Bank.
Dated at Sydney, this 16th day of December,
18)3.
FLETCHER DIXON,
Manager.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE NOTE!
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Syin-y-
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £S 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
CROMART!
v.o
CROMARTY
Whisky.
Greenlees brothers
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
“Medical.
Hair Will Go Grey
f*v*
at
GOOCH’S
MC I'SB
Restores Gre,\ Hah to a
Rlack, Dark Rrown or
lit own shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELKOTIiIO WASH is
simple and exped I ons,
an occasional application
only beiiur < ecess i.v to
keep the Hair a n dural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’ and Gentlemen's Hair-
dresser, 2 )5 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-sl.).
Importer of Human Hair,
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and mads
to Order.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST ARRIVED, TER S.S. AUSTRALIA, FASHIONABLE SHIPMENT OF
Summer Suitings, Tweeds, Serges and Fancy Worsteds.
TWEED SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 45 - TROUSERS, Vi 0
SERGE SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 50- TROUSERS, 15
ROUND CORKSCREW SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 50- TROUSERS. 16 6
Country Customers please write for Patterns, Tape and Self-Measurement Forms.
LONDON <C MELBOURNE TAILORING CO. *■ ”■ an m ism:, M<n„.
The
“HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER.
The Moat Perfect Typewriter.
d
rpuK OM,V TVI’KWMITKIt possessing Perfect Align-
*- nieiil, Change > I>lType f4O oddl and Ribbons instantly,
Uniform Impression (independent. id opeiator’s touch), any
W idtli Paper, Visible Writing, bight Action, Short at Key
Dei resaion, Anloinalic Manifolding Stroke, and recommends-
lion b\ l-'RANKbIN SCIKNTIPIC INSTITUTE
FOR—
“Great Durability in Service. 9 *
Oompelit 'rs can neither claim or deny tbeae facts.
Positively the Best Writing Machine for Umj with the Wimeo
graph and Neocycloslill.
Uibbo. s last much longer, and never near into boles.
Send for Sample Work, Illustrated Catalogue and IVatinn'iiift’a
d. b.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post ms a Newspaper.
V#l. 13—50.724,
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1893.
Price, 6d.
f
A SHOCK TO THE COUNTRY.
"The Premier has announced that instead of the usual yearly deficit there will be a surplus.”
DIBBS : "Poor little chap! I ought to have broken it to him gently!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage a ided where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor icill caref ully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence" column all contributions submitted —■
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing ivith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that ice are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. >
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:-it. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1893.
Anarchy.
That anarchist scare, which is periodically
worked up by the press and the submarine
cable, is now in full blast over nearly one-
half of the civilised world. The daily new r s
is full of bombs and rumours of bombs, and
vague breathings of fire and prospective
assassination. In France a misdirected ex-
plosive was lately fired at the Chamber of
Deputies, and the Republic is reported as
taking strong, though somewhat incoherent,
measures for the suppression of the apostles
of dynamite. In Spain the famous explo-
sion in a Barcelona theatre and the at-
tempted assassination of the gaudy Martinez
Campos have created a reign of terror, and
the country is practically in a state of siege.
Russia’s chief export at present is alleged
dynamiters of the Nihilist order on their
way to Siberia. In Switzerland, Britain,
Germany, Italy, and the United States
vigorous measures are vaguely threatened
for the abolition of those doctrinaires whose
one political axiom is the destruction of
everything. And in Australia the Right-
Thinking press is beginning to point out that
the first signs of anarchism date from Henry
George’s irruption intothiscountry, and that
the advent of that gentle, though somewhat
confused, philosopher first unloosed the bonds
which held society together, and that it is
time something of a powerfully repressive
character was done to avert the Deluge. The
world has got the Anarchist scare in a violent
form, and the Anarchist is to be “ moved
on” from one country to another till he
arrives at the outer rim of the universe and
falls over into space.
* # #
Yet, after all, it has never been ascertained
for certain that there are any Anarchists, in
the popular sense, at all. The Russian
Nihilist is a mere local conspirator, and as
he wars, not against society in general, but
merely against a governing class ho is not an
Anarchist according to any possible interpre-
tation of the term. In other countries a
few homicidal madmen have made clumsy
and, as a rule, futile efforts at general
murder, and, in the great majority of cases,
have failed miserably and been executed
promptly. The rest of the Anarchist faction
consists mainly of peaceful writers of
vigorous but rather incomprehensible doc-
trines, who issue from their press at Geneva
theoretical pamphlets descriptive of a
millenium which is to come in the unspeci-
fied future. But the Anarchists of the cable
and the daily press— the vast array of long-
haired, wild-eyed murderers, whose, society
spreads its ramifications over the civilised
earth, and who have secret signs and pass-
words, and subterranean conspiracies, and
vast resources which are all bent towards
one stupendous design of blowing up every-
thing—are apparently a myth and a mere
vulgar sensation. They are accepted as a
self-evident fact, just as the existence of
witches and dealers in black magic was a
self-evident fact three centuries ago. But
witchcraft died a natural death when the
public belief in it began to fail, and Anarch-
ism will probably die in a similar fashion.
• * *
So far as the actual consequences are con-
cerned, modern Anarchism, even in its worst
form,isacomparatively harmless employment.
Its results, in the way of murder, are not
nearly sufficient to justify the popular frenzy.
Moreover, homicide by dynamite is, in itself,
no more proof of the existence of a vast
organisation for the destruction of everything
than is murder with a heavy boot in the
course of a public-house row. The attempted
slaughter of Marshal Campos, the shameless
ruffian who sold the Spanish Republic and
brought- back the Bourbons, is only sur-
prising because it was so long deferred ;
considering the record of Campos, his violent
death might have been expected at any time
within the last fifteen years. The feeble,
purposeless outrages at Paris and Barcelona,
if they were not inspired by lunacy, were
chiefly proofs of the utter weakness and
imbecility of the alleged dynamite party.
And, as for the “ bombs ” which have since
been discovered so regularly in half the cities
of Europe, just in time to prevent some
hideous disaster, many of them afterwards
proved to be fish-tins or other harmless
substances, and the rest were so obviously
police inventions as to be beneath contempt.
The genuine bomb, which is deposited with
a view to public destruction, goes off without
notice, and wrecks all the adjacent locality 5
it is only the bogus explosive which is always
placed just where a policeman will find it in
time for purposes of advertisement.
# # *
Anarchism is hardly a thing to be taken
seriously. In this age of blood and hypocrisy
it ranks, by comparison, rather as an amuse-
ment than as a serious political doctrine.
And, regarded as an agency of murder and
devastation, it is just a little worse than
Unitarianism, or conchology, or the stamp-
collecting mania. The whole allegedly gory
record of Anarchist conspiracy, from the
time when the doctrine of Anarchy was first
invented until to-day, cannot show one-
tenth as much wholesale and retail homicide
as that perpetrated in a single month in
Matabeleland for the spread of civilisation
and in the alleged interests of the Gospel.
The annual mortality from hunger in the
city of London alone is about as great as the
average yearly anarchist murder in all the
five continents. In the slums of any great
city, the annual loss of life from overcrowd-
ing, evil smells, bad drainage, and all the
other preventible miseries which arise out of
the avarice of landlords and capitalists, over-
shadows the worst records of slaughter by
dynamite. The deaths from lead-poisoning
in the Barrier mines—the list of the suicides
which follow every exploded boom when the
Fat Man has judiciously got out and left his
credulous dupes in—the death record of one
missionary row in some distracted South
Sea island—any one of them is more fatal
than the worst Anarchist outbreak ever
recorded. Compared to many of the
common and almost unnoticed incidents of
civilisation Anarchist conspiracy is rather a
healthful recreationand a cause of longevity
than otherwise.
# • •
The periodical Anarchist scare is worked
up principally as an excuse for panic legisla-
tion of a reactionary character. Over half
the civilised world Conservatism lias gained
a new' lease of life from the fiction that
society is in danger of being rent asunder at
its foundations. When some demented
individual runs amok with a knife or a club
his crime is set down to drink or frenzy or
original sin ; when the same person, or one
exactly like him, runs amok with a bomb
and a lighted fuse it is held to be positive
evidence of a vast project for the utter
destruction of humanity and civilisation, and
the bringing back of chaos. Yet murder
done with melinite or gun-cotton is no more
evidence of the alleged desolation which is
to come, than is plain homicide perpetrated
with an axe or a dose of arsenic. Anarchism,
at its worst, is little more than a supersti-
tion. Even giving it credit for all the mor-
tality which is attributed to it, it is a matter
of small account by comparison with a vast
number of other agencies of which society
takes no notice whatever. It consists prin-
cipally of cablegrams, frenzied articles in the
respectable daily press, and the occasional
finding, deposited in and around public
buildings, of strange and harmless articles of
ironmongery, for the glory of the local police-
man. The Anarchist, if he really exists as a
political institution and is not a mere creature
of drink and fiction, can be suppressed without
any resort to panic legislation. lie can be
captured on the same principles as the
ordinary violent drunk, and extinguished by
the ordin uy process of the criminal code.
His chief purpose is to serve as a pretext for
violent class legislation, and apart from this
he is mainly a creature of the Fat Man’s
imagination.
Compensation to Publicans.
One of the last acts of the New South Wales
Parliament, before the recent prorogation, was
to affirm, by a substantial majority, the princi-
ple of local option with compensation to dis-
possessed publicans. The principle of local
option is, in itseflf, evidently no longer a matter
of dispute ; it has been resolved so definitely in
the affirmative that it practically ceased, a con-
siderable time ago, to be an open question. The
one point on which there is still any doubt is
whether it is to be local option with or without
compensation—whether the drink-vendor is to
be bought out or got rid of by the simple pro-
cess of confiscation ; and the balance of public
opinion apparently inclines towards the former
alternative. The doctrine of confiscation is
apparently confined to the rabid teetotal faction
—the party whose dream is of a coming golden
age, when drink will be utterly abolished
and the footprints of the clammy hand of
Cold Tea will be all over the land. This
party is seldom reasonable and hardly
ever even moderately tolerant, yet for once in
its long and irrational career it seems to be
more logical than its opponents. Confiscation
is doubtless an objectionable term, but if local
option is to prevail it is practically inevitable.
The principle of compensation may have a sem-
blance of abstract justice to recommend it, but
it opens up a prospect of such vast liabilities,
and commits the Treasury to such lavish obli-
gations in the present, and the possibility of so
many more in the future, that it is practically
impossible. The question of justice may, in
fact, be left out of the calculation. New South
Wales cannot afford to compensate, and there
the question practically ends.
• • *
The mere question of compensating the retail
publican, which is the one usually considered,
is only the beginning of the difficulty. If it is
decided that he is a public evil which requires
diminution in the present, with the prospect
of total abolition in the future, and the law
once admits the principle that the man who
lives by creating an evil should be paid
to cease doing so, then the process of compen-
sation doubtless begins at the retail driuk-
seller. As to where it ends, no one exactly
knows. Provided that local option diminishes
the drink traffic which, it is generally
assumed, will be the case—then the brewer
whose trade is damaged thereby has an equal
claim to have his loss made good at the public
expense. And if the brewer’s loss is made
good, then the distiller has the same right. So
has the farmer who supplied the brewer with
sundry requisites of his nefarious calling, and
whose market is injured, either temporarily or
permanently, by the loss of a profitable cus-
tomer. So also has the vigneron, who, with
the compulsory decrease in drinking, will find
his vineyard less profitable than before; and
who, when local option developes, as it pro-
bably will, sooner or later, into prohibition,
will be almost entirely ruined. Further, there
arises the question of compensating the importer
for the injury done to his business. If the
principle of compensation to the common objec-
tionable publican is acknowledged, the claims
of all these and many other people are equally
logical, and the State cannot grant relief to the
man who sells beer in a pewter and yet refuse
it to the one who sells the same brown drink in
a keg.
• • •
Further, if the publican is to be compensated
because the State has deprived him of the only
occupation which he has ever learnt, and has
cast him adrift on a dry earth with no prospects
for the future, his employes have an equal right
to consideration. The barman, and the
“chucker-out ” who throws the obstreperous
customer into the street, and the Flossie who
serves as the principal ornament of the
premises, will be equally deprived of their
means of livelihood. And though the barman
and the 4S chucker-out,” and even the publican
himself, may find other means of livelihood, the
chances of the public-house Flossie, in this
world where female labour is cheap and pre-
carious, and the supply so vastly exceeds the
demand, are exceedingly limited. They are so
limited, in fact, that if it is proposed
to compensate one class only and leave
the others to take their chance, it is
she, rather than the publican, who should be
considered. Further, the brewery and distillery
employes have a claim for State compensation,
and the distiller’s apoplectic bagman, and the
man who earns his humble crust by driving the
brewer’s dray, and the cooper, and the bottle-
maker and the cork-manufacturer, and a large
number of others. When once the principle of
compensation is affirmed ail these will be heard
from, and if their claims are rejected while
those of the retail grog-dealer arc admitted,
then there is no faith or logic or semblance of
justice in the land.
# # #
The question of compensation is alleged to
rest upon the assumption that the State, by
exacting a license-fee from the publican, thereby
recognises his vested interest in the public
thirst, and that there is a tacit understanding
that his license shall be renewed once a year so
long as his business is satisfactorily conducted.
But there is nothing in the bond beyond
the fact that, each time the license-fee
is accepted, the State guarantees to the
publican the right to carry on his trade for
another year. Anything beyond that is the
publican’s own understanding—or his want of
understanding. The license-fee, in any case, is
merely a protective duty, which ensures the
person paying it against undue competition,
and in granting that protection the State gives
a sufficient equivalent for the money. The
bargain ends once every twelve months, and
then cither party to the contract has a right to
retire from it at will. If the agreement em-
bodied an unwritten proviso that the State
must keep on accepting the annual license fee
so long as an unobjectionable publican is
willing to pay the money, then it must also, to
make the bargain equitable, contain a proviso
th it the publican will go on paying the money
so long as the State will accept it. And as the
publican retires from his share of the bargain
so soon as it suits his interests to do so, and
never compensates the Treasury in any shape
or form for tile consequent loss of revenue, the
right of the State to retire also when it suits
its interests to do so must be equally absolute.
It is impossible to imagine that the alleged
understanding can be binding on one of the two
parties to the contract, while the other is abso-
lutely free.
* * •
The real question at issue involves no con-
tract written or unwritten, on parchment or
otherwise—because there is none and can be
none. It is simply a question whether the
State, because it has habitually allowed the
drink-seller to pursue his calling during good
conduct, and has thereby led him—or more often
the brewer, whose hard-driven dummy he is—to
invest large sums of money in his trade, which sums
will probably be lost when that trade is restricted
or abolished, ought, as an act of grace, to make
up his loss. Bu‘. the perpetration of that act
of grace cannot, by any process of logic," be
confined to the publican only ; if he is compen-
sated, all other losers by the establishment of
local option should be similarly treated, and
the Treasury cannot stand the strain. It is a
matter, not of choice, but of cast-iron neces-
sity. Moreover, the law has done similar injury
to many other trades without compensation,
and will probably keep on doing so indefinitely.
When Freetrade had lasted fifty years or so
in New South Wales, the Sydney importers had
the same tacit agreement with the State that it
was going to last for ever ; the softgoodsman,
like the publican, draw an inference from the
past, and assumed that, because his privileges
had been annually renewed at each successive
Financial Statement, for half-a-century, they
would be renewed for another half-century,
and so on ad infinitum. Yet, when the country
gave its vote for Protection, not even the
most rampant Calico-Jimmy dreamed of de-
manding compensation for loss of trade and
depreciation in the value of his big stone
warehouse. If Freetrade comes to the front
again, the manufactures which have grown up
under Protection will probably go broke, and
the capital invested will be lost, and the
factories will become empty and desolate and
unprofitable, yet their owners’ prospects of
State compensation are absolutely nil. When
racing consultations were first made illegal in
New South Wales the idea of compensating
the promoters for the loss of a profit-
able and hitherto lawful calling was
never even mentioned. The same rule
applies to the professional pugilist, who earned,
an honest livelihood by flattening his opponent
until the State suddenly interfered and de-
prived him of his only means of support, and 1 ,
practically destroyed his sole capital—the pain-
fully acquired science of a life-time, bought
with many bruises and much permanent dis-
figurement. Also, it applies, though in a, less
degree, to the lady lion-tamer who was recently
deprived of her occupation and her in-
come, at a moment’s notice, on the mere
ukase of Premier Dibbs. Almost every import-
ant measure whhh is passed by the legislature
either directly or indirectly deprives somebody
of his means of livelihood. Public opinion is;
always changing, and is constantly deciding,
that some hitherto lawful and honourable call-
ing is a public evil. Then it proceeds to.
abolish that calling by Act of Parliament, and
if the injured ai d uncompensated individuals
whose occupation is thus destroyed endeavour
to resist, they are lined or imprisoned as a con-
sequence. And why the retail grog-man should
be the one exception to the general rule passes
comprehension.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More Government by “Stoush.”
The law of New South Wales—so far as it is re-
presented by Stipendiary-Magistrate Addison,
of Sydney has practically decided that
Government by “ stoush ” is an allowable pro-
cess, so the practice of hiring bulky pugilists to
attend political meetings and disfigure anybody
who isn’t in accord with Freetrade principles
will doubtless grow and prosper. In Mr.
Addison’s court, last week, Dooley, the
Sydney bruiser, took proceedings against an
old and feeble-lookiug man named Allen for
assault and damage, alleged to have been done
by a boot in the eye at the recent Freetrade
meeting, and Allen, in his turn, proceeded
against the massive slogger for unlawful inter-
ference and brutal destruction of his features.
The magistrate heard Dooley’s story, which
simply set forth that lie had usurped the
authority of the police, and that he had been
mashed while committing an unlawful assault
in the interests of Freetrade ; and then, after
hearing a couple of witnesses called on behalf of
1 )ooley, he dismissed the case on the ground that
the plaintiff had no right to interfere. Then
he dismissed the case of the badly-mashed
Allen without even the semblance of a
hearing, which practically means that, in
Sydney, a citizen may be mangled by
an unauthorised pug. without so much as a
pretence of redress. In addition to this extra-
ordinary proceeding, Mr. Addison made an
effort in the first place to get rid of the case
without any hearing at all, on the ground thqt
it arose out of some “political excitement.”
Therefore, it would seem, according to Mr.
Addison’s law, that the criminal code only
exists to put down social, religious, financial and
general excitement, but that in a political dis-
agreement any man who is sufficiently large and
violent may put his mutton-fist in another
man’s eye, or throw him down stairs, with
absolute impunity. In fact, it would appear
that a person who is suffering from political
excitement, say, owing to the election of a new
Speaker, or from any other cause, may run
amok, and his political excitement will he
sufficient excuse. Therefore, the political
bruiser is going to have a good time in
Sydney under the Addison regime ; and the
wife-beater and the “ push,” if they can show
that they were aggravated by the conduct of
the Ministry, will, doubtless, have their cases.


promptly dismissed. At the same time, if
Addison, S.rM., does not live and move and
have his salary for the purpose of putting down
political excitement, as well as any other kind, it
would be interesting to know what, in his own
opinion, he does live for. Also, what is the
use of Addison asserting that Dooley’s inter-
ference was unlawful if he declines even to hear
evidence on the part of the person whom
Dooley unlawfully interfered with, and what
does Dooley’s unlawfulness matter if the court
simply turns him loose to resume his wild
career of “ stoush ” as his own pleasure ?
The Moonee Homicide.
William Henry Main, the Moonee Ponds
(Vic.) shooter, has been convicted of man-
slaughter —and fined £5O. Considering that
the jury didn’t find that Main was a demented
lieutenant,, oy in any way irresponsible, the
sentence looks ridiculously inadequate. Still
the case was one of those for which the law
makes no suitable provision. So far as it is
possible to guess at his state of mind—or the
state of what mind he had —the accused was
hopelessly drunk, not with liquor, but with his
shiny gun and his commission as a small militia
potent ite. Judged by his actions, he was in
that penny-dreadful state which might have led
him to throw up entrenchments in his back
yard, or hoist the British flag on the chimney-
pot, or lay in two clothes-props and want to
hold a tournament with the dust man. As it
was, he seized his flaming brand, or whatever
it was, and hysterically shot an adjacent
auctioneer in the vitals. Main couldn’t be
regarded as a serious homicide, nor as a lunatic,
yet he is plainly a dangerous individual to
turn loose upon the community. What he most
wanted was not a £5O fine, but to be put away
for a year or so in a cool sanatorium, where
there were no guns, no militia uniforms, no
Jingo literature, none of Rudyard Kipling’s
poetry about the “ English Flag” and the way
Britannia rules the waves, and where nobody
would be allowed to cheer for the Queen under
penalty of a severe shower-bath, or to keep the
sth of November, or the Prince of Wales’
birthday, or any other blood and raw-meat
celebrations. Ami there he should have been
furnished with comfortable quarters, good diet,
abundant exercise, and interesting litera-
ture in which Cveqy and Agincourt were never
even mentioned. When a hysterical militiaman
reads too much about Creyy and Agincourt the
desire to go out and shoot wildly in all direc-
tions becomes practically irresistible.
The N.S.W. Law of Seduction
Seduction is not a nice subject for discussion,
which is probably one reason why the law
relating to it remains in its present state in
New South Wales. The other reason is that
the law has not been altered in England, and
legislators are loth to amend what is good
enough for the D.O.M.C. Other branches of
the law are based upon legal fictions ; but the
law of seduction stands upon the vaguest of
false pretences. In the first place, no action
will lie unless the person seduced was, at the
time of the wrong, in the service of her parents
or guardian. This service is not necessarily
an employment at so much per week; it is
sufficient that the parent should have the right
to claim the daughter’s services. If, in fact,
she is at her own home at the time the action
can be maintained. And, assuming such to be
the case, a jury, upon proof of the act, may
give anything it likes as damages. The cause
of action is loss of service, but the damages
are not given for that loss, but for the dishonour
and pain of body and mind and other considera-
tions incapable of any accurate pecuniary
assessment. But if the girl, at the time of the
wrong, is out.at service, the father can recover
nothing whatever. As for the person really con-
cerned, she can recover nothing in any case.
To state the matter from another point of
view, a man who seduces a girl who lives under
the protection of the paternal shingle is made
liable to damages as vindictive as the jury may
please to make them ; but if, at the time of the
seduction, the girl is at service, or otherwise
away from her father’s house, she may be
seduced without any other than a police-court
liability on the seducer. Considering that the
worst and most villainous cases of seduction
are by men who deliberately engage domestic
servants for the purpose of debauching them,
and remembering further that a girl who goes
from home has her own strength only for her
protection, the outrageous absurdity of the
law as it now stands, is made manifest.
The fact is that this Judge - made law
has gone wrong from the start, in making the
loss of paltry services the ground of action, and
the substantial wrong merely a matter for
aggravation of damages. The law was laid
down in its present form when the jus primce
noctis —the thing can’t be deliberately expressed
in English—was the right of English lords of
the manor—when the wife of a tenant was, by
custom having the force of law, compelled to
begin her married life in deliberate adultery ;
and the decisions laid down in such times have
endured in all their ghastly absurdity to the
present day. The necessary reform would be
by making the moral injury the basis of
damages, and discarding, except, possibly, as a
ground for aggravation of damages, all con-
siderations as to loss of services. The matter
is simple enough, and no reasonable defence
could be made for the perpetuation of the pre-
sent law which is a libel on the common sense of
the community that maintains it.
More Mercantile Bank Aspects.
An explanation of the last, long, irrelevant
Davies address to the Melbourne magistrates
was perhaps perceptible in the Criminal Court,
a week ago. Walsh, Q.C., on behalf of the
Crown, applied for a postponement of the Mer-
cantile case until February, because it would be
impossible to go or with it at the December
sittings. Matthew Davies delayed his actual
committal as long as possible —small blame to a
defendant who can get the necessary license to
waste time—after which there was another
interesting interval whilst the question of
another nolle prosequi, or otherwise, was being
considered Then Xmas loomed in the near
future and a postponement followed as a matter
of course. The settlement of the precious Mer-
cantile case will commence, according to present
appearances, in about another two months hence,
exactly two years after the issue of the balance
sheet that constitutes the fraud charged. And
the aforesaid present appearances are not
satisfactory. The original abortive Crown
prosecution, conducted by Walsh, Q.C.,
excited no public desire for a further appear-
ance of the Crown in the matter. “ Every
possible point,” said Peacock, M.L.A., “was
strained in favour of the defendants,” from
which it is fair to assume that the Crown Law
authorities did not instruct Mr. Walsh with
much enthusiasm in their cause. How does it
happen that the Crown, after having “washed
its hands of the whole business,” as Premier
Patterson stated in the ’Ouse, is now coming
forward again to take the prosecution from the
hands of the private individuals whose pre-
liminary action was not abortive ? For the
sake of consistency the Crown and the Govern-
ment should have left the Mercantile case to
take care of itself. Isaacs was hurled out of
the Cabinet for maintaining that Matthew
Davies ought to stand his trial, yet now that
the trial seems unavoidable it is to be con-
ducted under Crown management, or mis-
management. Bryan O’Loghlen retired to
the back-blocks, without “going through the
evidence ” as before, but he remains head of the
department that has undertaken to prove the
very charge—the “ second ” charge—which, on
Bryan’s showing, was not proveable a while
ago. Things are lamentably mixed.
Legal Privilege.
Judge Hodges, commenting on political advo-
cacy of private claims against the Victorian
railways, managed to put in a little word for
his own trade. Hodges summed up the matter
thus; “Should Mr. Speight not have said to
members of Parliament, ‘ I do not understand
your interference. I do not know you ?’ There
are persons recognised by law as persons who
are justified in interfering in these matters—
barristers and attorneys— who, if the Railway
Department and the Commissioners were not
doing what they ought to do, would be
the proper persons to make a claim.” Just
so. How are the learned barristers and
lawyers to live if disputes be settled
without a devil of a lot of costs ? Later
on, His Honor was rather severe upon the
interference of punster Zox in the case of a
highly unfortunate man named CoultAs, whose
verdict against the railways had been reversed
on appeal to the Privy Council. His Honor
enquired, with manifest emotion: “ What has
Mr. Zox to do with it ? He is not an attorney.
In this case Coultas had an attorney who did
his legal business, but he takes it out of his
attorney’s hands to the hands of a member of
Parliament, and it is granted.” Let us weep
for the recognised litigation-monger who lost
the chance to draw up another big bill. As a
servant of the State, Speight probably ought
to have done his best to encourage legal ex-
penses. The blessed constitution is rooted in
lawyers’ fees, and watered by the tears of them
that pay costs.
♦ 1 ■
John Burns has scored heavily in the British
Commons by forcing the passage of an amend-
ment to the Employers’ Liability Act enabling
an or his representatives after death,
to sue for loss of health or physical debility
induced by work at dangerous trades.
Hitherto the remedy has been confined to cases
of personal injury, which meant bodily injury
by some kind of violence. Under this amend-
ment the workman who loses health or strength
by the use of poisonous materials employed in
manufacture, or by the fumes exhaled in lung
and stomach-poisoning mines, will have his
action also. This advance in legislation would
almost tend to the suspicion that the lives of
workmen are acquiring a legal value even at
the cost of property. The representatives of
property, however, by means of a “contracting
out ” clause, made a desperate attempt, at first
in the Commons and then in the Lords, to
cripple the measure. If workmen could have
contracted themselves out of the bill there is
no doubt they would have been compelled to do
so in nine cases out of ten, but the proposed
clause was lost by 19 votes in the Commons,
and the Commons have now determined to pre-
vent the Lords from adding the objectionable
proviso to the Bill. English Radicalism has thus
gone a long way ahead of anything yet at-
tempted in the Australias. How many Broken
Hill dividends would go in compensation to
lead-poisoned miners under such a system as
this ?
The Speight-Syme libel-case will at least serve
one public use in directing attention to the
fearfully high price at which justice is sold.
When the case was in going order it cost the
parties,about £3OOO a week, and nothing
smaller than vans will carry the bills of costs
to be furnished. Usually, in a case like this,
the costs are the only ipatter of any consequence
by the time the busihess is half over. Even if
plaintiff gets a swingeing verdict, he doesn’t
usually get any part of the damages when the
case is ended. The attorney and client costs
swamp any amount the jury may award, so
that plaintiff and defendant simply try all they
know to land the costs on to the other side, and
to this end hire the highest-priced Q.C.’s and
plunge into all sorts of expense, with the
sole object of avoiding the payment of the
legal luxuries they have ordered. The fact is
that the law allowing costs to the successful
party has been abused to such an extent that
the evils which have arisen under the present
practice are monstrous enough to induce the
adoption of the alternative course of not allow-
ing any costs at all. “The other side will
have to pay,” is the consideration which
animates each party in piling up the costs, and
the lawyers who will get paid anyhow are not
generally backward in showing how the ex-
pense of litigation may be enhanced. The
exorbitant fees now paid to counsel
in small as well as in heavy cases
would be reduced to the limit of reasonable
remuneration if the verdict to be gained or lost
were the only issue. * It may, of course, be
said that if a successful plaintiff received no
costs he would have to assert a just claim at
his own expense, and would have to pay his
bill out of his verdict. But that is just what
he has to do now. It is a very big verdict in
a very small case which allows the plaintiff to
take home anything after payment of his
“ attorney and client ” costs—which latter are
never allowed by the Court as costs in the case,
that institution professing to be oblivious of
the attorney’s existence.
The second batch—some 200—of emigrants
will, in a day or two, leave Adelaide per Royal
Tar for “New Australia. ” With one or two ex-
ceptions, the present shipload exclusively consists
of full-grown men and their biggest sons. It has
been deemed advisable to send along males only
this trip. Their families will go by next ship, after
the present crowd has got all the big snakes killed.
“ Mormonism has been steadily gaining
ground for sometime past,” says the Samoan
Herald, “ several of our foreign residents having
joined that church from sheer admiration of the
pure and self-denying lives led by its missionaries,
and this has had its effect on the natives,
who also have joined in numbers.” What
a cruel blow for the orthodox shepherds of the
L.M.S. and Wesleyan Missions !
Lord Onslow told a retrenchment story in
his recent lecture at the Colonial Institute,
Shortly after the first all-round 10 per cent, reduc-
tion in Maoriland, Onslow was travelling by a
steamer and informed the captain that the pace
was too slow. The retort came sharply: “You
see they’ve taken 10 per cent, off the screw.”
We’ve heard this before, but then nobody expects
a lord to be original.
“ The Uninhabitable House near Sydney,
and other Amusing Stories,” by Darius Ritt, is a
booklet of eight short sketches. Generally, the
author who placidly announces his book as
“amusing” is a public enemy, and should also be
held as a pariah and an impostor. The stories,
however, by this author with the Persian-Dutch
autograph are fairly humorous particularly
“Mission Life in India,” “A Gaol Bird” and
“The Yankee Canvasser.” The book is unpre-
tentious in appearance, and is published by
Barlow and Armitage, Sydney.
The recent investigations upon leprosy at
the Medical Congress, held at Vienna, show that
the disease is overlooked to an alarming extent
because the progress in hygiene and the condi-
tions of life generally have caused the malady “ to
become modified, weakened, and, so to speak,
blurred.” Many of the so-called new diseases
with the nice, aristocratic-sounding names of
syringomyelia, salerodermia, morphoea, mal-adie
de Morvan, &0., are but modified forms of true
leprosy. They are a little less obvious than the
good, old, bloated complaint of Syria in Scriptural
times, but the results are practically the same.
The Matabeles, in their late engagements
with Khama’s people, are alleged to have ripped
up the abdomens of their opponents —the allies of
the Chartered Robbery Co.—and the English
papers designate the practice as a “ hideous
atrocity.” A correspondent of the P.M. Gazette
writes in defence:—“The ‘ripping-up’ (or,
rather, ‘down’) is often done by a stroke of the
assegai in actual combat. It is obviously a very
effective, as well as a merciful, method of killing,
and is regarded by the Zulus as having a specially
beneficial effect , from a sanitary'point of view.”
The “ sanitary point of view ” is good, though
somewhat obscure.
A little, round, fat, oily man of God, who
holds a good billet as a bishop, writes to the
Northampton (Eng.) Chronicle
If the miners will all return to work for what they can
get, which is the true principle of wages, and with which
they should always be content, they may' expect God’s
blessing to rest upon them, and that greater honour will
attach to them than by turning universal beggars. Ignor-
ance of Scripture is at the bottom of it all. There pro-
bably is not a miner in the country now on strike, or who
lately has been, who could answer two Scripture questions
out of three. Let every workman have a Bible and read
it every day, and strikes will become a thing of the past,
and knowledge will be increased.
“ Andrew Fairfax,” a novel with the pur-
pose of making British rural landowners feel
ashamed of themselves (a large order, unfortu-
nately), is likely to have a fair sale in Australia,
where the sufferings of human vegetation in the be-
loved mother country are but dimly comprehended.
“ Andrew Fairfax ” is a book that no reader for-
gets to finish, though it oXten betrays, by a certain
softness or flabbiness of style, the fact that
author Hocking is a parson. Something beside
an interesting yam (of a ’Varsity graduate turn-
ing himself into a farm labourer) must be account-
able for the success of this work. It has the
charm of sincerity, perhaps. A parson who writes
against the doctrines of Tory landlordism, and
who slates impartially the shepherd at the parish
church and the redeemed auctioneer who runs the
local bethel, is in all probability a sincere man
with a useful future before him.
Says an English paper :
Slang is an effort on the part of the users of language
to say something more vividly, strongly, and concisely,
than the language as existing permits it to be said. It is
the source from which the decaying energies of speech
are constantly refreshed. It is the function of slang to be
a feeder of the vocabulary. Words get threadbare and
dried up ; they come to be like evaporated fruit, juice-
less and tasteless. It is the function of slang to provide
substitutes for the good words and true which are worn
out by hard service.
This probably explains why the Australian never
simply goes round the corner, but almost always
goes round the sanguinary corner. The san-
guinary nature of the corner is his way of being
vivid and concise.
Purves, Q.C., as counsel for the Age, was
evidently very >sore over the Speight distinc-
tion (which he professed himself unable to under-
stand) between practical and purely commercial
management of the Vic. railways. Speight, in
the witness-box, here scored heavily against his
cross-examiner, and the baffled barrister com-
pleted his own defeat by harping on the subject
when he came to address the jury. Like all
impudent men, Purves is easily disconcerted, and,
when disconcerted, he makes frantic endeavours
to “bluff” the factoff, instead of quietly dropping
his cards and starting a fresh deal. Like a peevish
child, he referred to the “ chuckles of Mr. Speight
and his friends, as they slapped his back and con-
gratulated him on having got the best of Purves.”
And because he had indeed been bested, the spoilt
darling of the Law Courts asked the jury to
believe that Speight was “ talking Coptic-” when
he suggested that an immediate profit was not
always the first desideratum in every railway
undertaking. “He might as have throwm a
monument from the ruins of Nineveh at my
bead,” shriek'd Purves. The jury laughed.
Juries always laugh when they ought to weep.
The spectacle of a gifted person in a wig revelling
in his alleged lack of comprehension should be
considered sad, even in a Law court, which is at
all times full of sadness.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will, he taken of communications which arnm
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name ant
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Narunga” : Send along whatever you think
suitable. The days are long now and we can read tons o'
screed....“Millona ” : Christmas is the proper time foi
good resolutions. Suppose you resolve to swear off poetry
~..‘ r H.H.D.” : There is nothing in it and we have a
latent fear that it is not quite true “Old Q.” : Held
over for want of space “ The Breaker ’’ : Received...
‘'The Rover’’ (Mt. Morgan): “And you know how th<
parsons to the poor class-nreach hell, and to the upper the
beauties of heaven " —that is the only idea in your verses,
and one idea won’t carry a column of .verse into this
paper... “C.S.” (Townsville): Received “ Ponte ”•
May use next week “Ian”: Your matter is too ex
tensive and slushy for the ideas it contains. That’s a 11....
“ gushwhacker: Good verse. Will appear shortly...
“ The Bunyip ” : The yarn about the doctor who gives e
galvanic battery' shock to a nigger is too much decayed
and otherwise damaged for insertion anywhere...
“ Rony ” : Rot of the first water.. “D. White ” : Youl
story of the “ Amateur Vet.” is past all reformation and
is hereby censured accordingly... “Enmore” (Erskine-
ville, N.S.W.) : To “ encourage ” such a “ first attempt ”
would be a blacker crime than to perpetrate liquor-pro-
hibition “Will Evelyn” (St. Hilda, Vic.): Shepherd
yarn reminds of lantana-bush round passion-vine; can’t
get at the fruit for the lantana “H.R.W.” (Sydney) :
Such, male innocence impossible in Sydney under any
conditions....“ Soho” (Brisbane, Q.) : What happened
when “ the miserable train stopped ”? Is that why
you stop?... “Cosmic” (Jamieson, Vic.): Had the
yarn....“ Disgusted ” : A standing newspaper joke,.
“Jules” (Blayney):. Good enough, but the office door is
blocked already with contingent-vote literature, and
chaos is let 1005e....“T.R.” : Sweet little poem, but
thin and weak... “Gopi” (Colac): An unclean pun.
Please scrub the next pun before sending it along...
“Cipher”: Gloom-haunted narrative with the stare of
uninteresting madness in every line “The Hunger”;
Declined ... “ P.M.G.0.” (Sydney): Good story with the
brand of Ananias on its brow. Will use “W.S.K.”;
We are just able to deny ourselves the honour of publish-
ing your miscalled “ romance.”....“ Vince ” Your
tragedy is too dead for a lire paper “Moa”: Bas-
ketted “Gros. Bonnet”: Send it along “Mac”:
Not this issue. Nor next. Nor any issue “A.A.K.”:
Not bad for a first attempt “C.H.S.C.”: Letter re-
ceived.. .“Correspondent at Cairns”: You say you
are “ afraid to give -your name,” but you have the cool
cheek to ask us to publish 18 criminal libels on 14 men
whom you desire to slate. Well, we just won’t...." The
Curlew”: Have handed it to H0p. ...“ L.P.” ; We like
your poem immensely. It is so original. This verse
especially:—
“ He had changed his track of ram hi;,
And went to see Smotherem town ;
And there on the burst in an amble
They gently but quifckly lambed him down.”
You should try to cultivate that kind of verse. It runs as
smoothly as a light shanghai over river boulders....
“ Waratah ”: “Her name like herself was considered
pretty.” And yet he fled! .. “Jupiter” (Bathurst):
Verse such as yours should be made a misdemeanour
punishable by imprisonment without benefit of clergy...
“J. Sake” : Good poem, irretrievably spoilt by the last
line.. .. “Micawber” : (1) VVhich Brown ? (2) Not that we
ever heard 0f....“ A.A.W."” (Leichhardt): WHI try and
look up the date .. “Rough”: A mosaic of hackneyed
expressions. “ Ruin or Freedom ” may be good philo-
sophy ; hut what’s the matter with “ Ruin or Beerf ’
“F.”: We don’t think much of the intelligence of the
man who makes such “ bones ” over the trivial errors of
a few sohool-children “Paul Mell”: Sorry, but The
Bulletin’s opinions ohthat wild and jagged poet are
unalterable.. ..“Committeeman ” : There Is a similar
mean maiMn every town... “ Kilmore ’’ :We know abso-
lutely nothing about the lady’s “ yearly income.” ...
“Honest George ”: Received. Many thanks.... “Blue-
nose ” : Horribly diffuse.... “ E.P.H.”(Sydney): Thanks.
.. “C.K.” (Mudgee): Will possibly use. “Jacky
Jacky ”: A great mass of nothing ... “ Strafford L
You complain of Tub Bulletin's grammar, and there are
three glaring grammatical errors in your own short letter.
.... “ Jeksaj ”: We never print odes to our “valuable
paper.” Besides, it isn’t a valuable paper, and the man
who calls it one, if he comes there and does it verbally,
will have his brains knocked out against the front-door.
.. .“Observer”: Cartoon ideas unsuitable “The
Codgie Man ” (Carlton); Weak joke. Better lean it up
against the language we used when we read it, and let
it recuperate .“J.Q.”: Thanks “G. Hall”;
List ot prizes will, we presume, be sent to each sub-
scriber “ A.V.G.” : Philosophy poor. Poem mechanic-
ally correct, but idea execrable .. “Yatala": Thanks.
“ Elliott Dene ” : Mostly unsuitable ...“ The Palmer ” :
We pay for contributions. Send account, with particu-
lars, to the business manager.. . “ Kaitangata ” : Depres-
sing item. ..." Wurlie “A Solemn Scene ”jis a beauti-
ful item, if only the central drink joke hadn’t been used
before “ Hardface ” : Regret that we can’t see our
way to have your poem “ illustrated by Hop.” “Hop”
is terrible when roused “Jika Jika”; Nicely written,
but the idea is the oldest one this side of Abraham's
Bosom “D. 8.” (G.P.0.): The evil can’t be remedied
by “inspection.” Murder or mutilation might help it
somewhat... “8.E.”: Came too late to be considered
for Christmas, good enough, anyhow “ A.M.W.” ;
We’re not going to risk libels by publishing irresponsible
statements about Hell “ Toorakian ” : ,The yarn about
the Sydney visitor who was ‘ mistaken for a bailiff by
his Melbourne friends is not startling. Melbournians
take every visitor for a bailiff now “The Prowler ”
(Melb.): A common-place drunk of the gloomiest kipd.
If you want to be humorous you should try and keep
sober. There is some humour in mere novelty...
“D.W.”: You say you “hint at drink” in the verses.
That may be, but the hint is so broad that kicking a/nan
downstairs is a mere suggestion rn comparison
“E- Rosslyn ”: No man ever wrote verses to his
“dearest Dolly” in these columns, and your lines
are otherwise below summer - level “H.T.D. ”
(Surry Hills): Your poem somehow got torn
into six pieces and then it softly fell into a basket...
“F.W.E.” ; You have forgotten to put the story in your
tale “I.G.D. ” : The man who mistook Bulli for Hades
is not deserving of notice. Small errors in matters of
geography-are of Httle moment “A Subscriber”:
The liability would depend on the facts of the case. If
the eldest son asked the doctor to attend he would be
responsible unless the son was merely the agent of tha
father ... “F. J.H.” : You ask, “ When a woman becomes
a mayor what is her husband’s title?” We are not quite
sure—thinjg he must be a horse “Cosmic”: May
renovate and publish “ Loyalist” : You are suffer-
ing from an overdose of dead goose, complicated
with prolonged contemplation of the grand old
Mother Country. Article otherwise inexcusable
“Shikari”: Your sort ot flirtation is too frequent to be
interesting. It takes a fearful lot of “devil” to make
any flirtation interesting nowadays “ Eidsvold ” ;
Letter only a repetition of several hundred others. The
Contingent Vote is fast becoming a madness among Bul-
letin correspondents....“ J.J.M.” ; We print one verso
as a warning and a horror toeoming generations:—
Sing Wealth’s bears, work’s whacks a rhyming,
Sing church bulls at their whacks chiming,
Sing the whacks of men subliming, /
Woman worker waster—sing fair-play.
Sing fair-play—joys’ fair divider
Sing the singer—joys’ foe chider
Sing the toiler—joys’ provider
Sing the toilers’ close array.
Adelaide Supreme Court, a few days ago,
delivered 2G nonpareil columns of a judgment in
some case, and a local daily reported the deliver-
ance verbatim. Which reminds us that the Judges
of Sydney Supreme Court are not, so to speak,
playing chaneys. with the reporters of the metro-
politan press. The,cause of the estrangement was
on this wise: The court, in a case heard some time
ago, delivered written judgments which totalled
about 12 columns. The reporters could not get
enough space for the decision in one issue and did
not care to make a serial of it, so treated it as
they would Assembly speeches by Neild and other
strong-lunged orators, and chopped it down to
one-fourth, or thereabouts. Whereat Banco was
considerably wroth, and if the papers want to get
a verbatim report now they have to take it down
in the ordinary shorthand way, for copies of
written j-udgme; t ■ are no longer accessible to the
press.


Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician,
HfBi PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5 - per Pair.
Tlio ci-I I> a'ed UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
hy the K«cu’tv, 10 0 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Price*.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «5c ROBERTA.
Jkwki.i.kkv Showrooms,
•3 UINTEU STUMiT, SIBUtV,
Matrimonial (£2ooo).—Gentleman (26),
fair good-looking, superior-birth and edu-
cation, excellent Government position, possessed
■of above means, desires to meet with a Thorough
Lady in every sense whose antecedents are above
reproach, with equivalent financial status, Bona-
fides and photographs exchanged. Absolute dis-
cretion. Triflers disregarded. Correspondence
invited. Thoroughly genuine.
“IVYDENE,” Bathurst (N.S.W.).
The long-delayed deep channel through
the sand-bar which has been a stumbling-block to
the navigation of Corio Bay, was formally declared
open last week. Geelong is now an available port
for the biggest ocean steamers, and nothing re-
mains for the inhabitants but to drop local hypo-
crisy and convert their sleepy little town into the
future capital of Victoria. By way of making a
start, it wouldn’t be a bad idea for Geelong to get
on a week’s drunk and then sober up. Thus far,
the place has persistently sobered up without
having ever been in a proper state of liquor.
The Victorian branch of the Imperial
Federation League forwards an emaciated report
and balance-sheet, which reads like the death-
wail of a broken-hearted organisation. The chief
circumstance in the balance-sheet is that the
League has nominal assets to the amount of
.£O2 18s. 9d., of which .£59 18s. is deposited in
the exceedingly defunct Metropolitan Bank. The
remaining .£3 Os. 9d. is in the Savings Bank.
Apart from this lamentable fact, the report has
about as few features of interest as the person
whose countenance was trodden upon at the
recent Freetrade meeting, and its prospects seem
just about as brilliant as those of a silver-mine
that has been boomed in a Sydney Sunday paper.
Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth —
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee ? Horace! thou shouldst
know?
Why, in the Boar’s Head Brand of Lines and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
FROSSAKD’S SWISS.
Q-ooc3L ewoicSL fJlieajp '‘Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Islbourne Exhibition*
1888.
a***
aSSSS
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO
I'AIKRSK (BwlUerlaud).
by seeing our Name and Trade tylark round each bundle.
TheWMeHorseCellar
Old Blend
WixisKy
T E Horse
V/H ||p Cellar
DIRECT PROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE, MELLOVt
* L * M wuftHRM •COTCH MALT
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
December 27, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
There was good dressing in “Jack the Giant
Slayer,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s on Saturday,
and a goodly array of seasonable glitter and dazzle
pervaded the whole show. Aggie Kelton (she
makes love to Jack more like his mother than his
loveress) was 80-Peep, in Dresden pink and blue,
and afterwards appeared as a bride in white satin
and gold ; and next in glory was Mrs. Lauri
(rhyme unconscious) as Jack. Mrs. Lauri’s legs
are reminiscent of Maggie Moore’s—especially in
the brown suit of the first act —and she cuts a neat
figure all through. Virginia Vivienne, in pale
pink tights, satin doublet and stage jewels, re-
vealed satisfactory reasons why she should sport
long stockings—and the profuse exhibition of —er
—ankles was very soothing - unlike last year
when all the spindle-shanks in the land seemed to
be holding a mass meeting on Her Majesty’s stage.
As the funny King (who, I think, will be much
funnier later on), the barber’s-clerkish Roberts
wore a variety of primal colours and turquoisette
legs. Harry Hodson, in black velvet and one
yellowish leg, like a goose turning rapidly into a
blackswan, wascomical togazeupon; and Sweeney,
as a widdy-woman, had his hair dressed d la Myra
Kemble. The ballet-girls wore artistic clothes —
especially the in Mirror effect when fairies in gas-
green darted about like green parrots, backed up
by red demons, grey tulle, and silver-trimmed
coryphees, dark-brown coryphees, and a variety
of' others. Athena Claudius, as the Princess
Tootsiculnso, wore a very picturesque dress of
grey tulle and silk, with barbaric head-ornaments
that became her Greek style; and first fairy, in all
yellow even to her hair, skipped about and sang
with the effect of a talking canary.
After the ’mime came the transformations,
which were very well done —with the exception of
a small child rising out of an alleged waratah
down front. But, to me, the herb simply looked
like a huge pickled cabbage. The infant who
firmly believes that its mamma discovered it in
the heart of a prize vegetable will be more convinced
than ever after witnessing the pretty little girl
rising slowly out of the works of that unsatisfac-
tory waratah. The music all through “Jack” is
strictly popular, and Maude Fitzstubbs’ übiquit-
ous “Heather Waltz” is heard to advantage
during the skirt-dance of the two widows.
I have received from W. H. Paling and Co. a
copy of their Xmas annual, containing sixteen
vocal and instrumental items in an artistic grey,
f;old, and crimson cover, further adorned by a
ialf-dressed maiden playing a tom-tom or some
such instrument of torture. The annual is clearly
printed, and, as its melodies range from “ Don
Giovanni” to “The Tipperary Christening,” it
ought to please quite a wide circle. I have also
received from Mr. Bland Holt a copy of the
“Dauntless March,” a smart walking tune, by
one Kehoe, which was given away in Wellington
(M.L.) as a souvenir of the “Sailor’s Knot.”
A Johnny, just landed from ’Ome, went
behind the scenes of an Australian theatre the
other night, when a comic opera co. had the floor.
When he emerged his vapid countenance was
blank. “ Good gracious !” he confessed to a
sympathiser, “I couldn’t get on with a lot of
girls who sat round the green-room in their tights
and paint making babies’ socks, bai jove ! They’d
say ‘One two—three—there, I’ve gone and
dropped one,’ before they answer a fellah, bai
jove!” Which puts the much winked-at chorus-
girl in a new and peaceful light, don’t you think ?
Knitting babies’ bootees ! while the unsophisti-
cated maiden on the audience-side gazes at the
big curtain, and wonders just how many quarts of
champagne are nightly consumed by the coryphees
and the wicked jooks behind it.
Gifted pen ladies who pursue the gilt-edged
society item to its lair for the benefit of the other
Sydney dailies, sometimes put the thing very un-
pleasantly, I think. Take this, for instance, em-
balmed, in Sydney D.T. : “The exodus has long
since begun .. .. to the reposeful solitude
of the country, where both mind and body may be
refreshed by contemplation of our stately gum-
tree.”' And where, 1 do so wonder, is this
“ stately gum-tree ” which is food and mental re-
cuperation merely to gaze on ? The average
eucalypti is a ragged scarecrow, swarming with
bu.ll-an.ts and costing—l mean the tree does—,£3!
an acre to stump out, and the people who go out
to contemplate it for purposes of material and
mental refreshment have never come, my way.
The only person I ever saw g’aring fixedly at
gum-tree was a small boy inoouincr ;< n oppo-sum
which animal might come under the heading of
refreshment in a gum-tree if the boy was very
hungry.
One entrance to Sydney Centennial Park is now
guarded by a brand new toll-bar, and a large, hot
indignation meeting of exasperated citizens
christened its first appearance the other day.
Very few people know —apropos of the Park —
that Lord Carington was really its originator. He
and Lady Carington rode out to the then bush-
covered water-reserve and fixed upon almost the
exact site. When the situation had been thus
vice - regally approved trouble was expected
from only one quarter. A certain newspaper,
it was supposed, would make itself unpleasant
when the subject came before the House. But
Lord Carington simply winked at the idea and
said, “ Leave it to me.” When the scheme was
ripe a large emblazoned card inviting him to dine
at Government House was forwarded to the mal-
content newspaper’s proprietor, and after that all
was calm.
A small Sydney girl had rather a successful
adventure on N.S.W. railways the other day.
Her parents dispatched her—l think to Albury —
by train under the care of the guard, and with an
addressed label round her neck to prevent mis-
takes. Half way on her journey the reckless
infant ate the tag—probably for the paste on it—
and it was three long days afterwards before her
friends discovered her straying about near Junee
and delighted with the time she’d had. Porters
and station-masters all along the line had taken
her in and done her well, and when found she was
snugly heading for Wagga Wagga well-recqm-
mended to the care of another railway official!
By the way, ticketed children travelling under
the guard’s charge are a frequent and funny sight
on the railways about Xmas time. I saw a very
small boy the other day with his address written
on his hat, his coat and his little satchel —all over
him in fact. He was so profusely directed and so
small that I almost felt inclined to stick a stamp
on him and drop him in the first post-office.
Sydney Y Brigade is the kind of brigade that
bores you dreadfully, even to read about in large
print. And it goes without saying the brigadiers
made a special Xmas exhibition of themselves
when they asked young girls not to beg young men
to take wine “just to please me ” at this alleged
festive season.
As if anybody ever has to use persuasion to get
the average man to operate with a corkscrew ! I
think the trouble lies with the women who press
little cups of washy tea on to men who are thirsty
“right up to their back teeth,” as I heard a youth
say the other day. The man who has to be
wheedled before be will take a glass of wine is
either a rabid teetotaller, or he has seen the label.
Therefore I join issue with the Y Brigade on this
occasion, and implore women not to urge men to
take a festive glass—it’s such a waste of time, you
know : like expatiating to a donkey on the tooth-
gomeness of a bunch of carrots.
The first of the A.J.C. two days’ summer
meeting at Randwiok took place on Xmas Satur-
day, in the presence of a very wet-blanket sort of
members’ stand, and no vice-regal attractions in
the Governor’s high-aud-dry-looking, eane-furni-
ture-haunted box. But a weak summer meeting
is only the expected happening, after all—
especially when it comes so soon before Xmas.
Society, especially this year, generally rushes to
billet itself on its country cousin for the festive
25th, before the country cousin has time to pack
a portmanteau and flee to it.
The brightest things at Rand wick, on Saturday,
were the jockeys’ parrot-colours—and the visages
of the noble army of metallioians when the
favourites romped home first at the wrong end.
The fat woman adorned the lawn dressed—l mean
she was—in black and grey bars like a lyre-bird’s
tail, and a lady all in snowy white, with a startled
yellow feather in her bonnet, reminded me of a
white cockatoo when somebody’s scratching his poll.
I believe that several improvements have been
added to Randwick—but that historic race-track
seems to be a place that absorbs improvements
without their appearing on the surface.
Admiral Smith—in a speech to some unwilling
schoolboys the other day—expressed his deep-
rooted astonishment at the frequency with which
England is alluded to as “ Home ” by the denizens
of Australia, and, I think, the Ad. had a mental
picture of hordes of escaped colonists some day
crossing the sea and invading the tight little
island—a second edition of the Piets and Scots,
only the Admiral’s fancy horde would fill up the
country and back the astonished Britishers into
the waves, out of pure cordiality and good feeling.
I really think it was to block the probable over-
crowding of his nation by Kawlinists who have
hitherto been encouraged in every form of fulsome
English sentiment that Ad. Smith rose and
advised the boys to look upon Australia as their
home and to warn them that they didn t know
how much they had to be thankful for !
By the way, I don’t suppose it ever occurred to
■any of the British potentates gone before, what a
fearful thing it would be if the descendants of the
folks who were fired out of England over a century
ago took a violent love for the old land that hadn t
room for their ancestors, and started back again
like that useless and tattered cat, which turns up
faithful and smiling after many days. But if the
Admiral notices too much ‘ home in Australian
conversation, it only shows how faithfully the
Govs, gone before have worked those silken bonds,
and I do hops that the aforementioned bonds will
be allowed to wobble a little.
A person who, probably through a mere over-
sight, doesn’t sign himself “ Simple Simon,
writes a whole page asking The Bulletin how it
is that the handsome teacheresses in State schools
get better reports and better appointments than
the sterner sex ? And why the inspector finds
fault with a man where really no fault exists;
while, if it’s a woman, the faults are marked
down as virtues —especially by the old, bald
inspectors? But this simple correspondent’s
queries may be answered by the equally simple
question : Why does the brow-beaten male
teacher aforesaid thrash the boys in his class, and
only smile like a cat at a milk-jug when the big
girls make two and two come to five ? An inspec-
tor-even a bald one—is the same as other men, I
suppose ?
A recent action in a Sydney law-court over an
umbrella—when the learned judge facetiously re-
marked that he had a borrowed umbrella, and a
good one too, at home at that moment —reminds
me of an attempt a speculative stranger made to
rob a Sydney journalist of a silken brolly the other
evening. The journalist’s better half was at a
party, and on it coming on to rain (I don’t mean
the party did) hubby sallied forth with two um-
brellas —one for each of thein. It is only engaged
couples, by the way, who grab at the chance of
keeping dry under one gamp. Before he got to
the party he had to do a theatre, and on coming
down stairs with the two gamps under his arm he
was surprised to find himself tapped on the shoul-
der by a long and solemn stranger who said in a
sepulchral I-don’t-want-to-expose-you whisper ;
“Excuse me, but you’ve got my umbrella.”
A man with two umbrellas will almost always
surrender one of them, to avoid exposure, to any-
body who demands it with sufficient assurance,
but in this case the attempt only resulted in a
violent, but futile, argument on the pavement.
The moral is that he who jumps at a conclusion is
lost.
Much has been said and whispered about open
windows and ill-fitting curtains which afford
vistas of half-draped femininity— while rents go
up over the way in consequence—but I want to
know why no little bow and arrow is got out for
the spruce young lawyers and so on who make
toilets within range of open windows in the heart
of the city ? A moderately blushing spinster can’t
raise her dewy eyes to Heaven in some parts of
Sydney without seeing a youth wrestling with his
back hair, or black in the face fighting with a
collar-stud towards four p.m., though there are
some damsels who take a strange delight in seeing
Gussie making himself kissable for the block.
I heard of one maiden who was strolling on the
off side of the road past Edwin’s office, the other
day, and, looking up, saw her idol in a snowy
shirt struggling gamely with a crisp collar. With-
out a moment’s hesitation she crossed the road,
tripped up the office-stairs, and knocked a sharp
rat-tat on the door. The awful scuffle that ensued
inside was the effect she wanted, and when, after
15 minutes of riot on the other side of the door,
Edwin suddenly appeared on the threshold with
his tie on inside out and two buttons burst off his
waistcoat, she felt that she had wiped off a long
score of sudden morning calls when her front hair
was in curl-papers and her feet in carpet-bags.
I don’t know how she explained the situation, but
he adorns himself behind closed shutters now.
The political women of Maoriland seem to be
as interested about politics now as they used
to be over the latest-arrived infant or spring
millinery. But I must say that, looking at the
matter from a Ibunging point of view, they seem
chiefly to merit your sincere sympathy for the
bother they’ve got into. For instance, here is a
thumb-nail sketch of a free and independent
votress who is quite enough to make any woman
(who is a fair success as a woman) swear off the
Suffrage for the rest of her natural life. “At one
political meeting a lady sat surrounded by
Hansards, while another huge pile was brought
to her by horse (!) to enable her to convict the
candidate —a former member—out of his own
mouth!” In my mind’s eye, Horatio, I can see that
untrammelled female with her feet on the rungs of
the chair in front of her (one on each rung), no
gloves and her bonnet over her ear through being
shaken reprovingly at the candidate—a latter-day
Samson-ess slaying a political Philistine with his
own Jawbone. But a woman who could spend her
time in reading Hansard by the horse-load must
be made of very different clay from most of us.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .. “Jack, the Giant Killer."
Criterion “Charley’s Aunt.”
Theatre Royal “The Babes, or Whines
from tliy Wood.”
Lyceum “Beauty and the Beast.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Little Red Riding Hood.’
Theatre Royal “Sinhad.”
Alhambra Variety Co.
Bijou Seraphina Opera Co.
Alexandra “Ransom.”
Exhibition Yule TideßeveU.
One of the most striking features of Gour-
lay and Walton’s pantomime, “ Babes in the
Wood,” at Sydney Royal, is the big condensed
milk advertisement on the new drop scene. Also,
there is a huge sauce announcement, a red and
green monarch pointing to a time-payment furni-
ture notice, a detective’s card, and two pictured
articles of ladies’ underclothing. When the con-
densed milk notification and the other horrors
have lifted, the pantomime proves to be exceed-
ingly like what most other pantomimes have been
in the past, and are likely to be in the future.
There are many gorgeous processions in it, and
much loose magnificence, and the wonted objec-
tionable youth in the loose pants, and some
attractive choruses; and the legs of the company
grow weary with the rush of many frantic dances
in ancestral halls and places like that, and there
is abundance of pretty music and some music
which isn’t so pretty. Also, the scenery—more
especially the mirrory lake in Act I.—is altogether
commendable, and the spectral incoherence of
things, and the general resemblance to a riot in an
ancient British lunatic asylum, where all the
inmates were dressed in the blue paint of the
period, is merely the unavoidable feature of pan-
tomimes in general.
• • *
The procession of English kings and
queens is gratifying, as tending to show that these
revered monarchs were mostly a foolish-looking
race, with saucepans on their heads and an old
fish-tin fastened on each kneecap. When it is
over the audience gives a unanimous cheer for
Victoria, and the Unnatural Anthem is
sung with enthusiasm. It seems a pity, how-
ever, that the kings and queens are not fixed
up as living illustrations of their own characters.
Henry 1., for instance, would look well dragging
his old, dethroned, blinded brother behind him.
Then John might carry the drowned and bloated
and weed-covered corpse of his nephew ; and Ed-
ward 11. might hump along his father’s bones in the
famous bull-hide ; and Edward 111. might tow his
murdered parent’s skeleton behind him with a
string; and Elizabeth ought to swing the head of
Mary by its long, white hair; and George IV. should
be busy sticking pins into his deranged old man ;
and otherwise the procession wants a lot, of improve-
ment. Perhaps the management will consider
these suggestions at its leisure. The company is a
strong one, including Messrs. Walton and Gourlay
as the two wildest clowns and revellers of the
crowd ; Miss Ellyn Hart as the other babe in the
wood ; Miss Cecily Staunton, whose sweet voice
earns several encores every night; Mrs. Irve
Hayman, who deserves better fortune than to act
as chorus to the tin-plated ghosts of the dead
kings; and many others. The transformation
scene is put on with its accustomed magnificence,
and looks in general like a piece broken off Para-
dise by a falling angel as it tried to save itself
when it was shot backwards over the wall.
«m « •
The season of cold-drawn tomfoolery was
set a-going in Sydney at Her Majesty’s last
Saturday. On that date pantomime “ Jack the
Giant-Killer ” went up to terrify that portion of
posterity we have already with us. “Jack” is
essentially a children’s pantomime, and, as such,
it ought to draw good houses for the usual run.
Marietta Nash (Mrs. Lauri) is Jack, but the
fact that the lady had temporarily lost her voice
may have*had something to do with the weakness
of her warble, and disarms the bilious press per-
son who might otherwise liken her singing to the
voice of conscience in a Fat Man. Miss Nash
puts in a neat dance or two, and also has the ad-
vantage, for a principal boy, of lopking distinctly
boyish. But, at the same time, if the lady
continues to mislay her possibly lark-like
warble, The Bulletin will .’be reluctantly
compelled to withhold its ' little leaf of
laurel from her shining brow. Other noticeable
members in a large cast were Aggie Kelton, H,
R. Roberts (a fair success in his first effort as a
funny King), Sweeney, John Fbrde, and Harry
Hodson, Virginia Vivienne and Athena Claudius
—all of whom held their own against the clever
scenery, the ballets, and, above all, the book. A
man writing in a coal-cellar with an inky fly on a
string would probably compose a better story to
hang Jack on. All the sparkle centres in the
scenery perpetrated by artist Brunton, who was
deservedly “ called ” for the mirror-scene and the
final transformation. Something went wrong
with a dull thud behind the scenes at one time,
and the voice of Henry Vee was heard wildly
expostulating with his minions. “ Give it to ’em,
George !” cried the crowded gallery.
• • «
The cleverest features of “ Jack ” are the
convincing giants who make the hair of the most
sceptical infant stand erect. Also the Mirror
Ballet is a hugely artistic spectacle—the fact that
the coryphees high kick around the edge of the
mirror sunk in the stage is enough in itself to
encourage a rush of bald-heads to the booking-
office. The dance of the dairymaids is a pretty
Eastoral, and the procession of miniature warriors,
eaded by the Sydney Lancers, evidently gratifies
the house, which, on Saturday, accorded most
praise to the Naval Brigade, as usual. The trans-
formations are Xmas in Australia, and Xmas;
at ’Ome (which latter the d.c. claps most
furiously, bai jove), followed by what looks
like old mother Time—an angular female grasping
a scythe—with the usual burst of gold and silver
as the glittering finale. Taken as the apotheosis
of painted paper the transformation-scene is more
than atoned for by the harlequinade—the brightest
spot in which is the procession tif youths with the
rearward portions of their inexpressibles patched
with the colours of various tram-motors. When
“Jack” has settled down to his stride he will go
much better than he did at his preliminary.


New York Life Insurance Company.
ESTABLISHED 1815.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... £28,292,010
Surplus, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... ... 3,457,808
Progress of the Company in ISO 2.
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
increase in suplus
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over
the gain of any other Company in the world.
.. £372,339
.. 3,370,035
343,371
.. 4,308,0<10
13,379,733
£2,000,000, than
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia-
Chief Office: Bond Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W,
Thornton and Arnold’s Comedy Co.,
whose appearance as “ Charley’s Aunt,” atSydne/
Criterion, was fixed for last Tuesday, too late for
notice in this issue, will be duly considered next
week. The same strictly original remark applies
to the gorgeous pantomime of “ Beauty and thei
Beast,” at Sydney Lyceum, and to the new comio
opera season at the Opera House. This disas-
trous establishment is now occupied by Mr. R.
Genee’s Opera Co., and the season begins with
“The Royal Middy.” Two reliable favourites,
Edward Farley and Miss Col bourne-Baber, are in
the cast. The advent of that depressing Xmas
season, when the terrified fowl is pursued round
the garden with objurgations and sticks, and his
fleshless form afterwards appears upside-down on
a plate with his blue legs sticking up in tha air,
has seriously dislocated the theatrical arrange-
ments of Sydney, hence the above scarcity of
information.
«» » »
Baby Phyllis, a little maiden of uncertain
age, is running a little operetta season of her own
at the little Royal Standard. The show com-
menced a little while ago, and will keep on so long
as business remains at its present level. Baby
Phyllis is the principal attraction, and is a good-
looking and well-meaning infant, with many re-
sponsibilities on her head.
»m * *
All the smaller shows in and around
Sydney resurrected themselves for the season of
the indigestible plum-pudding. They included
one organ recital, one Crystal Maze, a commend-
able marionette show at the School of Arts, a
Cyclorama, and a concert which was given at
Gladesville Asylum under the patronage of all
the leading lunatics. Also the two Aquariums
are in full blast, the one at Coogee having been
recently improved by the addition of sundry
sharks over 9ft. long, and a particularly indignant
eel of vast dimensions.
*m * *
A notice of the Melbourne pantomimes
and other Boxing Night shows is held over for a
week, in consequence of Xmas being unsuited to
Bulletin arrangements. Xmas falls like a merci-
less brick upon this journal, smashing its good
intentions and generally damaging its peace on
earth. The bare results of the pantomimes,
together with the number of starters for each
event, and the winners’ times might have been
telegnvphed, perhaps, but a late Boxing Night
telegram is a wild, dissipated communication, and
not to desired.
** * *
At latest dates they were crowing in anti-
c pation over the success of “ Red Riding Hood ”
at Melb. Princess’. Calceido, the wire-walker
from Spain, had arrived, and his rehearsal feats
ate said to have thrilled the great heart of the
management. The Royal panto, was likewise
eager for the fray, whilst the sweet Seraphina
ladies spoke hopefully of their coming season at
bhe Bijou.
** * *
Billy Barlow, “the Blue-tailed Fly,” has
emerged from the caverns of memory to do a turn
with the Alhambra. The Beaumonts, in their
glass-tank, are a strong attraction here, but the
Professor’s habit of snoozing under water for five
minutes at a stretch is rather wearisome. There’s
a want of variety about a man who is merely
lying down, in or out of water. The Professor is
better liked when he makes sinful submarine
arrangements to deal himself the ace and defraud
his daughter of her next week’s salary. Then he
is somewhat suggestive of a genial octopus who
has gone astray.
At Poverty Point.
Veteran George Coppin, it is hoped, will be sufficiently
his old self again to attend the Melb. Royal panto, on
Uoxing Night, and see Dick Stewart, senior, mumming
amongst them once more. The Hon. George has kept to
his bed of late.
An operatic version of “The Green Bashes” was pro-
duoed in London recently, and ran for about one consecu-
tive week.
“ Teddy ” Royce’s reappearance in a Gaiety burlesque
is al uded to with casual respect by the critics. Thus—
“ Our old friend, Royce, reappeared as the Sultan, and
was accorded a hearty welcome.”
Oiraud shirks the high note in his “Faust” garden
sol , like all other operatic tenors who have sung the part
here of late years. Lazzarini, the star of Sirnonsen’s
first eompany, used to tackle it with huge gusto, and sob
after the sound had died away, as though he were mourn-
ing itsdeparture.
Madame de Alba {nee Miss Robertson, of Tuttle’s
photographic business) claims £15,000 from Melb. Free-
hold I iivt stment Co. (in liquidation) for damages received
through the eccentric working of the co.’s lift. The wife
of the Italian burly basso is not, unfortunately, the only
lady who would like to recover damages from the Free-
hold Investment.
A London critic named Chorley (of all names) is said
to have been the first writer to recognise a great musical
genius in Gounod. That was in 1851, when extracts from
one of the Frenchman’s religious works were performed
at St. Martin’s Hall. Ohorley’s eulogies got quoted by
the Paris press, but Gounod had still several years to
wait ere he became a musical prophet in his own way.
The Lily talks of returning to the stage once more. At
least, she told Haddon Chambers that she was thinking
about it. Haddon and she are devoted pals. Haddon,
by the way, is still at Westgate-on-Sea, suffering some-
what from a complaint of the chest.
Qus Harris was recently “ commanded ” to produce
“ Faust ”at Windsor Castle. Yio. selects the artists, and
ohose Albani—rather a ponderous and ancient Marguerite
—and Ben Davies for the leading parts. But for Melba’s
unhappy trouble with the Due d’Orleans, she no doubt
would have been chosen, but Vio. has taken up the
cudgels for the exiled family, hence Mrs. Kangaroo
Charlie is tabooed in regal circles.
Florence Saville has joined the Carl Rosa Co. and made
a triumphant first appearance at Glasgow,_ on 16th
November, as Marguerite. Gus Harris is certain to give
her a Oovent Garden engagement for the next opera
season.
| |lt is now said, by those who profess to know, that
Lusoombe Searelle is not quite so rich a man as is sup-
posed, says The Bulletin’s London correspondent. He
had a lot of the best plots of building land in Johannes-
berg, but he no longer own them.
John Hare’s Garrick 00. played “ Diplomacy ” at Bal-
moral, “by command," a few nights ago. The pro-
gramme was printed as follows:
Balmoral, Thursday, October 26th, 1893.
This evening Her Majesty’s servants will have the honour
of performing
“DIPLOMACY,”
&c., Ao., Ac., Ac.
“Her Majesty’s servants.” One would think we were
living in the Middle Ages.
Arthur Roberts draws £lOO a-week salary at London
Gaiety, besides 1 per cent, of the takings, says The
B.’s London correspondent. Where do the shareholders
come in?
Says Prynne, that good old snufflebuster of the past
ages, in his quaint English :—“ Oh, that our players, our
play-hunters would now seriously consider, that the per-
sons, whose parts, whose sins they act and see, are even
then yelling in the eternal flames of hell for these parti-
cular sins of theyrs even then, whilest they are playing of
these sins, these parts of theyrs on the stage! Oh, that
they would now remember the sighs, the K roar 'f>
tears, the anguish, weeping and gnashing of teeth, the
crjs and shrieks that these wickednesses in hell,
whilest they are acting, applauding, committing and
laughing at them in the playhouse.’’ This is meant for a
cheerful Christmas item.
Maggie Moore, the most talented, charming and
versatile oomedienne that ever visited Australia,” runs
the Melb. Royal advt. It almost persuades u* that M.M.
has been specially imported by George Coppin for this
year’s pantomime.
THE VICTIM.
Ths voice of the father we hear it complain—
“ The pantomime season is blooming again,
My offspring dispute as to which they will see;
But why do they leave the decision to me ?
"Tis hard for a man when his spirits are down
To sit with the children and ‘stop for the clown.*
How are you to-morrow ? that mummer will say,
I oan’t be much worse than I’m feeling to-day.
For once I was young—as I hate to be told—
And now I must suffer because I am old.
Dooce take all princesses and fairies and things—
Pretending to fly with immovable wings!
Confound Xmas customs 1 out protest is vain,
The children, God bless ’em 1 have got me again.
Edward Terry’s son was trained for the law, but is
going on the stage instead
Mr. W. H. Poole, who loaded the expansive Sterling on
i ?j a s *’ a ? R,lar tered a concert company to land at
Adelaide in April next. Also he has engaged the African
Choir, which has recently sensated London and
thrilled Her Gracious, for an Australian tour during next
year.
Haddon Chambers’ new play, written for Beerbohm
Tree, has for motif an intense love-story. The principal
part was written for a woman, but this doesn’t suit Beer-
bohm, who must be Csesar aut nullus ; consequently, a
great portion must be re-written. This will probably
spoil the whole production. First impressions are
generally best, and it is disheartening to have to botch
one s work, and alter the whole design to please a vain
man.
The English no longer take their pleasures sadly, at all
events so rar as theatricals are concerned, says The Bul-
letin’s London correspondent. There is a regular comio
on now - At the Strand they are playing the
Lady Killer;” at the Gaiety, “Don Juan;” at the
Globe, ‘ Charley’s Auntat the Vaudeville, “A Screw
Loose at Toole’s, “ Mrs. Othello at the Court, “The
Other Fellow,” which will shortly go to the Strand, and
be succeeded by a triple bill of comedy ; at the Prince of
Wales there is the “Gaiety Girl;” at the Trafalgar,
Tom, Dick, and Harry;” at the Lyric, “ Christopher
Columbus;” at the Shaftesbury, “Morocco Bound, at
the Savoy, “ Utopia, Limitedat the Criterion,
‘ Madame Favart;” and at Terry’s, “ Gudgeons ”is an
immense hit. Only at Drury Lane, the St. James’, the
Garrick, Adelphi, and the Haymarket is drama to be seen,
and at the latter house “The Tempter,” as played by
Beerbohm Tree, might be classed as a perfect farce.
E. J. Odell’s latest wheeze, writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, was an answer to a question as to
“what the Americans do with their meat?” Odell
promptly replied: “Why, they eat what they can, and
then they can what they can’t.”
Penley doesn’t wish anyone any harm, but he cannot
refrain from an expression of satisfaction that the door-
receipts the first night at Melb. Bijou had been skipped
with by some person other than those who were entitled
to “collar.” Penley’s good feeling towards Thornton is
something stupendous, and his joy when he hears that
Frank has struck a good thing is akin to the joy of a man
who has just been bitten by a lion.
W. J. Lincoln, the “great Australian dramatist,” has
written a ghastly play, which he dubs “ The Bush King,”
writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent. Even a
Surrey audience, which is not over-particular, couldn’t
stand it when it was produced across the river last week.
“The Bush King ” has, on the whole, been received with
about the most absolutely unanimous curse on record.
A New York actress sports a glass dress, weight 131 b.,
cost £5OO.
Fat Suisini, the mountain of music, who did Mephis-
topheles in Melbourne and Sydney, was killed by a
London hansi m.
Mr. Daniel Barry, who blooms once more as a Melbourne
manager, began as a super at the Melb. Royal, and has
fought his way up through many vicissitudes. Among
his many troubles were included a brief Melb. press
experience. In provincial management, his beginnings
were small, first in partnership with Byrne, then with
Ireland, but his luck has been in going alone.
It now appears that Sells Brothers’ great advertisement
came to grief, not so much through the interference of
the British ambassador as through the chronic thirst of
the bailiffs. They were periodically lured away with
drinks and cigars, and in their absence the gold exhibits
and other articles of value were removed by instalments,
until there was nothing left but some bulky goods of the
kind that are sold by the ton. Then the British empire
oame to the rescue and saved the empty safe and some
bales of wool and other sundries.
It is painful to note that, since the Salvation Army has
taken to the big drum, the circuses have all dropped it.
Julia Simmonds, the burlesque actress, well-known in
Sydney and Melb., a few years back, is now in New York
singing for Col. Mapleson. Julia, like Violet Varley, May
Pollard, and others, graduated from the Pollard Juvenile
Co.
At London Divorce Court, recently, three wives of
theatrical notabilities were granted decrees nisi, on the
same day. In the good old times it was understood that
actors had a license to go astray, but the matrons of the
profession are beginning to be painfully respectable.
The principal card of John Bennett’s prices-to-suit-the-
times operettaseason at that home of despondency, Sydney
Opera House, will be a newly-discovered soprano of Mel-
bourne, who has not yet sung in public to any violent
extent. Meanwhile Colbourne Baber is prima donna.
One thing that may be said of the Blue Ballerina
D’Argo, she doesn’t stand upon trifles.
The elaborations of furrin opera still pursue the
Lyceum management. During the recent “ comic ”
season they spelled out the plots on the programmes as if
Gilbert wrote in Syriac, and the good, kind management
had to translate him for the benefit of the d.o. There is
something positively awe-inspiring in being carefully told
- to prevent possible misapprehension—that Ruth made
a mistake in apprenticing Frederic to % pirate.
Walter Howe goes to Maoriland with a company, con-
sisting of Oathcart, Fabert, Misses Hilda Spong and Flora
Anstead, and a large number of others. That brilliant)
scenio artist, Spong, goes along with the show, which
opens at Dunedin on Feb. 17 in “ Harbour Lights.”
Dampier was last heard of at Rockhampton (Q.), and
intends making a tour of the Par North.
Albani never sings for her friends. Antoinette Sterling
does, but never more than once. No friendship could
ever last out two of Antoinette’s songs.
That gorgeous and dazzlingly beautiful individual,
Walter Bentley, last week appeared at Adelaide police-
court in all his fatal beauty, and was sued by three base
hirelings. A soulless beak awarded the trio a verdict.
It is said that a favourite he-warbler ought to measure
his potations before going on the stage. A committee of
qualified drunkards sat on one of his recent performances
and decided that even a teetotaller would recognise the
whisky.
A new musician has arisen in America who will pro-
bably eclipse Paderewski. Paderewski is a tolerably
ordinary pianist who travels on the awful jungle of his
uncombed mane. The ntw man —a Bavarian named Dil-
fenbach—is also hairy, but in addition to his frantic wool
he wears a Roman toga in lieu of pants, and the man
with hair and toga is bound to get in front of the man
with hair only.
Henry Pettitt, the dramatist, is dead.
People who take notice were amused at the distance a
recently-returned prima-donna kept the amorous baritone
in moments of stage passion. The other girls let him hug
them off their feet, but from the very first the star was
off-ish. like a society lady at a public ball when she gets
into the wrong set of lancers and finds she’s a vit-a-vts to
her butcher.
One reason for the good show of legs at the Sydney
pantomimes may be that the show business has been so
bad recently that the girls have hardened their muscles
running after a job.
Myra Kemble complains that the female Suffrage
excitement in Maoriland forced her to close the theatre
during the whole of election week. Evidently there is a
cheap time ahead for the Maoriland Qussie who totes his
emancipated Angelina around, during the voting-season,
at least. Imagine the economy of a girl who preferred
to stand on one foot on a kerb-stone listening to the
virtuous candidate instead of going to the theatre at
half-a-sovereign a pop.
The latest invention about Sara Bernhardt is that she
was for six months nurse at a hospital in London, and
during that time was “in at the death ” of every patient.
She was especially interested in energetically dying
patients, but did not suffer from boredom even when the
sufferer went slow in his last moments.
When the Lynch Bellringers were in China they tried
to advertise in a way that would reach the native com-
prehension. This is how they managed it: “Foreign
sing song (be in 1867) makee sing song plenty time before
—Saturday 23 evening—second moon—makee plenty sing
song three times—nine o’clock begin— Brass Bell, Piano,
plenty long time—some time stop—makee sing song—
Bell some more—altogether have got four (4) piecee—Bell
—Piano—gonar gong—glass bamboo with hole in, welly
good—Chop, Chop welly Chop Chop—been makee sing
•ong five places in China before—gentleman and woman,
3—2—l dollar— Kelly-Walsh Company makee sell tickets
—Chop-Chop.”
Frank Thornton, in “Charley’s “Do you
know, an uncle of mine once lost an ironolad ?”
At the inquest upon Daisy Montague—the London
ballet girl, recently shot along with her Hebrew lover,
Garcia, by Leo Percy—it was stated that: “ Shfe was a
good, honest girl, and a regular communicant of the
Church of England.” Also the lofty name of Montague
was really her own property. Thus two old beliefs go to
wreck together. The ballet-girl’s real name isn’t always
Sarah Jones, and she doesn’t always live on champagne
and cigarette-smoke and bogus jewellery.
Milford Haven—whose name sounds like a geographica 1
alias—has a charming tenor voice, but small skill in using
it. He appears at Melb. Exhibition concerts just now.
The other Monday he sang sweetly “The Star of Bethle-
hem,” at a Metropolitan Liedertafel “smoke.” After
which Charles Saunders volunteered a warble, and then
the fine quality of the peaceful Haven’s organ was made
to seem a small matter by comparison with the results of
culchaw. They are intensely loyal to Hingland and the
Union Jack, these Liedertafels. The smoke-concert in
question elicited a fiery reference, in music, to Australia’s
love for its “ Empress Queen,” and when Saunders gave,
them “Death of Nelson” the joyful expression of the
president’s table was quite infectious. For the moment
one accepted the historic notion that Nelson died for his
country, whereas he died for his brutality. A splendid
British marine, smaning under the wales of a million
lashes, or thereabouts, took an opportunity to “ pot ” the
immortal hero when the cannons were roaring and the
smoke was conveniently thick. Thus fell Horatio Nelson
—but no matter. During the evening an elderly,
white-haired Saxon —Mr. F. Q. Smith—devoted the
majestio ruins of his patriotic mezzo-baritone profundo
to the rendering of “The Flag that Braved a Thousand
Years the Battle and the Breeze.” This is also charged
to the muzzle with sentiment of the “ Stick to Hingland ”
order, and every white head in the Athenaeum Hall
wagged approvingly at the aged Jingo as he struggled
with the last verse. “ God Save the Queen ” brought
proceedings to a close. Under the conductorship of
earnest Wood, the part-singing of this Metropolitan
society is still very strong, particularly in certain num-
bers, but people say that the day of Liedertafels is nearly
done in Melbourne. Members are not as young in the
bulk as of yore, the rising generation being indisposed to
join the chorus. Moreover, the cashing-up of annual sub-
scriptions is almost at a standstill; men who could pay
are withdrawing for the reason that others can’t, ordon’t,
pay, and rumours of early dissolution are in the air. This
is a pity, for Liedertafels are wholesome organisations,
notwithstanding their tendency to long beers.
The imperishable Maooabe, who must now be aged
several hundred years, was recently performing in
Birmingham. He talks of revisiting Australia, after the
depression.
Actually overheard at the back of the Melbourne
Princess’, after the third act of “Faust." “Oh, yes,
Buzzi is clever, but not as funny as Lonnen, I think.” A
woman, of course.
One theatrical manager in Australia has a consuming
hatred for the gentle dead-head, and would as soon give
his heart’s blood as a pass. His little prejudices are well
known to “ the hands,” but recently a desperado from
the orchestra bearded the lion in his den with a modest
request for paper for two. The manager tottered on the
brink of a fit and gasped: “You are paid for your
services and you should be blank, dash, asterisk, exclama-
tion well satisfied.” The fiddler returned to his expectant
brother-artists, wearing an assumed radiance, and care-
fully folding a piece of blank paper. “ How did you get
on!” was the general query. “Oh, all right, the old
man’s quiet sweet—asked me how many I wanted.”
Then the irascible manager was rushed by musicians all
wanting a pass, and the consequences come under the
heading of “ frightful blasting accident.”
Dear Bulletin,— Periodically, the reminiscent story of
O. V. Brooke is told in The Bulletin, and I desire to an-
ticipate the next “fairy” which is now about due.
While we, in South Australia, generally accept that
G. Y. B. was a great actor, and while we duly appreciate
the customary record of his eccentricity to the effect that
on a certain date at the Kangoora Hotel, he retired to
bed and forgot to place his bools outside his bedroom
door, Ac., still there is one damaging fact against him
which largely discounts his reputation in this province.
It is stated that G. V. B. included in his company, and
actually had touring with him through Australia, the well-
known Ebenezer Ward, M.L.C., of this province. Is this
true, and if so, what explanation did 0., V. Brooke, offer
before his death for this extraordinary proceeding? The
allegedly sane man who wilfully includes Ward in his
company is, to say the least, to be regarded with-sus-
picion, and until a satisfactory explanation is forthcom-
ing of his unaccountable action we decline to enthuse, in
common with the rest of Australia, over reminiscences
of G. V. Brooke. You can’t blame us. - Yours, Salian.
It is said that Buzzi, in Mephisto, wore the same dress
as the luckless Federici.
“Honorary Gas Director” figures on a Melb. amateur
bill. Now, honorary gas would be worth having.
The robbery of diamonds ad. has been tried so often
that its present success is of the limitedest, and the
actress who is bereft of a large piece of window-glass falls
flat. By way of variety, some Melbourne barnstormers
arranged that they should be stuck up by bushrangers at
a remote place in the country. And the plan would have
succeeded if they had only managed to w(ork tree passes
to the nearest station.
A man attending Glasson’s execution said
that was the ninth he had witnessed, and that it
was the “best” of the lot. Evidently there are
three degrees of strangulation—bad hangings,
indifferent hangings, and good hangings.
To Agents.
The demand for the Christmas number of The
Bulletin has quite exceeded the expectation of
the proprietary, and although an extraordinary
number of extra copies were printed the whole
edition was entirely sold out within three days
after publication. Since the 16th December fur-
ther orders for a large number of copies have
arrived, and are still coming to hand, from all parts
ofNew South Wales, the other Australian provinces
and Maoriland, none of which orders, the pro-
prietary regret to state, can be fulfilled. Agents
and others who have not previously received an
intimation by letter will kindly accept this notifi-
cation. To answer all orders for extra copies by
letter would entail an additional hardship upon
the members of the staff —at a season when every-
one expects a brief respite. •
Hogan, British M.P., says thatN.S.W;
Premier Dlbbs is “hazy, ignorant, and unfair.’
With one additional “ h ” and the shifting of the
“ h ” that is already there, this would describe
the last premier to an exactitude.
M Diebler, the notable Paris executioner,
has been so scared by threats of Anarchistic
vengeance that he has asked to be allowed to
resign—just at the very time when business is on
the point of taking a turn for the better,
H.M.S. Wallaroo is still advertising for a
runaway Whitehead torpedo, and offering a
reward of .£lO to anyone who will bring it to the
Naval Depot, Sydney. The authorities give the
comforting assurance that the torpedo is—like
most of the Admiralty brand —perfectly harmless.
A woman 60 years of age, clothed in rags,
was lately found dying of starvation in an empty
house in a Melbourne suburb. She died when
moved—from weakness and general falling to
pieces. Old world civilisation is beginning to
tell.
The time-payment system has got so bad
in Sydney that it now even extends to the pur-
chase of Christmas poultry. In Pyrmont and
other suburbs, local poulterers will let you have a
goose on the usual deposit of 5 per cent, and
weekly payments of 6d., and guarantee “no
publicity ” into the bargain.
The lecture on “ Highway Construction
and matters pertinent thereto,” delivered before
the Engineering section of the N.S.W. Royal
Society, on the 18th October last, by Mr. E. J.
Haycroft, M.E., Q.U.I. Assoc., M.1.C,E.,
Borough Engineer, Woollahra, has been published
in pamphlet form. It is, however, for private
circulation only.
One Henry Oxley, of Adelaide, celebrated
Xmas morning by murdering his wife and three
children with an axe, and then sawing his
head nearly off with a razor. He had spent
the night carol-singing, which is about the only
feature in the whole business which keeps it from
being utterly unaccountable. Carol-singing, re-
garded as an incentive to murder, has never been
sufficiently appreciated. Many a man, after hear-
ing the carols sung, has wanted to kill the singer,
therefore, the fact that the singer, after hearing
his own carols, should want to kill himself, is less
surprising than it might be.
During the cruise of the Rapid among
the Line Islands, Captain Sir Henry Ogle did a
little in the matrimonial causes line by seizing
and deporting a native gentleman who has re-
cently been making himself very obnoxious. This
person was in the habit of marrying a wife, and
then, after the manner of the late William Tell,
standing her out in an open space with a husked
cocoanut on her head for a target. After much
waste of ammunition (at 10 cents per cartridge) he
only succeeded in killing seven consecutive
wives and entirely missing the cocoanut.
He was in pursuit of an eighth wife when
the relatives of the other seven, who seem
to have been an interfering, meddlesome lot, com-
plained to the man-of-war captain, and despite the
widower’s assertions that the misfortunes were
pure accident, he was exiled to a far country.
The Line Islanders carry their love of shooting to
an inconsiderate length. Apinoka, the fat king
of Apamama, who died in Nov. 1892, had a
pleasant way of sending objectionable subjects up
a cocoanut tree, and then trying the effects of
bullets upon them from his large and varied
assortment of breechloaders. The king was a
good shot, and the objectionable subject never
got much more than half-way up when he was
plugged by his monarch and brought down.
Dear Bulletin, —In last issue you asked
where Kanakooliechowland (or words to that
effect) was, and echo answers it is a country
where the Politicanus Saurianus (brother on the
mother’s side to your old friend, wacktalon tre-
menjus) runs riot, and the Scotchman with the
vote for thrift flourishes like a green bay horse.
It is bounded on the north by a parallel of lati-
tude run through the bodies of divers who have
gone down just 10 fathoms ; on the west, by fat-
man squatter; on the east, by land-grab railways
and the wailings of the friends of the Kanakas
who have become right-thinking persons and inde-
pendent electors on the Utopian cane-fields ; and
on the south by damn Chicago. Please let ms
down lightly on account of my youth and the fact
that I have been brought up on the bottle.—*
Yours till cremation, Mugwump.
An awful pause in the last act of ths
Speight v. Syme case came coincidently with a
pitiful display of personal feeling by the present
Vic. Railway Commissioners. Whilst Judge
Hodges, in the Supreme Court, was regretting
that he couldn’t conclude his summing-up, the
Commissioners, in their court, were expressing
their hatred and scorn for an Argus reporter.
Surely David Syme must have shuddered when he
heard the news. Two days previously Speight’s
counsel declared that the Age was all-powerful at
railway head-quarters, enjoying the special patron-
age of the gentlemen who had profited by
Speight’s dismissal. Counsel Duffy propounded
the theory that Commissioner Kibble, in parti-
cular, had asssisted the Age’s endeavours to oust
Speight, and had secured his present billet a
brief retirement from the service, through Age in-
fluence. At a critical moment of the trial it tran-
spires that Mr. Kibble shuts out the Argus railway
reporter from rooms where the Age representative
is welcome. Also it is stated that the terms,
“sneaking hound’’ and “little beast” are ex-
changed by Kibble and the pressman aforesaid,
“ little beast ” falling to the lot of Mr. K. Grant-
ing that the statements and insinuations of
counsel Duffy are not evidence in the case;
admitting, too, that the quarrel of Messrs. Kibbls
and Co. may be entirely with the Argus man and
not at all with the Age’s rival newspaper, th*
latest railway row must still seem significant. II
a mutual friendship exists between Commissioner
Kibble and David Syme, as suggested by Duffy,
the Age proprietor should pray to be preserved
from his friends until the jury has arrived at i
verdict. Speight, on the Age showing, was a
“ huge failure,’’ Anyhow, he appears a large man
by comparison with his small, petulant successors


ToThk Dkak. —A Gentleman who cured himself
af Deafness ahd Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of Hie
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 3!) Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Exhausted and drowsy feelings indicate an
impure and sluggish condition of the blood, which
may be remedied by the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
It is the most powerful and economical blood-
purifier known.
LI
L”Ade MAHa
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
rui viyors 1 1 Chkmjo Exhibition.
lalchir., Johnston Sc Co., 6 Bridge-:t., Sydney.
FOR
LASSITUDE,
TORPIDITY,
SOUR STOMACH,
INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE,
BACKACHE, &c.,
Take a couple of Fletcher’s Pills every second
night; they are a prompt and sure cure and give
certain relief*
FLETCHER’S PILLS are a quick, sure and
reliable remedy for all complaints arising from
torpid liver, indigestion, weak stomach, and
impurities of the blood. They are prepared on
rational and sensible lines and do not contain
a particle of calomel, gamboge, or any drastic
purgative, but operate by perfectly natural means,
by stimulating the liver and increasing the flow of
bile and thus producing easy evacuations and
natural catharses without the annoyance and pain
of griping and purging.
Beware of the many harmful substitutes on
sale in many shops. None are genuine unless
they bear the signature of F. Moore Clements
on the outside wrapper. CLEMENTS TONIC
and FLETCHER’S PILLS have become such
household words that imitations are frequently
offered. We contend that this imitation is the
sincerest proof of their vistues, so see that you
always get the genuine, bearing the name and
address of F. M. Clements, Newtown, Sydney.
i'AA-U*
t'C,
Personel Items.
Kingston, Q. 0., and Symon, Q. 0., now
at deadly enmity, both served their articles in the
office of Chief Justice Way.
The will of scientist Dr. George Bennett
of Sydney who died recently, aged 90 years, has
been proved at a little under <*4O, (MX).
Sydney Domain orators have now
christened G. H. Reid, M.P., George Humbug
Reid. The other fellow is George Renegade
.
* . , ,
An English peer recently acted as sand-
wich man for a whole day in Piccadilly. He did
it for a bet. Several other peers are said to do it
for a living. _
Because of the influence that Jos. Symon>
Q.C., has with the <UA._ Judges, people are begin-
ning to allude to Adelaide Supreme Court as the
“Joss House.”
Charles Lamb Smith, son of James of that
ilk, is in London taking notes, with some horrible
journalistic intention no doubt, as the columns of
the Argus will by-and-by prove.
Stead has a coadjutor in his boycott of
Dilke. Knowles, of the Nineteenth Century,
refuses to allow Dilke’s name to be even men-
tioned in his magazine on any pretext whatever.
Surveyor-General Goyder, who, after the
Chairman of the Railway Commissioners and the
Judges, is the best paid of S. A. Civil servants, is
to have a year’s leave and to retire at the end of it
with £4OO a year.
Phil. May is now a contributor to London
Punch. He is not yet a member of the regular
staff, but attends the famous dinners, and it is
only a question of a few weeks when he will
A . . „ ... „
achieve the coveted position.
“ Margaret Parker,” author of “Ida
Margaret Parked of Dr.
j u m j ii T? r ’
Murdoch Macdonald Professor of Church History
at Ormond College, Melbourne. _ _
Three hundred and, sixty guineas is the
price which Rudyard Kipling got from a London
paper for his four last Barrack-room Ballads—
and only short things, too. At this rate letters
will soon be as well remunerated as prize-fighting.
John Donaldson, ex-Treasurer, ex-Dost-
master-General, ex-Minister for Public Instrue-
tion, and various other things, has filed a depressed-
looking schedule at Brisbane. A fatal belief in
Mount Morgan is set down as the cause of his
ruin.
The Mayor of Adelaide (S.A.), the other
day, said that one question to which he had par-
ticularly attended, during the past year, was the
“facilitation of industrial disputes.” O poly-
syllable! what outrages are committed in thy
name.
THE BUTTERLESS SHEPHERD.
TRAMP: “I’m very thankful indeed, sir, to you, I'll remember.”
BENEVOLENT CLERGYMAN : “Do not thank me, my poor friend, I do this
for the love of God."
TRAMP : “Then, for Gord’s sake put some butter on it!”
The other Sunday, one Griffiths, a resident
of Laen (Vic.), was paring his nails, when he
dropped the knife in his eye, with results which
may end in blindness. # Another evidence of the
necessity for a more rigid observance of the
Sabbath.
Since the death of Chang, the Chinese
giant, it is seriously alleged that he was really an
Irishman, Somehow or other almost every
notability turns put, after death, to be Irish. The
number of dead Irishmen is a dreadful thing to
think of.
Five years ago, Parkes’s favourite story
was that he left school at 11 years of age. Last
week he changed his figure and set down nine
years. If his health keeps good he will reach the
Bowden-Smith level in course of time, and say
that he never went to school at all.
Minister for Works Lyne, of N.S.W., is
a cousin by marriage of Miss Shaw — of London
PijlES —the surprising damsel who lately tore
round Australia with a note book. Now the
question is—how much of the Times on Australia
is Miss Shaw, how much W. Lyne?
Explorer Giles, now in Melbourne, will
start out to lead a syndicate party Coolgardie-
wards as soon as the syndicate planks the neces-
sary dollars. Giles has.previously been past Cool-
gardie, but the gold was not on view then. Ho
had not Bayley’s luck, and therefore failed to get
Bayley’a reward,
Landseer, member for Mount Barker, has
continuously represented the district in theS.A.
Assembly since Feb. 22, 1875, and is “ the father
of the House,” He has never held Ministerial
£ *• £whiolfh “e
heM of g oe during his time>
.
The action brought by Anthony 0.
Brownless, chancellor of Melbourne University,
against Mr. Lindsay to recover damages lor injury
caused by the defendant s negligent driving was
compromised, the plaintiff accepting £3OO and
coa t s- Plaintiff was brought into court on an
ambulance truck, and seemed to have been broken
U p pretty badly.
Jabez Spencer Balfour is said by an
English paper to be very much a parent, and two
sisters, as well as several other people, will pro-
bably get the usual order against him if he should
ever be brought within the jurisdiction. It is a
wonder that the annexer of so many millions had
any time to devote to such minor matters as
amateur parentage.
j oe Chamberlain has invested a great deal
of money in sisal-growing in the Bahamas, and
his estates are looked after by one of his sons. It
is a most profitable culture, and has within a few
years brought the Bahamas from a state of bank-
ruptcy to prosperity. Sisal-growing should be
"“th Australia. ihere 18 an unhmited
demand for the fibre.
That eccentric character, Lady 1 lorence
Dixie, asserts that she refused a gift of £135,000
to start a woman’s half-penny morning paper in
London, became the donor wished a portion of the
s P ac ° to be d « voted to fasblo « a, . ld dress *. Booh !
Bldn sh ® once *; bout * he lne » 1 “
accompanied by savage dogs or something, who
tried to murder her ’
Amongsfc fche pa ii. be arer S at the funeral of
Sir Andrew Clark the famous London surgeon,
were the Grand Old Man, aged 84; Sir James
Henry Acland, 78° and Sir Richard
and Sir Edward Sieveking, who acknow-
ledge to 77 years of'age each. A man of three-
score years and ten is now considered quite a
youngster, or, at all events, hardly more than
middle-aged.
parg(m Fitchetfc writes He usually
dictates to a lady amanuensis—a pupil of his
Methodist College, by the way. When the
de f un ct Melb. Daily Telegraph existed, Fitchett
used to ring up the telephone alongside of his bed
and sca tter words of wisdom among the staff of
the D.T. One night a comp., who was to get the
shoot next day, answered the machine. “Listen
carefully to this about Sir Benjamin, Harry,”
whispered the editor. Listen be excoriated,
roared the receiver, “ go to sleep, you inky, unim-
portant infidel.” Then a horrified preacher got
out of bed and disconnected the instrument.
Edward J. H,
Knapp’s disconsolate
appearance during
recent political trou-
bles has procured for
him the reputation of
having the beat face
in Sydney for the ex-
pression of woe.
J udge Backhouse
indulged serious
thoughts of spending
his holidays in walk-
ing round the coast of
Australia. He can
keep on foot longer
than any other man
in his profession on
this continent.
The English
papers report feeling-
ly that Lord Denman
is still suffering from
a severe cold which
he caught through
rushing up to London
to form part of the
anti-Home Rule ma-
jority. There doesn’t
seem, however, to be
any reasonable hope
that he will die of
that cold. Denman
is a long, hawk like
individual aged about
90, of the most copi-
ous stupidity on re-
cord, and is always
decorated with the
high collar an|d
fathomless coat-tail
of last century. Death
has been trying to
collect an outstanding
account from him for
the last 20 years, but
the bony debt-collec-
tor never gets any
further advanced.
Shirley Baker, the diplomatist of the
South Seas, is getting a political footing again in
Tonga, and Wesleyan circles are fluttering in con-
sequence. It was Mrs. Shirley Baker, by the
way, who once paralysed a “loyal” roomful by
claiming descent from Queen Elizabeth ! Which
was going a step beyond the Melbourne M P,
who used to proudly claim descent from the
“ The weakest man in the present weak
British Government is, without doubt, the Mar-
quis of Ripon. In everything that he has under-
taken he has been a failure. He lived to bo sixty
years of age before he discovered that he ought to
be a Roman Catholic. He took all the solemn
oaths of Masonry before be discovered that, in
the eyes of the Roman Catholic Church, the craft
was banned. Against the advice of Sir A. Cock-
burn, he gave the Americans two millions more
money over the Alabama claims than they them-
selves were able to allot. For this Mr. Gladstone
made him a marquis. He was Governor-General
of India, and in another year there would have
been a mutiny. He is now Colonial Secretary,
and is being flouted by his brother Home Ruler,
Mr. Rhodes. No wonder that even ‘Labby ’ rails
against him. Mr. Gladstone will now probably
make him a duke.” —English paper.
A N.S.W. M.L.C, possesses a portrait of
Parkes—shaved as a young man with a lock of
hair carelessly draped across his marble brow d la
Nicholas Nickleby, After gazing upon the
picture The Bulletin feels more certain than
ever that the whole secret of Parkes lies in his
unshorn fleece.
Amongst Bobby Peel’s creditors his shirt-
maker alone claims £385, and his bootmaker
£2OO. The year he made the acquaintance of the
“Lily” he drew over ,£27,000 from his bankers,
which he gaily spent, together with £lO,OOO which
he had won at Monte Carlo. If only titles were
saleable, young Peel’s prospective baronetcy would
have been “ blewed ” long ago in tan boots and
women, and then the glory of the family would
have vanished for good.
The brother of a present Australian
Premier was, some years ago, the champion bush-
dazzler of his province. On one occasion, while
returning from volunteer practice, he, with a
comrade, dropped into an hotel for a drink. In
the same room, with his back turned towards
them, was a gent, in a glossy bell-topper. Raising
his rifle the gallant volunteer promptly shot the
“tile”off with a terrific report, and the owner
sought the floor in a dead faint. Copious brandy
and solatium for hat and personal shock kept the
affair quiet.
The late Julius Von Haast, Director of
Christchurch (M.L.) Museum, was a man of many
adventures. Once while exploring in the wastes
of the Alpine country, he started with his party
to climb a nameless mountain in the wilder-
ness. The party presently got tired, but the un-
kempt Julius urged them on. Just as_ he was
pointing out to his fagged followers the virtues of
patience, endurance and courage, and the fame of
ascending to heights where foot of man never trod
before, a still, small voice, far above the snow-line,
asked if they had seen any of its dashed sheep
kicking about. And the face of a local settler,
craned over a rock, like a cherub roosting amid
the crags, smiled down on them.
The cranky Marquis of Queensberry was
married at the Registrar’s office at Eastbourne
(Eng.), on the 9th Nov. The new Marchioness
was Miss Ethel Weedon, and is quite young. The
Marquis is now 49. He was married in 1866 to
Miss Sybil Montgomery, who did 21 years of
matrimony and then obtained a divorce on the
usual grounds. Queensberry comes of a family
which has seen visions, and gone to bed with its
bell-topper on, and has habitually wakened up in
the night with an impression that the devil had
come for it, during several generations. His
latest marriage was a runaway affair, and the
first announcement of it came in the shape of
an aggressive telegram demanding the bride’s
clothes.
Morris Roberts, of Birmingham (Eng.),
who died recently, played more parts in his time
than Shakespeare ever thought of. He was an
ex-member of the prize-ring, a local preacher, a
publican, the proprietor of a flourishing public-
house, a menagerie, and a land and_ property
owner. In addition to taking part in several
great fights, he shot a man during the course of
the Murphy riots in Birmingham in 1867, and was
convicted of manslaughter. He figured in the
divorce-court, and was tried for breach of promise.
He also had a medal from the Royal Academy of
Music, That’s pretty good, but Australia can also
show some varied records in the lives of some of
its men. One was a sailor, then a coal-lumper,
then a teacher, then a barrister and local-preacher;
and another has been a moonlighter, cattle-duffer,
parson, convict, song-and-dance artist, member of
Parliament, storekeeper, and, for many years
past, an angel. It is alleged that his greatest suc-
cess is in the latter capacity.
Not many decades back it was the custom
of the house-father, when bent upon buying
Christmas presents for the rising generation, to
invest in articles that would, if offered to the
average youth of to-day, be hove back at him with
scorn and contumely. In these days boys don’t
want a box of carved, idiotic wooden figures
representing a lot of red Israelites making bricks
in Egypt, under the supervision of a bright-blue
Pharaoh, or escaping over the Red Sea with a lot
of circus caravans (alleged to be chariots) in
pursuit—they would rather prefer the old man
to visit Frost and Shipham, of 462 and 587 George-
street, Sydney, and buy a magic-lantern, or a
reliable watch for the modest figure of 18s. 6d.,
or a complete photographic outfit for 21s. The
magic - lanterns can be had in various sizes
at prices ranging from ss. to 305., with a
practically endless choice of pictures, or if
something very ambitious is desired the Exhibi-
tion Lantern Outfit at £5 will fill the bill. In
their amateur photographic outfits Frost and
Shipharn’s Rambler, at 255. with ease complete,
beats the record. Other brands range in their
various degrees of excellence from £2 15s. up to
£2O and £3O. Frost and Shipham’s is also the
habitat, so to speak, of the working steam-engine
at prices frpm 3s. 6d, to £3 10s. ; of the model
locomotive that doesn’t want an imported Yankee
expert to drive it, at Bs. 6d. to 555. ; and the
working model steamboat. Also there are elabor-
ate toy circular saws, lathes, pumps, traction-
engines, and heaven only knows what else.
Finally, the glory of the show culminates in the
Gramophone, or speaking-machine, a contrivance
which sings songs and bits of opera., and makes
contradictory prose statements, and argues in a
high metallic voice with its purchaser. Some feel-
ing remarks about Brazilian pebble spectacles are
unavoidably held over.
Premier Patterson, at the farewell booze-
up to Minister Reid : “ There is plenty of money
here; the banks have never held so much of it.
But the want of energy and go tells against the
country.” Patterson has got it upside down.
There has been so much go in the province of
late, including Matthias Larkin’s going to gaol,
and Matthew Davies’ going to Colombo, and
James Munro’s banks going broke, and the general
going into liquidation that the unhappy country
is now practically gone. What it wants is a rest
from all this 1 . ’
THOSE FROCK COATS.
(A story without words.)
Scene which occurred in the Chicago Exhibition
on opening day between two gentlemen whose
tailor had sent home the wrong coats at the last
minute.
Dear Bulletin, —The Speight-Syme case
serves as another illustration of the imperfection
of our jury system. What do the 12 members of
the special jury sworn in for that trial know even
now of the whole affair? A special juryman’s
qualifications are merely that he be a £6O house-
holder ; his abilities have nothing to do with the
case. In the French system of trial by three
Judges, corruption is possible if two of these can
be squared, but the German arrangement comes
as near perfection as possible. In that country
the juryman’s business is a profession. Jurymen
are civil servants, like policemen, and 12 of them
are despatched at short notice to travel with each
Judge on Circuit. A majority verdict settles the
question, and the cronk plaintiff or defendant who
can square seven strange jurymen who receive good
salaries and incur heavy penalties for dishonesty
deserves all he can gain by his enterprise. Our
jury system is obsolete. —Yours, &c., C. J.


photography.
CHAELEIONT & CO.,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney,
TTAVB now on view, in their Rooms, a most interesting
series of Enlarged Portraits of the Governors of
New South Wales since the start of Responsible Govern-
ment. Names as follows:
Denison
Sir John Young
Karl of Bblmore
Governors
Sir Hkrcules Robinson
Lord Loftus
Lord Carinqton
These portraits are well worth inspection, and, during
the month of January, Messrs. Charlemont freely invite
all of the public who would care to see these portraits, to
come in any day between the hours ot 10 a.m. and i p.m.
df
photography I
Useful Christmas Presents. ~
Hand Cameras from One Guinea upwards*
Baker & Bouse
375 George Street, SYDNEY ;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE
46 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
69 Bundle Street. ADELAIDE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
An honest policeman is the noblest work
of God.
The province of South Australia was 67
years old on Dec. 28.
Rumour, more or less unreliable, has it
that Premier Dibbs (N.S.W.) offered the “Mines”
portfolio to W. N. Willis, M.P.
“Hallelujah !” telegraphed the Salva-
tionists to Premier Seddon after the elections
And Premier “ Dick ” wired back : “ Amen !”
It is rumoured that Kintore will nob
return to S.A. next May, when his terra of leave
expires. Another peer grown weary of the
“ blawsted kawlinies.”
Eyeglass Reid is very anxious about the
health of “the Queen’s Government.” What’s
the matter with “the N.S.W, Government”’
Nothing, except that it is not “ the Reid Govern-
ment.”
Everything tends to show that National
Ass party will be badly defeated at forthcoming
S.A. Legislative Council elections. The election
of Baker to be President is probably about the
historic mule’s last triumph.
The U.S., after a long series of surpluses,
anticipates a shortage this year of ,£6,000,000, as
the first result of the Cleveland regime. It seems
to be about time the Sydney Foreign-traders sent
along another congratulatory cablegram,
P.M.Gr. Kidd (N.S.W.) has ukased that
any officer in his department found gambling in
any shape or form will be instantly blown from a
cannon or eaten by wild lobsters, or something
the threats becoming a trifle vague at this point. ’
“ Nine persons committed suicide in this
city in the 24 hours preceding 3 o’clock Friday
p.m., and in a number of the cases prompt relief
in the form of food would have averted the des-
perate deed. ’i— New York Commercial Adver-
tiser.
At some of the recent M.L. electioneering
meetings bouquets of flowers were thrown to the
candidates. Of course, they were thrown by
ladies. Men always prefer the more reliable
and ancient egg for the purpose of emphasising
political criticism.
In N.S.W. only 3 per cent, of those who
marry are unable to sign their names. In 1871
the number was 17 per cent. The proportion of
illiterates in Queensland is about 3J per cent •
S.A., nearly 2 per cent.; Victoria and Maoriland.’
U per cent.; England, 6 per cent.
N.S.W. National Ass now defines itself as
“ a class organisation formed for the purpose of
securing representation through the best men of
all classes, but particularly through elderly and
successful business men, and men of capacity for
political affairs.” Hee-haw-haw-haw, hee-haw!
The Argus, one penny : “ These men
(the anarchists) do but voice the demands which
millions of others are making in tones too loud to
be disregarded.” Also: “Concessions to Social-
ism are inevitable.” And the ghost of the old
twopenny Argus gibbers on the doorstep at this
apostacy.
Premier Patterson (Vie.) got off at least
one statesmanlike observation the other day. He
was inspecting the Newport meat works, and his
practical butcher-eye was attracted by the spec-
tvcle of the blood being run off into the sea.
Now, that, he said, sternly, “is what I call a
blanky waste.
Dear Bulletin,— ln my opinion N.S.W.
is governed too much. The ideal Ministry would
consist of two men—Dibbs as dictator and Lus-
combe as inspector of scaffolding. The country
doesn t want anything more; a dictator and an
inspector of scaffolding are all that any right-
minded community can possibly require. —Yours
&c., T.S.
Thus a London journalist:—
I have sat in full view ot a British Cabinet, and I must
say that I have never beheld such an array of dull,
unintelligent, unhandsome, uninspiring jowls. It seems
to me that you have only to strip the Home Secretary of
his Windsor regimentals, put a white apron upon him,
thrust a razor into his hand, and we might go to him
instinctively to be shaved.
Labouchere’s delicate indictment of the
British South African Co.:—
We are accustomed to company-promoting here, and
many a swindle has been palmed-off on the public to the
great pecuniary advantage of its founders, but never yet
has the British flag been so disgraced as to cover murder
and rapine, in order to keep a rotten company—for a time
at least—out of bankruptcy.
France and Britain have agreed to create
a buffer state to keep them apart in Indo-Ohina.
ihe principle of this device is beautifully simple,
(on hist chain up two large, aggressive dogs so
that they can barely reach each other. Then you
chain a small dog between them so that it can be
conveniently bitten by both parties. The small
dog in the centre is the buffer state.
Dear Bulletin, —To show the Govern-
ment strength in Maoriland : Of the newspapers
m this province, 85 per cent, are rabid Opposition
organs; yet, in a House of 74 members, only 15
Oppositionists gained seats, even their leader
being left out in the cold. The power of the
(lory) press is dead here—it can’t deceive even
the women.—Yours, S. M, Fairlie, M.L.
A Maoriland M.P., who attended Bal-
lance’s funeral, sent in a bill to the Government
for the price of his mourning garments. The bill
was paid.
The Landowner is the very newest of
N.S.W. journals, having been born on the 23rd
inst. It is to be the Fat Man’s barrier against
Single-tax, and it includes the faggot-vote as one
of “our Imperially vested rights.” Also, it advo-
cates a moderate land-tax and is politically
opposed to G, H, Reid and Tommy Dodd, and
supports Bruce Smith and E. W. O’Sullivan.
James Service was deputed to propose the
Reid Mission toast at Melb. Town Hall the other
afternoon—“ Health, Success, a Pleasant Voyage,
and a Speedy and Safe Return to our Worthy
Guest, the Hon. Robt. Reid,” Oneof thedrollest
things in life is to hear one honourable politician
singing to another honourable politician in these
sweet strains, but the Worthy Guest didn’t even
snigger.
The Negus of Abyssinia is a potentate
whose methods will commend him to the
advocates of the lash as a “right-thinking
person.” Recently he discovered a conspiracy
against the throne, and one of the conspirators
was arrested. His tongue was cut out, one of his
feet and his two hands were sawn off, and he was
taken out into the desert, where he was devoured
by vultures and hyaenas.
At a woman’s meeting in Dunedin (M.L.),
just after the sex was emancipated, prayers were
offered up that the women might pick good men
to. represent them in Parliament, and that they
might seek Divine guidance in so doing. Con-
sidering that woman has been trying to pick a
good man for her own use during a good many
centuries, and doesn’t seem to be a bit better a
judge than when she first started, she evidently
wants Divine guidance badly. Also, when the
average woman starts out to pick a man, Divine
guidance seems to be about the last thing she
thinks of.
During the worst
of the depression in
Melbourne, the Yic.
Government gave out
about £2OOO worth of
free passes to the un-
employed, on the un-
derstanding, in each
instance, that the
value of the pass
was to be deducted
from the recipient’s
first week’s wages,
and themoneyhanded
in to the Treasury
by the employer. It
is now discovered
that, in scores of
cases, Fat Man, the
boss, deducted the
money carefully
enough, and stuck to
it with Christian
fortitude. The Go-
vernment intends
“taking action” to
recover the coin.
Government action,
where Fat Man is
concerned, usually
takes the shape of a
scented document,
politely requesting
the bulky recipient
to give the matter his
earliest attention.
One interesting
result of the Speight
v. Sjyne case was the
reading of a “ black
list ” of legislators
whose names “crop-
ped up with weari-
some regularity ” as
would-be sellers of
land, or agents for
sellers of land, to the
good old Railway
Dept. From the As-
sembly came Shacked,
Zox, Matthew Da vies,
O. E. Jones, Tom
Bent, Mason, B. J.
Fink, Groom and
Levien, whilst the
most wearisome land
disposer in the Leg.
Council was Connor.
Speakers Davies and
Bent exhibited a
chronic anxiety to get
rid of their own syn-
dicated soil, but Zox,
the amiable punster,
was distinguished by
his awful anxiety to
oblige a friend.
It is stated that the S.A. Commissioner of
Taxes has in some instances doubled, and in
other cases trebled, the amount of taxable income
returned by certain wealthy local men. In each
case the defendant paid the surcharge in pre-
ference to facing an appeal. There is no Ananias
on this earth who can even begin to compare with
the Fat Man’s income-tax schedule, and why a
thunderbolt doesn’t strike that perjured document
is a mystery.
The frantic anxiety of the N.S.W. Opposi-
tion to turn the Ministry out immediately on
the reassembling of Parliament dates from the
time when Premier Dibbs declared there would
be a surplus on the year’s transactions. Before
they knew how the finances would stand, Reid
and the followers of him were not prepared to say
whether the Ministry should be ejected or not.
A surplus in hand to begin on is the first requisite
of Freetrade finance.
The Queensland slave-trade is commencing
to engage the attention of the courts up North. A
firm of sugar-planters on the Herbert River ordered
a shipment of niggers from one Sandeman. San-
deman delivered 24, but six of these were rejected
on the ground that they were unhealthy and
undersized. Sandeman now sues the planters for
.£126 for passage and keep of these six Kanakas,
and the planters claim <£soo from Sandeman for
negligence as an agent.
Salmon, M.L.A. for Port Melbourne
(Yic.), tells of the sorrows of a legislator. “My
wife and children,” he says, “ have been insulted
in and out of the church ; my windows have been
broken, and myself hunted, vilified and black-
guarded, and anonymous and filthy letters sent to
my wife and daughters. Since I returned to the
Port, six years ago, I have lost over £2OOO in a
newspaper, .£9OO in land and buildings in the
district, .£650 in investing in Heidelberg land,
and over £lOOO in other speculations. Just before
my election I endorsed two bills for £l6O and have
paid every cent, although I did it simply to oblige
two friends,”
“Jamie ” Service hopes that Robert Reid>
the Vic. Minister of Defence, who has gone on a
big State-paid international picnic with his wife
and family, “ will lose no opportunity of assisting
the party in the mother-country that is striving,
tooth and nail, to place the navy of Great Britain
on a proper footing.” A large oil-painting, show-
ing Reid helping the British navy out of a tight
place, would make a very appropriate present for
Robert when he comes back.
According to the cablegrammer : “ The
Times says that the colonies, in developing ex-
ports, will gain by recognising their identity of
commercial interests, and seeking to encourage
primary production,” This is another of those
profound statements which sound like the bray of
an imperishable ass coming drearily out from the
dark halls of the past. The Times is Australia’s
Uncle Pmnblechook, and its heavy platitudes, as
they arrive by cable, are a desolation in the land.
The first session of the new S.A. Parlia-
ment, recently concluded, was a Democratic
failure. Kingston was defeated on woman suf-
frage, land-values taxation, and the election of
Ministers by the Assembly, and even those mea-
sures which passed were mutilated by the small
National Ass majority in the Council. The
happy feature is that the Democracy is infuriated
at the doubled income-tax which had to be substi-
tuted for the lost land-tax scheme, and is waiting
to wreak an awful vengeance on the hairless
branch of the Legislature at the first opportunity.
The Argus, a staunch upholder of the
gallows as a thing, is dubious about the
advisability of hanging Mrs. Knorr, the convicted
she-Herod of Melbourne. “ Thousands of people,”
it says, “ by no means sentimentalists in the sense
of having a mawkish dislike to extreme measures,
would be thankful if we could be spared such an
event as the execution of a woman.” Now it is
only a mawkish sentimentalist who is ready
enough to hang a male criminal and yet strains
the grand old hanging law to save the neck of the
THEY WANTED TO RETRENCH.
CARTER : “You’ve heard as ’ow they want us to stop carrying goods on
Sundays?”
SPLITTER : “Ay, that’s part of this here Patterson retrenchment policy.”
CARTER : “I don’t see that. What do they expect to save by it?”
SPLITTER : “Yer bloomin’ soul.”
guilty female. The only excuse for the gallows-
builders is their professed belief in the efficacy of
the soaped rope as a deterrent. Does woman not
need a deterrent ?
Tom Mann on the poor of London :
Forty thousand children went to board schools every
day with no food, or a mere crust and a little tea. The
people lived in miserable hutches. In Shoreditch there
was a block of buildings in which the beds were let many
times in the 24 hours. It was a common thing to let a
bed for half or quarter of a day, and this went on all the
year round. Women were lying about on the steps of
lodging houses, often dying; children were literally put
to death. The officers of the law knew’ and forced
their way into these places when the missions were sing-
ing hymns, dragging some one off to gaol while the
singing went on. This was the dreadful social condition
of the capital of England.
Sydney D.T. is very much hurt in the
stiff part of its dickey because the N.S.W.
Assembly wouldn’t permit the Sydney City
Council to hand over the local electric-lighting
business to “private enterprise.” The D.Tj
argues, in effect, that a “private company”
would consist of electrical experts (!), whereas the
City Council only consists of common, dunder-
headed aldermen. Why the “private co.” must
necessarily be “expert,” the D.T. doesn’t con-
descend to explain; nor why the City Council
couldn’t buy “expert” services just as easily as
the firm of Fat Man and Co.
A. badly-disguised Fat Man writes to a
S.A. paper, to point out that “government of the
people by the people for the people has been a
failure wherever tried.” It would be interesting
to know where it has been tried. There has been
government of the people by the property-vote for
the Fat Man, and government by elderly and
liver-diseased nominees for the landlord, and
government by the shindykib for the foreign
capitalist, and government by caucus for the sake
of party interests, and government by the local
butcher-alderman for the sake of getting public
money spent in his own constituency, and govern-
ment by assorted bigots for the sake of various
rampant yellow and green sects, and various other
kinds of government. Bub government by the
people for the people has never yet been practised
in any State that Thb Bulletin ever heard of.
The approaching trial of Matthew Davies
apd others in Melb. Criminal Court recalls atten-
tion to the eccentric behaviour of Panton, P.M.,
who positively refused to issue a police-court
summons against them. Panton’s position is
what may be called “delicate.” Before the
defendants’ committal he was a magistrate who
had given absurd reasons for refusing to perform
a simple duty. Now he is a magistrate who, in
effect, attempted to save certain “ unfortunate
m ® n from a criminal trial. “ X want to know
whether you will apply to any other magistrate in
the event of my refusing to issue a warrant,” said
i anton to the informants who desired him to sign
his name in the ordinary way. The Mercantile
case abounds in incidents that are worth remem-
bering, as it goes on from stage to stage.
That portion of the last report of the
Victorian railway authorities which braggingly
asserts that the Department has saved many
thousands per annum by substituting 200 women
for men as railway-station keepers, should be taken
hold of by Australian women suffragists all
round, ana held on to till some principle of labour
Tu U -fr- S <^l ® The seeming liberalism of
the Victorian Railway Department in opening a
new occupation to women results in nothing but
mean and shameless sweating. A Queensland
inspector of schools once proposed to the local
Minister for Education to run the State school
system at half its then cost by putting women
instead of men in all primary schools at half the
male rates. Nobody ever employs a woman unless
she works at half a man’s wages. *■
Treasurer Playford and Solomorf, of the
Northern Territory, furnished a sensation the
other night in S.A. Assembly, Playford was
wading heavily through a speech Playford
always orates with a pick and shovel, so to speak
—and being aggravated by Solomon’s interrup-
tions, made an allusion to that politician’s insol-
vency Solomon, who has a natural
capacity for being offensive, rose suddenly and
called him several unclean animals that are unfit
for human food. Then Playford, who does every-
thing thoroughly, turned a dark red all over, and
rising slowly he heaved up a foot the size of a
shop-window and stated that he would boot Solo-
mon off the premises. Several friends here
fastened on to the clothes of the pair, and sab on
them till they cooled down.
The Victorian Government threatens
trouble and confiscation because many “small
selectors have neglected to pay their rents,
amounting to a few pounds apiece. Whereupon
the Donald Express gives a list of “trading
concerns,'’ four big firms in the glorified three-ball
line, and various mortgagees and speculators, who
owe rents on grabbed selections to the extent of
A6o\)l, and from these selections they are drawing
in the aggregate, rents twice as big as those
unpaid to the State. This is in the Express’s
own little district only. A vigorous collection of
overdue jents from members of Parliament, big
Government _ officials, representative citizens,
lankers, capitalists, finance companies, and the
hke, would bring in many thousands to the ema-
ciated Ireasury just now.
Touching the mob of “brewers, money-
lenders and owners of slum property ” who now sit
in the House of Peers, the London Referee
says :
Having realised their great social ambition, they are
before fc fin- aSf A more - lnde P e «dent than they were
before , and the fillip thus given to their independence is
curiously shown by the fact that three-fourths of the peers
created or promoted by Mr. Qladstone-that is ( o P say
nartt f °fn r a R I - 8 A f f l ® men a 8 members of the Liberal
party, toadied for recognition-have kicked away the
ladder and voted against Home Rule. y
When the “Liberal” worm has safely crawled to
lus titular distinction, he then proceeds to crawl
up the back of his > noble order ” on the true
lory ticket. There s no independence in the
matter. It can bbe said that the newly-made peers
are asserting their real opinions after they have
obtained their coronets. The minds of such men
are incapable of forming opinions.
Military spies and rumours of spies are
abundant of late in the European cablegrams.
As a rule, in every secret service enterprise there
is a woman, bub the cable-man only sends along
the dry bones of the narrative, and leaves her out
for fear he should become interesting. Coroner
Choul, of Melb., probably looks for the woman
harder than any other official alive, and he finds
traces of her even in the most unlikely cases, in-
cluding those of alleged spontaneous combustion
and in deaths through falling off a roof when
drunk. Sardou’s “Diplomacy” is founded on a
case with a woman m it, which tore up French
society. A German lady, Madame Kaulla, en-
snared a French officer, 001. Jung, and married
* ll ™ - During her short and stormy career she
probably discovered and sold more military secrets
than any other woman alive. She even captivated
General de Cissey, the War Minister, with her
smiles, and pumped him dry in the interests of
the German war office.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor improves the beauty of the
hair and promotes its growth. It prevents
dandruff, cleanses the scalp, and restores natural
color to gray hair. Have you received Ayer’s
Almanac for the new year?
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
whde to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue. F 8


j)®% hif\.
QlR\v 1
ton- 1
r f l
sfrfe M/as tare. •
d
Groi}
uLittffr ©faclf VfirrjQf
• in a •
-(atirjfa
‘ r Wte.i?|tpurir] f|ijtfjun|b-
pulkioufa jalunj - •
<^ul'llje'joody / all •
''ifa-
T f
H a
§4
l\Uj
kU. jw
A '
/A Ll-
our
3n: W^
orfrjearO' Jjeat Orcu far
2my - |
Tint- T—
(j]ic/aus . ,
'M*
hcf-j f”' 1 s, fn
ifexp
feart
CHRISTMAS AFTER-THOUGETS.


fd
f
/ C ft E R T
I Melb..
Sup.
'FR’KSsJ
f^)
' Sh i|
mI
i
d
mm
fd
YEAR AFTER YEAR—AN OLD SUBJECT IN A NEW SETTING.
(With our Melbourne artist's apologies to innumerable Henglish “comic" papers).


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will bo one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots, llie Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
.£lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
v | lO w iU be pleased to forward plans to any
address and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
fd
Wonderful discovery!
R OSB’S
CELKB RATED
EYE LOTION,
mins Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy might,
i Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight, By post, 3s. per bottle.
Kgr" Manufactured Solely by 11. A. BOSK, Chemist,
031 GEORGE osTREET. SYDNEY.
Gold Mbdal Artificial Tkf.tii, full sots £5. Warranted
to Fit. Naural A ppearancc. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations free. .1. T. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
THE
“Won’t be happy
until he gets it ”
or
Every Enlightened Man
and Woman in the
Universe.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
RESIST CONTEMPTIBLE IMITATIONS
Society
At a recent suburban meeting an iron-
jawed N.S.W. M.P. was called upon to respond
to the toast of the ladies. “I think,” he said, as
innocently as possible, “ that the name of the
S.M. Herald should be coupled with the toast.”
He was not re»X)rted in full by all the dailies next
morning.
* * •
One member of the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly is said to be eating himself to death—
and yet no one ever hears a voluble individual
howling at street corners about the abomination
of beef, and the horrors of excess in legs of
mutton with vegetables, although probably quite
as many people die from lobster-saladon-the-
chest as from whisky on the liver. Some day the
temperance enthusiasts will let up on the poor
lost drunkard and make the greasy gourmand
wriggle instead.
# # •
The story of Poore, bart., who came to
Australia, flashed big diamonds, dabbled in hotel-
keeping, worked hard sometimes, and lived
riotously whenever he could raise the wind, is a
good deal like the story of Deeming cleansed of
blood. Poore, however, discarded a bona-fide
family title, whilst Deeming delighted to travel
as a bogus lord. Otherwise the two “romantic”
heroes had much in common, their taste for ladies
and precious stones in particular. Had Fate
ordained that Deeming should be Poore, it would
probably have run Poore on Deeming lines, with-
out including the murders. Thus the world
might have been spared the cement interments
and the famous curse of D. But these are idle
speculations.
One specially sad incident crops up in the
story of Poore, Bart. A friend introduced him to
a third party in Collins-street, Melbourne, where-
upon the stranger, recognising in him his former
Hinglish identity, said, “ Ha, Mr. Poore ! Only
Mr. Poore?” What a wealth of grovel, dimly
expressed, lay in that word “only.” To the mind
of the stranger it seemed scarcely credible that a
full-blown “ Sir ” should lower himself to the
grade of plain mister. The stranger would fain
have been presented with due ceremony to Sir
Edward Poore, Bart., of Rushall, in the county of
Wiltshire, England. "Only Mr. Poore?” The
flash, bejewelled man of energy and pleasure
extinguished the reverent stranger by saying,
“Yes; isn’t that enough? What more would
you want ?” The Bulletin likes him for that.
Peace to his Poore ashes !
The sins of Poore, on Judgment Day,
Will form a long recital;
But possibly the Lord may say—
“ One virtue washed your sins away—
You sacrificed your title.”
• * *
Awful specimen of drivel about a royal
dog, in a recent Idler :
His health when in London last winter gave cause for
some anxiety (all these small Spitz dogs are of a very
delicate constitution) his weight being reduced to little
over one pound ; but country air has pulled him round,
and he now weighs nearly four times as much. He was
«/ *
-• •• . a* / n
h r* if '
y*A ”
'K<" ? 1
l n '^*i,Lr>'
\!sKp' >
y*
WHAT IT IS COMING TO.
not taken to the Mediterranean on account of another
sli./ht indisposition, but goes to Marlborough House as
soon as his mistress returns. His native place was
Hamburg from whence he was brought by the Prince.
This is a bright sample of the mental food of
T Bull In these days Bull, junior, is brought up
nrinci pally on wild whoops about the “English
flair ’ and on fashionable information about the
clothes and corns and pet dogs of the aristocracy,
And when he has assimilated all this knowledge
he turns up his pants at the feet, and goes out to
glare at an unappreciative world through his eye-
glass and remark feebly upon the blastedness of
InGeneral
things in gener .
At South Melb, police-court a gentleman
(who looked young enough to know better) was
charged with “ lying on the sand at Albert Park
with his eye against a crevice of the fence sur-
rounding Stubbs’ ladies’ baths.” Witnesses for
the defence testified that the accused gazer was
organist of a fashionable suburban church, and the
musician himself protested that he merely glued
his optic to the aperture because he heard a splash
and a scream which alarmed him. However, the
Bench inflicted a severe admonition and a fine of
10s. Ladies’ baths are a private place within the
meaning of the Act, and although church officials
are entitled to extra licence, the Law must draw a
line somewhere. Let us sing :
O neat and slim, each bright young maid
Across the wa-ter stealing ;
The organist saw how they played
(The fence his blush con-ce-al-ling).
One fair girl’s form above the rest
He saw so clear-ly spring-ing :
The angels of our dreams are dress’t
In robes less sweetly eling-ing.
His earnest eyes intently gazed
Just where the fence was hole-y
He saw the gleaming arms upraised,
The dive so pure and low-ow-ly.
No wife to box his ears had he,
But here was com-fort given,
For he might peep on earth, and be
Transported straight to hea-ven.
Next day he paid his fine, in gold :
His soul was rent a-sunder ;
He heard the beaks, so tough and old,
Express their bo-gus wo-o-n-der.
But when he plays the organ now,
Producing strains di-i-viney,
A gol-den light is on his brow—
His thoughts a-are by the “bri-i-ny.”
Much sympathy was felt for the arresting con-
stable in this case. In order to convince himself
that the “ insulting behaviour ” had taken place
he also was compelled to look through the crevice.
Having discovered a lady in the act of bathing,
the constable “told defendant that his conduct
was most contemptible.” ’ Now, in Melbourne
they can’t stand contemptible conduct at any
price, and the shock to this vigilant policeman
was very great.
# * '*
The reign of the female Mayor in Maori-
land promises to be short and stormy. A day
or two after her election the town-clerk threw
up his billet in disgust. Then the fire ; brigade sent
in its resignation, with a rude intimation that
perhaps a female brigade would be better suited
to the new condition of things. Next, four of the
oldest and ugliest borough councillors resigned,
with derisive observations; and the Mayoress and
the two remaining councillors have gob their
photo, taken in a group—the Mayor-female in the
centre —and are going to send it to the Queen.
# # •
A hardware man in pious South Australia
justifies his trading alone under the title of
Snufflebust and Co. because he says that God is
a partner in the business with him. He does not
say which partner it is marks up the goods for the
stupendous cheap sale utterly regardless of cost.
Also, it doesn’t s'eem to occur to him that it would
be more respectful to let the name of the Almighty
appear in the firm’s name, and make Snufflebust
the Co. The mortal must surely be junior partner
in the" concern.
• # *
Pathetic item from a grovelsome English
weekly :
All the members of the Queen’s family suffer very much
either from inflamed joints or delicate stomachs. The
Prince of Wales has constant trouble with his legs, the
late Princess Alice was continually attacked with lame-
ness, poor Prince "Eddy” had to be most careful what
he ate, and the Duke of York is most susceptible to gas-
tritis, while his cousin, Prince Alfred of Edinburgh, now
Hereditary Grand Duke of Coburg, lives principally on a
milk diet.
m * •
The Melb. barber now nob only brushes
your coat, but your hat. Boots next.
Is it one of the rules
of Freemasonry to com-
pound the felony of a
“brother mason?” It
is an unwritten law of
Wosleyanism that the
sect must conspire to
hush-up the offences of
any greasy Wesleyan
who gets into trouble,
and Freemasonry is just
as much of a secret com-
mercial religion as the
other, with banquets
thrown in to make it
more attractive.
* # #
Francis Ormond (Vic.) was a man
of foresight, as is shown by the solvent
position of Ormond College at the pre-
sent time, when the other Melbourne
colleges are in a very bad financial way
—Queen’s College, in particular, being
stone-broke. That poor, little, Wesleyan
institution was a boom-product, built
to,, a considerable extent on the promises
of boomers whose p.n.’s are now waste
paper, and at latest advices it was
trying to keep its head above water by
means of a bazaar.
Not long ago, a Melb. high-salaried
civil servant courted a lady in one of the
suburbs, but transferred his affections to the
housemaid, and married her.
* # *
. , , -j-oa
An Oxford graduate arrived in Sydney
lately, convinced that his parts and influence
would win immediate and profitable recognition,
When his com ran low he presented his creden-
tials, and a stately letter of introduction to
Governor Duff. The Governor shook hands and
gave him a letter to the Premier ; the Premier
shook haiffis and gave him a letter to an M.L.O. ;
the M.L.O. grasped his hand cordially and gave
him a note to an M.L.A. ; the M.L.A. greeted
him f ra t e rnally and passed him on to Inspector-
General Fosbery ; the Inspector-General intro-
duced him to a stipendiary magistrate; and the
stipendiary sent him round to Joe Greer. It all
happened in one day, and the graduate did not
recognise the rapidity of Ids descent and the utter
bottomlessness of the gulf into which he had
dropped until Joe, without shaking handsor asking
him to sit down, said : “Men like you put me out
of my mind. What are you good for, anyway ?
Can you drive a baker’s cart ? ”
* * #
Mr. Percy Spence, the well-known artist,
has just completed an excellent life-sized painting
of Premier Dibbs, and the production has been
hung up in the Premier’s office, where the ideal
Dibbs and the live meat Dibbs now sit together
and consider each other in lonesome grandeur.
The painting represents a long man with a stem
and masterful expression of countenance, and a
document grasped in his right hand. Dibbs will
now try to live up to the aggressive attitude of his
picture, and, as a consequence, the next working
men’s deputation will bo shot down the stair, even
more suddenly than usual, leaving its mangled ear
behind it on the floor.
fd
Colonel Brazier, or Brashyer, who is prose-
cuting Harness, the London electric-belt man, for
obtaining money under false pretences, is no other
than Colonel Jeremiah Brazier who was somewhat
renowned in Sydney in the late seventies, and of
whom various things were said. Brazier, who
commenced his military career as a gunner under
John Company, is one of the bravest of the brave,
and gradually worked himself into the rank he
holds. He is 83 years of ago, and Harness can
hardly bo blamed for having failed to restore the
youthful energy of the old warrior. Nothing but
an electric-belt which would raise Lazarus from
the dead would do Brazier much good. Amongst
Harness’s clientele could be found names which
would rather astonish society if they were pub-
lished. They were all at the same game, trying
the impossible—striving to make up for the
natural effect of early debaucheries, and looking
for some mill which would grind up old rakes and
make them young. Dukes, marquises and carls
are all in the books of the Electric Belt Company,
but they would not have their names disclosed for
the world.
# * •
Hobart folks gasped with astonishment at
the first sight of Lady Gormanston in evening
dress. The occasion was a Philharmonic Society
concert, in the local Town Hall, when her lady-
ship appeared ungloved, and wearing numerous
diamond rings. If this display becomes fashion-
able, a reliable preparation for whitening red
hands will have a ready sale down South.
Great Britain holds 5560 married “ men,’*
and no less than 28,800 married “women” of and
under 15 years of age. Likewise, 71 widowers
an{ | 169 widows of same age. With the consent
of parents or guardians, an English girl may
marry at 12 years of age.
# # *
retiring public servant down South was,
other dav, presented with a dictionary, accom-
• and b th ' e hope that he would enjoy “a good,
spe ]l.” In acbnow ledging the gift, the
reo f pien \ laying one hand on the book and the
o j. ber on his digestion, eloquently effloresced thus :
“Q en tlemen, lam proud to receive this—er —
volume, and I assure you—er—that whenever I
1 sh all-er-regard it as-er-er-an
Ayclop^ia."
At the last Sydney
junior examinations the
subjects showing most
successful results were
Greek and German ; the
subject least success-
fully negotiated was
physiology, and the
next to that, history.
Assuming the papers
to have been properly
set, these results point
a moral. The world is
already oppressed with
too much dead syntax,
and this poring over
ancient Grecian dic-
tionaries is not know-
ledge in any useful
sense.
* *
Two Leichhardt
(N. S. W.) aldermen
quarrelled over the
council table the other
day as to which was
the truest democrat.
One wanted to offer the
local waterman 255. per
week on the ground
that it was undemo-
cratic to tax the rate-
payers for a higher
sum, when a man could
be got for that hunger-
stricken figure. The
other wanted to make
it 30a. per week, argu-
ing that it is undemo-
cratic to expect any
civilised human being
to keep a wife and
family on less.
« •
Justice Windeyer
n.S.W.) one day re-
'» utly confirmed 24 de-
crees nisi in divorce; 17 of the petitioners were
wives.
• • *
The Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate
of all England, has refused to sanction the taking
up of a special collection for the unemployed in
the churches, on the ground that “he does not
approve of any effort of a sensational character.
And of such is the kingdom
The Australian Star is warmed in its
lower chest over the re-election of Mayor Manning
—his fourth offence, yer Worship, and said to be
preliminary to ennobblement —because it could
not picture, in its thirsty mind’s eye, Manning’s
rival, Alderman Lees, as “a genial host!” Ihe
Star says that “one chief function of the mayoral
office is to welcome the coming and speed the
parting guest.” In other words, to ask all “dis-
tinguished,” or supposed to be distinguished,
callers and crawlers to have a drink or When
these mayoral “functions ” become better “ under-
standed of the people,” citizens will begin to
enquire into the equity of their paying <£looo a
year and “ ex.’s ”in order that his Worship and
intimates may liquor-up, and entertain only a
small section of citizenhood ; or give prog to pass-
ing tramps who wear eye-glasses.
« w •
A few weeks ago, in Croydon (Q.), a
solicitor applied for bail for a client, alleging as a
reason the cruelty of confining an unconvicted
man (why an unconvicted man only ?) in the local
gaol during such terribly hot weather. A ser-
geant of police thereupon excitedly declared that
Croydon gaol was “ the coolest place in town.”
People who have enjoyed a wide experience of
gaols, however, declare that, barring perdition,
"HE CHEATED THE HANGMAN.”
(A XMAS CAROL.)
“With his head within measurable distance of the
hangman’s noose, Henry Fitzsimmons, the Werribee
murderer, went prematurely to his account. At the last
he was unconscious, and passed quietly away. Mklb.
Paper.
Jones, the hangman, sadly moans ;
Death is grinning gladly;
“Mr. Jones,” the spectre groans
(Flirting with a skull and bones),
“ I have done you badly.
Drop and bolt are not for him ;
He will never dangle,
Never shake a dying limb
When you pull your lever grim,
As you’d turn a mangle.
Mr. Jones,” the spectre groans,
Full of joy his sombre tones,
“ I have done you 6cuMy.”
“ Mister Death,” the hangman cries,
“ This is quite unlawful;
Murd’rer dies—away he flies —
No white cap to blind his eyes—
Hang it all! it’s awful;
Executions still are dear,
Dear to folks right-thinking;
Was it kind to interfere
When you knew that I was near,
Smart and quick as winking ?
Murd’rer dies —away he flies
Ere the Law can claim its prize.
Mister Death, that’s awful.”
“ Promptest payment for his crime,”
Answers Death jocosely ;
“ Would you feed and get him prime—
Like a goose at Xmas time,
Ooop’t and cabined closely ? ”
Shines the sun on Jones’ head—
“ Christmas ! Ha ! your ’and, sir;
Peace on earth ! and Drinks instead
Of the drops that drops ’em dead.
May all blokes as croaks in bed
Reach the Better Land ! sir.”
Jones, the hangman, looks sublime.
“ Also, Better Luck next time! ”
Answers Death jocosely.
For the picturesque freebooter on the sunlit, South Sea
Who’s escaped the British shooter, and is dressed in
Adam’s style, . „ ,
Send around the plate, my brothers, let your sdver tinkle
Shirts and stockings, maids and mothers, for the heathen
and his gin.
For the window stained and painted, for a tea and crum-
pet fight,
For a fat purse for the sainted one who offers you the
Light,
And who on the racket liveth, hand out all you can
afford— ,
He who to the Bishop giveth lends, my brethren, to the
Lord.
For the Chinook and the coolie, for the Jap, and Jew, and
Finn,
For the Zulu man unruly drop the gold and silver in ;
For the far idolater who lives in Delhi or Lahore —
For all except the Briton ivho is dying at your door.


For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
Thk Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning. ”
Paling & Co.’
XM AS AN NUAL!
Price, Is.
No. 9.
Artistic Title Page.
Just Published.
Full Music Size.
Contents:
A 1 TER THE BALL (The great American success)
Sung by Miss Mattie Allan (Jubilee Singers) and
Miss Maggie Moore.
THERE’S NO ONE LIKE MOTHER TO ME
DEAR LITTLE JESSIE Popular Christy Song
, 11TrT1 r Sun » b y Mr - Harry Clay (Rickards’ Co.)
THE LETTER THAT NEVER CAME
Sung by Mr. John Lindsay (Tivoli Co )
LOVE’S FIRST WHISPER (A pretty Ballad
Sung by Miss Nellie Stewart.
OSBORNE QUADRILLES (of world-wide popularity)
PHCEBE MORELL (“I Had a Dream”)
Pathetic English Ballad
SOUTHERN CROSS MAZURKA
By Composer of ‘‘Of the Past” and “After the Ball”
Waltzes.
WHERE IS MY BOY TO-NIGHT ?
Minstrel Song with Chorus
HEARTS and HOMES (Bleckley’s well-known Ballad)
CHRISTENING (Irish Comic SOM
GOOD BA E (Sweet Little Balladl
MINUET DON GIOVANNI
_ (Danced in Romeo and Juliet)
SUNSHINE WILL COME AGAIN
Vocal Waltz with Yodel (Mias Maggie Moore’s Latest
Success).
Duet “ IL TROVATORE,” known as “ Home to ou,
Mountains.”
OCEAN MEAIORIES WA ITV P.-ett,- i .
ii . I id’ty and l<;iscinatinir
(\\ ritten specially for Paling and Co. *
H. .t’allxipj c?—
Piano, Groan and Music Warkiiousk'
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY-
And at Newcastle, Brisbane and Toowoomba. *
there is only one hotter place on earth than
Croydon Rao), and that is the old iron lockup at
Mercer (M.L.). The latter structure consisted of
the iron cupola of a little one-horse gunboat
which used to do service on the Waikato River
during the Maori war, and which was dismantled
and sold for old metal at the end of the campaign.
Only one offender was ever confined in it, and he
after one summer day’s tenancy, was found
speechless and nearly dead, and partially
demented, also he was done brown in various
places. He bad spent the long hours jumning up
and down so that his soles might get a respite
from the heat of the awful iron floor, and even
when he was taken out and removed to the
hospital he kept on jumping automatically at
intervals for some hours. The cupola was
abandoned after that.
♦ • » /
In a recent English breach-of-promise
case, the defendant, a farmer, explained that he
had broken off the match because he wanted the
money he had saved for the wedding to buy
manure with. It was a choice between love and
fertiliser, and he chose the fertiliser. The jury
apparently regarded the manure as an additional
insult, and the damages were something awful.
# * •
l< So far as Great Britain is concerned, we
would not think of severing our connection with
her even if we could.” This on the valuable
authority of Premier Patterson,—
The strongest point made in the great
railway libel-case came from plaintiff Speight’s
counsel, who had simply to quote the defendant
newspaper. The Age, June 18th, 1890: “We
agree with Mr. Gillies when he contends that the
State stands in quite a different position from a
pi'ivate company as far as railway construction is
concerned, inasmuch as public policy demands the
construction of railways for the purpose of open-
ing up the country and-developing its resources,
even if such lines are non-paying for a series of
years.” Three years later the Age had hired a
legal gentleman to thunder forth the theory that
Speight’s first, last and only duty to the State
was to “make the railways pay.”
• * •
The venerable theory that Sunday trains
are driven by Nicodemus, and passengers are
booked right through to the bottomless pit, was
somewhat shattered the other day. The combined
churches of Goulburn Valley (Vic.) appealed for a
special train to carry worshippers to a special ser-
vice upon a particular Sabbath. Likewise, they
arranged for a brass band to give ton to the occa-
sion, and it only remained for the railway authori-
ties to name their lowest for a first-class hallelujah
express. Lest there should be any doubts cast at
this pious experiment in Sunday travelling, the
combined shepherds have undertaken to convert
the engine-driver and fix up the immortal soul of
the guard.
• • •
Henry Parkes held forth, the other day,
at the Scots College, Sydney, on the unmis-
takable instincts of the “true gentleman.” If
any man is capable of doing justice to such a sub-
ject it is Parkes. So many men of gentlemanly
instincts have ceased to associate with him that
he can tell what these instincts arc by considering
what his remaining associates are not.
* * *
Re the Queen’s bounty for triplets, the
following was received by the head of one of the
Government offices up north a few weeks ago.
The writer was a cockey out back : “Deer Sur, —
I expect tripplits about nex thirsda pleese send on
the subsidy.”
# # *
A small railway extension was recently
being made in the suburbs of an Australian city,
and the department required an acre or so of
ground belonging to a local magnate. He was
written to concerning the price, and replied, in a
large and effusive spirit, stating that, so far as he
was concerned, the department might occupy the
land to all eternity without any cash payment at
all. Only, as a small attention, he suggested that
it might, perhaps, feel inclined to lay down an
asphalt footpath in front of his house and grounds
which abutted on the line. The department did
so, and, as a recognition of his liberality, it sup-
plied the best asphalt footpath which human skill
could construct. Then it found out that the piece
of land belonged to quite a different magnate,
and since then the air has been full of language
and hair and the debris of the nine parts of speech.
# * *
About the most flourishing occupation just
now in N.S. Wales is that of the benefactor who
advertises in the papers that ho will give a prize of
£l5O, or thereabouts, to everybody who accurately
counts how often the letter “z” appears in the Old
Testament, or something equally tough and thrill-
ing. And about the next most flourishing occu-
pation seems to be that of the person who
advertises that he will send £75 or so to the man
or woman who makes two English words out of
the letters “ Whangscraggleblump,” or anything
more or less remotely to that effect. In most
cases the entrance fee is ss. or so, and, therefore,
the advertiser, who gives a £75 prize, is obviously
£74 15s. out on each successful competitor. Also,
he has to pay for his advertisements, and his box at
the post office—they almost all hang out un-
obtrusively in boxes at the post office, far from the
madding subscriber; and to wade through vast
masses of correspondence, and to count all the
z. s in the Old Testament so as to check the
successful competitors, so that the final loss must
bo .something tremendous. Considering the utter
unaccountableness of the whole proceeding the
police ought to look up the gentleman who adver-
tises about the number of “x.’s” in the book of
Genesis, and things like that, on the off-chance
ti>at he may be a demented solicitor wasting the
trust funds, or a deranged bank wildly “ blow-
ing the reserve fund.
* * *
Now that the coming man is so evidently
a woman, it will presently become necessary to
consider the advisability of nobbling the female
politician with a knighthood or something like
that. When women have votes, it almost inevit-
ably follows that they will presently get into
w u™! 11 ’ al , ld tl ? en the leading female must be
Knighted, or else she will become a fiery Republi-
can and want to overset the blessed throne. Sir
Sarah Smith, K.0.M.G., is evidently one of the
possibilities of the future. Also, Sir Mary Ann
nes and Sir Jane Brown, and other dignitaries
ot the same sort.
* # »
Last week probate was paid in Sydney
W i lH & a £ enfc,em an who. in all pro-
babihty, broke the record for a long-winded name.
out* fnr N. Neale only panned
out tor the insignificant sum of .£1275. A man
with seven initials before his surname should
nVvw b u stuck f °r want of something to think
S 3 £fl he * COuW u always r . etire t 0 fche wilderness
and reflect upon his own signature.
u * * *
“ The accused was subject to fits, and was
also a wealthy resident of Brighton,” was the
defence put forward last week in the case of a
valueless cheque person at Kyneton (Yic.). There
seems a want of connection between the two
statements somehow “He had an artificial leg,
and his father was likewise a Unitarian ” would
nave sounded lot more convincing.
* * *
Headmaster Weigall, of Sydney Grammar
School, tells of an unlettered bush youth who
Snll 13 h Way -M Syd , ney ’ £ ot work at a trade,
saved all -he could, and then applied to Weigall
h°e r w adm f ,SBl °a n th f s ? hooL Being admitted,
a 3 t 0 be al ? solutel y ignorant on most
subjects and comparatively ignorant on the rest;
yet, in 15 months, he passed his junior examina-
tion and qualified for matriculation, with credit.
Chinese were ever
liars. One Ah Hong - ,
a patient in a N.Q.
hospital, was asked the
other day by the doctor
on his morning visit ;
“Well, Jimmy, how
are you ? ” He re-
plied : “First rate,”
and fell back dead.
There is an awful
moral hidden in this
fact.
* *
The inhabitants of
the teetotal settlement
at Mildura (Vic.) are
agitating for the
establishment of a dis-
tillery in their midst
in order to make brandy
from raisin refuse.
Raisin refuse makes bad
brandy, but not so bad
as the liquor the Mil-
dura settlers are used
to.
• #
Says a Yankee
Paper:—“A high hat
is the first article of
attire an English boy
pats on when he goes
to a public-school like
Rugby or Eton, and it
is the last thing he
lays aside when he
answers the call of
death.”
The Xmas number of the Leader wa
almost recklessly original, and rather too typically
Australian. A story of Italian peasant life, by
Ouida, formed the “special literary supplement,”
whilst the grand annual Yuletide picture took the
form of Lady Hopetoun’s portrait on “ beautifully
toned ” paper. _ This latter must have come as a
startling surprise to the Leader select body of
subscribers. Lady H.,- on toned paper, was an
editorial inspiration. Last year, if we remember
rightly, the same journal hit upon Lord Hope-
toun, on toned paper, as a bright and lively Xmas
subject.
# # *
During the recent Maoriland elections one
old lady, with an apoplectic hand-bag and a bonnet
of that rusty description which is .associated with
grief and boarding-houses, entered the polling-
booth and offered to sell her vote to the returning-
offioer at a reasonable cash price. When the
astonished official refused to negotiate, she sat
down in the only available chair and declared that
she wouldn t vote at all, and added that if any
man touched her he would do it at the hazard
of his life. Being assured that nobody wanted to
touch her, she threatened to shriek for assistance.
She remained in possession of the office for two
hours, but, finally, being lured away by the pro-
mise of refreshments, she was seen no more.
* • #
Tender and poetic matrimonial advt, from
the Journal de Kobe, Japan :
A young lady desires to marry ; she is very lovely, with
floating masses of hair like clouds, a rosy face, a flo-ure
flexible as a bamboo, and eyebrows like arches. She is
sufficiently rich to walk through life, her hand in the
hand of a companion, with whom she can breathe the
perfume of flowers during the day, and contemplate the
stars during the night. She would unite herself willingly
to a handsome, well-informed young man, and would with
pleasure share the same tomb !
» # #
Advertisement in the Morwell (Gippsland)
Gazette, Dec. Ist: “To all whom it may con-
cern. Having heard some cowardly remarks
about the doings of my husband during the last
four months, I now throw out this challenge. I
will give .£lO to any person who can prove that
my husband, G. 0. MTntyre, did not sail for
London, from Melbourne, on Aug. sth, 1893,
leaving London on return, by P. and O. steamer’
on 29th Sept., 1893, arriving in Melbourne last
Derby Day, 4th Nov.— Nellie MTntyre.”
Victorian : “ Cannot something be done to
put down this villainy of vaccination? Under
threats from the police, a magnificently healthy
little girl was taken from my household, last
week, to be_ vaccinated. Now she is ill, covered
with a horrid rash, and the doctor says it is trace-
able to nothing but the vaccination. Who knows
what poison may have been insinuated into her
system?”
* # #
London Standard advt. :
A YOUNG ORPHAN (gentle birth), left penniless,
struggling hard to earn livelihood, is ordered to
wear sealskin jacket (delicate lungs), being often
seriously ill through cold. Will anyone kindly give
her a tolerably long bust, 33J ; waist, 22J; sleeves,
inside seam, 19 inches. Also mackintosh, flannel
dressing-gown, jacket. Pity entreated. Satisfactory
references.—Charity, at Shelley’s, 38 Gracechurch-
street.
• * »
The “Australasian” Institute of Jour-
nalists has been holding important meetings in
Melbourne. The original fiction that literary
ability was a qualification for admission to the
institute is now found to be untenable. One par-
ticular recent occurrence in the realms of “great”
journalism has made the priests and elders of this
reporters’ conspiracy look smaller than usual.
And now, as the result of much whispering
together and groaning in secret, the precious in-
stitutes have resolved to protect themselves with
a number of “ educational tests,” for application
(if necessary) to any would-be intruders. The
idea, no doubt, is to form an examining board
from among_ those dull reporters who use heathen
mythology in their spineless paragraphs, which
dry-as-dust drivellers will make it their business
to “pluck” any local Dickens, educated by hik
own rather than by school-books, whose
might seem unlikely to agree with the
institute’s delicate constitution. Anyway, this
new educational test proposal is humbug on the
face of it. A writer’s introduction to a body of
avowed journalists should be his work, judged by
its power to please the reading public, a test that,
if applied to the present Australasian Institute,
would reduce it to dust and ashes.
* * *
The written and figured value of a certain
N.S. W. State department’s cheques are now
cramped up closely in the left-hand corner of the
document, so as nob to permit of any tampering
with the amount. This precaution has been
adopted since, recently, an ingenious youth gave
his best girl his monthly cheque to cash, after
altering its face-value from £9 10s. to £l9 10s.
The cheque passed.
* 4.
THE INFANT PRODIGY.
Mr. RAPKIN : “My son, Solly, wants to be a hactor.”
WELL-KNOWN ACTOR MANAGER : “Is he any way clever?”
Mr. RAPKIN : “Vhy, he’s a vonderful mimic. He sees me kiss my vife,
then he goes and kisses the servant girl.”
A London magistrate is wrestling with the
problem whether fried fish is “refreshment” in
the eye of the law. That magistrate has never
eaten fried fish. Regarded as refreshment it
ranks just ahead of boiled Gladstone bag and a
trine behind aged cucumber.
"WE," Oui.
Ripe Orangeman Patterson chuckles in scorn
At a “ newspaper scribbler’s” We,
When the article happens to damage a corn
That graces the hoof of J.B..
“ The d — d editorial pronoun dictorial I”
(Language is strong in the world senatorial)
“ What is it worth 1" he will roar.
''*•••
It stands for a “ rag,” whose political flag
May signal “ Advance 1” or induce us to Tag-
il doesn’t pretend to mean more.
The editor’s “ We ” is an innocent word
If used by himself, or the staff;
At the worst it is only a little absurd—
A passing excuse for a laugh.
When men journalistical pen socialistical
(Not necessarily sheer atheistical)
Gibes at all kingdoms and queens,
The man who supports “ silken-bond ”-ism snorts.
“ We ” don’t love dear “ Mother,” this organ retorts,
And that’s what Tub Bulletin means.
Now, Pat terson spouts for three millions or so,
He claims to show national views ;
As vain is the breath of his banqueting blow
As the yearly conversion of Jews.
The ancient, delectable story “ respectable ”
(Dear to the crawlers and creatures insectable)
That Britain’s gold crown we adore I
’Tis chiefly the creed of sleek persons who feed
At what we call “functions,” forsooth, and indeed !
And it doesn't mean anything more.
A Premier’s “ we ” is a libellous thing
More often than not, you will find;
The song he can first person plurally sing
Is bad for the cause of mankind.
Those “loyal,” frequentative yarns “representative”
(They ought to be stopped with a simple preventative)
Show which way the fat party leans,
The wind-bagger’s “ We ” represents such as he,
Whose souls (if they had ’em) are over the sea—
And that’s about all that it means.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
We held our weekly wool sale In the Wool Exchange
Bridge-street yesterday, and the same spirit of animation
which marked our sale last week was still evident We
again almost cleared our catalogue, which was the largest
we hav e offered this season. Small parcels and oddments
are still in great request, and in some instances pieces
realised exceedingly high prices as compared with the
greasy fleece. Prices all round may bequoted at last week’s
level. The follow ing are a few of the brands which passed
under the hammer i-JF/Oakvale, from Yass, 7d • GB/
w Usef S l ' New England ’wool
ofc ! En ,r la . n J d > 6 ? d : FS, Clifton, from Guyra
d ’u°n K, f from F*' ald ' Voo ' . 7id; JA, from Braidwood
™ HB, from Mudgee, 6|d ; +2, from Goolagong, 6W •
EE Mudgee, 6|d ; C in diamond, 6|d ; NLS, from Yass,
, OS/R, irom Rockley, 7Jd ; also OM/R 7d • DO T?
7d ; TO R WS/R MB/R/all It 6|d. Washed fleeceTo
from GumJagai, 10Jd ; ABO/WHeeo, from Crookwell. 10d ’
RS/R, from Rockley, 9Jd; HFL/T, from Tumut 9|d.’
Scoured skin: PR. from Tumut, 12d. Our sales will not
be resumed until January 11. 1894, owing to the break
made by the Christmas holidays.
Marsupial SKiNS.-We offered a fair-sized catalogue at
our auction this week and found prices about equal to
late rates. Quotations: Large grey kangaroo, 45d to
f^U. me< w U n’ 20d *? 30d ; from ld t 0 15d red, 3d
to 23d. Wallaroo, from 12d to 18d for large • small to
medium Id to lOd. Wallaby, swamp, Id ; scrub
Id to 13d; rock to 3d each. Bear, to 3d each. Opossum
fc TplrTl mPP,r: B ’“ medium)
Sheepskins.-The market did not exhibit improvement
this week, and low prices have still to be accepted for
pelts and shorts. We quote full-woolled at froin 4id to
tid’f S TT 0r n id A medium , 3id to 4,1 ; short and pelts
l|d to2 s dper lb. Green Skins-pelts, 6d to 15d ; medium
growth, 20d do 30d each ; full-woolled, 35d to 45d each
Tallow.— There is no improvement in this line, and iow
prices have still to be accepted. We offered a catalogue
to-day of 245 packages and casks, the principal lines were
Tester, Gearin, Fooks, TA. JH, YBD, BS&Co. m,d 69
casks of the well-known YOW/F tallow. We quote best
mutton from £2l 15s to £22; best mixed £2O in, te
£2l 5s ; trade lines, £lB to £l9 10s per ton ’ ° S t 0
Hides.—Market firm at late rates. We quote extra
heavies at 3d to Md; good, at 2Jd to 2|d ; medium
weights, l|d to Id ; light and dry, to 2d per lb
Tanners are the principal purchasers p m.
Hair.—Horse tail, 12d to 13d ; cow, 8d to lOd • on (he
stump, 4d to 6Jd per lb. ’ UH > on the
Bones.—Knuckles, £2 10s; shank, £3 15s to £5-
mon, £1 15s to £2 5s per ton. ’ c0ln "
HoRNS.-Large, from £1 to £1 10s ; medium, 10s tolls-
tips, from 2s 6d per 100. ’ 1014S >
Bark - Market without alteration, and there will not
be much business done before the holidays 1
Sydney, 22nd December, 1893,
FOUR HOURS TOO LATH.
“ Oh, God I if I could recall the past three or four
hours, fee what trouble a man may bring upon
himself all in a moment,”
Mr. James Curtis and Mr. 0. S. Bennett, both
of San Francisco, had been intimate friends for
years. Last summer they quarrelled for the first
time, each accusing the other of wrong. Better
thoughts prevailed and they were reconciled.
But you can’t undo what is once done. Memory
kept the record on her slate. They avoided each
other as much as possible. Still, living as neigh-
bours, men must meet some time. These two met
in the street. The quarrel was renewed. Bitter
words flew fast and thick, and Curtis, beside him-
self with rage, drew his pistol and shot Bennett
dead on the sp' b. Later in the day housed the
above language—so laden with self-reproach and
sorrow. Yet how useless, how hopeless, how
vain.
But was Curtis right in saying that trouble may
come all in a moment ? True, it often seems so,
but is there not a deeper fact which we don’t see?
It matters nothing what the nature of the trouble
is. Therefore, let us consider a different ease on
the same principle.
An intelligent woman says;—“ln October,
1890, I had an attack of illness from which I never
expected to recover. I had aching pains all over
me and a cough that nearly shook me to pieces.
I obtained no good sleep night or day, and had to
take to ray bed. I was fed with liquid food from
an invalid s cup, for I could not raise myself in
bed. My heart fluttered so you could hear it beat
on the pillow, and often pain struck through it as
though somebody had stabbed me. I lay perfectly
helpless and could scarcely breathe. ‘ A doctor
attended me over a rnotith, but I grew weaker and
weaker. Sometimes at night I was so bad he
feared I would not live till morning. He called in
a consulting physician and both agreed that mv
condition was critical. I was fed with brandy to
keep me alive. My husband and daughter stayed
with me almost constantly. None of the medicines
administered had any effect, I was almost at
death’s door.
“At this time, Mrs. Keeling, of Mutley, near
Plymouth, a friend of mine, urged me to try a
medicine called Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup.
I procured a bottle, and after a few days I was
able to take and digest sufficient food to give me
some strength, and the worse symptoms were
greatly abated. After having used six bot-tles of
the Syrup my health was completely restored, and
I have since felt better than for the previous thirty
years. My two daughters have also been cured
of indigestion by it. I will gladly answer any
enquiries.”
(Signed) Mrs. Louise Jackson, Builders’Anns
Hotel, Bridge Road, Hammersmith, London.
Jan. 11th, 1892.
In the letter, from which the above is an extract,
Mrs. Jackson further states that for over twenty
years before the attack of October, 1890, she had
suffered from a disordered stomach and liver.
She had a bad taste in the mouth, a poor appetite,
and what little she ate gave her pain. She felt
l languid, and tired, and had a miserable
sinking feeling in the stomach, great pain in the
chest and sides, palpitation, giddiness, and fre-
quently fell in the street and had to be assisted
home.
So we perceive that in her case a cause, long in
operation, at last produced the crisis which came
near ending her life. It is always thus, whether
we recognise the cause or not. ’ The crime com-
mitted by Curtis was the sudden passionate act of
a man who allowed thoughts of hate and vengeance
to take possession of his mind and breed the con-
dition which made murder possible. In the veiy
different case of this lady s illness it was an enemy
of her body, indigestion and dyspepsia, which at
length broke out into violence.
The lesson is the same. Watch the beginning
of evil and check it while vet it may be easily
controlled. "
The Political Outlook.
Ihe most appropriate and significant descrip-
tion of political affairs in New South Wales at
the present moment, is “in chaos.” The light of
representation is absolutely extinguished. Is it not
time for electors of this country to bo up and do ng
and say, like theßomans in the days gone by, “ \Ve
will suffer wrongs no more?” Let every elector re-
flect, and grasp the situation, then, when the time
has run and the day is at hand when the battle
shall be fought, there will be—there uimbbe- such
an overwhelming opinion given as to the base
treachery and subtle scheming of the past few
days, that on all sides the acknowledgment will
be heard, “ The voice of the people is the voice of
brod. Such an acknowledgment aS that has for
years been heralded in regard to the original
panacea for debility, lassitude, and weakness
Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,” and for the coining
struggle, when staunch nerves, indomitable pluck
and fearless resolution will be absolute necessities!
let everyone fortify himself with this super-
bly 6. recuperative, and vitalising agent. Mr.
Whiteford, late of the Herald office, further
testifies to the above bv writing. “My wife
after taking two or three bottles of Marshall’s
ionic Nervine, rapidly improved in appetite,
digestion, and consequently nerve vigour. She
was before rapidly sinking, now she is strong and
well.” .


BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1826.
*o^
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
F 0»
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
£1 Per Acre. £1
No Rents! No Landlords I
Your Own Some I
j4f\ ACRES o! Good, Fertile Land, within
\EV/ easy distance of Sydney, at .£1 per acre,
upon terms of J£B Cash down, and the balance
may remain, if desired, 32 years at 4 per cent,
interest. Full information on application to
grank S Beckmann,
21 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
QRXTERION THEATRE
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) TO-NI&HT
and until Further Notice.
grank ghornton £ <ghas. (Arnold's
ENGLISH COMEDY COMPANY,
In the Greatest of ail London Successes,
“CHARLEY’S AUNT,”
Now running at the Globe Theatre, London,
since last December.
First Appearance in Sydney of Mr. FRANK THORNTON
(the Private Secretary) as Lord Faucourt Babberly.
" BARS."
Box Plan open at the Theatre, where seats may
be booked four weeks in advance.
Vjl H E CRYSTAL MAZE.
A BBVBDATION 1 A ItEVBLATION 1
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of this NOVEL and DELIGHT-
FUL EXHIBITION,
The moit extraordinary and unique epectacle ever
witneesed in Sydney.
Location—TUß STRAND (Pitt Strum Entrance).
ADMISSION—One Shilling; Children, O<L
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
W. MAOMAHON, Director.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rlgnold.
EVERY EVENING I EVERT EVENING 1
The Gorgeous Christmas Pantomime,
“JACK THE GIANT KILLER.”
Grand Comlo Harlequinade by the FAUST FAMILY.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday) and EVERY EVENING 1
Grand Xmas Pantomime,
“ geauty and the geast.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Theatre royal.
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING.
£he gabes, or from the sfood.
The Stars of Pantomime,
GOURLAY and WALTON.
POPULAR PRICES —3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE
Jambs Hbndt, Manager for Gourlay k Walton.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM.
Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6 a.m.
till 10 p.m. For LADIES Dally from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Public Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesday Evening.
Medical.
WHAT »BEAUTY?
Fresh, Clear, Firm Complexions and a Beautiful Figure?
(SP I
ANNA RUPPERT,
the eminent Lecturess,
under Royal patronage,
can give you all that is
required to make you
an envied woman.
—TRY—
BUPPEBT’S
SKIN TONIC.
Harmless, Effective and
Permanent. It does not
require continual use;
refreshes and makes any
complexion firm and
girlish. Nothing magi-
cal, but a perfect tonio,
used locally.
Cures Acne, Blackheads, Eczema, Early
Wrinkles, etc. Never Fails.
Price per Bottle, 12/6; Three (usually required), £ll2s 6d.
All Mrs. Ruppert’s Goods bear her Trade Mark and the
Address, 89 Regent Street, London, on the labels. Who’e-
sale Agency for Australasia:
No. 161, THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
Sole Retail Agents for Victoria: BEDDOME & CO., 254
Bourke-street, Melbourne. Tasmania: Hatton & Laws,
Launceston ; and S. IIAICKI3, Chemist, 73 Kiiig-st.,
SYDNEY. Retail Agents wanted in Queensland —for
particulars apply to the Sydney office.
(Special ffisit to Newcastle & §athurst.
fd
Professor
Albert Richard, M.E.,
The World-famed
Pre-Eminent Medical
Electrician.
Protected by Govt. Royal
Letters Patent of Austra-
lasia, New Zealand, etc.
The Medical Electric Chair
and Medical Electric Coil
can only be obtained in my
Consulting Rooms. No Agent
has been appointed. They can
be bought on ly d i rec t from me.
The Electric News, 20pp.,
or 105 newspaper columns
(Testimonials), may be obtained free on application.
All cases treated' Privately in the Consulting Rooms are
treated in Strict Confidence, and the names never given
as reference.
Preliminary Consultation Free of Charge.
Hours: From 9 a.m. till 8 p.m.
SPECIALIST FOR BOTH SEXES.—Paralysis, Rheu-
matism, Spinal Affections, Locomotorataxy, Hysteria,
Loss of Speech, Eyesight, Deafness, Liver Torpidity,
Dyspepsia, Cramp, Varicose Veins, Debility, Neuralgia,
Constipation, Writer’s Cramp, Exhaustion, Melancholia,
Stomach Distension, Local Weakness, Sleeplessness, Im-
paired Vitality, etc.
Professor RICHARD has DELAYED his Visit to New-
castle, Bathurst and Sydney until MAY or JUNE,
on account of the heat and rest required for his health.
Correspondence may be addressed General Post
Office, Charters Towers, Queensland. Immediate atten-
tion will be given. (Note Date.)
AHP
glycerine
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Sun Coot, and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, «C.
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
More effectually than any other preparation.
It Is delightfully Cooliho and Refrebhtnq if applied to
the Face or Hands after being out in the Sun, Tennis-
playing, Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Irritation
eanaedby the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. A 2s. 6d. Sole Makers;
Jl, BKETHAM A SON. Chemists, Cheltenham. England..
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
-m
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, December 23,1893.
IENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazettb.
TENDERS for the Works, Ac., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1894.
Bridge, Cow Creek, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wakool River, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wilson River at Ballingarra. Time ex-
tended
Erection of Building in connection with the Hos-
pital for the Insane at Kenmore
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Punt for
Hunter River at Mosquito Island
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17.
Erection of Engineer’s Residence, Pumping-
station, Dubbo Water Supply
Erection of Turncock’s Cottage at Reservoir,
Dubbo Water Supply
Supply of Eight Screw Cutting Lathes for Naval
Station, Garden Island
Construction of Stormwater Sewer, Point Piper
Road to Rushcutter’s Bay. Contract No.
100, Sydney Sewerage
Construction of Partitions, Doors, Ac., Sail-loft,
Naval Station, Garden Island
Gates and Grills to Openings, Chain and Anchor
Store, Garden Island
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
Hotels.
-THE-
Wentworth Hotel
%
:st.j
7^^:.
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Tarilf: Bs. 6d. per Day.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
JJ OTEL FOR SALE.
Owner leaving owing to Old Age. Everything
in First-class Order.
TERMS CASH.
Apply—W. A. Griffiths, Australasian Hotel,
Golden Valley, near Croydon,
NORTH QUEENSLAND.
Grand natatorium hotel, 396 to 402
Pitt-street, Haymarket, Sydney. These extensive
Premises offer every home comfort to visitors. Attached
to the hotel are the grandest sea-water swimming baths
in the world ; 1400 tons of warm flowing sea-water; a per-
fect luxury, free of charge, to our visitors. N.B.—The
Pitt-street Railway ’ buses pass the door every few minutes
M
A.
The TRIO BY,
Gardens, Orchard, Ballroom, Tennis adjacent,
Dairy.
Terms « £2 2s.
Mrs. J. W. FLETCHER.
Business Announcements.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THIS
Sole Manufacturer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
LION "
%
j s.
RAO* M AQ*
BRAND
Confectionery .
Warehouse; CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
The OALIG-RAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 ccpies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph bas two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with tractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS; - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
0. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
,*vr i
I ■ J
AMBERG’S CABINET LETTER FILES.
rpilE most perfect and complete system for FILING
1- Correspondence. No numbering, folding, endorsing,
indexing, or pasting. All papers free from dust and
mutilation. Used extensively by Banks, Ins. Co.,
Shippers. No office complete without at least a small
Cabinet. D. B. THOMAS, Agent, Vic. Arcade, Sydney.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—I*.; Psr POST, Is. 3d.
Missing Friends.
KEEGAN, DECEASED.
Eliza Myers, otherwise Keegan, deceased’s
sister, will hear of something to her advantage
by communicating with the undersigned. She
was last heard of five years ago, being then in
the Hospital, Hobart.
THYNNE and MACARTNEY,
Solicitors,
A.M.P. Chambers, Brisbane, Queensland.
Publications.
BERTS ON STCO.,
Retail Boolesellers and Stationers,
363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NEW SERIAL VOLUMES.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
ALBURY MISSING WORD COMPETI-
TIONS. DOUBLE GUESSES-No. 3.
“Lobengula, the Matabele King, notwithstanding his
defeat by the British, and his envoys having been unjustly
fired upon, humanely afforded the missionaries a safe
passage to the British lines. Such a example
of magnanimity should not be overlooked when making
terms with the dusky potentate.”
CLOSES THURSDAY, JANUARY 4.
Every Competitor allowed two guesses for each 1/- sent
by Postal or P.O. Orcbr, 1/1 if in stamps. Total amount,
less 10 per cent./ divided amongst successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited in a sealed envelope with
Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury bookseller.
Burton & Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
NOTE.—No. 2 Competition not having been correctly
guessed, the amount has been carried into No. 3 (as above).
Please refer to this paper when replying.
VkHAIi
Cupipl
f
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free
“ Rush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by O.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed I Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-, Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Beiant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3,6, post 4/-. Maria Monk, 1,6, post
1/9. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should be, by
Annie Besant, 1/-, by post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1,6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &0., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
‘TheSilent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Holliok, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 6/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
NOW KEAUY, POST FKEB
y
ITIHE BALLET
GIRL: Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
Ind'a, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid,” To
be had only of Madame Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
CHE A P MUS 1 C.
New Song, “ After the Ball,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes,
Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or frois
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON.
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
FOR
Books and Stationery,
The BEST and CHEAPEST NOVELTIES
are Imported by
The CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
48 & 50 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY
(opposite the Australia Hotel).
The Best Magazine Published in Australia
—is—
Issued Monthly by THE CENTRAL PRESS AGENCY,
Limited,
48 and 50 Castikreaqh Street, SYDNEY.
SUBSCRIPTION now REDUCED to 12s. per annum.
Published Monthly. Price, One Shilling.
The CHRISTMAS NUMBER now Ready,
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. "Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“ Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William
Tell," “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Mascho-a,” "II Trov.v
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 261 Swanston Street. MELBOURNE.
One of the most interesting specimens of
suicide literature, lately published, is the letter
written by a Maoriland lady, Annie Clark, just
before she adopted the unwomanly course of
shooting herself with a horse-pistol. She tells the
addressee, “ My dear Will,” that she has found
“all men arealike,” and then illogically enough
goes on to declare that she “cannot live without ”
him. She suicides because she “can see no other
way out of her difficulties,” but “admits
that the prospect of suicide is nob very exhilarat-
ing.” She is “ sorry that the end js so near, for,”
she writes, “ I am young, and it seems rather
hard to die, but I think it is better so.” And
holding to that resolution she took an unusually
good aim for a woman, and the inquest was duly
held.
Suppose Premier Dibbs had been horse-
pistolled by the insane Indian hawker who called
for his blood, the other day, with a howitzer in
his hand, would there have been any “ Respon-
sible Government ” in New South Wales to-day ?
When a Premier resigns, the whole Cabinet re-
signs. When a Premier dies, the whole Cabinet
dies. Under ordinary circumstances such an
event is a small and easily-arranged matter, but
just at present N.S.W. has no electorates, and,
therefore, no means of filling a vacancy, and, in
fact, the only article the province is quite sure it
has gob is George Royalty Dibbs. So that if
Providence were to require Dibbs’ sudden absence
from this world of “Government by Monte,”
well —this writer gives it up.
Addison, the Sydney magistrate, when
the case of Dooley and Allen came on for hearing
the other day, alluded to it as a matter of “ poli-
tical excitement.” Considering that various
people were trodden on and had their heads
walked upon in the general “scrum,” and torn
and bruised and partially-naked individuals were
shooting promiscuously down the stairs of the
Protestant Hall amid a hurricane of profanity
and execrations and stove-in hats, the term “poli-
tical excitement ”is good. Most people present
thought that a fire had broken out in Sheol and
that all the devils were rushing for the door.


TATTERS ALL’S
Carrington Stakes. 25,000 at
Mlld.aT3.mmer H’cap January L 10,000
10.
at S.
{
“ TAITCItM 11,”
Care of George Aka ms,
“The Telegraph ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane, Queensland
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOOIET 3T.
Head Office: 07 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
IRECTORS The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; J. T. WALKER, Esq.;
and ROBTERT J. KING, Esq.
tser All Policies effected from now till the end of the Year will share in the Division of Profits as at 31st December, 1893. Amount of CASH BONUS Distributed amongst Policy-
holders for the One Year, 1892, exceeded HALF-A-MILLION STERLING.
the ProftT?oTthis Ve““ ediately ° n P ° licieS attaining * duration of years. Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in applications early, either direct or through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of
General Manager and Actuary—RlCH AMD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A. ROIiERT R, CAMERON, Secretary.
«
A
QOCO
71
“HAPPY RESULTS"
Mrs. M. A. GUMMING,
TT arraville,Victoria, -A.Tj.stra.lia;
Restored to Health by the rise of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“About a year ago I had a severe attack of
Influenza which left me very weak, without energy
or interest in life or appetite. Obtaining little
or no relief from doctors or from the many
remedies recommended to me I finally tried Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla and from that time I began to gain
health and strength. I continued the treatment
until fully recovered, and now have very great
pleasure in telling my friends of the merits of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and the happy results of its use.
1 consider it the best blood purifier known."—
Mrs. M. A. Gumming, Yarraville, Victoria.
ASK FOR AYER’S SARSAPARILLA.
Take no other!
Tone up the system and improve the appetite by
taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It makes you feel like
a new person. Thousands have found health and
strength by the use of this great blood-purifier
when all other means have failed.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass,. U.S A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
c,£
,ERV
&
\<
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/i
\ e
‘f r, VC
/S °nd stree'*
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Beware of imitations. Thegenuineissigned
df
' I'
Miscellaneous.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, Here are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other i<
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELMS.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK. SYDN «•-.
66 ~\7 r ORKSHIREM AN’S ” SELECTIONS
JL for all Sporting nts should be ob-
tained by every backer. Sumun n ip, Carrington
Stakes, and Tattersall’s Cup. Some h ,, u things
specially kept for these events. VurKt... un-
man ” selected Little Bernie, Pilot Boy and
Chatham last year; this is as good. See News,
Star and Referee weekly.
“ Y ORKSHIREM AN,”
Care of W. J. FRANK, 3 Kidge-st., Surry Hills. Sydney
5. EACH.
3£
5. EACH.
d
f
x2£
CANTERBURY HANDICAP, Jan 13th, ’94.
At 6 Each 4,000 At 5 Each
FIRST .. .. 400
SECOND .. 200
THIRD .. .. 100
S. and N.S. (divide) .. 200
50 C. P. at 2 each .. 100
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP, JAN. 26.
At 5 Each 10,000 At 5 Each
tW~ Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” o/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
YABBA’v
Cash Prize Consultations.
Messrs, jas. nesbit and wm. mooney
(Members of Tattersall’s Club, Brisbane)
having amalgamated the CONSULTATION
Branches of their Business, beg to announce the
following as their opening Programme :
ANNIVERSARY HANDICAP,
Randwick, 26th January, 1894.
10,000 ISJi At 5 Each 10,000
55 Extra Prizes 55
NEWMARKET HANDICAP,
Flemington, 3rd March, 1894.
50,000 |3i r ‘ At 5 Each 50,000
245 Extra Prizes 245
AUSTRALIAN CUT!!
Flemington, 6th March, 1894.
5,000 At 5 Each 5,000
SO Extra Prizes 30
Register your Letters, and take care of Receipt
till you receive a reply.
Address:
“ Yatotoa,”
Care of NESBIT & MOONEY,
Queen-street, BRISBANE.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
OA p Si??? £ ave on ® chance in his innings of
205 against N.S.W. It was the best innings he has ever
played, on the Adelaide Oval, any way. Last year N.S.W.
unearthed a bowler (Pearce) against S. A., and this year
she has unearthed Newell, who much resembles Attewell.
Jones, the S.A. lightning bowier, did well, and would be a
wonder on a sticky wicket in England. The S.A. match
demonstrates that Australia will possess some warm
msUnoe ab ° Ut ’ 96 ~ Newell > F ‘ Jarvi »- » nd Darling, for
• • #
The Adelaide cricket public gravely considered
the question of slaying veteran Tommy Garrett in cold
blood during the recent match. Tommy revived his pet
off theory ” when Giffen was going strong, thus remind-
ing spectators of those dreary matches of years ago when
all the field would be placed on the off and bowlers sent
up soft stuff in the hope of getting a catch. As a result,
batsmen stonewalled, and the public stayed away. Who
does not remember Barnes and Sootton with horror?
# • »
The South Melbourne eleven, not including
Trott and Graham, played some lively cricket the other
Saturday. Three hours’ batting produced 70 runs, and
this on a not very difficult wicket.
# • #
Racing at the little mug-catching meetings
around Melbourne has gone from bad to awful of late.
There is no pretence of honesty even among the thieves
who of yore were wont to pull the strings by unanimous
private arrangement. Mugs are now so scarce that the
‘‘catchers” have to lay snares for oie another, arid an
owner who bets on the assumption that he is “ in the
know " frequently finds himself the victim of a fresh
arrangement made whilst the horses are running. An
influential sneeze on a suburban racecourse is the signal,
perhaps, for a sudden reversal of the swindle scheme. If
a gentleman scratches his bald head with the third finger
of his left hand in an aggressive manner, then you may
be sure that something fresh is in the wind.
• • •
Just previous to bis suicide, that inveterate
gambler, Theodore Simpson, had handed to him a cash
testimonial —the result of a collection for his benefit
tak°n up at “ Tattersalls.” With this fair-sized sum in
the bag he attended a meeting at Randwick, and netted
£l4OO. That night he plnyei “hazard” at £1 a time,
and lost eiery penny. Then he went to Coogee and
played hazard some more by doing the deed that supplied
the text of Tub Bulletin’s recent sermon-“ Lay to
your Book.” Members of “Tatts.” pass round the hat
once more, this time to buy a tomb-stone to place over
Simpson. The most suitable inscription to engrave on
such a tomb would be—“ Lay to your Book,” and every
bookie should make that grave his Mecca.
* # •
Bob M‘Leod excuses his moderate performances
in the late Australian Eleven on the ground that the
enemy was too strong for them. But Robert is evidently
suffering from Anglo-phobia. He “thought a lot of
England before he went home,” and now, ouroath ! words
can’t express his admiration for that dear old country.
# # #
Sydney D.T. darkly hints, in its sporting
column, that “ Bouquet has been sent home to be spelled.”
After a long experience of the French accent of the
“ ring,” The Bulletin oan’thelp thinking that ihemysteri-
ous par. really means “ Bouquet has been sent home to
be pronounced.”
# • #
Griffiths, M.P., the baby of the S.A. Assem-
bly, made 106 runs in the recent cricket-match between the
Parliament and the Press. The talkers made 226 for 9
wickets, and the writers 217.
• * •
One Sandy Something “put up his stuff,” £2,
with Melb. Standard for a boxing-match. A bootmaker
saw his defl, and accepted it by “attaching ” 17s. 6d. for
a two-year-old debt. Will the Vic. Chief Justice stand by
while Sport is thus knocked out?
Every “great” law case is another revel-
ation in the art of saying very little in a very long
time, but saying it with a vast amount of import-
ance. If Heaven were to drop a brisk matter-of-fact
barrister down upon this wig-ridden world and
the new arrival were to talk straight to the point
with the respectable purpose of getting there as
soon as possible, what an uproar he would create
in judicial circles ? The learned and honourable
Bar would kill him for saving time and trying to
rob the profession of nineteen shillings in the £ of
its bloated expenses. Meanwhile, the Law appears
to be conducted in the best interests of anarchy.
It is a powerful excuse for dynamite and infernal
machines.
Editor Bulletin, —You called a recent
Melb. case in which I described a woman starving
upon 2s. 6d. a week for close on 98 hours’ work,
and praying to be sent to gaol sooner than go
upon the streets, as “overdone.” It would not
recommend its truth to you for me to solemnly
assure you that it was a fact, which a crowded
court heard and a criminal chronicler recorded in
black and white. You wisely remark that any
woman who could work like that for such wages
“would earn more as a servant.” Ye gods!
what logical deduction from the premises of
ignorance. Do you know what servants are paid
now in Melbourne? Have you the faintest
idea how work of the meanest description is
remunerated at present in this Golgotha ?
In short, do any of you, my lords and
gentlemen of New South Wales, guess at the
degradation and misery among the toiling and
moiling population who, some of them, sustain
life on butchers’ refuse—and glad to get it—in
Marvellous Melbourne? You do not. And yet
you loftily refuse credence to one who does, who
lives among it, and sees it day by day. It is an
enlightened press surely which airily stigmatises
as “overdone” that which it knows nothing
whatever about, and charitably doesn’t want to,
either. Let me just mention one or two more
»ases, which are also “ overdone,” One household
pays its general servant four shillings per week,
for which she is expected to do, and does, more
than I would ask space to specify. The
keepers of a well - known dancing academy
here pay their housekeeper ten shillings
weekly (out of which she finds her own keep), and
her duties comprise the care of several rooms, the
cleaning of the house, washing and cooking. A
position for “girl to do housework ” was adver-
tised last week, for which there were thirty-five
applicants, and the wages were three shillings a
week 1 These are facts, but, of course, not the
less “overdone” for that. And the few hundred
vagrants at present in our gaols for no greater
• crime than starving in the open streets, because
• there was no kindly editor to inform them that
-they could live well as “servants ” if they only
knew it, which they didn’t, having tried to in
vain, are also facts. —Yoiirs, &c., B.E. Melb.,
T2/12/’93.
Don, of the Bruni Shore.
[FOR THE BULLETIN].
Where danger the nerve of the staunchest tries,
Don, of the Bruni Shore,
Perils his life for the peerless prize,
While hail pours down from the stormy skies,
And man’s adventurous spirit vies
With elements at war.
Many the rivals who covet the Vase,
Don, of the Bruni Shore,
Dreams of it nightly beneath the stars
When the Southern Light, like molten bars,
The breast of the quiet Heaven scars
As streamers upward soar.
Straight for the beacon he steered the craft—
Don, of the Bruni Shore—
While ever the rising storm-winds laughed
And shot the spray like a cunning shaft,
Drenching the rigging both fore and aft,
Their tameless might before.
No coward the man this storm would shun;
Don, of the Bruni Shore,
Vowed, e’re even the race had begun,
Even if he were the only one,
The storm should be dared, the work be done,
And glory then—galore !
The Stormbird skipper that, vaunting, cried,
Don, of the Bruni Shore,
Shall never in triumph homeward ride,
The “Golden Vase ” by his right-hand side,
The rising tempest durst not abide,
And shuns the surge’s roar.
Now, all but he have bowed to the gale,
Don, of the Bruni Shore,
With treble reef in his every sail,
And storm-jib set, sees the “ Doris ” scale
The stormy summits—and none grow pale
Or death’s approach deplore !
His cry rings out and the boat swings round,
Don, of the Bruni Shore —
Peels her give, like a steed, a bound
When the fox is viewed by the foremost hound
And the eager pack, their quarry found,
Are ravening for its gore.
The tiller shivers beneath the strain,
Don, of the Bruni Shore,
Grips the rudder with might and main—
The fever maddens the heart and brain,
The glorious nectar the strong men drain—
The race is well nigh o’er.
Hurrah ! the danger at length is past,
Don, of the Bruni Shore.
Who eased-the boat to each rising blast,
And ever a glance to the windward cast,
Now sees the long-wished shine at last
Clear to his seaman’s lore.
And now he steers where the sunset glows—
Don, of the Bruni Shore—
Where scent of the apple-blossom blows
Outrivalling boasted attar of rose,
And softly the wave of tlje Huon flows
His lady’s home before !
Tas.
DON.
“With the growth of great commercial
interests has grown up a system of dicker, cheat,
fraud, swindle, adulteration, lying, and organised
bunco-steering. This spirit of dishonesty has so
pervaded commercial life that there is no such
thing as commercial confidence when not backed
by good security.”— Amer.
About the most hideous picture ever seen
in an illustrated newspaper is one that appeared
in the London Penny Illustrated, entitled
“How the Maxim Guns Acted on the Matabelo.”
The Chartered Company’s troops in a comfortable
compact square, with some dozens of the
murderous weapons manipulated by calm-faced
ruffians; the wild rush of the naked savages
stopped dead, three hundred yards away, by the
hail of deadly lead—a truly horrible picture of
gore and dust and mangled flesh that appeals
strongly to the average Englishman’s lust for
slaughter.
A further joyous communication is to
hand from the New Australians in Paraguay, and
it points clearly to the fact that the argonauts are
being debauched by such insidious means as
oranges, guitars and Government billets. After
a preliminary burst of enthusiasm over a bullock-
wagon load of oranges, the writer announces that
Lane has been made a magistrate or a J.P. or
something. The letter doesn’t state how many
sacksful of paper-money El Corregidor gets as his
weekly screw, but there ought to be a salary
attached to the billet in any solvent republic. Lane
is also head of the police for the district. This
early eruption of lawnorder into the Paraguayan
paradise dissipates the pleasant dream that
policemen wouldn’t be wanted in the blissful
Arcadia. “He is also ’’—and here the enthusiastic
young Australian female who wants to go to
Paraguay will smile a sweet, soft smile—“ em-
powered to marry, and generally conduct the
entire business of the immense territory under our
control,” from which it appears that Lane
is now Dictator, in addition to his other duties.
A further circumstance, which has no necessary
connection with the circumstance" last mentioned,
is that “We have a lying-in-hospital at Villa
Rica. Dr. Bottrill, who has a great name in this
part of the world (a Dr. Bottrill had a great name
in N.S.W. once, by the way, and, by some curious
analogy, also with the lying-in business) is in
charge of it.” So far, the writer says, no tigers
nor serpents have decimated the party, but a
violent assault was made upon the train by a
number of natives who hove flowers and cigars at
the Australians through the windows and in their
rude but kind manner wanted to shout strange
South American drinks for them and fall upon
their necks and bless them. One Don Criado,
who is Paraguayan Consul at Monte Video, and
described as “a gentleman of the first water,”
and also as “friend Criado,” seems to be highly
thought of. One of this hidalgo’s remarkable
statements is that for marrying purposes the
argonauts will have full authority “to fix up man
and wife mateship as they please,” which is a
large order, and will cover a whole lot of things.
An excursion steamer now runs regular
trips from Valparaiso to Juan Fernandez. The
round trip takes six days, three of which are spent
upon the spots made famous by Defoe’s “ Robin-
son Crusoe.”
“ Gilhooley O’Grunt ” writes as follows :
Dear Bulletin,— The squatters are whining they will
give no more rations to travellers. Thsir advertisement
would make people not in the know believe they gave
every traveller half a ton of rations and luxuries free
for nothing. Even in these bad times eight travellers
out of ten pay their way. The outrageous prices they
have to pay the squatter for everything pays for all the
rations the squatter gives away. It also pays for the
entertainment of the squatter's friends who maybe pass-
ing. Instead of giving, the thief of a squatter robs the
traveller. Here is the rations they falsely state they give
away—soz. flour, IJlb. dog’s meat; no tea or sugar. This
has to carry the receiver to the next station, the stations
being from 25 to 50 miles apart. The squatter takes a
great delight in jeering and insulting old men when they
apply to him for work or rations. As a rule the squatter
is a selfish, ignorant brute with the principles of a hog.
A Sydney Telegraph correspondent sug-
gests that Lord Howe Island should be turned
into a leper-station, so as to remove the array of
ghastly incurables beyond the range of uninfected
humanity. Or, failing this, he proposes that the
leper should be killed off by some painless pro-
cess, and his remains and all his belongings
cremated. This latter is, doubtless, the safest
process, though it is questionable if anybody has
the courage to introduce the proposition in Par-
liament. The most promising cure for leprosy is
to burn the dead leper and all his goods, and
drop his ashes into the Pacific many miles from
land. Nothing else known to science seems to be
of any account.
The ceremony of collecting the “ Wroth
Money” or “Wroth Penny ” is duly adhered to
by the Duke of Buccleuch, on his Warwickshire
estates. At sunrise, the noble duke’s tenants
meet at a certain village cross and listen to the
duke’s agent reading a charter of assembly, which
winds up with a formal demand for the money.
The amounts vary from a penny to 2s. 3d. No
one knows wha,t the custom was instituted for, or
what purpose it serves—unless to perpetuate the
brutish idiocy of the British bucolic. If the fee
is not paid the Duke can—his immediate ancestor
did—impose a fine of 20s. for every penny not
forthcoming, or else the forfeiture of “ a white
bull with a red nose and ears of the same colour.”
Then, as a matter of course, the Hodges and
Joans are taken to an inn and regaled on hot rum
and milk till they get beastly drunk, and weep
maudlin tears at their good luck in having such a
kind landlord. And all this howling lunacy is
called by the Pall Mall Gazette “an interest-
ing old custom.”
The stock (invoiced £7) and the license,
with seven months life in it, of a N.S. W. country
“pub.” was the other day sold under the hammer
for —£,l ! The lot —furniture, &c.—brought .£l9.
The inevitable day of cold tea keeps on coining
closer.


df
sN. M ( BVBNEY X
fE. S. WALLIS )
VA. HENSON J ?
MBUBNEY, WALLIS and CO.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROTJGH, MORT & CO. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY
Liberal Casli Advances if required..
PECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Each. Department ina.ira.gecl lay a member of the
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY .
Wool Warehouses : Margaret Street. Produce Stores: Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices; Macquarie
Special Advertisements
mHE PEOPLE OF QUEENSLAND, in
1 Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Brisbane),
where the FINEST STOCK in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts, Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockery ware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low-priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES ! ! This can be proved in the
most satisfactory manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the only reliable test. Everything
in their line can be had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S except shoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, and remittance to cover
amount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c.. payable to FINNEY",
ISLES & CO.
Samples, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for men’s or
women’s clothing, Price-lists, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will be immediately forwarded
on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers),
Brisbane, Maryborough & London.
JI Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
d
&
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick Ij
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In j
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
—Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Ver)
palatable, and free from adulterants
— British Medical Journal April 18, 1891.
.iltel Mdk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents .
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHiUDREN S SWEET)
{^^LcV-cort-e/KfS-
Lancet
(THE CEL
I e a
m
S SWEET)
tZ> jjk
A
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
fd
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIRm'SKIN
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-marls Barclay & Co., Kew York.
fd
uter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER*
Guaranteed to euro every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
I sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest,donotafter
vards'constipate' but by their general action please ail who
, o them. The standard Till of the U. 8. Medical IVofejc
-(„o. ’i 1 e smallest ami easiest to take.. iorly in a phial.
Special Advertisements
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion,
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists
1/3,2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle.
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
CAUTION. —Be Careful to Secure
BOSISTO’S “ PARROT BRAND.”
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Kruse's Insecticide.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S ns*
Clears the House, the Conservatory, and
the Garden of all Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S *®*
Cleanses Domestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Is the only Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
and take none other.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S is*
Sold Everywhere, in Tins at 1/-, 1/6
2/6, 5/- each.
&
9
»
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE, ■
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Trout *: >
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach. and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, cither for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Pills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Pills— is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING. 4
Business Announcements.
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing,
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
A Positive Safeguard against t'lilils.
Light Make for Spring and Summer.
ECRU ■COTTON SINGLETS (Half Sleeves), 4s. C'l-
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS (Long Sleeves); ss.
ECRU COTTON UNDERPANTS, SS.
This Line recommended as being easily washed,
unshrinkable, and very durable.
Ceilular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas, Braces, Belts
and Hosiery.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, and include in Remittance, amount to Prepay
Carriage.
Price-lists, pamphlets and full particulars, post free
from the Sole Agents :
BRAHAM Sc MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
> Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for .£l9
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMBD HOUSE FURNISHED for .£5O.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW*
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
GOB GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone No. GG.]
[Established 1860.
•THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR*
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
)entists, works easy, is a nice, light looking chair, and is
i decide! improvement upon any other chair. Used by
is in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
in hand a large and well-selected slock of Hairdressers
equisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
nirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
no- machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
lather’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
lombs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
loap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
)rop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
vi«- blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c. .
ANTIQUE OH. Specially prepared for Barbers
ise ; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <Sc AITHEN,
SfEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 «!fe 68« George Street. Sydney.
Carter & Co?
iipißiiiiiiMii
Xwau Table
NON REVERSIBLE
rpiUS Ingeniously Constructed KI 1.1,14 KI» lUNINIJ-
-L | 4 |>|.i: j 8 acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete. Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-atl faction. Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexeroise vvilb an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—2S to 37Mj GiPneas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collias-St., Melbourne. Factory, Uaiversity-St.
New South Wales wheat acreage has pro-
gressed from 356,000 acres, in 1891, to 452,001, in
’92, and 594,000, in’93. As Protection has boomed
agriculture this result ought to boom Protection.
The authorities of the Union Library,
Oxford University, have decided to purchase a set
of Zola’s novels. If things goon at this rate it will
not be long before a Zola scholarship is established
in highly conventional Oxford.
Before undergoing operative or other
treatment for Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharp on the
new and successful “ Oannalin ” treatment, 257
George-stt., close to Bridge-st., Sydney.*
A Yank., with the appropriate name of
Burnham, suggests that when the World’s Fair is
finally shut up, a firestick should be put in the
buildings, one building per night to be thus
destroyed, and an entrance-fee of 50 cents charged
for admission to the grounds. The proj>osal shows
the grasping mind of the ’Murkan man. When
an Australian burns his house, he is satisfied to
compromise on the insurance-policy, and doesn’t
charge anything for the show.
Four miners at a N.S.W. colliery were
subpoenaed by “the Crown” to give evidence
against an overman concerning a charge of
brutality to a horse. They were thus compelled,
under penalty of arrest, to be absent one day.
Next morning, when they turned up at the mine,
they were informed that their skips were stopped
for that day. “Why?” “Well, you took
yesterday for your own pleasure, and you can take
to-day for the pleasure of the management.”
And there is no law in this “ freedom-of contract ”
country that can hurt a Fat Man for such con-
tempt of justice.
Messrs. Craig and Aitken, whose famous
“Lounge Hair-dressing Chair” for dentists and
hair-dressers has made their name famous, still
keep up their already-proved reputation by laying
in fresh shipments of all goods belonging to the
hair-dressing business. These include, among
other mysteries, crop and best English hair in all
lengths, gauze, silk net, wig blocks, spirit lamps,
curling irons, “Plum” razors, and the famous
“Antique Oil” —an absolute essential in the
great and imperishable hair-dressing rite.
The extraordinary degree of success fit-
tained by some few patent medicines and remedies
is phenomenal. One of these honourable few is
the famous Clements Tonic, the sale of which in
the Australian provinces is solid evidence of the
hold it has taken upon the public. The countless
testimonials attesting to remarkable cures of in-
digestion, backache, tired and aching limbs, liver
complaint, and many other of the results of
wrecked digestion or an impoverished nervous
system, or a biliary duct which has come to grief
through a long course of high living, are the best
evidences of its value.
Colemane& Sons’Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest-
One of the concomitants of the Christmas
season is that, towards it close, every second man
you meet seems to be possessed of a new hat.
Presumably this arises from the fact that the old
hat was wrecked in some Christmas orgie, but
that has nothing to do with the question at issue.
For the man whose bell-topper has foundered in a
stormy sea of goose and alcohol there is no refuge
like the premises of Messrs. B. Mountoastle and
Sons, 332 George-street, Sydney, where a new
shipment of the latest styles in hats—stiff felt,
black, and all the new shades and shapes, in-
visibly ventilated, Cooksey’s celebrated London
straws, Terai hats with puggaries to match, and
opera hats that weigh, when rolled up, just two
ounces —will give the owner of the wrecked tile
abundant opportunity for renovation.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Readers of romances treating of the age of
chivalry will remember that there is always at
least one character who manages to come out on
top of a warlike encounter by reason of his
possessing an “Andrea Ferrara” blade. And
although Andrea has long been dust, and the pre
sent whereabouts of his soul is a matter of theolo-
gical speculation, there are still to be seen in tin
museums of the Continent many a weapon madi
by the great master, whose excellence of manu-
facture will bear comparison with the steel articles
made by his latter-day prototype—Mr. W. Jno.
Baker, the practical wholesale and retail cutler of
3 Hunter-street, Sydney—whose establishment
will well repay a visit. Among the articles for
which he has an especial reputation are his famous
boundary rider’s knives. Also, he deals largely in
knives of all shapes, sizes and designs, and in
carvers he has a splendid display with cutlass,
scimitar and Saracenic blades, and Oriental,
nautilus shell and gunstock pattern handles.
Colemane & Sons’ Yic. Ointment is marvellous.
W. T. Stead, in response to his advertise-
ment for a dozen sound and apparently inourahh
drunkards to experiment upon with his new
drunk-cure, secured eight good samples of hop ■
lessness—four men and four women. He publishes
the result: —
Three of the women were either married or were widows;
one was a spinster. Of the men, two were commercial
travellers, one a solicitor, the other an ex-naval officer.
One of them came to m guaranteed as one of the worst
cases known to the Church Army ; another equally
certificated from the Salvation Army ; while the
others were accompanied by equally satisfactory
certificates as to their thorough - paced drunkenness.
What has happened? Seven poor, miserable wrecks
drenched with whisky or saddened with gin, and in some
cases with an additional craving for morphia and
laudanum, have been in one short month so completely
weaned from all desire for alcohol that they may he
trusted to go through the most tavern-spotted thorough-
fare without feeling the slightest inclination to resume
their potations. Nay, more, not only has all craving for
drink been killed in their system, but in its place there
has been developed an absolute hatred and loathing-for
intoxicants, a loathing so acute that some of our patients
have walked down the middle of the street rather than
use the footpath which led them too close to the reek of
the tap-room.
The eighth patient is judiciously dropped out of
the narrative. And when the other seven relapse
they will also be dropped out of the narrative, and
the gaudy crank will go on to something else.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Compe-
tition No. 10 closes on Wednesday, Jan. 24, 1894.


Herr
IiASSMUSSEN,
—THE—
Celebrated Danish Herbalist*
Head Office:
547 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded,because it isknown to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFA LINE
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
m- Herr RASSMUSSEN is in POSSESSION of
Over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials
from grateful CURED SUFFERERS, as well as
SEVERAL COLD MEDALS,
and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have CURED more than all others put together
for the same complaint.
The ALE ALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WARNlNG.—lmitators xvillbe Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
MTODSn
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALFASiINE
VITALITY PILLS.
AWARDED
IVlim
\\m
tWO GOLD
EDALS
-.so
AH
oVH
tjmi
ALFA LINF. PILLSf
CURED 100 000 FOR THE bLOOD fc< NERVE!;.
Special Powerful Course, 435. (id., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. (id. Boxes, (is. and 12s,
Registered, and. Purely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin,
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.” —N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”- Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3 -, 6/-, 12 - and 23 6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3'-, 6 -, 12 - and 23 6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and .Moustaches. Packets, 3, - and 6,'-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Eeautifier.
Beautifies the Ctmphxion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3 -
and 6 -
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1-; posted, 16.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 16.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/- ; posted, 1 6 and 2 6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 0/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OP
ALT'ALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOODj DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS,
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UN PLEAS AN T
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD. -
Boxes—Gs. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. Cd.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfallne Leucorrhcea Powders.,
For the Whites. Posted, 3 - and 6/- per Box.
Alfallne External Invigorator.
Boxes, C, - posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling. *
Herr RASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT: 547 GCOrgC StrCCt, SjfdltOV.
ALSO
-A.T HIS BBAHCHES
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide,
91 Lambton Quay, Web ton, N.Z
Dear Bulletin, — “Spagnoletti” lately told
how he saw a starving man eating a carrot in Mel-
bourne. To-day, in the Mile-End Road, near
Bow, London, I saw a poor devil eating the
bottom of a fig-box.— Spaghetti.
Dear Bulletin, —lie the bushman of Aus-
tralia mistaking “mirage” for water. Having
had more than ordinary bush experience, perhaps
I may be considered an authority. In the year
18G5, when out in the Gulf of Carpentaria (Q.)
with Wm. Landsborough, I more than once
mistook the mirage on the immense treeless plains
of the Gulf for water—also on the large salt pans
bordering on the coast of the Gulf. In the same
year 1 was also out with D. MTutyre in the
Leichhardt search expedition, and when travel-
ling on the Plains of Promise, bordering on the
Leichhardt river, I frequently mistook mirage for
water. In.the year 1872, I took the first stock
from Queensland overland to Port Darwin. On
that trip I remember one of my party coming to
me saying he had discovered an inland sea—
which, when I went to look for it, turned out to
be mirage.-— W, D Akoy Uhk.
Next door to Melb. Morgue, on Yjo a
bank, there is a morgue for dogs. All the strav
tykes found in the city are taken there, and, if
not claimed or sold by a certain time, are exe-
cuted—drowned by machinery. The sales take
place by auction. Ten years ago manager Thom-
son, of Melb. Standard, bought a collie there for
£l, and he says it has proved his mascotte. He
never had a day’s ill-luck since he got it. The
animal must have been lent when James got that
seven days for contempt.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Camels have undoubtedly come to stay in
Australia, and it can safely be assumed that, for
long-distance haulage in the dry interior, horse and
bullock-teams will be a thing of the past in
another ten years. Even the most conservative
bullock-teamsters are awakening to the fact that
ere long it will be necessary for them to study out
an entirely fresh vocabulary of blasphemous
expressions suitable to be understanded of the
camel. The mere ordinary bullock-driver’s cuss-
words would be heard with bitter scorn or indif-
ference by a healthy camel.
*7*
i hames Electric & Steam Launch C.
ELECTRIC LAUNCH "GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
■•O
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND.
Christmas Cards! -ii tar Year Cards!
Vide Daily Press.
The Stationers’Hall Company and Book Depot (0. E. Fuller and Company), opposite the Strand, 385 George-
street, is now holding 1 its popular annual Exhibition of Christmas and New Year Cards, Gifts, Presents, &c. The dis-
play is a very artistic and pretty one, and for beauty of selection and design the company’s Exhibit on stands un-
rivalled. The card-room is very tastefully arranged and well worth a visit. The assistants are most obliging, and the
numerous visitors fail not to show their appreciation.
PACKETS of 12 ?5 or 50 CARDS for Is , or FINER CARDS at Is. 6d., 25., 2s. 61., or 3s. 6d. per PACKET,
’ ’ POSTED FREE TO ANT ADDRESS.
'Fix upon the number you require, and send along the amount you wish to spend in stamps to the address as below,
and you are sure to be pleased with the cards you will receive by return mail.
Stationers’ Hall Co. and Book Depot
(C. E. FULLER & CO.), ESTABLISHED TWENTY YEARS,
Opposite tlie Strand, 385 aeorge-sfc., Sydney.
fy'l
I
i m
■
m
CLOTHED WITH AIR!
Ladies’ Cellular Combinations.
A SAFEGUARD AGAINST CHILLS !
Unshrinkable, Easily Washed and Very Durable.
MADE IN
Cotton* Silk & Cotton* Merino* Wool & Silk.
NIGHT-GOWNS, CHEMISES, BODICES, PETTICOATS,
CORSETS, DRAWERS, STOCKINGS, etc.
PRICE LIST and PAMPHLET and all particulars from
Cellular Clothing Depot,
305 and 307 GEOE6E STEEET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street).
f
THE GREAT
Scandinavian
Remedy
—POK —
RHEUMATISM (acute and chronic) GOUT,
CHALKY GOUT, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, NEURALGIA,
BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
KIDNEY & LIVER DISORDERS,
BRITISH CHOLERA,
And all Blood and Skin Dissasos-
THIS Medicine effectually eradicates uric acid
and kidney poisons from the blood. Re-
moves pain in the muscles, joints or nerves and
permanently restores the system to perfect health.
ay.
PRICE, ss. Per BOTTLE ,
Or Course of 5 Bottles for £1 Is.
Invaluable as a Tonic to Ladies of Delicate Constitution.
When I‘Ul.s or Liniments fail, this Valuable
Specific effects a Certain (Jure,
Temporary Office: 328 George Street, SYDNEY,
box 1405 G.P.O.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully
treated cases.
v>
VSgS^IAN
Remedy
THE LAST OF SIX.


To Prospectors.— The advertiser, who has ample capital
at command, also long mining experience, invites offers
of gold mining properties, to be toorked for the
mine, not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic-
sluicing claims. Send offers, with fullest particulars, to
“Oro,’ 2 Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Your Xmas Shopping!
DO IT WITH XTS.
Whether you live at the uttermost ends of Australia nr reside next door makes no difference,
it will pay you to get
YOUR XMAS TUCKER ! YOUR XMAS FINERY
A I’KKSENT FOlt YOLK BEST GIRL;
TOYS for the KIDDIES, and TODACCOS for the Male members of the Flock, from
OUR WONDERFUL STORE!
ALL WE ASK IS
SPOT CASH :
In return for which we pass over, in any of the world’s commodities required, more by Seventy-
five per cent, than any other firm in Australia. It’s a fact, Boss; ask your lady friends.
Country Orders for Xmas supplies should reach us as early in December as possible.
Our Only Address : 3
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
UAYMARKET (ONLY*. SYDNEY,
PBOVIDEES.
' (Close to the Railway Station.)
The Wild Cat Column.
The bank-rates for new one-year deposits have
been put up to 5 per cent., while the old reconstructed
depositor still gets 44 per cent, for his money, which is
fixed for somewhere between five and ten years. This
latest arrangement shows that the old deposit madness
hasn’t diminished in any way. It was the one-year
deposits which broke half the banks in Australia—the
deposits which are taken for 12 months, and are then lent
out on securities which are often not realisable for 12
years. The bank must lend them out in order to earn the
interest upon them; it can’t lend them out where they
will be recoverable in 12 months for sufficient short-dated
securities are not available; so it simply trusts that the
short-dated depositor won't want his money when it
falls due. Last time he did want it, and the banks
burst. And if the short-dated deposit business grows
again to its old proportions, the next time he wants
it suddenly they will burst again. Also, if the offer
of five per cent, for 12 months does not bring in enough
to lay the foundations of another great and glorious
suspension it can only be because the banks have already
absorbed almost all the money there is in the country.
The Australian banks seem to have got the coin-drunken-
ness or deposit-mania in an incurable form, and their
promises to swear off are of practically no account. The
average Australian bank, in fact, wants to be sent to an
inebriate retreat, and there experimented on with a hi-
chloride-of-deposit-receipt cure.
• • •
The long-drawn-out reconstruction of the New
Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency Co. seems to make
no progress worth mentioning. A German gentleman
with a name which sounds like a dinner-service falling
diwnstairs is still barring the way, more or less, and
nobody seems to know exactly when business will be
resumed.
* • •
The principal asset in the estate of Jabez Bal-
four, the fraudulent English saint who is now lying low
in Argentina, was the departed glutton’s stock of choice
wines. Jabez was a short, enormously thick man, with a
swollen head and no neck, and as a hard, consistent eater
and drinker he had no equal in England. How anyone
ever trusted Jabez after once seeing him plunging around
at the dinner-table amid great masses of tat meat is a
mystery.
• • •
Much comment is made, says The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, upon the fact that the deposit-
receipts of some of the reconstructed banks are being
hawkedabout ata very considerable discount. People won-
der why the directors of these institutions of magnificent
promise do not purchase large amounts of these docu-
ments. If all that the mismanagers say be true it would
surely lie a good spec, to buy their deposit-receipts at a
d soount of 20 per cent. Yet they don’t seem to buy-
even in Melbourne where some deposits can be got at 80
per cent, below their alleged face value.
♦ • •
The Argus thinks that the Vic, Savings Banks*
balances as they accumulate should be handed over
to a small body of commissioners for investment in
Government securities. That’s all right. But a general
manager should be fully competent for the work of buy-
ing Government securities with surplus funds, without
introducing any “ representative" persons into the
matter. The Argus suggests the Speaker, the President
of the Legislative Council, the Treasurer, and the Chief
Justice, as a suitable quartette of “ investment commis-
sioners.” Any other four men would do equally well if
they were merely required to purchase a certain amount
of certain stock with a given amount of cash, and bring
the bonds to the Savings Bank’s strong-room. Why call
upon, say, a Matthew Davies and a James Munro—the
Via Speaker and Treasurer of two years since—to carry
out such a very simple transaction T
• • •
The Pall Mall Gazeits, under the beading of
“An Australian Monte Cristo," describes, in a solid
column of enthusiasm, Captain Rogers' diamond-
mine at Bingera (N.S.W.). A few extracts:—“A ton of
diamonds ! . . . A veritable mountain of diamonds 1 . . .
The richest mine ever known in the world .... the
mine will be worth a kingdom.” (Balkan and Kanaka
kingdoms can stand out.) Furthermore, the captain, it
is related, lets his lady-visitors carry away souvenirs—
whether only a paltry single 600-carat stone or a whole
family portmanteau full isn’t stated.
• • •
The action of Henry Orossley, to recover
damages from the Commeroiai Banking Co. of Sydney for
alleged erroneous returns, promises to be only the first of
a long series of banking troubles. The case, so far as is
known, turns on the fact that the reconstructed bank
valued its assets at considerably less than they were
set down for in the old bank’s balance-sheet, and it is
claimed that either the securities were formerly put in
the balance-sheet at much above their value, or that they
are now put mu:h below it. In either case, it is asserted,
the returns are unreliable. On this basis it looks as if
there was an equally good cause of action against every
reconstructed bank in Australia. With one exception,
they all wrote down their assets considerably, and this
fact, in itself, seems to imply that these were formerly
estimated at inflated and misleading valuations.
• • •
The downfall of Henry Benjamin, of Dunedin, i«
an instructive commentary on the difference between
commercial morality as it is in Australia and in Maoriland.
Benjamin was an old-established money-lender who called
himself a loan and discount company, and for many years
he did a large business in the Presbyterian city. Then he
drifted into difficulties through attempting to do a busi-
ness that was several times too large for his capital, and
in an evil hour he began to take in deposits. He paid the
deposits in to his bank-acoount, and the bank shut down on
them in satisfaction of his overdraft, and the sudden shook
broke him up. That was nearly three years ago, and the
ghost of Benjamin has turned up periodically at the court
ever since, and asked in hollow tones for its certificate,
and every time it has been severely lectured and sent
back to wait for another indefinite period. There is no
suspicion of any fraudulent intent, but the facts
that Benjamin called himself a company when he
wasn’t one, and that he allowed the deposits to get mixed
up with his own overdraft, are held to be fatal; and unless
he can satisfy the depositors, or at least one particularly
aggrieved depositor, in full, it appears as if Henry B.
might come up periodically in a vain search for his
certificate until he falls into the sere and toothless leaf,
and never get any further advanced. Considering that
in Australia there are men who have called themselves
eighteen different companies, and who have gone broke
and lost the deposits in all these capacities, and who are
still much respected, it seems incomprehensible that so
much notice should be taken of a man who only called
himself one company, and not very much of a company
at that.
• • •
In Victoria, under the new law, no person may
call himself Smith and Co., unless the 00. is a reality. If
he isn’t a reality, then the firm must simply be plain
Smith, and if he is one, then his name and address must
be registered, so that the firm’s creditors can find him
when they want to argue the point. Also, the law makes
it a crime for any person to pass himself off as a universal
loan and beneficent mortgage 00., unless he registers the
fact that the company only consists of himself. This Act
has been in force twelve months, but so little attention
has been paid to it that 500 prosecutions are threatened,
and it is alleged that something like 1000 will corns
later on.
• • •
The Sydney representatives of the Equitable
Building Society write to say that the other society of the
s ame kind, mentioned in last week’s Bulletin as being
run by the same crowd, is nof run by the same crowd.
Tim Bulletin makes this correction cheerfully and with-
out reserve ; at the same time it notices with regret that
the bad habit of writing to the paper* is growing upon
the Equitable people. A person or an institution which
gets into the habit of writing to the papers seldom
recovers from it.
• • •
The Federal Building Society is going to make
another attempt at reconstruction. The last one fell
through principally because the shareholders wanted to
grab for dividends while the reconstructed depositors
were still waiting for their money. If the shareholders
are willing to postpone their dividends until the last
depositor is paid, and will guarantee that the founder of
(he society, James Munro, will not be allowed, on any
pretext whatever, to put his head inside the office door
except at the risk of bis life, there seems to be no reason
why the reconstruction should not be successful.
• • #
The late rise in Melb. gas scrip is said to be
owing to subterranean negotiations for the purchase of
the gas-works by the Metropolitan Board of Works, or the
Melb. Corporation.
• # •
The reconstructed Q.N. Bank has been “ reluc-
tantly compelled to increase the rate of interest charged
on advances made against deposit receipts, from 6 per
cent, to 7 cent., from the 2nd November.’ 1 “ Reluctantly
compelled ’’ is excellent. The banks were reluctant to
sit down on depositors’ money, in the first place, and
their deep grief at now being compelled to charge them
an extra 1 per cent, for the temporary use of their own
coin is an emotion too profound to be expressed in words.
# • •
Mr. Henry Butler, of Sargood, Butler & Co.,
Melbourne, was the ivinner of the £30,000 prize in the
Equitable Building Society’s distribution. This informa-
tion will doubtless come in useful for church beggars,
Imperial Federation mendicants, collectors for charities,
people who go round with subscription-lists for alleged
widows left with stupendous families of small children,
miscellaneous impostors, and the lady of good family
who, owing to unexpected distresses, wants kind gentle-
man to lend her £5, which will be repaid punctually.
• # *
A saintly corporation of Australian capitalists
who own some fair-sized slabs of the New Hebrides, and
have for the past three years been waiting for the Lord
to prosper them in their undertaking— i.e., to obtain for
them the right to sell firearms and import black labour—
are now taking measures for another concerted attack on
the N.S.W. and Victorian Governments. They want
Dibbs and Patterson to place their situation before the
British Government on the grounds that their retirement
from the scene would probably mean the extinction of the
Presbyterian missionary enterprise, and the decadence of
“ a commercial enterprise actuated and animated by a
feeling ol Australian patriotism for the conservation ol
British interests in the New Hebrides.” This is about
the safest line to go on when appealing to a Gladstone
Ministry—plenty of cant and some patriotism.
• * «
A well-known London business man is an old-
time Queenslander, who, in the early Ravenswood days,
made his first rise in mining in a very simple manner.
The tale is this. He and his mate, both dead broke and
owing money to every storekeeper for several miles round,
had 50 tons of poor stone at grass, and were waiting for
their turn at the little local battery. Partner A. went
south to work his end of the dodge, while partner B. went
Into Ravenswood and bought something over lowt. of
sheet lead and a farrier’s rasp. Crushing commenced
at last. The stone was so rich that partner B. had
to stop the battery every three hours to clean
out the boxes. He got the battery - manager to
wire to the local paper that the firm’s stone showed
15oz. to the ton. Simultaneously, a telegram arrived
for B. from Sydney: “Let crushing go—your mother
is dying. Come at once.—A.” 8., in a frenzy of
grief, borrowed £2O from an emotional local storekeeper
and got an advance of £l5O from the bank-manager on
the security of the forthcoming cake. Then he fled and
was seen in these parts no more. Result of crushing
something like 2cwts. of amalgam, from which ultimately
about enough gold was secured to supply the creditors
with one drink all round.
• • •
A letter received in Auckland from New Bed-
ford states that, at the date of writing, four whaleships
were fitting out in that home of the blubber-hunter for a
cruise in Australian seas, and by the middle of February
should be on the sperm whaling grounds. Eight or ten
other ships will follow in time for the right whaling
season of next spring. Immediately after the close of
the right whaling season these ships will cruise on
the sperm whaling grounds till about the 6th July,
when the season closes, and then possibly proceed to and
remain in the humpbacking grounds till the end of
October. As the hurapbacking grounds alluded to are
about the Bampton Shoals and Elizabeth Reef,
which are within a few days’ sail of the Aus-
tralian coast, the promoters of the proposed
Sydney and Maoriland whaling companies will have to
bestir themselves or find the whaling grounds, from the
Antipodes to the Bamptons, jumped by the enterprising
New Bedford men. About the only place in Australasia
which will derive any benefit from the Yankee blubber-
hunting fleet will be the Bay of Islands, which, in the old
days of 25 years ago, was a place much favoured by them
as the general rendezvous of the American whaling fleet.
Brightman, well known in Maoriland as the commander
of the last solitary New Bedford South Pacific whaler of
the olden days—the barque California—is expected to
take charge of one of the ships of the new fleet.
• « *
Men cleanse themselves at Hannan’s Rush
(W.A.) by dry blowing.
• • •
The venerable Day Dawn P.O. at Charters
Towers showed well to the fore in the November list of
orushings, 925 tons yielding 1884 oz. The Mills United
last crushing of 2000 tons gave 17780 z., and the usual 3d.
div. was declared.
• • •
The next Croydon line of reef likely to boom is
the Golden Gate. For the 12 months ending June last
nearly £30,000 was spent there in prospecting, but those
who provided it will participate little in the coming
boom. The money was chiefly spent in the deep ground
which has, so far, proved discouraging, and has practically
been abandoned. Late developments of value have taken
place in shallower country.
• # #
Bayley, of Bayley’s Reward, Coolgardie, is 26
years old ; Ford, his partner,-is 10 years older, and they
are both described as ideal bushraen, modest and quiet,
and not given to wild exuberance over their luck. The
finding of the rich reef is thus described by Bayley :—“ I
first found a 450 z. specimen on the present lease—not on
the Reward claim. Ford used to be working the ground
while I prqspeoted. We had not had time to do anything
much on the reef when some fellows from the Cross
arrived. I Just had it pegged out, and a notice up con-
taining the words ‘Protection area.’ The 450 z. nugget
was sticking out from the reef, which is 30ft. high. This
is a big mountain of quartz, and can be seen miles away.
The bulk of loose pieces of gold found came off the Re-
ward claim, but the reef on the Reward was found later
on. We got bags of nuggets off this claim, as much as we
could carry away to our tent.” Some of the new-comers
who rushed the field helped themselves freely to the
surface gold in the prospectors’ claim, and then one
night raided the claim and carried off a lot of rich stone
which they cheerfully buried In the sure and certain hope
of resurrection later on. The two partners, however,
struck most of the plants, and paized upon the buried
treasure. In one trench they found a piece of quartz
that gave 400 z., and in the loose dirt thrown out by the
raiders several pieces of solid gold were found, one of
which weighed over a pound. Something over 300 oz.
were stolen.
« • •
Bayley’s South, Coolgardie, appears to have a
good thing in the Western Reef, a body of stone from two
to three feet thick running parallel with Bayley’s on the
west side. The manager’s report on the workings of
Bayley’s reef in the South mine, however, gives nothing
to warrant the price these shares reached when the gold
was struck. They are now receding.
* « • .
Hutchison, one of the N.S.W. Chicago Exhibi-
tion Commissioners, has received a letter from the
National Commissioner for California in praise of the
N.S.W. show of minerals. He says: “Visitors were
astonished to think there were such mines in N.S.W.”
Minerals are one thing; mines another. N.S.W. has a
splendid collection of minerals, but very few mines repre-
senting them. Perhaps the Californian National Com-
missioner will be astonished to learn that there is not a
working iron - mine in the country; that nearly every
copper-mine is shut down ; ditto most silver-lead mines ;
that antimony, bismuth, and other metals whose value
is uncertain are only worked to a limited extent.
N.S.W. has abundance of mineral specimens, but very
few mines ; and, outside gold and silver, never will have
many until large State metal-works are established
to reduce the cost of treatment and to prevent the whole-
sale robberies of agents and smelters, metal-buyers and
brokers.
* • *
Two Charters Towers mines worth watching—
the Brilliant Freehold and the Brilliant Extended.
• • *
Ebbot and Lawry’s Bendigo Syndicate is the
name given to one Coolgardie venture. It has a Bendigo
directorate headed by George Lansell. The claim is five
miles north of Bayley’s Reward and the promoters have
the cheerful assurance to say it is situated on Bayley’s
line of reef. They have crushed two small portions ol
stone. They want £2500 cash and £5OOO to develope the
mine, as well as a heap of paid-up shares. The prospectus
is very meagre, and apparently ink was given to the pro-
moters as a means wherewith to conceal their thoughts.
# • •
Baker’s Creek Xmas-cake, over 12000 z., more
than one-third of which was got from cleaning the copper
plates of 40 heads. As usual, at the end of the year,
crushing has ceasad for three weeks for overhauling pur-
poses. Is it the mine or machine that requires this
periodical overhauling ?
• * •
Some four cwt. of grand specimens found in
the Phoenix mine, Gympie, turned out over IOOOoz. of
gold, bringing the crushing of 235 tons up to 27190 z.
Div., 3s. 7d., and shares now up to £2. Here was a big
chance missed by many a few months back.
• • •
The Australian Gold Recovery Co., which
handles the cyanide patents, has, so it is cabled, lost
£BOOO during the last year. The loss would have been
£BO,OOO had the co. acted on the advice of local enthu-
siasts who wanted cyanide works erected where there was
little or no gold to save.
• • •
This continent to-day expects Westralia to put
all the other provinces on their legs again wilh a great
gold boom. Blessed are they who expect little. The
reports of the Ivanhoe mine at Hannan’s Rush, one of
the Coolgardie syndicate’s floats, are verbose and full of
excuses. Only two tons crushed and amalgam in a leaded
state. Some unknown man having to leave is the excuse
for not crushing more, which is about the weakest excuse
the writer ever heard of. An assurance is given that there
was nothing picked about the miserable little two-ton
crushing. It’s to be hoped not. There appear to be too
many newspaper mining managers in Westralia.
• • •
Brilliant Central, Charters Towers: IOOOoz.,
out of which it declared its maiden div.
• # •
At last, after many years of constant prospect-
ing and development, the Golden Age, Bendigo, has got
on the div.-list. A very slight percentage of its div. will
go into the pockets of its old call-payers. It was a duffer
for over 20 years, and a very bad duffer at that.
• # •
Bayley’s Reward claim will live in history. It
has another 7000 oz. with which to pay £1 div. making
£2 12s. 6d. on the 7s. 6d. shares. Bayley’s has crushed
upwards of 20,0000 z. from a little over 20 tons of
specimens
r # # •
Peak Hill Proprietary mine has declared its
first sixpenny div., in conjunction with which there is the
painful fact that the 35 head plant Is shut down for want
of water. The writer predicted this months ago. It was
a small matter to double the capacity of the dams, but
too often these small matters are entirely overlooked in
the densely ignorant mining province of N.S.W.
« • *
Objections are taken to the proposal of the
North Long Tunnel Co. (Vic.) to dam a column of water
1000 feet high by building a 10ft. brick wall, in one of
their crosscuts, so as to permit of more economical
working. The men in the adjoining property object to
the everlasting fear of the wall giving way. The mining
inspectors say the work can be done with perfect safety,
and refer to the dam, with a wall of only 4ft., which has
been in Lansell’s 180 mine, Bendigo, for 16 years, and
miners work below without apprehension.
# * *
The tributors in the True Blue G.M.C.
(Croydon), have put through 101 tons for 3690 z. It will
be interesting to watch the future of the mine. So far, it
has not produced much for the shareholders. Like some
other Croydon mines it led an unprofitable existence until
it was let on tribute, and then by the usual coincidence
the usual rich discovery was made. Croydon has got the
coincidence disease very badly.
• » «
It is expected that the 1894 season in Queens-
land will produce over 100,000 tons of sugar. The central
mill system is largely responsible for the increased out-
put.
• • •
At the Charters Towers Warden’s court, lately,
D. Missingham, acting for the Worcester and Victory
O.M. Co., applied for the forfeiture of a residence area,
held in the name of Henderson and others as trustees for
the “ Church of Christ,” on the ground that occupation
as a church was not sufficient occupation “within the
meaning of the Act.” The Warden endorsed the conten-
tion and ordered the cancellation of the area, whereupon
has ensured a furious legal fight between the “Church ol
Christ” and the mining company which is not yet settled,
both sides having appealed.
# « •
The notoriously poor quality of the gold from
some of the Etheridge reefs is never alluded to in the
crushing returns. The local warden says that the
practice of giving the value of gold in ounces is very
misleading, and instances the Percy Queen which recently
gave a return of 12oz. to the ton for two successive
crushings. “ The gold only being worth ss. per ounce
reduced the yield to the usual standard of only loz. per
ton.” About 40s. per ounce is a fair average for Ether-
idge reef gold.
• • •
The proposal to give Newcastle miners for hew-
ing a little more than one-third the selling price of coal
is a monstrous and barbarous one. Surely it will be con-
fessed by the fattest of fat men that the miner who breaks
and fills a ton of coal performs the biggest share of the
whole business.
* * *
Mt. Gahan, Pambula, is said to have much
improved lately. It will stand a lot of improvement
before “ the usual monthly div.” can be resumed.
• * *
At Mt. Lewisson, Pambula, the manager reports
the discovery of another rich run of ore. How much this
time ?—a cwt. or a ton f
• * *
A movement has started in Sydney to bring
under the notice of the W.A. Govt, a quick, sure, cheap,
and eSectiveprocessof turningsalt and heavily mineralised
water into fresh. It is claimed that this can be done for
much less than a farthing a gallon.
• • •
So far, Coolgardie prospectuses are lamentably
lacking in detail and full of generalities. People want
big samples of stone and full reports from men who havs
mining reputations to lose before they will bite. Now
they are only nibbling.
# • »
Sydney D.T. revives its articles on the Bingara
diamond field. It appears they have been read with in-
terest in other parts of the world—perhaps with amuse-
ment. It innocently asks what will happen when the
lode from which the diamonds came is found ? This has
just struck the D.T.
• # *
The same old result: The recent gold rush on a
private estate at Blayney (N.S. VV.) lias turned out a frost.
How many men were fools enough to take up blocks on
the owner’s terms ?
# * *
The manager of the New Kohinoor, N.S.W.,
says he is breaking and crushing ore for ss. 7d. a ton.
The stone is running 2£dwt., so it should pay to put
through. The Kohinoor contains lead, copper, silver,
and gold, and not enough of any to pay divs. It has
passed through much tribulation, and so have its share-
holders.
• # •
S line Coolgardie stone might be taken for rook-
s,i ■i. To the Australian miner it is a glossy, hungry-
loo.ong rook, but to the American miner it signifies
richness and permanency.
# * #
“The action of the A.A. Co. in asking only
for a reduction of the hewing rates from 3s. 6d. to 3s. 2d.
a ton, with a 10 per cent decrease among other classes of
miners has greatly complicated matters. It seems, how-
ever, that the owners are themselves to blame for this
action.”—Arhus. Pleasant to find that the A.A. Co. is
not seriously to blame for not reducing wages further
than it did.
• * *
Central (Broken Hill), at the 500 ft. level, has a
body of carbonate and sulphate of lead 25ft. wide; length
not yet proved. The ore goes 60 per cent lead and 2oz,
silver. The occurrence of carbonate at this depth was
totally unexpected.
# # •
At Ravens wood the new chlorination works
machinery had a trial spin under the new manages
(O’Oorman), and gave satisfactory results. The concen-
trates assayed for IJoz., and the 40 tons tested returned
620 z. gold, value £3 18s. Id. per oz. The November total
of the field’s crushing shows a slight falling-off—ll 67 tom
of stone for 8640 z.
m • •
The prospector’s claim on Burra Burra it still
paying well—about the only one ever found worth work-
ing. Washed up to date, 439 loads for 293 ozs.
In the Scented South.
Away down South, in the coral seas, where bread
is grown to your hand on trees ; where civilisation
has never come to teach the people the joys ol
rum ; where hardly ever this Eden enter the land-
boom bank and the cent, per center; joy sits
aloft in the cloudless dome, storms disturb seldom
the ocean’s foam. Health and beauty for aye
endure, by the strength of the virtues of Warner’s
Cure. List to this yarn of the Scented South,
where all is joy and there comes no drought
—story of Abe and Chieftain Wulf, and
his terrible leap o’er the Dead Man’s Gulf.
Alie and Wulf had plighted a troth, and en-
during vows were intoned by both; but
Alie’s papa, a Heap Big Chief, would make no
way for their love’s relief. He suffered from
chronic disease of the liver, which made him
aught but a good law-giver ; and he swore by the
men he had slain in his youth, and he swore by
the shark and its sacred tooth, that never should
Alie become a bride till his health recovered or
else he died. One day Wulf strayed in a bitter
mood to the lone sea shore to mourn and brood
o’er the fate that made love’s silver river be turned
in its course by a hob-nailed liver. And Wulf, by
and bye, looking out in the bay, saw on the reel
where the sea-birds play that a white man’s ship
had found a home on the dead-white coral and
dead-white foam. And the coming tide brought
in bits of wreck from the cargo holds and the
timbered deck. Part of it floats to the feet of
Wulf, part of it ebbs to the Dead Man’s Gulf.
And for all that day and its parent week the
natives ransacked every bight and creek; and
they sampled the wreck from the kerosene
to the tins of fish and the crude benzine,
and they mired up olives and castor oil
and made a feast with no end of toil. And they
started with jam and wound up with ink, and
vinegar made them a cooling drink. Of course,
the result was a harrowing thing- from the
poorest slave to the bilious king the population
was deathly ill, and it knew no word of the safe
cure pill. But, in hunting over the wreck one day,
they came to a place where some boxes lay, and
they drank of the fluid therein, which, sure,
was nothing less than the proved Safe Cure. And
when it ran out, the king with the liver remarked
that he’d be a cheerful giver of any boon to the
man who’d bring a supply of the Safe Cure that
cured a king. Young Wulf knew where on the
Dead Man’s Ledge a supply of Warner’s lay on
the edge of the dizzy depth where the waves had
thrown it with none to know of it—none to own
it. And then, in the sight of the tribe did Wulf
essay the leap of the Dead Man’s Gulf. And
he made the leap and he brought the Cure—
the Cure that’s Safe to ever endure —he brought
the Cure, we say, to the king, and demanded the
boon and a wedding-ring. You know the rest—
the king got well, and Wulf secured the wrecked
ship’s bell; and though he made a terrible
clangour, no complaint was fib d, for Ihe king’s
old languor had disappeared with a ease of War-
ner’s, and that statement of fact can provoke no
soorners. And Wulf ma-ried Alie. but her pa’s
quite sure, that the best w ife for him is the proved
Safe Cure.


Itching Skin Humors
Torturing ; Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
*
T 1
7/
x
4.
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospitals, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and irri-
tated surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cuticura
Soap, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces.
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. Hence, the
Cuticura Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
How to Cure Diseases of the Skin and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Ulus-
tration;;, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
Pimply Skin
red, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails
are prevented and cured by Cuticura Soap, in-
comparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps*
'J'he only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cf romol***, blackheads, rouuh, red, and oilv skin *v-d ctrnrUe humors of infants*
MEN...
WOMEN
WHO HAVE USED “ FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND CONSTIPATION
Cure” have found it a certain cure for all Liter Com-
plaints, Flatulency, Costiveness, Bilious Headache, Dis-
agreeable Taste in the Mouth, Alternate Chills and
Flushings of Heat, Loss of Appetite, Alcoholism, Indiges-
tion, Disturbed Rest at Night, Nervous Tremors and
Debility. By continued, use it cures Constipation
permanently.
Ladies will find it invaluable for the relief of
many Uterine Complaints and Efficacious in Producing and Restoring that
Regularity of Habit which is all important to their wellbeing.
We refrain from imbllsliiilg' any of flie many Testimonial*
we receive daily from persons who have taken this Vain able
medicine, its the IMihlic has no g'liarantee of the genuineness
of Testimonials printed by Patent Medicine Manufacturers; but the
unprecedented success “Fuss’s Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure”
has met with in all parts of the world, has induced the inventor of
this unsurpassed preparation to offer to any purchaser of it the
refund of the Price of JBs. ©d. if the Medicine fails to care
the ailments we recommended it for.
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE CHEMISTS ASP PATENT MEDICINE VENDORS.
Should it not be procurable locally it will be sent Carriage Paid to any part of the
Colony on remittance of 3s. for one bottle, or 15s. for six bottles to the
COSMOS APOTHECARIES COY.,
the Agents for the Australian Colonies. 674 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY*
Xmas ax i> Xew Year’s
presents.
A. nnounce m exit
Extraordinary.’
J. F. COLLINS & CO.’S
Great Carnival and Sale Commenced on Friday, December 1, 1893.
This year the BARGAINS will be ASTOUNDING. Our‘entire Stock has undergone
Wholesale Reductions, so that everyone may have an opportunity of procuring their Xmas reaairo-
ments in DRAPERY and CLOTHING at half the usual prices. °
Gents’ Tweed and Serge Sac Suits will be offered at 11s 9d, 16s 6d, 18s Gd, to 30s.
Gents’ Strong Flannellette or Harvard Shirts, Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d.
Boy’s Galatea Washing Serge and Tweed Suits, 2s !)d, 3s 6d, 3a lid, to 10s Gd.
Ladies’ Taffeta Gloves, G Kid Gloves, sewn backs, Is 11 Jd, 2s 11 Jd, to 5a lid.
Dress Materials, 3s lid the Doz. ; Washing prints, 3s lid the Doz,
Tweed Costumes to Order. Marlow Skirt and bodice, from 12s Gd.
Gents’ Sac Suits to Order, 50s, G3s, and 70s. Trousers to Order, 12s Gd, 16s Gd, 2ltr, • %
Do not Fail to VISIT us when in Town, or WRITE for Patterns.
All Goods Purchased from y4os.
Country Orders Promptly Attended toi.
Patterns and Measurement Forma FREE on Application.
upwarda Carriage Free.
J. P. COLLINS &/CO.,
GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS (Late SUMMERFIELD’S),
235, 237, 239 PITT STREET (near Market Street), SYDNEY. <i
* ninid,
anx
P CO
THE
‘ Plum’
/^ENTLEM EN r wljo find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
E . Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public,
it is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never 1 requires grinding. We
ean highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, ami, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for-Two Years.
Price
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, IOj. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ease, 21s.
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles,, in beautiful case, 30s.
istercd and sent Punt Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland wnd Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CHAIG & AITJKEN, 680 George Street, SYD.NEY.
Colemaue & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
POOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHEF. r
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Gains and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
SNAKEBITE ANTIDOTE POCKET CASES
(Made of Strong Polished Metal, lined with
Silk Velvet).
SWYCMNE Xoi
For Dr. MUELLER’S suc-
cessful treatment©! Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
ject ion of strychnine, con-
taininy patent poison
suckkr, host hypodermic
syrinye, two bypodeimlo
medles, ylass mortar and
pestle, two tubes of si rych-
nine tabloids, which will
keep for years, and full
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
I*rle«% wmpleto, £1 —Postage paid to all parts of
Aust rail a.
L- BRUCK, 13 Castlereagh-st., Sydney
m
m
O
K-pCUI quick-winding-,
/kferburywafchrequrres
a bout-five seco.nds fo wind
If is now cased in com-silver
filledgrolol, Low-
priceaaccurate
IHStANT
&i
m
i
m
iff kr
Wit |lN^rsfuf
v vvp^/v\.
{jOtf]"' ’ s<.«ATKA.soR,<my>
OV$ p ffH *s> .Of .fn€ >jo» nT$ * Op,.
*oa<\*CH*. ot^
s
Musical Instruments^
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin."
Given Away U (only 30, OOO)
BE IN TIME.
Scud Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
In return a 4s. Sous. Walt* or Plano Piece,
FUE E !
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Keiuember this ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY—
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Elutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSIOAL INSTRUMENT ;
ALSO,
G-uns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES.
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
6d. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Hd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
£3T Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
Medical.
KTEURO DYNTI
(REGISTERED)
XT AS been USED with considerable success for Poi
' tetll Years in NEURALGIA, SICK HE A
ACHE, LOSS op GRAIN POWER, WAST IN
DERII ITA- LANGOUR, etc. Price, 2s. Cd.. fre
COLI, Chemist, Darlington. All Chemists.
Wholesale from ELLIOTT BROS., Limited
AUSTRALIA* IUtUG CO.,
66 nnALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE Is. ... ... by Post Is. 3d.
The Ghost of the Murderer’s Hut.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My horse had been lamed in the foot
In the rocks at the back of the run,
So I camped at the Murderer’s Hut,
At the place where the murder was done.
The walls were all spattered with gore,
A terrible symbol of guilt ;
And the blood-stains were fresh on the floor
Where the blood of the victim was spilt.
The wind hurried past with a shout,
The thunderstorm doubled its din
As I shrank from the danger without,
And recoiled from the horror within.
When, lo ! at the window a shape,
A creature of infinite dread ;
A thing with the face of an ape,
And with eyes like the eyes of the dead.
With the horns of a fiend, and a skin
That was hairy as satyr or elf,
And a long, pointed beard on its chin—
My God ! ’twas the Devil himself.
In anguish I sank on the floor,
With terror rny features were stiff,
Till the thing gave a kind of a roar,
Ending up with a resonant “ Biff !”
Then a cheer burst aloud from my throat,
Eor the thing that my spirit did vex
Was naught but an elderly goat—
Just a goat of the masculine sex.
When his master was killed he had fled,
And now, by the dingoes bereft,
The nannies were all of them dead,
And only the billy was left.
So we had him brought in on a stage
To the house where, in style, he can strut,
And he lives to a fragrant old age
As the Ghost of the Murderer’s Hut.
At a Wild West Show, the butter-judge
(to murmurers) : “Oi med butther, me father med
butther, ’n’ me granfather med butther, an’ iny
wan who sez that this butther to which Oi’ve
awarded the proize, is not the bist exhibit prisint,
let him come outside the hut an’ Oi ’ll convince
him at wanst that it is.”
The Pall Mall Gazette speaks enthusi-
astically of Sir H. B. Loch’s dignified and auto-
cratic manner when admonishing a native chief
named Mankoroane who had shown “ marked
disrespect ” to the said Henry B. in not waiting
upon him during his progress through Bechuana-
land. “ The poor wretch could only squirm sub-
missively under the lash-like tones,” &e., &c.
How very English-official like. If you want to
see true British diguito-snobbery watch an Eng-
lish official addressing a nigger.
A few weeks ago in Lisburn (Eng.) a very
old and nearly naked leper named Evans made his
escape from the local workhouse, w’here he was
isolated. Although he was totally blind he
managed to beat off sundry assailants who tried to
seize him, and scrambled over a gate ten feet high
into the highway. Having successfully negotiated
the gate he was solemnly making his way along
the road—no doubt with the intention of looking
up some wealthy relatives—when he was charged
by the keepers and police and hauled back to the
place whence he came.
A feature of Melbourne Public Offices is
an eccentric individual who imagines that he has
a claim against the Queen for about two millions
for services as a herald. He is also under the im-
pression that the province has undertaken to pay
Her Gracious’ bills, and is continually trying to
collect this trifling amount from one or other of
the Govt. Departments. He is well-known at all
the Government Offices, and when he presents his
papers they are carefully perused, and he is
solemnly referred to some other department which,
in its turn, passes him along. He has a wonderful
array of papers. They contain a variety of in-
formation re the Cannibal Islands, spring chickens,
&c,, and have mustard labels and other important
seals attached.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
w .
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane ; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
“Amok!—Amok!”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Bornean Dyak—religious enough in
his own way—yet carves no idols, builds no
temples, saddles himself with no priests. But
since, being human, he is not happy without
being bamboozled, he finds the necessary ietish in
his “doctor.’’ Doctor, after a fashion, of laws
and medicine this pundit must perforce also be,
for the Dyak wits are keen —about the brainiest
man in the community. This means pretty gene-
rally the biggest knave as well, and Dupuk Dut,
M.D. and LL.D., of Beni-Laut, was a scoundrel
of the very choicest brand. Kalampu, the Orang
Kaya, made him a very good second in the matter
of brains, but he was second, and very often,
when he thought he was going his own way, he
was merely going Dupuk’s.
Now it happened that when Kalampu had a
house to build, Dupuk had a grudge to gratify.
From off his finest pitcher-plant little Kanisha,
the daughter of Ramat, the salt-maker, had
plucked the big, red urus. Dupuk, catching
Kanisha, had rattaned her soundly, and Ramat,
catching Dupuk, had laid him out with a paddy-
poundee. Ramat was fined —a paltry pig or two
—whereat Dupuk smiled and lay low. But now
it was his turn to score, and—
“lt is an evil thing, Kalampu,” he said, “to
let go from us the customs of our fathers. One by
one they die out, and Batara is angered thereat.
Therefore it is that he bath delivered to the
Orang-Belanda ” (Dutchmen) “so much of our
country.”
The old man stroked the score or so of white
hairs upon his upper-lip—a rank growth, for a
Dyak—and waited for more.
“To-morrow, Kalampu, thou wilt begin thy
new long-house, and into the first post hole thou
wilt put a miserable fowl! Now, answer me—
with what would thy father before thee have
bought for his house the good-will of the gods?
With a child, would he not? —a girl of nine rice-
sowings?’
Kalampu nodded.
“Do thou likewise, 0 Kalampu! Plant thy
first post in the blood of a girl, so shall Batara be
pleased and thy house be fortunate for ever !”
Kalampu took another quid of betel and
ruminated. Conservatism was all very well, but
was not this too reactionary altogether? Dupuk,
watching, read the Orang’s mind, and tried again.
“The Orang of Kribas, Kalampu, hath turned
Maiommedah. Let not men say that thou, too,
art forsaking thy father’s gods for the Prophet
and the Book of these accursed Malaya!”
This was the right string. Kalampu’s fierce
eyebrows came suddenly together. “The Beni-
Laut man who should say that,” he answered,
“ would have need of a spare head ! —even were
he thyself! For this matter of the girl—do as
thou wilt ; I care not! Hast thou chosen ? ”
“I have chosen. Of the right age is Ramat’s
daughter, Kanisha. This very day I took her,
and already she is ulit! ” (tabooed).
Kalampu understood, and smiled sarcastically.
“ Apai Indai ! ” he exclaimed, “ how prompt art
thou, man, when it suits thee ! But, if the girl is
ulit, there is no more to be said. See thou to
matter thyself! ”
» * *
The monogamic Dyak has the domestic
affections -tr mg, and Ramat, searching the jungle
for his lively little Kanisha, went as one distracted.
At mid-day she had been sent for the goats, and
the goats had come home without her. It was
the honey-bears that Pamat )d ; the cowardly
brutes were brave enough when the prey was
weak. But neither of girl nor bear found 11 am at
any trace, though all the stifling night he wan-
dered, and the Java sparrows were greeting the
dawn as, dew-drenched and thorn-torn, the worn
out man sunk down in a patch of lallang-grass and
slept. Well up was the sun when Ram at awoke,
aroused by the clamour of gongs and the sound of
many voices. Aye; he remembered. It was the
day the new “long-house” was to be founded.
All the village would be there, and somebody
might have heard of Kanisha. Wearily he arose
and went.
Slung from stout bamboo sheer legs, a ponder-
ous ironwood post hung perpendicularly over its
waiting hole. Beside it Dupuk stood, and near
him, held by two women, was a little girl, fan-
tastically decorated with feathers of the yellow
oriole and scarlet kingfisher. The dazed man
rubbed his eyes and looked again. Yes, it was
Kanisha, sure enough ; and then, in a flash, came
back to him some talk he had heard of reviving
the obsolete girl-sacrifice. And Kanisha was
nine—the fatal age !
Ramat loosed his parang in the sheath, and
stepped, unnoticed in the crowd, close up to the
hole. Beside it Dupuk knelt, and dropped
therein, successively, a handful o r rice, a handful
of maize, a cocoanut, and a banana. A mouthful
of water was next to come, but the jar was on the
other side of the hole. Dupuk reached —his back
came square beneath the post —Ramat, drawing
as he sprang, slashed fiercely at the stopper of the
slings-and, squelch! The ponderous timber
doubled Dupuk into the hole like a rotten stick.
A moment of astounded silence—then the
terrible cry, “ Amok ! Amok ! ” and right and left
the people scattered, every woman shrieking, and
every man grasping at his weapon, as the frantic
Ramat started on his slaughtering career. But
not far did he go, for, as with his first wild cut,
he lopped three fingers from a flying woman,
Kalampu, kris in hand, was upon him from
behind and gave him, over the shoulder, the fatal
down-thrust inside the collar-bone.
“ A good stroke that! ” the old man coolly said,
as he held out his kris to be wiped. “ But rather
would I have given it to Dupuk ! Let go the
girl—the post is planted ! ”
OAPRICARNUS.
“Is it not disgusting and loathsome to
hear some broad-backed, thick-calved, greasy-
faced, well-fed and not badly-drunk caitiff of some
canting caste, preaching and exhorting young
people full of flesh and blood of the purest and
clearest quality to forsake and forswear the world
and its riches?”—PfiOF. Wilson.
Lobengula’s ordinance forbidding a man’s
mothers-in-law from calling upon or otherwise
worrying him is, although a noble effort, not
strictly original. Before the wicked American,
missionaries brought the seed of the Gospel and
Parry’s Pain Paint to Micronesia, the natives of
three islands had a law by which the mother-in-
law had to do about two months’ work every year
in the son-in-law’s plantation; and when she
wanted to see tier daughter had to first send a
present of food as a feeler to the husband. If
he was a good sort and not of too haughty a dis-
position she might be allowed to crawl in on her
hands and knees and talk to her daughter in a
whisper, on all fours, and look like a prodigal son
with an extra bad record. But the glory hath
departed now since the missionaries came.
To-Morrow.
(FOR THE BULLETIN).
“ Carmen raliquum in futurum, tempos relegatum.”—
Coleridge.
“To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,’
We ever deem it fairer than to-day,
Hoping from time to come fresh strength to
borrow,
Why hug we thus the Demon of Delay ?
... i ... , , c n , ... r . „„
What thoughts of fire, and wealth of words un-
T . ®Poken,
fallow in the mind for aye and aye ,
Hie tenor of our way remains unbroken
Because we do not grasp our chance to-day.
To morrow ! graveyard of our resolutions !
Shade of regret, thou ever fleest before ;
Thy bright light charms, but makes no restitu-
tion:
A fund of grief is all thou hast in store.
“To-morrow, and to-morrow, and to-morrow,”
We ever dream of that Utopian day ;
Its name is fraught with weight of dule and
sorrow,
The grave of plans forever hid away.
Wellington, M.L.
GEORGE POWICK BROWNE.
One of the perquisites enjoyed by the
attendants at the Lariboisiere Hospital, Paris, is,
according to the London Medical Pkkss, the
used lint and cotton-wool. On investigation it
was discovered that for many years both articles
had been sold to cigarette-makers to be used in
the manufacture of the dainty cigarette.
Horrible !
Dear Bulletin, —The Sydney papers very
naturally talk about the feat of one of the native
crew of the lugger Goshawk, who, after the
wreck of the vessel, swam all night till he reached
an island in Torres Straits. Now, here’s a true
bill. In 1873, a white beachcomber, living on
Kusaie (Strong’s Island), in the eastern Carolines,
went out, with two men and a dozen or so of
young women, to do some business with the
whaleship Triton, Captain Elphinstone. She was
becalmed about ten miles off the land. At dark,
and when half-way out, a squall came on, and the
boat, being heavily loaded with yams and turtle,
filled and sank. The white man and his com-
panions started to swim back (about four to five
miles), but found the current too strong to allow of
much progress. One of the native men urged the
others to turn round and swim for the Triton,
which he felt sure they would strike. All the
women but two and one man refused, and
went on towards the S.E. point of the
island (Utwe Village). The other native man,
the two girls, and the white man turned round
and headed for the whaler. At about midnight
another land squall came on, and during it the
whaleship went by them with a rush, beating up
towards Lela Harbour. Until daylight the native
and the two girls assisted in keeping up the white
man, who was a stout, big fellow, but suffering
from the cold of the now frequent rain-squalls.
At sunrise the four swimmers were nearly 20
miles off land to leeward of Point Coquille, the
current having swept them half round the island,
when they were seen by the Hawaiian whaling
brig, Kamehameha IV., picked up and landed at
Ponape. All the other girls reached the land.
The white man is still alive and is now trading at
Babelthouap.—Yours, &c.,
L.B.
A Xmas Joy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The night was dark, as I forged ahead through
tiie forest, bound for civilization and Christmas.
Tiie myriads of glow-worms that shone upon the
sides of the road reminded me of the Bay of
Naples, and my thoughts flew back to the time
when we had landed at that sunny spot to see
traces of Vesuvius and Italy, and to serve as
food for the curious and prey for the beggars of
the Latin race.
Suddenly I heard a crash somewhere on my
right. A slight pang registered itself at my
heart, and then I was prepared for anything.
The only thing in danger is the manner in which
the system realizes the menace. To be uncon-
scious of the impending constitutes brazen pluck.
I advanced towards an object lying on the
track, seen dimly through the blackness of the
night. It was a good-templar, who had fallen
over with a kettle tied in a handkerchief. 1
straightened him up, rove my arm through his,
and shouldered him along.
Arrived in the town, he suggested that we
should spend Christmas Eve at the Gilmer Hotel,
and then proceed to his residence, where his wife
would be glad to receive us. The return from the
back-blocks is a prodigal’s harvest (to the other
parties). I assented to the plan, and we carried
it out. We spent the night at most all the pubs.
It was 8 a.m. when we approached my friend’s
residence. I had in my hand a blade of Maori-
land flax. At the moment we arrived at the gate
the dog set up a howl. He told me to quieten the
animal. I made a slip-knot of the ribbon of flax,
and dexterously snared the dog. The yells of the
brute roused the whole household—and when the
lady of the mansion looked out of the window,
revelry held high carnival. My mate was, mean-
while, tying his pants to his neck. We were
presently admitted, and shewn to respective beds.
It had been my intention to creep into bed just
to make a mark, but the exposure rendered such a
precaution null. I lay down to think. Great
Scott! there was a face sitting on a pair of huge
boots—a hideous, unshaved face, with thick lips
and a nose like a snow-shovel. Ha ! thought I,
I’ve seen that lovely face before ; and after a little
effort I recalled it —it was my own.
I gave a start, and awoke. I heard a woman
laughing. My friend’s wife’s head showed from
behind the door, and said: “It’s four o’clock.
Your boozing has lost you your Xmas dinner,
but we will have a right good tea.” And so we
had.
Six months after, when a boulder fell on Jack’s
head, and killed my friend, I was chief mourner.
And on the following Xmas I dined with the
widow, and found compensation for the wounds
received in the Crimea, and all other ills, in the
balm thrown off from Katie’s soul.
There is an affinity between Xmases.
POLYPE: DE BAEKER.
A butter-factory co. in one of the Aus-
tralias advertises for a creamery manager, at &2
per week, who is required to “manage the
creamery, drive the engine, cart the cream every
day to the factory (five miles away), find his own
horse-and-cart, and keep the horse in feed, work
on Sundays when required, and supply the
creamery with firewood.” This is what is to
happen to the bloated manager ; how the humble
gets on isn’t explained.


“ Men I Have Smiled With;**
STAY at Brutoa’
MnnsTnof)
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
OH AS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &o.
First-class Accorrirnodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLtVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
F you VISIT Brisbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
JIIMZHVLIir GRAHT.
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
BRISBANE.
Moxley’s “ British Empire Hotel
Central Cosy Lounge.
BRISBANE.
Mrs. F. L, Moxley’s “Metropolitan” is the
SPORTING TEAMS’ HOME.
T
SOUTHPORT, Q.
WEED HEADS COACHES
Start from Hanlon’s Pacific Hotel.
KNOWING VISITORS
From Southern Queensland to Northern New
South Wales, travel from Southport to Tweed
Heads by Dodd’s Royal Mail Coaches, and
connect by STEAM LAUNCH with Stuart’s
Reliable Coaches at Cudgen, for quickest route
to Brunswick and the Richmond.
BRUNSWICK.
MARSHALL’S OCEAN VIEW HOTEL
Is the charming Half-way House between
The RICHMOND and the TWEED
CASINO.-,
PARKER’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL ranks
“Tub Australia” of the North Coast.
CLOUTIER’S BALLINA COACHES will be
BETTER PATRONISED than the Lismore to
the Tweed Railway.
LISMORE.
CRUICKSHANK’S Commercial Hotel is the
Travellers’ Home on the Northern Rivers.
G
GRAFTON.
REAVES’ FAMILY HOTEL
Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
SOUTH GRAFTON.
VOU CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S
1 By Mitch.
HOTEL
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN.
r CRAVELLERS and others pronounce Walter
1 Folbigg’s Commercial Motel Comme Ufaw
KATOOMBA.
Temora House,
A High-class BOARDING HOUSE, pleasantly
situated, well recommended. Porter meets all
trains. 355. a Week; 6s. a Day. Reduction
tor Visitors remaining a Month, also for Families.
Mrs. DALE.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
HE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
est Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
ictoria. Reasonable terms ; and special terms
>r families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
rounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
ivering all expenses can be procured at the
[otel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
K
atoomba, blue mountains.
Balmoral House.
isitors, Tourists, or Invalids, will find comforts
a refined HOME at above; good airy rooms,
:cellent table and attendance. Terms, Two
uineas. Private suites if required* Trains
et. Address, MANAGER.
MOSS VALE.
.OODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
MOSS VALE.
SON’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL.
KATOOMBA.
i/TR. J. BLAKEY’S “Sydney Livery
UL Stables,” in Cascade-street, offer the
ry best of vehicles in the place. Ladies sulkies
the newest pattern.
adies’ Hacks thoroughly trained.
"WENTWORTH FALLS,
blue mountains.
Visitors from the seven Australasian provinces
II find the most princely accommodation, and
e grandest views at
Toll’s Hotel, Wentworth.
ICE —Advertisements for Current Week
annot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
“THE BULLETIN’S”
Missing Word Competition-No. 10.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on eacli Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Wednesday, 21th
January, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin's Missing Word Competition Coupon.—No. 10.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward, Coupon, 'with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to be received by Wednesday, January “44-th, JHU4-.
The Coolgardie gold boom is the. only Australian boom for some years past
which shows signs of permanence. Coolgardie’s chief drawbacks are dust and heat
and myriads of flies, and the desert, variegated only by occasional
brackish mud-holes, which lies between it and the nearest civilisation. But the
gold is there, and gold is the one essential.
Name
Address ,
Miissvny Word ___
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received— NO deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor ,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst, such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained, on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
“ Bulletin»» series, KTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SIECOILTID EDITIOIT
OF
“A Golden Shanty";
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
Bulletin ” Series, 3NTo. 3.
“The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENG.
With Prefatory Note hy Rolf Boldretvood.
Opinions of tlie Press :
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of me< it they all stand pretty well on a par. The
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in those faraway-
parts. ’ A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are fond of
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893.
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc, and the secret of this is that
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any other writer.
He too possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is ce> tain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given us some of
his best’ work. That they will be widely read is certain.”— Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893.
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild places
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men. ‘ The Last of Six ’ is a terrible
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr. Favenc makes of
thrilling interest. ‘The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved from the
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and there approaches Poe. This
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘Spirit Led,' which the great American might have written. ‘A Cup of Cold Water’ is, perhaps, the
best tale in a collection that should he widely read, and which forms a worthy addition to purely Australian literature.”- Daily Telegraph,
July 15,1893.
“‘The Last of Sixand other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newspaper Co) This is a collection of short but
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories here are good,
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the thi. d ~,f Tmj
Bullet: n series of Australian reminiscences.” — Australian Star, July 15,1893.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d,


Table Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
The QUEEN.
SCHWEPPE’S
SODA, SELTZER,
LEMONADE,
GINGER ALE, &o
Box 1034. 8.F.0.
Telephone 9718.
W. MAMMATT & SONS
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated deeds
—AND—
QTTTT ,T'.T?.-V
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sto.o'w Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
3MC I "T O H 33 H. Xi*2S
—CELEBRATED —
Insect Destroying Powder
—Kii.i.a—
Jb'leus, tiles, Huff a, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer !!. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 Kino S'i'bkbt, SYDNEY (late Rigney’s).
Tins, 1/-; Boxes, 16. On receipt of stamps will b e
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1 9.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.’
CUKES PKOlll*™. without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
j FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu
and in Australia by all Chemists. ’
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
SOLD in PARIS by
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
f* THE LAST OF SIX:”
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Tanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General
M acliinery
Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Eequisites.
'rjrietor of the “ Pioneer ” 0r „ ™
FYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the TreaUne.h of Ores by Ory an. We, Crushing.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
£/ a '»
d
f
■ IS
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
Your attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coining season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a dai y visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
Great is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES! —One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney .
ilie BoUU Si.oie .ill the Leading Brands of WINKS and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRIvES- ’ .
BQarci Residence at A£oaerate Charges.
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
4
:i ’ -
flit
-
m
IyCIUS IVK or HE PA It ATE Tilt IFF, IS DESiUED.
Luncheon, d la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D’Hote, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s.
Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always rely upon
getting a First-class Meal.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, SYDKrEY.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
{36 1 "' Terms—l«s. Gd. per Way.
V/alter Sidney date of Newcastle), “Prop.”
