

SM&
o.
©1
Kfi
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS « 5 EACH,
BANK HANDICAP, at Warwick Farm. AUGUST 1 (For Horses Only), 4,000 @ 5 Each.
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER . 20.000 ® fr BACH.
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER 60.000 @ 5 Each.
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (FOB HORSES OWI.T) .... 20,000 @lO Each.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed ** GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Envelopes, with Stamps loose—one for Ticket and ___ nnasmt *Nn
one for result. Circulars free on application. Box 171, G.P.0., BRISBANE, QUEINSLANI/*
iSt. O'. WA.TXLIM'S 00.,
107 Kent street. Sydney,
—fob —
wn«i« g and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
dfd
; JOT'S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of HALT.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
I’rice 9a. 6dL.
jjDKrHWmfS
TRAM MASK
<s*■
9C &OOIr
Sole
Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9®. GA.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three neglig(s shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
o-. aa. sivriTia: & soikt,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
tsr Look Out for
“THE LAST OF SIX:"
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
RO
rH£
6XI
H*
II
S|Je®(S^
iiiyUi
'i^aaiiSdLsx-gmm
111
Tlae Oxford Hotel, glug Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... Prop hietob.
W THB—>
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
Al UK _ _ The Purest Country.
CREAM ... „ Double or Single.
ICE .. .. The Clearest Crystal.
BUTTER .. “Golden Star" Creamery; Regd.
FISH .. .. Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
GAME ... «. The Choicest Sorts.
POELTRV .. From the famed Farms of the Colony.
PASTRY, Ac, .. The most Exquisite.
Wr' The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Powltry, Pastry, etc.
Ist July, 1893.
B. PATESOM,
Manager.
WALKER’S WHISKY. ALLSOFP’S ALE.
JOHN WALKER, 24 HOIVD STREET, SYDMEY.
J. «££>
Sole lao
aSTo-wir Soutli Wales for Messrs. Olayton. and Simttleworth.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Hiding.
SaVton * siiunutvira
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
{
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes; Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all siaes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Denches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting- and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
(Lightness in fraught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
%
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, whiob
can be replaced for 6d. each.
Convertible to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. *ar Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
jr. C. Howard, 2SOJ Pitt Street:, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Voi 13.—N0. 701. J
[Saturday, July 22, 184)3.


Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
clement of success, from any cause whatever, and
■offer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
Klpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
adacbe, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
■end for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the b( st means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
drugs.
Late House Surgeon, Great
Nthn. Hospital. Lond..
Seamen's Hospital
Ship “ Dread-
nought,'
Oreanwie
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr.
M. PERRY,
M
R
JL.
■
&c
Legally Qualified
w Registered ir
and
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
'Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
mm to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PEHMANENfT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry's pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can he overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
m any pan, of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Bklt, from which the current can be dis-
tisctlt felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 pm
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
daily,
in. on
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AMD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
have examined.”—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., i'.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
t3BT A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
H°Ji lio ? ,rAY ’ 8 PILL S a ND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes ™ grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factored only at 78 Nkw Oxkoru-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
BDunous
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! "
He : “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Scale of AdLvertisin
-IN-
U
THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 m ~ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “ PRICE WARTJNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHIELING.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of Mew (south "Wales.
A. most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, & c., BILLIARD TAbLfi.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'(LOOK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTBR ° .... Prourietress,
R
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL , BORING TUBES.
ussian
Brand.
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. JT. MacWilllam, 297 GEORGE STREET.
■SYDNEY
f
»s
£
|s A LWftYS T HE B est
BBRSfSi
NOW OBTAINABLE FR O M NE W SAGE NT S.
“THE LAST OF SIX ”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
—BY—
©Sg' £3 ZE2 IST E S T IT T 7" IE IST C- 'tSs^g
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has burned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
NEW BOAKDER: “No more, thank you, waiter; I seem to have lost my appetite this
morning."
WAITER (glancing at stark of picked bones): “It can't be far away, sir, ’cos you had it
when you came in.”


Medical.
D 1 JECKELL VINES
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, for us e Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Pnysiology, H.s-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “ Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Oifioer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Ki Iwav Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and H >s t .ir al Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantes the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints /
and the last edition will be forwarded irame 1 lately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Li-ver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
■ Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Fellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Develonment, Fits, or Short-
mess of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Gird le, ” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of rny experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may OependL
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
, from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; lie will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
<BT Address all Communications ;
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Pkillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WHITING
r.Iedl al.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEC-E STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualify and Registered by the Governing
Medical tSnard of New South Wales.
/A
-■
IDmpAMK
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now hears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe,
lie has devoted a life- time to ihe study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Uis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
affiict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send fid. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should bo
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COhliliXlH STRUET, SY D» MY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel.
S.i
•m.
■A.\'/
lllli
“ %he Sydney Qofiee Palace” Hotel,
Sir John Yodng’s Crescent,
Lower Domain. Sydney, N.w.W,, Aiislralla.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board ... 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and \\ ife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF LOOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
pei week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
"ATIIS .V".
OICSCKII'IIVK.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlook! nsr Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The m st mod'ni s nitary
appliances ar ■ connected
with th ■ establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
juacties’ Tea Rooms.
■pHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive i stablishment
one of the b(st-appointed Ladies’Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in i he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
UNTO Cu.r e, 3XT o P ay.
B elt
rpms is the ONE and ONLV Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK FARTS. Renumber, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
TRADE
SKIN TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s. 6d., or, three bottles together, £ll2s. 6d.
Valuable new Book on “NATURAL BEAUTY,” sent
free, 4d.
Head Offlce-89 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australasia—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
CQ YEARS DYEING
iJIFOB THE LADIES.
W. C- ELDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
E
Shipping.
NGLAND VIA
AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
I
Leave I Arrive at
Auckland.! San
at 2 p.m. j Francisco,
9 Sept.
31
28
_26
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points 'en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and .£57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSA6ERIES MARITIME
f'YDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract >'ith
the French Government, calling at VELBOI ’KNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows: —
Steamer
Commander
Arm, BEHIC Poydenot ..
AUSTIULIEN G. Didier ...
V.deIaCIOTAT F> -chi- ..
Dates of Departure.
Sydney jMelbout rie Adelaide
Noon I 1 p.m. 1 p.m.
July 27:Ji lv 31 Aug. 2
Aug. 27 Aug. 31 Sept. 2
Sept. 27pc!. 1 Oct. 3
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SAI.OON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberalconcessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.- ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lo don and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N. B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London.by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
&ROMARTI
EsTolHiy^
mii'im—■nimm
v.o
CROffIIY
Whisky:
Greenlees Brothers jg'
omscowionooNAtiD yx
ARGYLESHIRE IKJ
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRA LIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUS T a C H Ell
Capill arine!
jifT" The Lightning Moustache Producer. '&•&
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
ClltAlG .V ill'll ‘ X, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
/.ye
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and-is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEW,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
USA «t CB5B George Street, Sydney.
|3fr NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.’*


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Eider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
'fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- eaoh .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
&ST POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLEIL, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
dfd
f
HOME
m
SgsaSS
■ssJCi
&
■>>
Sik& est
n B-ISEST
©O/VIKS
marine
frWeRHa
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you owe
'*■ FROM
&
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
> 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
NEWTON & LAMB.
BEDSTEADS
In BLACK and BRASS, and NICKEL, with LATEST
IMPROVEMENTS. In ALL SIZES, at LOWEST
PRICES.
CHILDREN’S COTS
In ALL USUAL SIZES. Some SPECIAL DESIGNS
are ndw being offered.
Bedding,
M ATT R ASSES, BOLSTERS,
and PILLOWS, in all the
usual materials, special care
being taken to ensure the most
perfect cleanliness.
Wove-wire Mattrasses
CHAIR BEDSTEADS,
FOLDING COTS, STRETCHERS,
&c., in great variety.
m
>-
l=j!
saw)
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
AW AYS IN STOCK:
Steam E3ngin.es, Boilers, Gras Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
4 Plum ’
PQj
THE
* Plum ’
mHIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered-to the-public,
1 " Pure hollow ground, beautiful,'silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and vve
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
[ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beaut iful cas >, 30s.
Beffistereaand sent Post Free to anil of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Price
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 080 George Street, STDNI3V.
/
PUREST.
SAFEST.
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”—Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds-
Premier, Moral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
w
wm.
Depots/
Ftin
roughnessa skin irritation
LonDQN.N.W.cX^
V^>Y.^'U!>l I^n,l uY>>,m ,>(l ■ liu'lMl,l ;1 ■ ■,..... ■■ S
For Toilet. Nursery&r
For SUNBURN, INSECT
PIIICKUY HEA.T, &o
In Three Sizes.
BITES,
A SANITARY, SOLUBLE ROSE-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes-in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD.
d
k
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
A'
Ask for Lea & Perkins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse <s• Blackwell, London, so., So.J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents : Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN ; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively the Best Hair-Dressing.
AWARDS' MARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USE.
AFTER FSB
To grow heavily In a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising.
.As a producer of W and Moustacliios it has never been equalled. As a Carer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Grey to its Original Colour, never fails.
OOOOOO : 1 — •
Physicians and Annh/sts pronounce it to be perfectly 'harmless Anil devoid.o/an-y metallic or.other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. Gd... 3s. Gd., and ss. Gd. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
. ! A . ,J a; t MANUFACTURKD ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—N0.70i,
SATURDAY, JULY 22, 1893.
Price, 6d.
fd
w^
„ 'Ko
; ound
or q fT
topside
jjACK WALL
FISU OF ONE, FLESH OF ANOTHER.
“The Chinese are still swarming from the Northern Territory of S. A., into Queensland.”— DAILY PAPER.
“Last week the Queensland Government notified New South Wales that there was no work in that State available, and it would be useless for men to come there seeking employment
Two days after this announcement 500 Japs, were landed." — DAILY PAPER,
BOSS M'ILWRAITH (to the Japs.) : “Now you are what I call really desirable emigrants—far superior to those objectionable Chinese whom we don’t admit-at least not
by this catrance.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
'"Australia for tho Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
V
TEEMS TO SUBSCBIBEES
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
H'alf-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty,
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by-Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere. '
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed.to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly eonffdential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed,
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS. •
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Elect Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal: — The Standard and Diggers’
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also;-it. A.hThompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetoivn, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, tvith 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent tinless the subscription be pre-
paid, There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
♦—
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
eton, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents, can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY. JULY 22, 1893.
Wanted, A Public Defender.
The Bulletin has frequently called atten-
tion to the urgent want of a Public Defender
—whoso business it will be to defend every
accused person who requires his services—as
a part of the permanent legal machinery of
the State, and the proposal to appoint a
Public Prosecutor in New South Wales
makes the present a fitting time to renew
discussion of the subject. Under the exist-
ing system the Attorney-General fills this
latter office, in theory at all events, and is the
jiaid agent of that impersonal thing known
ns the “ Crown ” when it starts out on the
track of a supposed criminal, but the Attor-
ney-General is largely employed in politics,
and the balance of his time is mostly occu-
pied with private briefs. The “ Crown ” is
further represented by the officials of the State
Law Offices ; by a number of Crown Prose-
cutors, who have hitherto been frequently
known as persons of very small repute,
and by the ordinary police and detective
force. But at the moment New South Wales
is suffering from one of those unreasoning
panics to which it is periodically subject,
and, therefore, as a means of procuring more
convictions, and ensuring more hangings, and
working up the case against the prisoner
with more fervour generally, it is proposed
to appoint a special officer who shall
supervise the entire machinery of the
criminal department, and devote himself
solely to the business of getting as
many people convicted as possible. The
Bulletin cordially approves of this idea,
provided a Crown Defender* be appointed at
the same time. Otherwise the Crown
Prosecutor must prove a most effective
means of creating injustice where there is
already more injustice than enough.
» # #
The advantage which is likely to arise
from the appointment of a Crown Prosecutor
is that he will—provided ho be a man of
reasonable capacity—create some measure of
order in a department which is now some-
what chaotic. But it is apparently proposed
to appoint him as an agency for the suppres-
sion of crime simply because other agencies
have proved disgracefully inefficient, and in
this capacity he will be an almost inevitable
failure. Crimes of violence are frequent in
N.S. W. because the police force is miserably
weak, so that it can neither find criminals nor
extend reasonable protection to witnesses,
beside which the average magistrate or
J.P. is mentally feeble to the last degree,
and prison discipline has degenerated
into a farce. The appointment of a Public
Prosecutor will repair none of these evils.
That official can only add new vigour to the
prosecution of the suspect who is captured,
and in this department the law is already
vigorous enough. When it captures any-
body it promptly shuts him up in gaol, and
does its level best to prevent him gathering
evidence to prove his innocence. It lets
loose the whole police and detective depart-
ment upon his case, and the business of this
department is—in effect—to prove him guilty
whether he is so or not; therefore, in many
cases, so far as the eye can discern, there
is but a sheet of tissue - paper between
police testimony and perjury. It employs
the Crown Law Officers to piece together the
evidence thus obtained, and hires expensive
barristers to make eloquent appeals to the
jury, and to browbeat the prisoner’s wit-
nesses, and it spends hundreds of pounds in
presenting the case for the prosecution iu the
blackest possible aspect, and in minimising
the case for the defence. And then, as a
miserable parody on equity, it allows the
prisoner, in capital cases, wherewith to prove
his innocence, about one-twentieth the
amount which it cheerfulty spends to demon-
strate his -in other cases it allows
nothing. On one side there'are the police,
the detective force, theLawOffice machinery,
the Crown Prosecutor, and probably an out-
lay of £2OO or £3OO iu cash ; and on the
other there 'is generally nothing at all,
except the prisoner locked up in gaol, and
sometimes some solicitor or other, who is
allowed, probably, a total of £2O, and who is
required to be his own detective and police
force, and all the rest of the legal machinery
combined. The odds already tend to the
conviction of the prisoner, and the appoint-
ment of a Public Prosecutor, unless some
counterbalancing influence is created at the
same time, only makes this sinister assurance
a little more sure.
* * *
There is no urgent demand for the con-
viction of a larger number of the prisoners
arrested ; the proportion of convictions is
already so large as to create an impression
that, when the law once lays its hands upon
a suspect, it is not especially scrupulous
about how it secures his conviction. What
is urgently wanted is some surer means of
tracking criminals, a sterner administration
of justice in certain classes of offences when
the criminal is found, and a more reasonable
certainty that the law has found the right
individual. The Bulletin demands the
appointment of a Public Defender —not out
of sympathy for the criminal, but out of
sympathy for those whose lives or liberties,
under the present haphazard system, may
be so easily sworn away. As matters stand,
a police-officer’s chances of promotion seem
to depend almost entirely on his success iu
obtaining convictions. If a sensational crime
is committed, it; is almost necessary for him
to convict somebody.
* • *
A Public Defender is wanted in order that
he may be the antithesis of the Public Pro-
secutor. His purpose in life is to audit the
latter official in all his doings. He must
have his own subordinate legal officers whose
business it will be to appear on behalf of
every prisoner who is without the means of
efficient defence ; and his own detective
force to hunt up facts for the defence as
systematically as they are now hunted up for
the prosecution. When the existing force
seizes upon one suspected individual in an
obscure case, it thereafter devotes itself so
entirely to securing his conviction that, if
the wrong individual has been arrested iu
the first instance, the escape of the real
offender is almost certain ; therefore it will
be the mission of the officers of the Public
Defender’s department to follow' up neglected
clues on the prisoner’s behalf. They will
trace out the history of the witnesses for the
prosecution, just as the existing detective
force does that of the witnesses for the
defence. They will be a standing check on
perjury, which almost every Australian
Judge has declared over and over again to
be one of the fine arts in this country, and a
menace to those professional witnesses who
so often are on hand. Also, they will be a
serious stumbling-block to that professional
identifier who is now permitted to state,
almost unquestioned, that he can swear to
the prisoner because he passed him once in
a crowded street at night when he had his
hat drawn down over his eyes ; and a warn-
ing to the frequent kind of witness who,
when a sensational crime has been com-
mitted, wants to swear to everything from
sheer hunger after notoriety. In short, the
Public Prosecutor represents an immensely
powerful department, which exists for the
purpose of assuming that every arrested per-
son is guilty and securing his conviction. To
make things reasonably even, the Public
Defender should represent a department
which exists for the purpose of assuming
that the same individual is innocent. Be-’
tween the two, there is a fair chance that
justice may be done.
The Bulletin advocates the appointment
of a Public Defender as a necessary measure
for the purification of justice. But the whole
judicial system wants purifying in many other
directions. The power claimed by Attorneys-
General of stopping or refusing to initiate
criminal proceedings requires abolition, for
the Attorney-General is a mere politician,
and is, as a human being, often liable to per-
vert equity for the sake of political consider-
ations, and the trade of politics is too
unclean to be mixed up with the administra-
tion of the law. The exigencies of Party
Government, and the knowledge that to pro-
secute some influential offender mightinvolve
the ruin of the Cabinet and the loss of
his own office and salary, are influences
which are calculated to lead almost any man,
built of clay, to sacrifice his conscience on
the altar of expediency. Moreover, more
than one Attorney-General who has held
office in Australia has been a chronic and
notorious bankrupt, whose dishonoured pro-
missory notes were in the hands of almost
every banker and usurer in the province, and
such an individual is .not a free agent ; to
prosecute, however justly, a creditor or a
creditor’s relative, or the friend or relative
of such a relative to the fortieth degree of
consanguinity might mean ruin, and to
refuse to prosecute, however unjustly, the
enemy of a creditor or a creditor’s friend
might be equally destructive. The sa-me
theory applies to the Bench ; more than one
Australian Judge can hardly give judgment
against any Christian or Hebrew financier or
his hundredth cousin three times removed,
except at the hazard of being declared insol-
vent by way of vengeance. In all such cases
the creditor’s forbearance is based largely on
the fact that it is more profitable to have a
lieu on a Judge or Crown Law officer —which
is practically having a lien on the whole
criminal and civil code—than to obtain a
precarious dividend through the Insolvency
Court, and lose that lien —possibly for ever.
Under such conditions justice may he pure,
but if so it maintains its purity against odds
that are almost overwhelming.
* * *
If the law is to be administered without
fear or favour, its administrators must stand
almost entirely apart from their kind. They
should he lavishly paid for their isolation,
hut, in return for that payment, they should
he required to he almost as far removed
from outside influences as a hermit in a
desert. They should have no connection
with politics or commerce. They should
neither ho landholders nor shareholders, nor
he directly or indirectly j interested in any
sort of trade. Their debts should be irre-
coverable at law ; their promissory notes
should he made valueless by Act of Parlia-
ment ; their overdrafts, or their liability as
sureties, or their endorsements on the back
of anybody’s hill should be merely waste
paper and futile ink. Their relatives should
not he allowed to plead in the courts over
which they preside. In every possible way
the legal code should provide that every
Judge, Attorney-General, Crown Prosecutor,
or stipendiary magistrate, shall he as free
from all possible external pressure as human
ingenuity can make him. And even when
all this is effected, justice will not be pure,
for nothing oirvthis earth ever attains to
absolute purity. But it will, at all events,
be much purer than it is under the condi-
tions now existing.
The New Australia Exodus.
Notwithstanding everything that lias been
said to dissuade them ; every friendly admoni-
tion ; every showing of just impediment;
every forbidding of the banns between white
upstanding Australians and a forbidding and
banned community of dusky Dagoes,” Lane
and 210 of his followers have passed out through
Sydney Heads on the way to Paraguay. The
good, or at least fair to middling, ship Royal
Tar is heading for the frozen Horn loaded with
enthusiasts .who, in the intervals of mal-de-mer,
see visionsoi a land of golden mist and mate-
ship under the orange-grove shade with “ good
grub” a certainty, and just enough work to make
fife interesting.
* # #
The Bulletin wishes Lane, and all who
have gone and are going, the most complete
success. It has not hesitated to say straight
out, in the most sufficient words, that the
scheme is unpromising to the verge of insanity.
For doing this k. has, of course, been regarded
as an enemy by the pioneers, or deserters. But
it will wait the verdict of their ripe experi-
ence, and will rejoice with them if its warnings
prove to have been misplaced. If, in the
miasmatic land of half-breeds, goitre, and
assorted pestilences, they find or make
a Home, it will be more glad thereat than half of
those who thought aniULhink with it, yet do
not care to talk straight when straightness is
unpalatable.
« * *
The New Australian contingent contains the
best material for such an experiment the world
could furnish, perhaps. The work that lies in
front of them, provided they are allowed to go
squarely at it, and'it proves to be worth doing,
is just the sort they have been used
to. There are few town dwellers among
the first batch, and the majority of
those who are now rolling their swags
in Queensland and South Australia with a view
to the second, are of the bush. They have been
trained in the tasks of settlement. Tank-
sinkers, shearers, bush-carpenters, station-
hands, with artisans used to the rough-and-
tumble life of Australia, will not be easily
knocked out. But what they have to encounter
will be very different from the difficulties they
ha,ve met here, and may be such as no pluck or
can overcome.
* # #
The unexpected Worries that have attended
the fitting-out and sailing of the Royal Tar
have been a heavy cross to the New Aus-
tralians. How many such crosses may be
ahead ? Their funds have been heavily trenched
on by delay and mismanagement here —what
will be left for them to live on until the pota-
toes grow iu Paraguay, if they have more such
experiences ? In fixing the membership mini-
mum at £6O per male head, the organisation
cut things so fine as to leave little or no margin
for the hundred and one costly contingencies
that beset a big undertaking much of which lies
out in the dark. Most of the members have
thrown far more than the minimum into the
common hat, some, it is said, giving as
much as £l5OO, so that the average may
be £lOO per adult. How much of this has
already been eaten in idleness or wasted in mis-
management, which prolonged the idleness,
The Bulletin doesn’t know. Bill it knows
just as well as if it had been through the mill
that before the argonauts get to their patch of
Paraguay, and after, there will be unforeseen
delays, difficulties, and muddles standing ten
deep.
« * *
That such a body of men and women should
leave Australia for such a place and on such a
mission isa pity, and, we are more than ever con-
vinced, a bitter mistake. The distance is greats
the voyage severe, and the place one which has
been offering itself in junks to the white world
for years past and meeting with contumelious
rejection. South or Equatorial Africa would
have been infinitely preferable. New Zealand
would, probably have offered a concession to
them which would have been worth far more
per acre, all things considered 1 , than the
Paraguayan gift will be per square mile.
/ And if Australian Governments are really soli-
citous for the well-being of their people, they
will not let the second batch start out with the
excuse that land for settlement could not be
found in Australia for men with strong arms
and comparatively full pockets. Such an ex-
cuse is a disgrace to anything with the name of
a Government. ..
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Mercantile “Arrangement.”
The surroundings of the Matthew Davies case
remained peculiar, and therefore unsatisfactory,
up to time of writing. In the unprejudiced eye
©f the Law there can be no difference between
Davies and Millidge and any other two men
committed for trial on a criminal charge, but
the Law closed its eye to this fact when “ de-
fendants ” were allowed bail in their personal
recognizances of £lOO. Previously, after being
committed by Magistrate M -‘Donald, Davies
and Millidge were required to find heavy
sureties for their appearance at the Criminal
Court, but somehow the O’Loghlen nolle
prosequi has altered the case. When the
magistrate’s decision was finally endorsed by a
grand jury, the need for those sureties mys-
teriously disappeared. It is remarkable, too,
that neither Millidge nor Davies was arrested
in the usual formal way. As regards Davies,
the warrant for his arrest seems not to have left
the hands of Mr. M‘Farlane, solicitor for the
private prosecutor. “ Had the warrant been
lodged at the detective-office in the ordinary
way the police must have made the arrest.”
But it wasn’t. Some hours subsequent to
Davies’ arrival in Melbourne, the solicitor for
the prosecutor, “accompanied by Mr. Price
(Davies’ partner), drove to the City Court and
arranged for Sir Matthew’s appearance there
before a magistrate.” This eternal display of
extra special consideration for the ex-Speaker’s
feelings may not be inconsistent with a desire
for justice pure and simple, but it necessarily
aggravates the public suspicion that the Fat Man
has still two fingers and a thumb in the Mer-
cantile Bank matter. Moreover, Australia is
rather surprised to learn that the secretary of
the Yic. Crown Law Department wrote direct
to Davies as soon as' the O’Loghlen nolle
prosequi was arrived at—“ I, am directed
by the Attorney - General tw inform you
that n® presentment will be filed in
the above case.” Australia is, rightly or
/wrongly, under the impression that parties
committed for trial are not thus written to,
personally, unless they happen to be knights.
Finally, there is a certain vafgueness about the
Crown’s promise to allow “reasonable costs”
to the private prosecutor at the end of the
trial, supposed to be forthcoming. The news
that “ the Crown will not for the present
undertake the prosecution ” is highly satis-
factory, considering the Crown’s action in the
Mercantile case up to date. But “ reasonable
costs ”is an unsatisfactory proviso. Does it
mean that the Crown is not prepared to pay
for an expensive prosecution ? AH things con-
sidered, a public subscription to defray the
costs of a fair trial— i.e., fair for the credit of
the country as well as for Davies and Millidge
—-would not be out of place,
“ Echo ” Logic.
That strong-minded person who signs himself
“Juetitia” — this individual is no relation to
“ Pro Bono Publico ” — writes to Sydney
Echo about burglars :
When three visits from these gentlemen take place in
one night in the same locality, the infliction of the
severest penalty as a deterrent is necessary, and I am
thoroughly convinced that the only punishment likqly to
be effectual is the “ cat.” Some have said, “Yes, where
violence is resorted to,” forgetting, probably, that the
knowledge on the palrt of the fair sex of a burglar being
in the house might produce such alarm as would termin-
ate in death. I think lam right in staling that no' Judge
has at the present time power to order corporal punish-
ment for burglary. Could anything he more absurd than
to object to this particular kind of punishment on the
ground of its degradation ? Is it possible to degrade
those of whom it might with great propriety be said, in
the language of Him who knew the hearts of all, “ Ye are
of your father the devil.” Away with such sentimen-
tality towards a class who, determined to pursue their
fiendish course, are better dead than alive.
The Bulletin now presents the Echo corres-
pondent with his own logic, applied with a very
slight difference. W ben about thirty more or less
fraudulent banks break in one year in the saute
locality, the infliction of the severest penalty is
equally necessary, and the only punishment
likely to be effectual is the “ cat.” The know-
ledge, on the part of the fair sex, or any other


sex, that a fraudulent hanker has embezzled the
savings of a lifetime and left no prospect hut an
old age of starvation, often terminates in death
—much more often than does a mere burglary.
No Judge has power to order corporal punish-
ment for bank frauds and sham balance-sheets.
It is not possible to degrade the fraudulent
banker much further than he is already
degraded, and, like the burglar, the bank-
swindler and robber of the poor is also better
dead than alive. And if the lash is wanted for
the burglar because imprisonment has failed to
suppress burglary, then it is equally Avanted for
the bogus banker on the same principle, like-
wise for the embezzler, promoter of bubble
companies, bigamist, fan - tan person, child
deserter. Avoman guilty of concealment of birth,
attempted suicide, larcenist, personator at elec-
tions, dog-stealer, person having property
reasonably suspected of being stolen, and every
other criminal, for imprisonment has been tried
on them all and has suppressed none of them.
In fact, imprisonment hasn’t absolutely sup-
pressed any crime Avhatever, therefore, accord-
ing to the right-thinking person’s invariable
mode of reasoning, every offender of whatever
degree should be flogged Avith the same vigour
and for the same logical or illogical cause.
♦—
The Re-constructed Selector.
The fatherly anxiety of the New South Wales
Government to see the “ busted ” hanks through
their troubles crops up in a neAV and unexpected
direction. Any selector, squatter, homestead
lessee, &c., whose deposit is fixed in one of these
rat-trap institutions, and who has a payment
due on his land, can now obtain an elaborate
blue form to fill up, setting forth that he can’t
meet his liability owing to his bank having gone
wrong. On receipt of this the Treasury will
give him credit until his affairs come round.
But the arrangement applies only to the man
whose hank is “ pending reconstruction ” —these
two words are carefully inserted in the form—
and the man Avhose hank is suspended but isn’t
o-oing to reconstruct doesn’t come in anyAvhere.
Therefore, the selector, pastoral lessee, and all
the rest have a most powerful incentive to help
the reconstruction along; if they carry a
motion that the broken bank he Avound up and
the directors prosecuted, then the Government
seizes the selection for non-payment of the last
instalment due. Also, as far as can he ascer-
tained, it descends relentlessly on every selector
in arrear who doesn’t fill in the aforesaid form—
probably on the off-chance that he is a “ miserable
hound ” who rushed and got his money out
before the suspension, or a black - hearted
ruffian who won Id nit reconstruct. One case
which The Bulletin knows of is that of a
selector who has paid four annual in-
stalments, and Avho Avanted three months’
credit for the fifth one. He offered ten per
cent, interest for the concession, but—when ho
had explained that his money AA'asn’t in any
re-constructed bank was informed that he
couldn’t have even one day’s grace on any
terms ; if the money wasn’t forthcoming on the
due date his selection, Avith nearly £lOOO worth
of improvements, would be .forfeited. Con-
sidering the alleged anxiety of the State to
“settle the people on the land,” the Adgour with
which it jumps on the man Avho is already
settled there is surprising.
♦
A Masonic Feed.
After reading the full report of how N.S.W.
Governor Duff was “ installed ” — as if he were
an electric-lighting apparatus —to he “Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge under the N.S.W.
Constitution,” The Bulletin has come to the
conclusion that the Freemasons are the most
abject and slobbersome race that goes about on
all-fours over the surface of this burdened
earth. It is an awful thing to read that
“Bro.” A. Gehde presided at the Toavii Hall
organ—no ordinary individual is ever allowed
to play on that organ, but the Masonic
brother gets at it Avith all his four feet ;
and that among the representatives were
the M.W.P.G. M. of S.A., accompanied by
his M.W.D.G.M., also the G.C. and the
P.S.G.W., and that the M.W.D.G.M. of V.C.
AA'as there with his M. W.P.D.G.M. Then the
report goes on to tell how the Masons slobbered
each other— lioav the Most Worthy Grand
Master Kintore told the Most Worshipful
Grand Master about his “despair” at the
absence of the Most Worshipful Pro-Grand
Master Way, and how he addressed the boss of
the function as “ Most Woi’shipful Grand Sir,”
and how he talked hazily about the “ light
which streams from the East.” Then he started
reminiscences in tones of aAvful reverence con-
cerning Most Worthy Grand Master Car-
ington, and Mosff Worthy Past Grand Master
Brother Jersey, and Grand Master Duff
made a half-column speech in which he used the
word “ Grand ” 28 times. Also, he mentioned
that the Order approved of God and gave Him
a sort of general support as a deserving institu-
tion Avhich ought to he encouraged. Every-
body moaned, more or less, about his “ Gracious
Queen,” and everybody called everybody else
“Grand.”-*- Then there Avas a banquet—the
Freemasons are mostly heavy feeders—
and the members slobbered each other,
and slobbered the Queen, and slobbered God
in their own especially awful fashion, and
addressed each other as the most worship-
fid double-barrelled back-action grand worthy
brother something or other, with patent fly-
back reversing gear and all the latest improve-
ments. It AA'as a notable grovel all round, hut
why, in the name of diseased meat, don’t the
guzzling brothers keep quiet about it and not
put the horror in the papers ?
♦
Pile on Cheap Labour.
Editor Bulletin,— -Many thanks for your article upon
my unworthy self. You have conferred a great honour
upon me in drawing attention to my outspokenness in
publicly saying outright what others are afraid to utter,
because the truth may be unpopular. You yourself are
evidently angry with me, judging from your remarks.
Allow me to say that the rays of your royal indignation
alighting on my head have illuminated, hut cannot
consume. I shall survive, notwithstanding, and make my
presence felt.
While, however, I thank you for the honour which you
have conferred upon me, will yon, in your charity, allow
me to say that 1 do not agree with the opinions you have
expressed concerning the letter which you have done me
the honour to comment upon.
I did not, in that letter, advocate cheap labour ; I only
hinted, indeed very clearly, that if a certain section of our
railway servants were dissatisfied with their billets, there
were many equally good men in other parts of the world
who would be only too glad to take their places, and this
opinion I maintain, in spite of your article, and notwith-
standing the recent letter from a gentleman who hails
from the land of wooden nutmegs.
You go beyond the scope of my letter in your com-
ments, and speak of cheap auctioneers from Bombay.
By all means let them come. And we would also welcome
the trained litterateurs of the intellectual races of India
on our public press, as pleaders in our law courts, and let
the best man win. The world is now becoming very
small in these days of telegraphs and giant steamships,
and all the people compete for the universal employ-
ment. The American farmer, the Australian settler, the
Russian peasant, the Indian ryot compete with the
English farmer on equal terms for the food-supplying of
London. Our coal miners compete with Japanese in
supplying coal to the steamships trading the Eastern
seas, the contributions of a Turkish lady and an Indian
girl are received on equal terms with essays written in
England, in the English magazines ; nothing can slop
this progress, though what would the grave divines of the
times of the Protector have thought had they been told
that, in the course of a few generations after them, a
Jewish counsel would be pleading before an English
Judge, beneath the Southern Cross, as a Fellow of the
Middle Temple—and that a Hindoo Judge would try
Englishmen in a Court of Justice in the then Mogul
Empire, hut which country would have become an
integral part of the English dominions.
You use the term accomplice surely without warrant.
I have no accomplices. I stand alone in what I write.
Permit me to say, in conclusion, that I am no advocate
for cheap labour. I wish to see everybody well paid and
to give faithful service.—‘Faithfully yours,
George Pile.
[l. Mr. Pile, in his previous letter, said that it
Avas time the public made a “firm stand’’
against the Avages paid in the New South Wales
railway department, and added that railway
employes could be imported at less than half
current rates. If that is not advocating “cheap
labour,” then Avill Mr. Pile explain what it is
advocating? 2. Mr. Pile has “ accomplices,”
and does not “stand alone in Avhat he writes
if he did he wouldn’t be Avortli noticing. Every
other Fat Man in the country is his accomplice.
3. What have the Turkish lady Avho writes for
English magazines, and the Japanese coal, and
the Hindoo Judge got to do Avith the question
of reducing wages in Australia ? 4. The
Bulletin is not angry with Mr. Pile. He
only makes it feel sick. — Ed. B.j
——♦
The curse of private railway ownership is
coming home to the people of the United States.
Where railways are State property it is cus-
tomary to reduce fares when some unusual cir-
cumstance causes any great increase of traffic ;
the lines being the property of the people they
are run for the people’s benefit. Just now the
Chicago World’s Fair has almost doubled the
business on some lines and largely increased it
on almost all, and every road which leads to
Chicago is gorged with traffic. Therefore the
companies—which are supposed to reduce fares
by competition, but Avhich really raise them
by combination —have added considerably to
their customary rates. The railway league has
resolved to strip the foreign visitor to the
skeleton, and incidentally it strips the native
also. A return ticket from New York to
Chicago noAV costs £ 10 ; from San Francisco,
£2O. Sleeping berths, which are extras, are
16s. a night, and the railway refreshment-room
meal has gone up in price about 250 per cent.
As for the Fair itself, it is a premature ruin
through the wholesale robberies of the hog
city. “ From one end of the land to the
other,” says the Chicago correspondent of the
Otago (M.L.) Daily Times, “a protest has
arisen against the thieves, brigands, robbers,
and pickpockets who pose as Avaiters, stall-
keepers, refreshment-contractor’s, hotel-proprie-
tors, and railway-directors.” They are all
representatives of private enterprise in one
shape or another, and “ private enterprise ” is
doing what it always does when the chance
presents itself. It has a great monopoly on
hand, and it is eating its customers and leaving
nothing but the bones.
An Auckland (M.L.) solicitor, named Charles
Edward Madden, has been sentenced to one
month’s gaol for non-payment of his subscrip-
tion to the trades-union of which he is a mem-
ber under compulsion. Madden is a married
man with a family, and a lawyer of the
impecunious description. Probably owing to
excessive competition, he has been, apparently,
a failure all his life, and for years it was only
with the greatest difficulty that he roped in a
very occasional client to pay the rent of his
dingy little office, and to provide plain board
for his family, and to buy a new official
black coat when the old one became
green about the back, and the seams
looked white and slimy as if each one
had been a snail-track. At last he failed to
raise his annual subscription to the Law Society;
in other words, he dropped—or attempted to
drop—out of his trades-union and became a
“free labour” lawyer, or a sort of “scab”
solicitor. Thereupon the trades-union sued
him and—despite his pathetic plea of poverty-
obtained judgment, and now, as already men-
tioned, Madden has drifted into gaol. As
matters stand, he has been boycotted and
brutally intimidated, and prevented by violent
means from pursuing his calling, and the great
principle that no man need belong to a trades-
union unless he feels so inclined has been
outraged. The union didn’t throw stones
at him, or “picket” him, or call him “scab”
in the street, hut, judging by its vindictive
pursuit of him, it would probably nave done all
these things hut for the fact that it had the law
at hand to bring down with a thud on its victim.
If the law would put the non-union Avharf-
labourer in gaol in similar fashion, and prohibit
him following his calling, then the union
labourer would also abstain from picketing and
strong language; like the lawyer, he would
have no use for such measures. The absence of
some statute, under which Judge Connolly
and the Auckland Law Society can he treated
after the manner of Sleath and Ferguson, for
doing, openly and brazenly, just what Sleath
and Ferguson are alleged to have done, is one
of the legal anomalies of the age.
Says the Age, in its republican charity ; “ Bill
Sikes is a hard customer to deal with, even
when his daily rations are cut down to hread-
and-water, with an occasional flogging thrown
in as an appetiser ; but with meat three times
a day, a constant supply of tobacco, and a choice
of pleasant reading, he becomes even more
dangerous a menace to society when his term
expires then if he bad never been sent to gaol
at all.” Perhaps the Age will show some
meaning for this outburst by mentioning one
Australian prison where convicts of the Sikes
class, or any other vulgar offenders for the
matter of that, get meat three times a day, or
where Sikes is regaled with pleasant reading
and a constant supply of baccy. The Melbourne
“organ of the masses ” is confusing Sikes with
Mat. Larkin, Abigail and G. N. Taylor.
These are the criminals who “ recline in easy
chairs, perusing the masterpieces of literature,
and enjoying meals which many an honest man
would be only too glad to get these hard times.”
Treat Bill Sikes as they are treated, and he
will soon see the folly of housebreaking whilst
there is bankhreakiiig to he done.
In the present seamen’s dispute, just as in the
Broken Hill trouble, and the great maritime
strike and shearers’ strike of a year or two
ago, the employers have flatly refused to arbi-
trate on any terms. Unless they are absolutely
certain that the award will he in their favour,
they always do refuse to arbitrate. And if
they did arbitrate there is no power to make
them accept the decision of the Court of Con-
ciliation, and even if they did, from motives of
expediency, profess to accept it at the moment,
the treaty would he broken at the first con-
venient opportunity as the old Broken
Hill treaty was broken not very long ago.
The present kind of conciliation, as established
by New South Wales Act of Parliament, is of
no earthly value, except that it supplies billets
for sundry needy barristers and others, as
arbitrators, clerks of awards, and the like. It
only applies where both parties want to he
conciliated, and when that event—which is
about as rare as the dodo or the mastodon —
takes place, they can arbitrate quite as easily
without the court as with it. The only kind of
Conciliation that is of any value is the compul-
sory variety, and despite the parrot cry of the
capitalistic press that industrial disputes
can’t be settled except by mutual con-
sent, it must come to this sooner or
later. When a number of people dispute in
the street, with sticks or otherwise, the law
proceeds to compulsory conciliation right off,
and never considers whether the combatants
consent or not. And when the Fat Man starts
a dispute which fills the whole country Avith
turmoil, he can he conciliated in the same
fashion —if the State will only get over its
superstitious veneration for fat, and will treat
him as it does any other public disturber.
The Argus takes a despairing view of the Government’s
recent action in cutting down the salary of future Vic.
Governors to .£7OOO without allowances. “Victoria now
takes second place to N.S. Wales before the world, , ,
The Queen may still be able to find men of light and lead-
ing to serve her in these distant expensive parts . . .
hut , . the calibre of our future Governors will fall
off . . . and we will earn a name of impecuniosity
abroad ” :
“ I might tell you,” said Mr. Giles, S.M., at
a Sydney suburban court one day last week,
while sentencing a prisoner, “ that, had I
another magistrate with me, I should give you
the lash.” The Bulletin protests that that is
making altogether too little of the sacred
weapon. If it possess the curative and pre-
ventive properties alleged by its worshippers,
it should not be hung up for the trivial reason
assigned. There were magistrates up and down
the street, in the bars in public-houses, in the
yard of the police-court, and mayhap in the lock-
up itself, and if Giles, S.M., really believes in
the efficacy of the lash, it is incomprehensible
that he should neglect to employ the means of
salvation merely to save himself the trouble of
summoning one of these. The case is all the
stronger, seeing that, according to Giles, P.M.,
the second magistrate was merely expected to
be a judicial dummy : “ Had I another magis-
trate with me I should give you the lash ”
not, “had I another magistrate with me who
took the same view I do, we should,” &c., but
simply “another magistrate.” If the sacred
symbol of the heavy-jowled hide-welters is not
to fall into contemptuous disuse, some means
must be taken to prevent such miscarriages of
justice as that referred to. Why cannot the
law be altered so as to allow any common
bobby, who happens to be available, to ascend
the Bench and serve the stipendiary as “ second
party ?” As Mr. Giles puts it, the thing is
not wanted to have brains, so where’s the
difficulty ?
: —♦— ——
Henry Wrixon told the Victorian Assembly
—and not in joke, for Wrixon is Loo respect-
able to joke —that it is “ well known that
every gentleman who has filled the office of
Governor has had to spend a good deal more
than his salary out of his private means in order
to maintain his office.” If this were not a
monstrously incorrect statement there would
still be no occasion to weep for the poor Gover-
nors any more than one snivels over the absurd
Lord Mayor who “does in” his entire yearly
salary the first day and night after taking
office. But it doesn’t happen to be well known
that any one Victorian Governor has assisted to
“find himself.” If Gov. Locu didn’t make a
good thing of his appointment his land-boom
speculations were alone to blame. As for
Lord Hopetoun, he hasn’t lived within cooee
of £IO,ODD a-year and extras. Immediately
after settling down in Melbourne he took the
opportunity to be anno3’ed at some allow-
ance or other being cut down, and he an-
nounced, in a semi-official way, his intention
of not spending the gigantic sums of
money he had meant to spend. And he kept
his word, like an earl and a Scotchman. Good-
ness knows how much salary this careful young
man has saved in Australia. The unearned
increment accumulated for him by his Scotch
steward on the ancestral estates is said to be
enormous, and my Lord Hopetoun will return
to Court a millionaire in prospective. His
Gracious Queen always liked him, and now she
intends to love him almost as a son. The
Bulletin predicts a great future for Hopetoun
if he can make up his mind to cease growing
hair on his face.
Have all Victoria’s portly patriots
Fled from her in her hour of pressing need,
Given place to mouthing radicals and sots
Who love not Queen nor “ ’Ome,” and in their
greed
Would make the nation scorned, and scale her low
To save a paltry thousand pounds or so ?
Are all her gallant fat-men stricken dumb?
See, Loyalty is badgered by her foes !
Come, corpulent devotees, grovellers, come,
And shriek together of your country’s woes,
And o’er this most pernicious measure weep
That tends to make vice-regal persons cheap !
The big investor, that far god from whom
All blessings flow, will rise and blast us now,
And dedicate to impecunious gloom
The land that pays its Gov. but seven thou.;
For none believe a noble peer will come
To save the country for that wretched sum.
Of prestige shorn and light, o’er Vic.’s disgrace
Well may the doting, big-jowled Jingo sob.
The nations now are judged for pride of place
By what they pay their rulers for the job,
And so Old England’s mightiness is due
To Queen Victoria’s most substantial screw.
The calibre of Governors will fall
According to the rates —if there be room—
A prospect that the people must appal
And fill the grave philosopher with gloom,
Who by induction proves the next must be
A drivelling dotard or a chimpanzee.
The Finding of Frank Gardiner.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
In Boucicault’s “ Octoroon,” Jacob M'Closkey,
the murderer of the mail-boy I’aul, is discovered
by the aid of a photograph, and taken while
in the act of committing a crime. One of
Australia’s most desperate and pietmisqne of
bushrangers, Frank Gardiner, was discovered,
after a long retirement from business, by similar
means.
When the pursuit of the police became too hot
for Gardiner in the Lachlan district of N.S. W. ho
handed over his road agency to Ben Hall, Gil-
bert, and others, and then disappeared from view.
The police were completely battled in their efforts
to trace his whereabouts, and it was generally
supposed that ho had either succeeded in escaping
to Ameri a, or had died somewhere in the back-
blocks. The desperate deeds and wonderful
atrocity of his successors diverted public attention
from Gardiner, and, after a while, he was almost
forgotten. Suddenly, a few years later, the news
was flashed from Queensland that the redoubtable
desperado bad been arrested (while quietly under-
going reconstruction) at a store that he was keep-
ing on Aphis Creek in the Rockhampton district.
The arrest of Gardiner was made by an old Sydney
detective, assisted by some of the Queensland
police, and it has hitherto been believed that the
detective—M‘Glone, I think, was his name—was
the first person to discover the retreat of the
famous bushranger. Such is not the case,
however.
While exchanging stories with a member of
N.S.W. Parliament, 1 heard the real history of
the case, as related to my informant by a pro-
minent police official. The narrative is not only
remarkable as an illustration of the practical
application of Boucicault’s dramatic idea, but as
once more showing the extraordinary and unex-
pected means by which criminals are traced.
While Gardiner was in full swing as leader of a
daring band of bushrangers—when he was robbing
escorts, rescuing confederates, and capturing
police-inspectors —he met a travelling artist in tlm
Forbes district and decided to be photographed.
Having got the shadow-catcher to one of his
haunts, he compelled him to take the por-
trait of himself and paramour, Mrs. Browne,
standing side -by - side. The first effort was
not a success, so the photographer had to
take a second picture which the bushranger
accepted. The first photo, the artist care-
lessly threw amongst his negatives, and having
been well paid for his trouble he went his way,
saying never a word to the police of his adven-
ture.
Years afterwards, the same photographer was
travelling in Rockhampton (Q.) district, and,
calling at a roadside store, he purchased some
provisions. Thinking that he had previously
seen somewhere the man who served him he tried
to locate him and recall his name, but failed ; but,
while resting in his camp by Aphis Creek that
night, it suddenly flashed across his mind that the
face of the storekeeper was uncommonly like that
of Frank Gardiner, the famous bushranger
whom he had photographed in Forbes dis-
trict, years before. The more be thought
of it the more positive he became that
the man was Gardiner, and at sunrise next
morning he looked up the old negative (which ha
had with others in his cart), and sure enough
there was the same unmistakable face. To make
assurance doubly sure, he called at the store again
after breakfast to purchase a pannikin, and then
he no longer had a doubt upon the matter. Here
was a chance to make a “rise,” and he resolved
to avail himself of it. Going a few miles further
along the road he camped for a couple of hours,
and then proceeded by a circuitous route back to
Rockhampton, where he took the first steamer for
Sydney.
A few days afterwards, just as Mr. Fosbery had
taken his seat in the office of the Inspector-General
of Police, Sydney, he was informed that a visitor
desired to see him on urgent business. He at once
accorded an interview, and the caller, after closing
the door and looking cautiously round the room,
said : “ Is there still a reward out for Gardiner,
the bushranger ? ”
“Yes,” replied the official, “and a good one,
too.”
“ What will you give if I tell you where he is
to be found ? ” asked the photographer.
“ Give such information as will lead to the
arrest of Gardiner, and I will hand you a cheque
for ,£500,” said the Inspector-General.
The visitor at once imparted the knowledge he
had acquired, and was counselled to secrecy. The
next trip of a Brisbane and Rockhampton steamer
took a detective, armed with a warrant for
Gardiner’s apprehension, and in a few days came
the astounding news that the Australian Claude
Duval, partly the original of Rolf Boldrewood’s
“Captain Starlight,” had been quietly arrested
while engaged in the prosaic and peaceful vocation
pf storekeeping.
The photographer received his cheque for £5OO,
and is said to be alive and prospering in N.S.W
All my powers of persuasion, however, could not
extract the name of the artist from my informant
S.
“ Wliy was Pharoah’a daughter like flu
solicitors of Melbourne?” Because she acquiree
a great profit from the rushes on the banks. «


Iptic* to fait all gighto.
Fitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
,5,- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10,0 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS,
Jewellery Showrooms,
|$ niINTKK STREET, SIDNEY.
FROS SARD’S SWISS.
A. Good and Clioap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
df
d
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO.
I‘AVRR\F, (Switzerland}.
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, and you know, you get the genuine
i.rticle, by seeing o«f Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
846 Mnoqnarie-street North, Sydney,
July 19, 1899.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The Secretary of State’s gentle reminder (when
a reprieve was asked for) that Gov. Kiutoro signed
for six years, comes very funnily a-top of his Ex-
cellency’s flowery farewells at the by-Masonio
banquet. lam told he was very valedictory in-
deed, as if his carpet-bag were already packed. A
Governor generally considers he is near the fall of
the flag when he gives wide invitations to come
and see him and grasp his noble hand—in,
England. “He had made very good friends in the
ranks, of Masonry in N.S.W. and hoped that none
of the friends who heard him then, should they
ever run across each other on the other side of the
world, would hesitate to, cross a road and claim
his acquaintance.”
“On the other side of the world ! ” An origi-
nal sort of a Governor would be he Who arose and
asked, people to cross George, or Collins, or Queen,
or King-William street to buttonhole him. We
are tired of the potentate who means to be bon
camarade-in Piccadilly. Lord Kintore has era-
braced us all too soon. He will probably have to,
do most of the street-crossing himself until his
term is run to get away from the credulous and
friendly Masons who were listening to him the
other night.
Taking it all round, vice-regal people haven’t a
heavenly experience during their years of office—
they are, for one thing, exploited so by all kinds
of adventurers. Not only the would-be “society ”
sort who write for invitations to kettledrums and
the like, but the more mercenary classes who con-
coct forlornly-sounding begging-letters (one man
once wrote a reddish-bued, desperate epistle to
Gov. Oarington, in what he said was his own gore
failing the money for ink !) and drop them into
Government House as a fisherman drops his hook
into the deep sea. Unhappily for these people,
Government House submits all such appeals to
the fish-blooded Charity Organisation Society.
• For instance, one begging-letter, praying His
Ex. for relief, was found to emanate from the
oomfortably-piaced married daughter of a father
who “kept his carriage." Gov. Jersey was applied
to by a woman who claimed the Queen’s bounty
for multiplying the population three at a time;
but enquiry proved that she was only really
answerable for twins, and had borrowed a strange,
bald infant to complete the effect! All the im-
posters open fire on Government House, and a lot
of the really afflicted, too. There are days, I
believe, when the vice-regal avenue is much more
like a short-cut to the Infirmary than a more or
less private thoroughfare. And don’t the poor,
winning old ladies, dressed principally in ancient
umbrellas, make a dead set on the trusting ignor-
ance of a new Governor 1
Woman in Sydney seems to hug her ancient
and galling fetters, for at the last Suffrage League
pow-wow it was tearfully allowed that the league
was nd nearer the ballot-box than it was at the
very first. To stir up more feminine interest in a
cause that is supposed to be the cause of woman,
branches' of the league are to be set going through-
out the land, and the suburban and back-block
slave of man given a chance to learn her horrible
position without a trip to town. And if extended
operations fail to draw a majority, the Suffrage
League will probably take to hysterics or Theoso-
phy, and leave ungrateful woman to her doom.
m ~ • f n i»k tiw,
nmmm
tr*. - d i “rr *,* r*„*
hep to an unknown lady travellmgon a fashion-
S, l ad :,J • “ The
teaching of P all Theosophy was to
humanity they had
eoJlection.
nil i i. t . j j mu v • . •
I here are lots of pretended Theosop lists in
Sydney, and they talk a strange and astonishing
jargon. A matron with her little son was calling
on one of them, a maiden of forty or so, the other
hKMS JT* Yt
are so fond of children you ought to have
b,;en married, Miss Dash,” said the matron;
aud guess her surprise when Miss Dash said
dreamily: “Oh! I have been! In my former
state I know I’ve been a wife and mother!”
Theosophy must be a very consoling sort of
religion for some people, don’t you think ?
Lady Duff’s dress at the School of Industry
ball was a trained robe of black merv. trimmed
with narrow bands of black jet, made with
globe sleeves and bertha of yellow silk shaded
with pale magenta, and further adorned with frills
of black jet lace, diamond necklace and brooches
and spray of holly in her hair ; the two Misses
Duff were alike in cream satin with plaids, worn
Highland fashion, of the Duff tartan fastened on
the shoulder with holly sprigs. Mrs. Bowden
Smith had a bodice and train of grey brocade, the
fronts lined with pale pink silk, petticoat of pale
pink draped in grey tulle, the bodice trimmed
with steel passementerie ; the Chief Justice’s wife
wore black with green velvet sleeves. Somebody
in the first vice regal set, in vivid red and grass-
green, seemed to have got the notion from a
lobster salad. Mayoress Manning wore white
silk covered with black lace ; Mrs. Lee-Lord was
in black ; Miss Josephson sported a Parisian-
looking dress of pale yellow silk with an orange
stripe, trimmed with gold-spangled chiffon and
yellow velvet, moonstone necklace ; Mrs. Hilliard
had black Bengaline with bertha of green silk
brocaded in silver, posy of pink roses. Miss
M'Donagh’s heliotrope Bengaline was made with
a double skirt which is coming into fashion ; and
Miss Clara Manning looked very well in blue
brocade, blue tulle, and diamonds.
As to the “ costume ” half of the ball, the
“ cooks’ set ” was the most convincing one on the
floor. They all wore white garments with toy
kitchen utensils hanging at the side —the men
with parsley (ominous weed !) boutonnieres, the
maidens with salad bouquets which made up very
prettily—radishes answering for roses, and so on.
There was a Portia set in which all the ladies
posed ; and the Domino set was so baggy that I
quite wondered at it. When a girl has a fancy-
dress chance to show off some llittle gift of nature
that may not be paraded in the ordinary course of
the toilet, and she comes out on that occasion in a
garment like a swollen dressing-gown that fits her
nowhere, and conceals half her face in a black
domino, you begin to think that that young lady
must be singularly free from concealed advantages
anyhow. Floor and supper were very well done,
and so was the music—saving the Scotchness of it.
Lady Duff does not, nor do her daughters, wear
the neat and natty net that is so, general in
Sydney, so I suppose society will throw its silken
meshes into, the dust-heap at an early date.
Many will weep, o’er its fall. For a woman of
several engagements in one, perhaps windy, day,
the hair-net was a blessed circumstance. Short
of catching it on barbed wire, it kept one’s hair
as fresh and compact at the end of prolonged
gadding as when it was “done” —and the _ net
kept the dust out, too. There are lots of things
people could better renounce than what
men call the “ onion,” which did good service in
banishing the rowdy-dowdy coiffure that once
shook its tangled birch-broomness all over Sydney
block.
Mr. J. W. Turner’s Exhibition Concert Co,
(now at Sydney Centennial Hall) is doing excel-
lently, and its second warble, on Monday
night, drew a not-a-all Mondayish house. Ada
Crossley was very neat in grey silk with green
sleeves, and looked tremendously like a prominent
woman, who sat in the front row gazing at her
double. lam glad Miss Crossley is going to cross
the ocean in the interests of her art, for her rich
contralto is worth all the polishing it can possibly
get. Miss Miranda sang her chief item, the
“Shadow Song,” from “Dinorah,” in an airy and
familiar way, and carried her dark and rolling
eyes all over the house, as usual. Miss Clara
Mongredien has a roving eye, too—only her liquid
optic performs its orbit with a scared sort of
“ don’t; shoot!” expression, that would disarm
even a University student. But I like Miss
Mongredien’s mezzo-soprano—her clear articula-
tion is a lesson to the gabblers. Miss Miranda
gave the “ Last Rose of Summer ” for an encore.
I say “ gave,” because the young lady who puts a
bar of bravura into the “ Last Rose of Summer ”
can hardly be said to sing it.
Ida Osborne, Stockwell, Buzzi, Barker harping
on his harp, and W. J. Turner (who efficiently
accompanies), are the others of the concert co. I
was rather amused, by the way, at the aspect of
one of the songstresses. She had whitened her
billowy bust wi'th the perpetual Bloom of Beauty,
or whatever it is, very cleverly indeed, but her
arms from the elbow up had been left in a state of
nature —something the colour of a well-tanned
meerschaum pipe !
The first matinee to help set the r Australian
Musical and Dramatic Association on its feet took
place at Sydney Lyceum, and was a .£2OO odd
function when the door was counted. Lady Duff,
four daughters and suite, were dimly seen in the
half light. The programme was a pot-pouri be-
ginning with “ Nan-the-Good-for-Nothing ” and
ending with a human pyramid from Fitzgerald’s
circus, and in between perhaps the most interest-
ing thing was Terry in “Darby and Joan”—a
sketch somebody else—(was it Leslie?) —once
played at a Sydney matinee, and which mostly
consists of sentimental soliloquy from Darby in a
dressing-gown, while Joan snores by the fire-place.
All the theatres gave their services, and “ Daddy
won’t buy irie a bow-wow ” by the Tivoli Theatre
ladies, with a very genuine high kick and a mid-air
pause therein which must be very effective from
the stalls, was the liveliest item amongst the
varieties. But I couldn’t help admiring the busi-
ness ability of a burnt-cork artist who returned
like a flash of lightning at the first clap, and in
“refusing an encore,” gave precise directions
where ypu could find his particular show in the
evening.
And, talking of the matinee, I was rather
amused as I saw some of the gifted performers
getting home afterwards in hansom cabs. “If
there wasn’t so much big cigar and ‘I say, cabby,’
in the profession, the Musical and Dramatic
Association mightn’t ply such a lively trade,” says
I to myself, says I.
Sydney Fresh Air League ball, on Aug. 10, pro-
mises to be a very brilliant affair. lam told that
the floral decorations will be worth seeing, and
Madame Duvalli’s pupils will dance a skirt-dance
daring the evening. The ’Varsity Sports Union
ball, in the Town Hall on Aug. 3, also looks like a
success, the committee wisely arranging for
suburban trains, trains, and omnibuses, so that
nobody need hesitate on account of cab-fares, St.
Vincent’s ball (there’s a ladies’ committee this
year, so results will be interesting) is to happen at
the Town Hall on Aug. 16. I hear that it is in
the interest of all these charity dances that Lady
Duff has postponed the vice-regal ball this month,
and is giving instead an invitation “ at home ” on
19th inst. East Sydney Rowing Club ball is fixed
for 11th Aug. at Leigh House.
The sale of tickets for public balls would be
much facilitated were it made known from the
first that trains and trams would run after the
ball. Many people pause at the notion of small-
hour cab-fares “beyond the boundary” who
would attend if they knew they could get home
for a shilling. At a recent ball there was no men-
tion of a late tram in the newspapers, but stuck
up in the dressing-rooms was the legend, “Trams
to all suburbs after the ball.” Everybody’s cab
had been ordered then.
I thought the oddest thing about the Dickens-
esque play, “ Liberty Hall,” at Sydney Lyceum,
was that the girls haughtily refused to live on the
charity of a he-oousin who had apparently_ an
ancestral castle in every suburb, and who habitu-
ally wore silk socks, but readily agreed to sponge
on a poor, broken-clown old bookseller-uncle who
was on the verge of bankruptcy. The poor old
uncle’s charity was worth a lot more posing over
than the he-cousin’s, as anybody but a stage
heroine would see. but nobody thought it worth
while to strike an attitude over it, and accepting
it didn’t seem to prey on anybody’s vitals to the
extent of a speech from the exact centre.
There was (widely speaking) no dressing in
“ Liberty Hall.” It isn’t wanted —but, of course.
Miss Watson dressed to suit her “spokens,” and
Hilda Spong looked nice in a creamy white dress
and rather ordinary in a mottled blue print.
Viewing that depressing calico garment, I wasn’t
at all surprised at Miss Watson’s solemn vow to
make enough money at Xraas-card painting to
buy her sister another frock. The first scene in
“Liberty Hall” was impressively staged, with a
mailed ancestor in every corner, and I only found
fault with the locust-shell of one tin Crusader on
the prompt side, who had one knee bent and one
elbow leaning against the mantelpiece in the most
airy modern manner conceivable.
Sydney Liedertafel bolds its 69th concert in
the Town Hall next Tuesday (25) in the presence
of viceregality. The society will be assisted by
Miss Ada Crossley, Mrs. Riley, and Mr. E. P.
Truman, who makes his first appearance as a
pianist after his studies in Europe. The chief
Liedertafel item may be the “Longbeard’s Saga,”
presented by the President, though after the
failure of a former gift by the same hand, I
don’t like to wager about it. Sydney Quintette
Society’s next burst of harmony occurs on 22nd
inst., also under the aegis of viceregal patronage.
The most beautiful circumstance about the first
batch of New Australians who took ship last Sun-
day, was that very nearly every woman aboard
wrote herself down a “housewife.” There was
one nurse and one teacher —but every other New
Australian woman pinned her flag to the pot-and-
kettle, and if that doesn’t mean success in the new
settlement X don’t know what does 1
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ... “The Crimes of Paris.”
Lyceum Comic Opera Co.
Criterion “ The Amazons.”
Tivoli Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ Marmondelle the Moor.”
Exhibition Building Fillis* Circus.
Redfern Railway Station... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus,
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “A Million of Money.”
* 11 Sweet Lavender” (26th)
Bijou Greenwood Dramatic Co,
Opera House Variety Show.
Theatre Royal Saturday Concerts.
The above are the most conspicuous
features in the “Crimes of Paris ” at Sydney Her
Majesty’s. There is gore in quantities, and the
dead bodies have to be removed by contract —it
would be too expensive to have them shifted by
day-labour, and the bigamy is laid on in stacks,
while such trifles as conspiracy, theft, conduct
calculated to provoke a breach of the peace, assault
with intent to do grievpus bodily harm, perjury,
and damage to property, occur every five minutes.
The fight between Messrs. Rignold and Norman
in the last act contains in itself sufficient violence
for a respectable melodrama, and lasts seven
minutes by the watch. In addition to this brilliant
encounter, Miss Kate Bishop scores heavily as
an adventuress in red, and Miss Rhoda Halkett
makes the prettiest and most intelligent Parisian
damsel that Thk Bulletin just now remembers.
The scenery is superb, and the rest of the jam—
together with a few words of stern reproach
directed at a certain horrible, idiotic, and un-
necessary cockney—is held over till next week.
** * *
“Jess,” an adaptation of Rider Haggard’s
story, was staged at Sydney Royal on Saturday.
In one respect the adaptation is a little better
than the original story, inasmuch as Dampier has
judiciously washed his Boers, and the Boer of real
life doesn’t wash. The Boer lady in the flesh is a
large, fat, hot, pendulous person who sleeps with
all her clothes on, summer and winter, and the
Boer gentleman habitually slumbers in his hat
and overcoat. There is much war and confusion
in “Jess,” and the principal lady frequently turns
up after dark in dismal glades and soliloquises upon
various abstract virtues, and then goes away again
—this kind of lady often walks 24 miles for the
sake of making a few remarks in a damp spot and
starts straight home when her observations are
finished. Mr. Dampier’s part consists of a British
captain who always enters at critical moments,
having walked vigorously over vast reaches of
desert to get there in time, and Mr. Leston repre-
sents the principal comic Dutchman. Dampier is
distinctly good, and the other man would be good
also if it were not for the agitating reflection that
there never was a comic Dutchman. Next Saturday
Tommy Walker, M.L.A., appears as the star in a
play written by the same unsteady right hand
which accidentally shot Parson Laseron —who, we
regret to hear, is now in a very poor state of
health. This production bears the opprobrious
epithet of “ Marmondelle, the Moor.”
** * *
The good impression which Mr. Edward
Terry, of London, made at Sydney Lyceum in
“ Sweet Lavender ” was pretty effectively dissi-
pated on Saturday night, when he broke out in
“Liberty Hall.” In that dismal play he went
back to his old character —a character which seems
to be distinctively his own, while others are
merely artificial —as a dreadfully low-spirited and
apologetic old man, whose principal gleam of
humour consists in the fact that he urges the
inflamed domestic on twelve different occasions
not to slam the door. His other gleam of humour
is a falsetto hoot which is supposed to be a cough,
and this,“A-hoo” becomes wearisome. Apart
from these things, he is a shambling person in the
depressed book-selling line, who is always shedding
tears because there is a bill-of-sale over the stock,
and he goes out at intervals in a broken voice to
think over his troubles and comes back in a husky
monotone without finding any relief.
* * #
“Liberty Hall” is a serious comedy of
little account in the first two acts, and not much
better in the other two. It concerns a dead
baronet, who leaves his two daughters unpro-
vided for. The new baronet turns up disguised
as a bagman, who used to travel in soap among
the Himalayas, and puts the family mansion at
their service, but they reject the offer with
mediaeval scorn, and go to live with their reduced
uncle at the back of the second-hand book-shop.
The baronet takes lodgings there, still in disguise,
and is scorned by the elder sister because he used
to sell soap among the Himalayas, but ultimately
he pays off the bill-of-sale, and the usurer who
held it departs to the land where the pelican)
builds its nest, and the man who came in secretly
at night and tried to elope with the younger sister
reforms and promises to marry her in twelve
months’ time, and the show winds up happily,
despite which fact Mr. Terry looks almost as
desperately wretched as ever.
# # •
The main supports of the “comedy” are
Mr. Sass and Misses Henrietta Watson, Hilda
Spong, and Polly Emery. Sass quite fills the
bill. Miss Watson is always graceful and intelli-
gent. And Miss Polly Emery, though she only
drops in for half-an-hour in corkscrew curls and a
flat hat and two enormous shoes, and plays a
hurried game 5f whist in silence, and then goes off
in a passion, is a good deal more humorous than)
Mr. Terry, even though that depressed bookseller,
with woe in his rheumy eye, keeps dropping iw
©very three minutes all the evening..
** * *
_ The benefit-concert, under vice-regal
patronage, tendered Miss Cicely Staunton, prior
to her departure to Europe for purposes of study,
was a success artistically, aided and" abetted by
Madame Kellermann, Mons. Poussard, Mr.
Farley, Mr. Walshe, and Miss Tuckett. Miss-
Staunton, encored for every item, was most suc-
cessful in the grand aria from “Romeo and 1
Juliet,” which served to display the flexibility
and fervour of her fetching vocalism, and'
for encore gave “The Last Rose of Summer.”
Perhaps when Miss Staunton gets to the
bosom of Marchesi, she will be told that her
fine dramatic instinct needs considerable curbing,,
else it will turn, and rend her—for she certainly
lays the colour on, pretty heavily, and would sing;
“ Daddy won't buy me a bow-wow ” as if it were
“Ah ! Che la Mprte !” But Yewrope will change'
all that. Gifted with a most promising voice and'
a very good’stage presence, Miss Staunton ought
to make a hit in what Henrietta Watson calls
“ N—gland.”
** * *
Both circuses continue to infest Sydhey
and are gradually absorbing whatever, loose cash'
remains in the community. Fitzgeralds’ has-
now given 64 performances, all with crowded'
houses. Dick Turpin’s ride to York is in*
course of preparation, and the firm has
Originated an enthusiastic kangaroo hunt, which'
novelty takes well. Also, it has imported a*
a “silver lion” —the first of his kind in Australia,
three more tigers, and a few other carniverous-
trifles. Fillis’s show, at the Exhibition Building, ,
pins its faith principally on the man who falls-
h'ead-downwards from the roof, and on a species
of Coliseum show in which the menagerie is
turned loose in the ring, where it fixes a hungry
eye on the orchestra. A lady who is fired out off
a cannon will appear next week.
*# * *
“ The Amazons” will continue at Sydney
Criterion till the end of next week. The remain-
ing two weeks of the season will be occupied by
Pinero’s “ Lady Bountiful”—a piece never before
produced in Australia, one night each of “Sophia”
and “ A Village Priest,” four nights of “Niobe,”
and one—the last—of “The Magistrate.”
** * «
Sundry minstrel shows continue much as
usual in various parts of Sydney. Harry Rickards’
business, at the Tivoli, maintains the usual high-
water mark of prosperity—Rickards is one of the
f«w. Sydney men now making money—and the-
Murder, bigamy and slaughter,
Traces of a long-lost daughter,
Lady led astray by wiles,
Midnight thief upon the tiles,
Horrid crime done in the gloom,
Convict dead and in the tomb.
Boding voice that heard afar is—
All make up,the “Crimes of Paris.”
Husband coming from the dead,
From the shadows, spirit-led ;
British ass who’s lost his wife,
Hunchback brained in midnight strife ;
Homicide, for gallows ripe,
Scrambling down a water-pipe,
And sirep that like fallen star is
Mingle in the “ Crimes of Paris.”
Mother finds her long-sought son,
Has to stand him off with gun,
Bogus murder by the river
Where the night winds moan and shiver,
Battered corpses downward glide
(Horrid objects) on the tide —
Dead hands grasping as,they float.
Bogus promissory note;
Person shot in evening dress —
Horrid thud—unpleasant mess ;
Awful struggle on the floor,
Strangling, shooting, stifled roar,
Spectral things (like Mrs. Harris)
Flitting ’midst the “ Crimes of Paris.”


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
am/it its accumulated funds amounted to £28,292,016 ss. Xcl ~
SuLfv^n 1 , LUS over all . Mobilities to £3,457.008 ss. X<X., being the LARGEST
P ■ held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Go. in the world.
conpW;!°t S 1116 LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
\ciy proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
N BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
nsuranop rwol S t.i S th . e °VJ, V Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
he State In ih r mpn ' Assets, Accounls and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified (o under the seal of
•> me insurance Superintendent.
F'J
bu
The OldBlervcL
Wlustey
DIXtEQT *ROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME, PURE. MCLlCVi
WATUREP SCOTCH HAiT
Alhambra, Gaiety and Opera House) still move
around and save burial expenses.
«W « *
The Comic Opera Co., which is always a
cause for public rejoicing, opens at Sydney
Lyceum on Monday next. The “ Vicar of Bray,”
the “Mountebanks,” the “Gondoliers,” and
“MaMie Rosette,” are among the operas to be
produced, and the company will also take a
general run through Gilbert and Sullivan’s list.
Rumour has it that “La Cigale ” will be judi-
ciously omitted.
»* * »
Our old friend, Mrs. Dr. Anna Longshore
Potts, commences next week at Sydney Lyceum,
a series of medical lectures “to women"only.”
Dr. Harrison, who seems to be a kind of colleague
or accomplice of the lady, lectures in the Centen-
ary Hall “to men only.” Anything that the
lady doesn’t know about “men only” she can
learn from Dr. Harrison, and if there is anything
about women which Dr. Harrison isn’t acquainted
with he had better ask Mrs. Dr. Potts.
** * *
The English Opera Co. concluded its
successful season in Adelaide on Monday night
(July 17) with the “Mikado,” and the Gaiety
people fill up the ensuing week prior to their
departure for England. Then the theatre will be
empty for a while, prior to a visit from the Brough
and Boucicault combination. Adelaide has a big
treat in store. The Go. ought to start with
“ Niobe.”
** * *
“A Million of Money ” prospers at Mel-
bourne Princess’, but not exceedingly. All things
considered, the haughty indifference of the dress
circle to this opulent show is rather surprising.
Formerly Bland Holt’s heroes had an uncomfort-
able habit of talking about the dignity of Labour,
and of rushing into privations for the sake of being
noble. They were bold spirits, who did imposing
deeds under serious disadvantages, and when they
came before the curtain to bow they were apt to
steam like baked potatoes on a frosty morning.
Toe central figure in “ A Million of Money ” only
sets married by stealth on time-payment before
the play begins, and seems to be helplessly drift-
ing to ruin when an uncle leaves him a million.
Then he wins the Derby with the better of his two
horses, but as there are only four other horses to
beat, and none of the jockeys weigh in, and the
race is run the wrong way of the course,
this doesn’t count for much of a triumph.
That Derby scene in Bland Holt’s latest is incon-
sequential to the play, and altogether maddening
to the sporting mind. But the scene on the reef
sets reasonable explanation at defiance. A lady
falls asleep in the act of calling upon her husband
to conae back to her, and, in her slumbers, she has
a vision of her husband’s perilous situation several
weeks, or months, previously. He, on the other
hand, is supposed to hear, as he groans on the
reef, his wife calling to him a few months later,
and, disregarding the necessary interval, he
returns home next morning. Myra Kemble has
put a little more force into her performance
of the lonely adventuress, but is still too
quiet and natural for the requirements of
panoramadrama. Walter Howe tries his hard-
est to seem large enough for the hero, and
Charles Brown endeavours to give a lifelike repre-
sentation of Bounder. Neither gentleman arrives
at complete success. Indeed, the success of Mr.
Brown is singularly incomplete. Most of the
other people are as they were in Sydney. “A
Million of Money” will probably run until the
arrival of Terry—an event fixed for Wednesday,
26th July.
** * *
The Opera House variety show seems to
be in better demand now that the price-list is
reduced as low as it will go. Harry Shine joined
the company on Saturday, and some other recent
acquisitions are also steps in the right direction.
* * *- *
The Greenwood Dramatic Co, had not, at
time of writing, come to a violent end at Mel-
bourne Bijou, although its doom was written on
the empty benches. This is the second appear-
ance of the Greenwoods in Melbourne, and they
should begin to understand—all of them, from the
managerial parents down to Master Bob—that the
family talent is not appreciated. To the general
way of thinking, Master Bob, with his pretty
face blacked, is the least amateurish Greenwood
of theixi all, probably because that larky kid has
no desire to shine, and would prefer to go
through his part upon his little head if
his mother didn’t object. Of the young
ladies, Miss Maribel shows some symptoms of
dramatic instinct, but for one who has served a long
apprenticeship to the business, Maribel is an un-
usually weak performer. The Misses Agatha,
JNora, and Ruby Greenwood resemble their elder
sister to a very painful degree, but the first named,
although obviously a tragedienne at heart, like
the rest of them, has directed her ambition to
musical comedy. On Saturday, the erring Agatha
appeared again in the Greenwood version of “My
sweetheart,” a version which is an inane bur-
lesque of Minnie Palmer’s piece. She was sup-
ported, too, by the same Tony as before. The
doubt as to Tony’s sex, originally raised in The
•Bulletin, has never been settled. After another
long and careful consideration of Tony’s face,
lair, and bleat, we have decided that he
must be an educated sheep, of the French-
merino breed. The Misses Greenwood look pretty
enough, as a rule. On that account they have
ueen let down lightly in these columns hitherto.
e dire failure of Saturday's programme was
ncreased by a “farcical comedy,” said to be full
“Tm P R y , „ al l«sions and humorous situations.
K " oal Sneak ” P rov ided a knotty problem as
"( net ner the actors were worse than the comedy,
tle comedy was worse than the actors. It ran
r one night only amidst deathly silence.
For “Poverty Point,” see page 15.
Coincidence ? Mr. Freebairn, the Sydney
puwiean who gave strong evidence against Archer,
»as retired from the business; so has Miss Craig,
wno gave material evidence against the Miller’s
romt arrestees.
The Wild-Cat Column.
ihe New Zealand Loan and Mercantile Agency
once re S art led as an institution calculated to stand
till the Day of Judgment—flickered out last week without
any public warning whatever. Like everything else, it
proposes to “ reconstruct ” at the damage of its creditors.
> 8 , was about the biggest wool dealing and
st(K!k and station agency institution in Australasia, and it
had probably a lien over more mortgaged stations, and
sheep, and embarrassed squatters than any other joint-
stock pawnshop in this hemisphere. But, like everything
else in Australasia, it lived by borrowing at 4 or 5 per
cent., and lending out the money at 8, or 10, or more, and
when its debentures began to fall due at an awkward
time it closed up. It had made no very serious losses,
and its business was growing larger every year; the
one trouble was that it had borrowed between two and
three millions, and apparently didn’t make the slightest
provision for repayment.
* # o
For 14 years the N. Z. L. & M. paid an annual
dividend of 15 per cent., and for four years more
it paid 10 per cent. If it had kept a steady average
°* P er pent, all along, and hadn’t lost its balance
while trying to reach over and grab the last re-
maining quarter-acre of the earth’s surface, it
might have wiped off ail its liabilities in course of
time, and carried the business on with its own money
instead of with deposits, but the hunger for big dividends
broke it up. Like every other broken bank, it travelled
on the assumption that its creditors would never want
their money. While they didn’t want it they could have
it at any time ; when they did want it—or rather when a
suspicion arose that they were going to want it at an
early date—the gigantic octopus fell into a comatose state
—principally through astonishment and nervous shock.
Its collapse is still another proof of the necessity for an
Act of Parliament making it a capital offence for any
miserable hound to ask for his money when it becomes
due.
* * *
Cabled that the books of Goldsbrough, Mort,
and 00., Limited, show the co.’s advances to be
£3,410,000, divided among 154 accounts ! —the 10 largest
whereof averaged £149,000! One “big” man, not un-
known in the mining world, is liable, in one way and
another, for £450,000 calls. The screwing of the share-
holders in this colossal firm will spread death and destruc-’
tion around.
• # #
That fine, fat monopoly, the Australian (Sydney)
Oas Co., reduces gas to ss. per 1000 from Ist September.
The electric light has to be reckoned with shortly. It
will be interesting, by the way, to watch in N.S.W.
Council the fencing between the Gas Co. and the syndi-
cate which is grabbing the Colo Valley and Grose water
rights to generate electricity. Or rather, the syndicate
doesn’t specially want to generate anything but a com-
pany, and shares, and cash.
* * *
The Sydney Gas Co.’s claim that the reduction
aforesaid will cost it £14,000 a year, is tolerably impu-
dent. Coal is 2s. per ton less than last year, and the Co.
uses over 1000 tons weekly. Labour and nearly everything
else required in gas-making are cheaper. Yet gas remains
2s. per 1000 dearer in Sydney than at Bathurst where the
works are run by the municipality!! Still, the N.S.VY.
Legislature is asked to give the Sydney Gas Co. an
electric-lighting monopoly ; also, to' give to another
private gang a practical monopoly of the only accessible
fast-running waters available for electric-power pro-
duction !
# # #
The depositors of the malodorous Anglo-Aus-
tralian Investment Co. (of Sydney) are now passing round
the depressed bell-topper among themselves to raise
money for an appeal—a forlorn hope—to the Privy
Council, to settle the question of their status and that of
debenture-holders. At present the debenture-holders
rank first and “ snavel ” absolutely everything. If this
arrangement can be upset, then the depositors come in
first and take everything. Should the appeal succeed,
the depositors will probably get some Bs. or 10s. in the £ ;
otherwise they get nothing at all. The general impres-
sion appears to be that they will get nothing at all.
# # #
Melb. Board of Works has mad© another effort
to float the balance of its half-million loan and has failed
miserably. The total amount offered was £70,520. The
Board raised £1,000,000 in London, but the cash is locked
up in three reconstructed banks, so that it might as well
be non-existent. The Board can’t raise more money in
London at present, as its credit wouldn’t stand the strain.
And there is practically no money available in Melbourne,
for everybody’s coin is locked up in some bank or build-
ing society or shindykit, and all the loose coin outside the
banks is being mopped up in calls on reconstructed shares.
The Board of Works might almost as well close..
# # #
The estate of the man who at Soudan time was
reckoned the biggest and richest squatter in Riverina,
and who died not long ago, will yield not one solitary
copper.
* * *
The days of big bank dividends are over for the
time, and bank shares are down accordingly. The last
half-year’s dividend of the Union Bank is only at the
rate of 8 per cent., as against 12 per cent, six months
before. Many bank shares are unquotable.
• # •
The Colonial Bank resumed business last week,
when “a number of new deposit accounts were opened."
The Colonial is yet another Melbourne bank which,
according to the daily Press, has been rushed with new
accounts in honour of its reconstruction. Hundreds of
capitalists have sprung into existence during the “ bung’’
period. Men who never dreamed of opening an account
before are rolling up to the counters with bags of wealth,
anxious to show their confidence in these institutions.
For it is noteworthy that the new accounts have no con-
nection with old accounts withdrawn before the panic,
all of which have come back again as a matter of course-
on the testimony of newspapers. Melbourne is running
over with cash.
• * *
More collisions between the boats of the rival
new and old Balmain (Sydney) ferries. It is pleasant to
hear that the new company, the shares of which are widely
distributed among the working people, and which is con-
ducted on the one-man-one-vote principle, is winning
hands-down. The last vestige of sympathy was alienated
from the insufferably bumptious old company when it
transpired that a leading shareholder had ordered his
clerks to travel by the old boats under pain of dismissal
from their employment. The emphatic success of the
new co. points emphatically to the municipalisation of
public services.
• • #
The Yic. railway revenue, for the year ending
June 30, shows a deficiency of £405,000, as compared with
working expenses and interest. Expenses have been
out by £300,000, else the year’s shortage would have been
about £700,000.
# # #
The true Bill of the Mercantile case.—Account-
ant William Simpson.
* *
Dear Bulletin, —Re your par. atrabiliously
forecasting the future of silver, don’t you think the law
of compensation may operate to alter the position ? Sup-
pose the U.S., simultaneously with the repeal of the
Sherman Silver Purchase Act, declares for silver mono-
metallism, and decrees that silver shall be the sole legal
tender and standard of value throughout the States
Think a little further. What would happen? The U.S.
exports food to Great Britain to the extent of £‘44,897,710
yearly. For this payment could he demanded in gold,
which London could ill afford to pay. Britain exports
£41,066,147 of manufactured goods to the States, for
which her merchants would be paid in silver. This silver
would have a fluctuating day to day price in London, and
the British exporters’ profits would be eaten up by his
exchange losses. 1 am not romancing, for this has
occurred between Manchester and Bombay, and why may
it not result between Liverpool and New York? In the
coming currency contest with nearly 70 millions of united
people, without a national debt of any consequence, pro-
ducing everything they want, with no worse drain on their
resources than the pension system, the U.S. would face
Britain with her disunited population, her enormous
national debt, her scanty food supply, her discontented
Indian Empire, and her utterly insufficient gold-reserves,
and figuratively throw her bankrupt and broken in a
financial corner. The contest is unequal, and the Ameri-
cans must win. The States will never allow the drain of
gold from New York to continue till gold reaches a pre-
mium of 300 per cent., and every security, share, bond,
and bank-receipt in the Union becomes worth only 33
cents, on the dollar. You said a colder day for the
silver industry seems looming. My dear Bulletin, hell
will freeze ere the Yanks allow their 4000 tons of Treasury
silver, costing them 3s. 6d. an ounce, to be knocked out
to 2s. by the Fat Men of Lornbard-street! Please stick a
pin in this prediction and remember it was uttered by a
bi-metallist.
M.
A Go (£) D-forsaken country—N.S. Wales.
* # *
The Mining Standard, ever ready to advocate
wage-reduction, now sneeringly alludes to the “martyr-
dom ”of the Broken Hill strikers. The M.S. always con-
demns miners. Does it ever condemn mines?
* # *
It is proposed to dispose of the assets of the
liquidated V.D.L. Bank by lottery on the principle of the
London and Glasgow art-unions.
• * »
The B.H. and Menindie Railway promoters
seem undismayed by the silver fall. A “strong director-
ate” has been enlisted ; 50,000 shares are to be publicly
offered, and the building of the line is nob to be delayed—
i.e., if the shares are sold. N.B. Silverton tram shares
are within 2s. of par.
# * *
W. A. Cousins says that no doubt there’s gold
on his (Molong, N.S.W.) estate ; he will give a third of his
yield to any miner who will work the place. Wanted
A mining on P. P. Bill to do away with the necessity for
such ruinous liberality.
# * *
Melbourne Herald (the evening Davies) advises
intending emigrants to VVestralia not to go to the gold-
fields, but to buy land in Perth in anticipation of the land
boom ! At it again.
# # #
Dear Bulletin, —To the “Day of Humiliation”
Bishops, &c.—“ Prayer is as useless as profanity, under
present circumstances.”—“Fixed” Depositor.
* # #
A mining co. at Jamieson (Vic.) lias won the
prayers and praise of thousands for its humane self-sacri-
fice in giving a band of the unemployed the privilege of
working a portion of its claim on tribute. The tributors
are actually allowed to keep all returns up to 4 dwts per
ton. Unfortunately', by some oversight, the co. charges
them 7s. fid. a ton for crushing the stone in a water-
power battery, whereas 2s. a ton is a decent price for
crushing even with the more costly steam-driven plant,
and there is no probability of the stone yielding more than
2J or 3 dwts. to the load.
* # *
Dear Bulletin, —Not until now have I realised
the full extent of the present depression. A fossicker,
when selling 2Joz, gold to a branch of. the B.N.S.
Wales, was offered legal-tender notes as payment, and
on demanding gold, was told that he must either take
notes or sell elsewhere. He tried the Union, with a
similar result. Finally', he offered his gold at a reduced
figure to a Chinaman. John shrugged his shoulders :
“ No buy ’em gold now, me no can sellee, too muohee
paper—too muchee ! 6 x 8.
* * #
As it is, the g.m. industry of Australia is more
progressive than any other. This is not brought about by
rushes or rich reef discoveries, but is the outcome of a
determination to look for gold. The financial collapse has
disheartened many, but it has made a greater number
desperate. Any man in good health can look for srold,
and every other avenue of industry is overstocked ; hence
we have tradesmen, doctors, lawyers, journalists, actors,
agents, engineers, and men of every other walk in life
digging for gold. Best of all, market mining, as formerly
conducted, is dead, with no present hope of resurrection ;
the professional director is no longer required, the pro-
moter has sneaked off, and only a few remnants of the
all-round boomster are to be seen in Pitt and Collins
streets, to be recognised by their aimlessness and the
seedy condition of their pants. Under these circumstances
gold-mining will go ahead.
* * 9
Someone must have made a big pot over the
comparatively worthless discovery of sulphide ores on the
815 ft. level of B.H. Block 10. The first official pro-
nunciamentos omitted all reference to the percentage of
zinc, although the 2dw'ts. gold w'ere carefully stated,
whereupon shares careered wildly from 30s. to over 50s.
A few hours later the confiding public learned that the
ore carried a very low percentage of zinc, next that the
proportion was anything up to 25 per cent. Thereupon
shares slumped heavily. One of the directors was at
Broken Hill when the water was struck, and remained
until the value of the vein had been ascertained, but he
assured a friend, on returning to Melbourne, that he didn’t
make a penny out of it.
* # #
Some Broken Hill share quotations, two years
ago and now : Proprietary, £11155., now 455.; Block 10,
£l4 155., now' 275.; South, £5 95., now 3s. ; Block 14,
£6 Bs., now 95.; Silverton Tram Co., £9 155., now 295.
Satisfactory only when compared with the present posi-
tion of the reconstructed companies, or of the scores of
smaller companies and syndicates which flourished two
years ago, but are all long since defunct and now- in the
various stages of decay up to the final lease-cancellation.
# # #
The fat mine belonging to Fat Men is still Mt.
Morgan. During the just-closed year the ore-output was
62,200 tons ; result, 119,900 ozs. ; div., £300,000, or about
70 per cent, of its revenue. It has been a blessing for a
few who got in tor next to nil, and a bitter curse to many
who got in at six times its present market value.
# * #
From the report of the W.A. Government
geologist it is pretty plain that he doesn’t believe Bayley’s
claim at Coolgardie will last long. The reef, he says,
consists of a small blow' 9ft. at its largest part, pinching
out towards each end of the claim. All the gold has been
taken from a small hole at the north side of the blow
where it is associated with a little oxide of iron. There
are some handsome specimens of gold in quartz, and
some portion of the reef carries a good deal of flne’gold.
It appears to be either the top of a rich shoot, or merely
a bunch (more probably the latter.)
* # «
The prospectus of the Cue G.M. Co. (Murchison,
W.A.) has been issued, and reef-specimens are shown
round. Gold, fine; stone, glassy—and otherwise ugly
more like felspar than quartz. Vendors want £6OOO cash’
and half the mine in paid-up and partly-paid-up shares
and issue the other half, 48,000, at 3s. application and
allotment. They say £4500 will suffice to erect a 10-head
battery and equip the mine. Then why call up over
£7OOO ? F. J. Thompson’s report says the reef is 3fl. to Oft.
and yields 4nz. prospects.
* * #
The old Prince of Wales, Bendigo, has had a
glorious resurrection. Good gold struck, shares doubled
in value in a few days, and even dividends expected. This
is one of the earliest Bendigo reefing claims, and so far
removed from the main lines of reef as to make it uncer-
tain as to which it belongs. It was a good mine nearly
30 years ago, and has be n practically abandoned for 20
years.
* # *
Increasing attention is given to the dividend
slocks of Gympie, where the No. 1 North N.Z. has taken
the lead in gold production. Last crushing, Blfifioz. from
271 tons, trom which it has given over £.10,000 in a ss, 9d,
dividend. An equal all-round investment in the dividend
and call-paying Gympie mines would, just now, return
18 per cent. Of all Q, mines tor investment, the writer
has long preferred Gympie.
* * *
xt 1^ r .l th ® P ride of Gympie was the No. 1
•Tutu* I ®??*’ ' v hi°h has paid £4,000,000 div. Compared
with the adjoining Phoenix claims it is poor, but it still
manages to pay a small monthly dividend from half-oz.
quartz,
* * *
Ibe Zeehaii (Tas.) A.M.A. accepted a reduction
or 10 per cent, a few days ago, consequent upon the fall in
silver. The managers approached the union in a very
tnendly manner, and all was settled at a conference.
* • #
Should a method of saving the zinc in the
Broken Hill refractory sulphide ore be discovered the
Broken Hill mines would produce sufficient to swamp the
maiket and cause a collapse in the price of the metal.
* * •
.The Broken Hill Proprietary directors have not
yet adopted the recently-patented slag steam generating
process on the mine.
* * m
It is common in Victoria, especially when
things are dull, for battery-owners to crush stone “on
t iv. 08 ’ , orie- balf of the gold-contents for the owners
of the stone, the other for the battery-owners. Many a
case the writer has seen where it has enabled tributors and
others to tide over a poor block of stone. Why cannot
• ji o v' s *' eln b ® introduced in N.S-.'W. where there are many
idle batteries?
# • •
The writer has long waited and watched for the
xVo 8 ™ 011 P ,,bllc anticipations re Lowe’s Log Paddock,
W.h.vv., should be justified by results. He is tired ol
hearing that “ the pumps are working well,” and that
they are “ still sinking,” but the local newspaper corres-
pondent never wearies of such things.
• # *
Another fine crushing has been put through by
the tributors of the New Bushman’s mine at Parkes-
-576 oz. from 200 loads. There are ten tributors who also
employ as many wages-men. The reef averages 15 in., if
m hard diorite and is sufficiently opened up to justify the
hope of many more good crushings. It was worked in the
upper levels by the co., which underwent many recon-
structions and paid many calls ere giving up. Now the
remaining shareholders have to be content with 10
cent, royalty, while the tributors are making about £IOC
per month per man. A few more tributes like this
scattered overN.S.W. and gold-mining will flourish.
* # *
There remains but one great opening foi
economy on the Barrier—the curtailment o'f managerial
extravagance. Some biers divs. have been wasted in use-
less experiment and idle machinery.
• # #
Ex-Bank Manager Tomkinson, M.L.C., says
that if the S.A. Government takes over the Savings Bank
he will advise his sons to take their money out of it.
* * #
The reduction of hands at Broken Hill, conse-
quent on the silver fall, has thrown 1100 men out of work,
* # *
A shadow of the coming general reduction of
wages at Broken Hill. The employes at (he Junction Co.’a
smelters at Port Adelaide have been notified thatowing to
the existing depression, coupled with the heavy full in
silver, &c., &c.
* # #
Once upon a time the streets of Bendigo were
metalled with quartz, hundreds of tons of which were sub
sequentiy taken up and crushed when it was found that
Chinamen were making big money by sweepin"- up the
street dust. The practice was prohibited, and many
hundreds were run in for stealing street dust at night.
* * #
The handsome Mr. “ Jim ” Coates’ appointment
to the general managership of the Na’ional Bank of N Z
is viewed with interest by a large number of the Austra'-
han fair sex.
* # #
Old Wood’s Point looks up. On the Cloth of
Gold reef, last week, John Foley bagged Icw t. of quartz
—every stone a specimen.
* # «
20th century version : “ When the reconstructed
banks shall give up their dead/*
* # #
Over 100 ozs. gold left Gundagai last week.
Most of it from the Jack-a-lass alluvial diggings, the pro-
perty of Mrs. Lindley. There are 50 men on the field
and they pay 2s. fid. a week to the owner for the right to
“'f; u teris Pitiful, and the sinking shallow, about
30ft. The two big gold mining concerns, Mclnerney’s
and Lmdley’s, are both shut down at present. The
tunnel in Mount Parnassus is still being proceeded with
but nothing rich has yet been struck.
• * •
Official assignees in insolvency appear to eniov
a lot of rope. In several late N.S.W. cases they have
Court direction, wound up estates in which they
had been shareholders and directors and even auditors.
The Australian National Ass by no means
absolutely objects to payment of members. It
only objects to Democratic members being paid,
‘ ‘ Without pay no Labour member could be in the
House.”
Tasmanians are indignant at the extra-
ordinarily severe sentence—£so fine and a month’s
gaol imposed upon a Meehan solicitor for some
silly utterances of his reflecting upon the probity
of Judge Dodds in the conduct of a case wherein
the solicitor was worsted. As the offending words
were used outside the court and admittedly under
the influence of “club ” libations, it is considered
peculiar that the abject apology of the offender was
not accepted.
Condensation of story told by Governor
Kintore at last week’s big Masonic celebration at
Sydney ;
A gentleman came across the road and said; '‘lam real
pleased to see you.” On my appearing not to recognise
him, the gentleman said, “Why, don’t you know me’"
to which I said, “ No, when did we meet last?” Scratch-
ing his head my friend said, “ I suppose it’s a long while
ago, but at any rate I well remember meeting your father
and mother on the day they came from church after get-
ting married." (Loud laughter.)
Which happens to have been the only neat thing
said by anybody at the hideously greasy celebra-
tion aforesaid.
James Thomson, manager of Melbourne
Evening Standard, has been fined £lOO, with
seven days gaol thrown in, for contempt of Court
in publishing certain reports which, the Judge
asserted, were calculated to damage Davies and
Millidge on their trial. This is absolutely just •
the injustice lies in the fact that the Herald pro-
prietary, and that of the defunct Telegraph and
one or two other papers, haven’t been fined or
gaoled for publishing whole columns of matter
setting forth that it would be a sin and a disgrace
if Davies and Millidge were tried at all. If the
one paper is interfering with the course of justice
now, the others have been doing it constantly for
at least six months past.


fd
Go to HEXjL-
IGOLAND tor Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN Sc CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
FLETCHER’S PILLS
never fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIVENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASE, and
KIDNEY COMPAINT.
FLETCHER’S PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedies of
the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and re-
nown. This is the greatest proof of their merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine article as regret and disappointment are
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “All-
failing ” remedies so freely advertised. The repu-
tation and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic and
Fletcher’s Pills are the greater proofs of their
appreciation by the public. If they were not as
represented they would have passed out of memory
long ere this ; but instead their sale is greater and
they are more esteemed day by day and week by
week, and this emphatically proves their un-
disputed supremacy. Listen to no argument
from interested parties; demand the genuine
articles and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
Personal Items.
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie is said to be in Syd-
ney.
Murderer Archer was a Maorilander by
birth.
Treasurer Playford (S. A.) wears elevens in
boots.
Jos. Symes,; “My [mission in life is tb
fexpose ‘ gods.’ ”
Matthew Davies still spbrts a private
secretary, apparently.
Barrister Cuidhatrt, late Purves’ junior*
jives in Hotham-street.
The Anglican Bishop of British Columbia
is a native of Sydney—by name, Sillitoe;
Gilbert Casey ; Mr. Gilbert Casey;
“ graphic rind powerful address On New Australia
by Gdbert Casey, Esq.”
The Bulletin didn’t hear df John Deasy
kissing any servant-gitls when he was in Aus-
tralia. Ferhaps the colleens liked it, and said
hothiiig.
u Potts’S Baby,” thd stealing df which in
Melbourne 1G years ago caused such a sensation,
Was a riepheW of John Derinistoun Wood, the
barrister.
Mat. Larkin Has a perfectly Idvely time as
librarian in the cosy reading-room of Melbourne
gaojl. Honesty is the best policy—for the poor
arid lowly.
A Melbourne publication which purported
to print a picture of Archer’s execution at Sydney,
gave (the noseless) hangrdart, “Nosey” Bob, a
Roman nose.
Major-General Huttori, the new N.S.W.
Cdmmandant, can, it is said, converse in many
languages. He has a marvellous command of
plain English.
Dr. John O’Reilly, Bishop df Port Au-
giista, nominated to succeed Archbishop Reynolds,
df Adelaide, is described as scholarly, eloquent,
popular, arid etiergetic.
When Detective Whitney arrived at
Coldtnbd he foUnd that a Sergeant and two police!
all natives, had beeii sleeping regularly on Mer-
cantile Matthew’s mat.
Miss O’Loghlen, daughter of the Yic.
Attorney-General, was robbed of her purse in
Melbourne last week. The ingratitude of the
criminal classes is appalling.
Education Minister Cockburrt (S.A.) is a
democrat with reservations. He gave the children
of Mount Barker State school a half-holiday in
honour of the York-TeCk marriage.
The daughters of a certain Australian
hangman have left the paternal roof and changed
their name. The Government man-butcher is a
pariah to even his own flesh and blood.
Makin, the condemned baby-farmer, pro-
fesses Judaism. As in a case of over a quarter-of-
a-century ago, whatever can be done for Makin
by the subtlest legal advocacy will be done.
Matthew Davies considers his acquittal
such a “ dead bird ” that he has booked his pas-
sage for England. Sleath, by-the-bye, took a
return ticket from Broken Hill to Deniliquin.
“This,” cried Judge Hodges (Yic.) publicly,
the other day, stretching out his right arm, “ has
dona more than anything else to fill our prisons of
late.” (P.S.— He was denouncing gambling.)
On the matter of pet animals, Parkes»
senior, regrets he has never been able to keep a
lion or two among his domestic curiosities. Bah !
Parkes, senior, is his own lion. Always has been.
Ever will be.
Howard, the N.S.W. hangman, offered to
throw up his billet when cross-questioned by the
Sheriff on his latest bungle, and, as a parting shot,
declared that neither Premier Dlbbs nor Gov.
Duff would do the work as well.
Beath, the godly Melbourne clothier, who
locked out his tailoresses until they left the Union,
presented 24 Bibles, with the signature of Her
Gracious on the title-page, as prizes at the news-
boys’ picnic. Steward ! O-o-oh!
“Old” French, of North Sydney, who
died last week, worth some .£50,000, has not been
seen wearing a coat —winter or summer—for a
feneration past. He was a great admirer of
’arkes, but he did not remember him in his will.
Colin A. F. Campbell, M.A., who was first
tutor and then private secretary in Lord Kintore’s
vice-regal household in Adelaide, has just been
ordained a deacon of the Anglican Church by the
Bishop of Worcester, who afterwards licensed him
as a curate.
Bishop Kennion, of Adelaide, now in
England, will not return if a comfortable living
can be secured at ’Ome. Mrs. Kennion, who is
wealthy, is a sister of Sir James Fergusson, for-
merly S.A. Governor, and doesn’t love the
Adelaide folk.
George Jacob Holyoake, Socialist and
Chartist, Parkes’ old Birmingham comrade in
agitation, invented the phrase “Jingo,” taking
it, of course, from M'Dermott’s vain-glorious
ditty. Holyoake’s “ Sixty Years of an Agitator’s
Life ” is the meatiest of modern biographies.
E. F. Mitchell, the Melbourne barrister,
who was sent to London to try and fix up Golds-
brough, Mort and Co., but didn’t succeed, is son
of the late Fancourt Mitchell, once Speaker of the
Vic. Upper House. E.F.M. got his schooling and
his wife from Dr. Morrison, of the Scotch College.
Opinions change. N.S.W. Premier Dibbs
once regarded F. W. Ward, the diplomatic intel-
lect of the Huddart-Parker Co., as the most
inaccurate and least conscientious journalist in
Australia; now he speaks of him as a credit to
the profession and a man of most evenly-balanced
mind.
Judge Docker believes that a man should
retire from business before he takes aJ.P.-ship,
Yes, and The Bulletin believes that no judicial
official should hold a single business interest of
any kind whatsoever, and that he should never,
under pain of forfeiting his seat, buy anything
for which he does not pay spot cash.
There are but three Q.C.s in Adelaide
Kingston, Symon, and John Downer. Awhile
ago Chief Justice Way wanted to appoint that
smaller luminary, Henry Downer, but Attorney-
General Homburg, backed by the Playford Minis-
try, objected, and nominated Nesbit, a clever
lawyer and counsel. Neither appointment has,
however, been made.
There is an Australian politician called, say,
“ Honest Tom,” and people are under the impres-
sion that he was so nicknamed because of Ids
excessive honesty. But the fact is that, when a
young man, some rascals, who professed to under-
stand his personal Characteristics, tyere kind
enough to give him as godfather a certain Clydes-
dale horse whose progeny are many in the land.
Daniels, newly-elected Labour member for
Cambooya, is a nuggetty little farmer, earnest
and well meaning and rather ready in reply.
He was travelling down to Brisbane in the train,
on board which was an unlicked cub who tried a
joke at Daniels’ expense. “I suppose you’re
taking down a suit of dress-clothes,” said_ the
U.C, “No,” replied Daniels, “a clean pair o’
moleskins. Dress-clothes have had their innings;
time moleskins had a show..”
E; S. W. North, a well-known Oarcoar
(N.S.W.) solicitor, is dead. An anecdote:
Attending Bathurst Assizes, he entered an hotel
parlour and took up a copy of this paper. After
he had left The Bulletin was missed, and the
landlady sent a constable after North, who was
artested and locked up for alleged theft. Later,
to her consternation, She found the paper under
the sofa. However, a withdrawal md a handsome
apology settled the matter.
Some years ago, when “Papa” Pinnock,
now P.M. in Brisbane, filled the same office in
Warwick; Q., an old man was charged with sheep-
stealing, oil the information of an individual who
acted as spy for an association Of squatters.
PinnoCk. himself art old squatter, mildly asked,
“Was the prisoner seen to catch and slaughter
thb sheep as charged?’) “Yes.” “Was the
sheep healthy?” “ Ves.” “Then the case must
be dismissed, for an old man like the prisoner
couldn’t catch a healthy sheep.”
The primd joke of the Loyal Orange
Demonstration, in Melbourne, was supplied by u
vocalist. Gladstone Wright drOvrt the rabid
idolaters of the Dutchman well-nigh crazy by
singing “Rouse Ye, Ulster ! ” in his best patriotic
HAUTEUR.
SCENE 1.
THIESTYMAN (stonebroke): “Lend us a drink, old man.”
PUBLICAN : “ I never give drink on credit, but I’ll lend
you sixpence.” (Hands over the coin.) “What
can I do for you now?”
SCENE 2.
THIESTYMAN (making for the. street ): “Oh,
I never spend my ready money
where I can’t get tick.”
style. Wright is a second-cousin of theG.O.M.
and a Radical down to his boots. When the
Home Rulers come to hold their festival in honour
of the passing of the Bill, they will probably
engage Gladstone’s blood-relation for a baritone
rendering of “The Wearing of the Green,” or
“ Shan Van Vogt.”
Thus Meston, on a proposal to convert
Brisbane (Q.) Botanic Gardens into wharves
A disgraceful sacrifice to the Moloch of that basely
sordid utilitarianism which is the withering curse of our
Mammon-worshipping civilisation.
The Sacred Ibis begins to talk unfrillfully. Once,
instead of “Gimme a drink,” he would say, “I
would fain insuscipitate into my rectieulatory
interiority a more or less copious haustellation of
the succinatiferous nectar.” And then he would
reproachfully shed two languid eyefulls on the
wondering Hebe, who said, “Beg parding?”
Col. Morgan, retiring manager of British
Broken Hill mine, is a Mr. Potter-of-Texas sort of
character, who, during the strike, was accustomed,
on cold nights, to hand whisky to the unionist
pickets camped round the mine, and likewise pro-
vided wood for picket fires. Labour-leader Sleath,
in the course of a trolly oration, cast a reflection
on the Colonel’s sobriety on the occasion of a slight
disturbance near the mine, whereupon the Colonel,
forgetting that he was not in ’Murka, intimated
that, failing an apology, he would pot his traducer
on sight. Sleath apologised.
The public is fatigued with Robert Louis
Stevenson’s self-advertisement and the cackle o
his little interested coterie of claqueurs. Vou
can’t take up a single paper without seeing his
name. He has produced one or two really fine
works, but has turned out also lagoons of
mush. He would have been regarded as a great
man had he rested his fame on “The Master of
B illantrae.” One accepts the poet Gray on his
“ Elegy” alone; subsequent avalanches of doggerel
would only have belittled him. _ Herein may
Stevenson find wisdom —he is trading on a past
reputation, which his present work bedraggles.
George Augustus Sala, in the course of a
recent “interview,” made some most insulting
references to “ His Royal Highness, the Austra-
lian Working Man.” G.A.S talks glibly about
politics, whereas he never had any politics beyond
the nourishment of his chitterlings. No man
who, for 50 years, stoked his stomach and illumi-
nated his proboscis with so much enthusiasm as
Sala has done could possibly have any serious poli-
tical principles. Sala was a distinct failure as a
visitor to Australia, even though he was protected
by the constant presence of the lady who was
foolish enough to marry hinj. Had it not been
for his agent, Monty Browne, Sala’s presence
would only have been known as that of the mango-
eating champion who gibbered as rapidly as an
electrified chimpanzee, and who usually lit the
gas with his fiery sneezer. Now he is the bulbous-
nosed hireling of a titled Hebrew greaser, who
seems to be ashamed of his own name.
The following, writes a wicked corres-
pondent to The Bulletin, is more characteristic
of Nick Tooth (the deaf member for the Burrum)
than the story of the two Jacks. Major-General
Owens gave a return dinner to the officers of the
Wide Bay and Burnett contingent of the Defence
Force in Maryborough, a while ago. Major Tooth
took his seat wearing his sword. The Com-
mandant soon noticed it and said. “YoU may
remove your sword, Major.” “With much
pleasure,” replied Deaf Nick bowing, and empty-
ing his glass. “Remove your sword, sir,” re-
peated the Commandant after a little pause;
Again the Major bowed and empted his glass.
The General then told Neil Blue, the proprietor
of the hotel, “to get Major Tooth to remove his
sword.’* The sword was removed amidst ah
awful silence. Nick never quite understood the
sword affair, but tells his friends that the Com-
mandant must think very highly of him “for he
actually singled me out to ‘ take wine vyith him ’
twice in a few minutes, rtrhen I dined with him at
the officers’ dinner in Maryborough.”
The N.S.W. Full Court judgments in the
Kops case (which will locally settle the question
May the refusal of a prisoner on trial to give
sworn evidence oil his own behalf and be cross-
examined by the prosecutor, be legally construed
by the judge as indicating the guilt of accused?)
are awaited with intense interest by the legal
profession.. The Court is widely divided on the
issue, which, if decided in the affirmative, will
abolish the present British artd substitute the
existing French system of procedure in criminal
trials. In Victoria; when the Act enabling a
prisoner to testify oh oath was passed, it was
expressly provided that no damaging inference
should Openly be drawn from his refusal to testify;
but no such proviso was included In the N.S.W.
enactment, upon the subject. As the Judges have
taken weeks to haggle ortt the matter, it is pla,m
that the Act should be again remitted to Parlia-
ment;
“ A Russian lady, Madame Catherine
Kasieliew, committed suicide at Monte Carlo,
after having lost 40,000 roubles in two hours,
When found dead she still held in her hand
Zola’s ‘La Faute de 1 Abbe Mouret. On the
margin of one of the pages she had written
a wish to be cremated. The world can ill spare
such a woman. She was rig it up to a .
The decline of Joe Chamberlain dates
from the time when he was Mayor of Birmingham
and was required to open a ball by dancing
with the Princess of Wales. Joseph called him-
self a Radical for years after that, but he was
slowly coming down to the society of duchesses,
and growing costly orchids by the way. One
melancholy quadrille with a Princess is invariably
fatal to the finest political constitution. And Joe
Ohamberlain’s constitution wasn’t strong at the
. .
T i . . . , i anma
London papers ]usfc to hand throw some
light on York and May s twenty-one van loads ot
wedding-presents. A journalist writes:—
More than one case has come to my knowledge where a
large employer of labour has been putting pressure on his
workpeople to contribute towards some local fund for
presenting the royal couple with a piece of plate. How-
ever ill the employes can afford the shilling or two which
is squeezed out of them they have no option but to
comply. . . It is time for these disgraceful attempts by
plutocrats to curry favour with the royal family, and so
obtain knighthoods, baronetcies, and what-not (you 11
find what-not in the green bottle), to be put a
Tlie sentiment is all right, but as long as there are
crowns, titles, and demoralising class distinctions
in the world, the man who talks of putting a stop
to snobbery will be as vain a thing as the alder-
man who was determined to suppress suicide.
A widely current paragraph records the
death of the “Queen’s Champion’’—Francis
Seaman Dytnoke, J.P. The office of “ Queen’s
Champion” is to ride up Westminster Hall on
Coronation Day and challenge anyone who dis-
putes the right of succession. ihe office was
established bv William the Conqueror, and was
made hereditary, hut the last “Champion” was
created a baronet as a “recompense” for fore-
going this tomfoolery at Victoria’s accession,
(The fact being that at the Coronation of George
IV the-Champion’s charger grossly misbehaved
itself in the sacred fane, and so led" to the aboli-
tion of the mummery.) The last time the
“ gauntlet” was “thrown down” it had to be
thrown by deputy, because the hereditary “Cham-
pion” was a parson-an unsexed advocate of
peace. In the old feudal-robber days, it was
doubtless an imposing sight to see a massive
armour-clad warrior daring all and sundry, but
how imbecile was the man who made the Cham-
pionship hereditary! Suppose a puny deformity
to turn up in the direct line of male descent —
some ridiculous creature like “ Dumps,” of Fitz-
geralds’ Circus 1
“ For 30 years I have shared the joys and
sorrows of the English people,” says the Duke ol
Teck, at a recent banquet. He has cost the tax-
payer .£150,000, and yet has done naught but
abuse him for his meanness.
“It is difficult to speak on this subject
(eternal punishment), for the Church has said
little, and one has little guide beyond one’s own
private judgment. The great truth is, that death
ends our probation, and settles our state for ever ;
that there is no passing oVer the great gulf ; that
our only happiness is to be with God, and that
those who are not with God are without Him.’
Newman. Now, here, in half-a-dozen lines, the
great Cardinal knocks the bottom out of Hell and
makes Heavert seem further oif than ever.
The French will gain much glory in the
coming war with Siam. The Siamese army, 5000
strong, is recruited by press-gangs, for the popula-
tion hate fighting. They have, as a rule* one
complete uniform to every ten men, and most of
them regard a rifle with horror, and would rather
die than fire it off. It’s about 120 years since the
Siamese had any squabble, with the exception of
what is knowh as the Haw rebellion. The ariny
is officered by Europeans, and it _is generally
believed that, in the event of any fighting, these
officers will have it all to themselves. Jrtstnow
there is money to be made in Siam by speculative
individuals who have rifles and ammunition for
sale.
The Pall Mall states that a few weeks
ago, in Vienna, when a crack Hussar regiment was
being inspected by its colonel, he became irritated
at the alleged clumsiness of a non-commissioned
officer, whom he slapped in the face. “ The officer,
maddened by the indignity, immediately shot
himself with his carbine and died almost imme-
diately.” This truly Teutonic habit of slapping
their men in the face is a very common one—both
in array and navy. The present writer well
remembers one instance which he witnessed,
where a lieutenant of a German man-o’-war, while
in a boat, seized the coxswain by the throat, shook
him, slapped his face, and applied filthy epithets
to him. In fact, in the Russian, Austrian, and
German navies men are treated now as they were
in the British navy 100 years-ago.
Kerry, “ the well-known New
Guinea explorer,” whom many old
miners in several Australian proyinces
will remember as having exhibited
some peculiar specimens of alleged New
Guinea gold; is at present recruiting at
Noumea, New Caledonia, after a brief
but exciting blow round some of the
Islands. Kerry seems to have per-
suaded an Auckland (M.L.) Hebrew
named Asher to “put up the beans” to
take the schooner Harold on a pearl-
shelling cruise from Sydney to New
Guinea. Kerry engaged a mate and
one -A.8., who were paid wages, and
four “men of good family,” who took
their luck on “ results, ” and seems to
have been “ master ” himself. Anyhow,
the Harold sailed for New Guinea
via Noumea, which was a bit “off.”
At Noumea, for reasons of his own,
Asher got all his sovereigns “marked.”
The Harold was detained at New
Caledonia on account of some irregu-
larity in her “papers,” but was even-
tually allowed to proceed to the New
Hebrides, where a similar detention
and a similar release were experienced.
While at anchor on foul ground at
Erromanga Island, with a strong on-
shore blow and not enough cable out,
the Harold went gallantly aground a id
became a complete wreck. Word was
sent to Havannah Harbour (New
Hebrides), and H.M.S. Tauranga
steamed to the assistance of the
wrecked adventurers, now reduced to
six—the mate and the A.B. having
taken boat to another island, whence
they got passages to Noumea. On board
the Tauranga, Asher declared he had
lost his 580 sovereigns, but Kerry and
his mates derided his statement, and
allowed themselves to be searched, but
none of the booty was found. Some of
the marked sovereigns have since been circulated
at Noumea, and, when the mad left, the police
were busy in the matter.
Messrs. Goodlet and Smith’s vessel, the
Samoa, wrecked at Kiola, on the N.S.W. south
coast, the other day, was twenty years ago the
smartest of Goddeffroy’s “ blaokbirders.” If her
timbers could have spoken, what a tale they might
have told ! Her appearance, engaged recruiting
in the Gilbert Group, was that of a privateer of
ninety years ago. She would, after a four months’
cruise, return to her owners, at Samoa, loaded up
with Line Islanders, all of whom were supposed
to be under a three or seven years’ engagement.
Not one in ten ever got back again. The Dutch
planter in Samoa is a brute, pure and simple.
Landseer, M.P., “father’' of S.A. As-
sembly, lately gave some reminiscences re the
introduction of rabbits into the province. Mr.
M'Callum, afterwards overseer for Sir W. Jervois
at East Wellington, he said, once carried rabbits
for 300 miles in a box, in order to settle them
about a certain station. Capt. Rankine, too, who
owns an island near the Murray mouth, was at
pains to have bunny planted on his property. At
first he put up a notice, warning sportsmen off his
land under fearful penalties. Soon, however, he
began to ask special friends —“Do you feel inclined
for a day’s shooting?” Then it was, “Can’t you
make up a party and come over to my place for
some sport ?” and eventually, said Mr. Landseer,
the captain left the property entirely to the
rabbits.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
COO
Messrs. Charlemont specially commend their
PI/ATINOT YPK PORTRAITS
■on account of their being so PERFECTLY
PERMANENT.
£8 EACH £8
Bailey Estate, Manly Beach.
Allotments, £8 Bach.
10/- I>cposi(. 5/- Monthly. No Interest.
FREE DEEDS (free of all costs) (o Purchasers who pay
up in One Year from day of,sale.
Messrs, STEPHEN & ICKERSON, Solicitors.
86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
arrive psr cent. DISCOUNT for CASH, isa
A Good Spec, for Surplus Savings.
Deeds can be made out in names of Wife or Children.
Postage Stamps taken for Deposits and Instalments. No
forfeiture if buyers are unable to keep up payments
through sickness or want of employment.
Plans from E. V. KUOI CHITO*. 1501 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Free Plans sent to any address.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MILLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE Emm,
STEAM PUMPS, &c„
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES & BUGGIES'
William Fleming,
22 <fe 24 Clarence Street,
SVI>.V l»V.
df
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing' Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
d
POLITICAL
POINTS
What bets at the London Clubs re the
Crown succession ?
So far, none of the S.A. Labour members
jeem anxious to wear belltoppers.
Led by Hoolan, the fifteen Queensland
Labour members, so far, are as solid as a die.
Should Richardson accept the Vic. Railways
portfolio, he may have a close shave for his seat.
If the Q.N. Bank were wound-up, how
tnany Ms,P. would have to resign their seats and
Salaries ?
Ex-Premier Salisbury, it is cabled, now
advocates the referendum. Like the Cloture, it
■will some day bite him.
Kingston has a working majority of five in
B.A. Assembly, but in the Council the National
Ass gang rules by three-.
“ Oh, fora map, painted red as blood, to
Show how the people’s estate has been slaugh-
tered. ’’—BarTlett, M.P. (S.A.).
David Syme barks yiciously at the threat-
ened income-tax. The Bulletin congratulates
David that it is still worth his while.
It is suggested that a Bill should be
brought before S.A. Parliament proclaiming a
close season for aborigines in the Northern
Territory.
Premier Patterson, Vic., recommends
flogging to put down existing lawlessness. And
yet he is accused of sympathising with the
boomers!
Maloney, M.P., wants the Vic. Governor-
ship put up to auction. Premier Patterson him-
self’admitted that many people would gladly give
.£20,000 for the billet.
How rampantly socialistic Brisbane
Courier leaders became when the Q.N. Bank
smashed ! How easily does Dives turn socialist
when his pocket is hard hit!
In a late S.A. Parliamentary water-con-
servation discussion, Caldwell suggested that the
Onkaparinga watershed was polluted. Bartlett,
M.P.: “Yes, you live up there.”
“ Hydraulic ” Henderson, head of his
■department, is the only official therein who has
not been retrenched ”by Premier MTlwraith
.(Q.) Now, Whom did Henderson marry ?
In his heart of hearts (if there is such a
place), Attorney-General Byrnes (Q.) would like
■to be where Hoolan is to-day—at the bead of the
Labour party. His bread -is buttered on the other
side, though.
The average political situation of Austra-
lian provinces—one province, one "coalition. Fre-
quently—one Government, one man. The present
‘Queensland humour—one Parliament, only one
ipossible Government.
The champion sneak is the man who (like
those obsequious N.S. W. railway-officials) presents
-a greasy address of bogus-sympathy to the boss
who doesn’t care a Tap what he-thinks and despises
•him for his crawlsomeness.
Opposition leader Downer, who, when in
•office, posed before the S. A. electors as a Demo-
crat, now wears his true colours. Every Ass
■member in S.A. Assembly has Joined the Opposi-
tion and howls for Downer.
Gov. Duff and Go-v. Kintere are pleasant
-conversationalists for Australian Nationalists to
•listen to. Gov. Duff refers to South Australia as
“your territory,” and Eintore speaks -of N.S.
’Wales as “Duff’s territory.”
The income-tax violates the ,principle
‘‘Lead us not into temptation ”’.(Melb. Argus).
Fat Man ought-to escape paying anything, so that
fee may not furjtherdmperil his soul by understating
■his income l to the tax-collector.
“We intend to do our best and leave the
■rest to Providence,” said Treasurer Playford in
the peroration of a recent speech in S.A. Assembly.
“Ah,” said Solomon, “so you have appointed
the Seventh Minister, have you ?”
The,policy propounded by Premier King-
ston to the S.A. Assembly was accepted without a
division, and six of the promised Bills ran up to
1 their second l reading in one night, although some
of them had l to be initiated in Committee.
All Victorian Supreme Court Judges.,
hereafter appointed, will get £2500 a year instead
of £3OOO as now ; and the future Chief Justice
will get only £3OOO instead of £3500; also
Ministers’ salaries are to be reduced by 20 per cent.
As the Australian Governors’ salaries are
in part avowedly intended to go in society enter-
tainments, Labour members should unite as one
man to reduce them by an amount approximating
the sum thus spent in specially cultivating the
classes.
We would like to hear from the Melbourne
man, not an M.P., who lias not got his eye on Dr.
Maloney’s seat for West Melbourne. Ben Douglass,
ex-boss of the pioneers, is the latest aspirant.
However, there are no indications of little Maloney
foing “off his perch.”
■ The Land Values Assessment and Women’s
Suffrage Bills were the first measures introduced
by Kingston to S.A. Assembly. With previous
Governments, the former measure, at least, has
always been kept to the last, with the deliberate
intention of killing it.
Mr. Zox, M.L.A., Vic.: —“The reduction
of the gubernatorial salary will restrict the
Governor’s ability to extend hospitality to dis-
tinguished visitors.” Why not set aside a sura
for the support of a special soup-kitchen for dis-
tinguished visitors?
People marry less and don’t die so often,
in South Australia, as they used to, From ’B4 to
’92 the proportions per 1000 of the population have
dropped thus : Births, 39.04 to 32.41; marriages,
8.42 to 6.51; deaths, 15.78 to 11.41. The birth-
rate is the lowest on record.
“We shall, in a generation or two, have a
brilliantly-educated working class—men of wide
knowledge and general culture —and the idle
classes will have to look to it if they want to hold
their own, for brain and muscle together form a
dangerous combination.” —London Referee.
There is practically no leader of the Oppo-
sition, and no Opposition to lead, in the S.A.
Assembly at present. The most ambitious men
on the side of the outs are John Moule and Vabien
Solomon, slippery politicians, neither of whom
commands more than one vote beside his own.
A reverend Victorian loyalist : “ After
every concession made, there have been fresh* dis-
turbances in Ireland.” Therefore, down with
Home Rule. If this holy politician had a man on
a chain, he would expect to satisfy his demands
for freedom by letting out a link now and then.
They talk about the British Commons
being the “model” Legislature. Just so. Picture
the scene when Denzil Hollis held Speaker Finch
down in the chair while the House divided. And
it was only recently that Speaker Peel threatened
to resign if members did not behave themselves.
The most objectionable persons as M.’sP.,
says a prominent N.S.W, Oppositionist, are
jpurnalists. “With them no private conversation
is sacred; anonymously sometimes and at others
under fictitious names they constantly advertise
themselves to the detriment of their Parliamentary
associates.”
Griffiths, the youngest
member of S.A. Parliament,
in his maiden speech, said
that the present education
system is too elaborate, as
“it fills children with aspir-
ations and ambitions which
they can never consum-
mate.” Instruction, he
thinks, is wasted on farm
labourers, and education
leads to Centralisation,
Need it be said that he
votes on the side of the
National Ass ?
Shiels and Duncan Gil-
lies made a profuse display
of themselves in close con-
versation at Flemingtou
races the other Saturday.
The statesmanlike manner of
Shiels, as he nodded acquies-
cence in Duncan’s deep poli-
tical utterances was most
amusing. But be gave him-
self away with his furtive
glanees at the grand-stand,
glances which seemed to ask
“Do you observe the two
ex-Premiers discussing the
best means of saving your
unhappy country ?” Shiels,
by the way, looks very well
again, and, physically speak-
iing, quite worthy of his tall,
comely wife. Gillies, the old
bachelor, is .withering fast.
His head has become too
small far his bat, and his
smile is but a sweet memory
iof happier days.
Bundaberg’s Mick
Duffy, M.P. (Q.) and plan-
ters’Toby, begins to discover
what a bea-stly degradation
it is to be roped j-n with the
Eat Man. Treasurer MTI-
- considers Bundaberg
his own .nominee borough,
and Duffy .has fostered that
.idea badly during,the last
few vyears. The first time
Duffy spoke in .the ’Ouse
from his real instincts, the
apoplectic Premier who boa-
eonstriots Queensland told
ihim that a man“ who spoke
like that ought to be outside
.the House, and pot in .it!”
Then the blood qf the Duffys
—mingled with the day-
sweats and (the malarial
night-dejvs ©f.the |l5-bqb-a-
-week times when ,he . was ,a
vestless, bootless ferryman—
suitably replied. Nebuchad-
nezzar M‘Hwraith’s haughti-
ness is bound,to,rend .things
shortly.
Mr. J. M‘Farlane, M.L.A. (N.S.VV.),
opposes an Income Tax because in depressed times
it is a cruel tax; he urges retrenchment instead.
Mr. MEarlane is evidently one of the large
number who have some income which may be
taxed, but no position which may be retrenched.
It is threatened that “Independent ”
candidates professing pronounced Radicalism will
be the fiercest opponents of the legitimate Labour
candidates at next N.S.W. general elections, and
that A. G. Taylor’s last West Sydney performance
will be attempted in every constituency where the
Labour vote is strong.
Hon. St. John Brodriek, Conservative
member for one of the Surrey boroughs, in the
Commons, last week, spoke of the Irish as “an
impecunious and garrulous race ” —upshot, a row
in the House. The term “impecunious,” applied
to a landlord-ridden people by the son of an earl,
is very cutting indeed.
The venerable Dean Macartney pointed
out at the. howling Ulster meeting--i»-Melbourne
last week, that no Irish nobleman or gentleman
had gone into Parliament to support the per-
nicious Home Rule Bill. We have been struck
with the fact that no avowed garrotters go into
Parliament to support the criminal laws.
A charming selection from the Argus :
Hence, every man of common sense must want to se e
cheerful homes, well-fed and well-clothed families, th e
fathers and mothers with a little money in their purses ;
for when we see all this we are sure that the banks are
progressing, that capital is receiving its due.
We hate earthquakes, because they upset th e
banks and rattle capital.
London Spectator, reviewing Parkes’
book, eulogises him for “ Ins disregard, in import-
ant public appointments, of the maxim of the
spoils to the victors—a notable instance of which
is to be found in his appointment of the ex-Pnme
Minister, and then leader of the Opposition, to be
Chief Justice.” In a word, Parkes is thought un-
selfish because he shunted Martin, his most
doughty political enemy, a man by whose forceful
personality he was overshadowed, into the sate
oblivion of the bench !
Treasurer Carter smugly declares that if
Victoria is distrusted at ’Ome “a good deal of it
arises from our own fault.” If he refers to the
Crown and its nolle-prosequi line of .policy the
reconstructed bank director is quite right. I“ e
manufacture of distrust has been boomed m
Victoria by excessive Protection for the financial
trade.
The S.A. Democratic-party has commenced
a three-years’ campaign of the provincial towns
for the 1896 elections. Lectures on Radical sub-
jects are being delivered by several leading Demo-
crats, but chiefly by the popular Medway Day,
ex-editor of the REGISTER, and the coming man of
the people in S.A. politics. So far, the lectures
have been a big success.
Patterson’s assertion that this country
(Vic.) “was not a republic, and never would be,”
was greeted with “renewed cheering” in the
Assembly :
The prophetic mole, blind and inert,
Whose native course is run,
Entombed in congenial dirt,
Disputes the rising sun.
One plea raised for the introduction of the
Kanaka was that he was not particularly numerous
and consequently unable ever to become a serious
danger. It is, however, interesting to note how
fiie deficiencies in the ranks are being quietly
and unobtrusively supplied by the docile Ghmkie,
the sagacious Jap, and the wily barbarian who
hails from Ceylon’s spicy isle.
Foster, M.P., ex-parson, said in S.A.
Assembly, the other day, that God intended
that ttie progressive land-tax should be carried.
Ash denied that there was any evidence of the
intention, and believed that the Outsider referred
to never heard of the matter until Dr. Cockburn
VERBATIM FROM CHARTERS
PRISONER'S LAWYER ( cross-examining 14-year-old Australian
witness for the prosecution) : “You say it was on
March 31?”
YOUNG AUSTRALIAN WITNESS: “Do yer think I’m a bloomin’
tug?”
LAWYER: “ Sir — how dare you? Answer my question immediately.
‘How-do-you—know-it-was—the—31st-of—
March?’” ( Emphatically ,)
YOUNG AUSTRALIAN WITNESS: “’Cause next day was April
Fool’s Day, o’ course; any mug’ud know that.”
started it at the general elections of 1890. No
direct communication has been received from the
Person mentioned to settle the dispute.
Egypt bubbles again. Rosebery goes
sparring, as though he would engineer a war with
France. Salisbury and Co. would relish nothing
better than a foreign red-herring drawn across the
Home Rule trail. England has been dragged into
alliance with all the anti-Republican powers ; the
Court hates France and America. Then see how
a mischievous hostility to France is kept up in
Italy, Spain, and Belgium by the Royalty in-
terest —all one family.
Rev. A. Marshall, one of Melbourne’s pet
parsons, hopes the day is far distant when Irish-
men, against their will, will be deprived of their
inheritance and position in the Empire, &c. How
like a parson ! Mr. Marshall, on his own showing,
must grieve over Australia’s loss of the inherit-
ance brought to her by Gov. Phillip’s first convicts.
This country already contains three or four mil-
lions of people who have lost much more ©f their
precious position ip the Empire, through Home
Rule, than Ulster is ever likely to lose.
Editor Bulletin, — N.S.W. Lands Minister
Copeland has (apart from the incompatibility of
the elements composing his board of management)
made a poor start with the village settlement
scheme, under which a peasantry is to be locally
created. The soil (of the Campbelltown and Pitt-
town Commons) is a gravelly clay, cold and
hungry, incapable of cultivation, even
by a Chinaman. There is no timber for building
or fencing, and nothing but stumps tor firewood.
The commons have, for the last 40 years, been
stripped to supply Sydney with fuel. Yet an
expert reported on the locality.
The Argus argument against the reduction
of the Vic. Governor’s salary: “The highest
public service reduction is 15 per cent., and the
Governor’s reduction is 30 per cent., and the
discrepancy is excessive.” Yet, said functionary’s
salary is nearly three times as great as the next
highest Civil Service salary (.£3500) —that of the
Chief Justice. . Then the Argus shrieks because
M.’sP. would not submit reduction of 33 per
cent, off their paltry £3OO a year. Thirty per
cent, off the gubernatorial apd aristocratic £lO,OOO
is robbery, wlffie 33 per cent, from the Parliament-
ary and Democratic £3OO is righteousness. Such
is the logic of Jingoism !
The democratic trend of the penny Argus
is shown by its printing of a long letter from
“John Plain,” as a discreet “feeler.” John
Plain, who probably belongs to the staff of the
reconstructing journal, says, “I invite your
advocacy of a tax on unimproved land-values, and
I as ; k you to use it as your battle-cry, as a fit
companion to ‘Unlock the Lands.’” This kind
of correspondence does not get. into the columns
of a daily newspaper by accident. The Argus
has not yet started to cry in the wilderness for a
tax on land values, but it begins surreptitiously to
clear the Tory phlegm from.Jts throat, so.as to be
ready to cry whatever seems advisable. The
“ classes ” in Victoria are dead-broke, they have
no advertisement money to bestow upon their old
and faithful press servant, and that disgusted
menial has determined to shift for itself. That’s
about the size of the matter.
Editor Bulletin,— The New Australians’
ship, Royal Tar, was built on the Nambucca, on
the N.S.W. North, coast, by an extremely old
.identity. The Nambucca is only a gutter, so to
speak; nevertheless, the vessel was successfully
.taken over the bar (where so many coasting craft
have left their bones) and towed to Sydney, where
she was rigged and sparred, and so far she has had
no accident of any kind. Anyone who knows the
Nambucca and the ship in question must feel sur-
prised to read the above. — Bunowong.
Dear Bulletin, —A Murray steamer struck
a snag and bucked off all its top tiers of wool.
The skipper sent over to Pal bet’s pub., on the
Wakool, for “the blacks,” and, meanwhile, ran
with a boat to Swan Hill, and wired to Melbourne
for a diver, who duly arrived by coach. They
went back to the barge. The blacks had been
away on the Edwards, and it took Fred, the half-
caste, a good while to muster them, but at last
thejr arrived. The skipper -went ashore, shouted
a drink apiece, and told them he would give £2
for each bale rescued. They agreed. This was
just before 12 o’clock. The blacks saw a man
grinding away on the barge, but never thought
there.wa-s anybody below. At 12, the signal was
given to the diver to come up for food. Then
they commenced to haul qn the rope. soon as
the diver rose to the surface, the blacks yelled,
“ Bunyip !” and cleared. It took Fred three days
to persuade them to come back.— Log.
The Loss of the Victoria.
Once more has the indomitable pluck, bravery,
and heroism of the British seaman called forth
the admiration of the world ; at the same time its
.tears are freely shed for the loss of the gallant
.tars, who, because someone had blundered, went
down in the waters of the blue Mediterranean.
When shall their glory fade? As longias time lasts,
.their memory will remain bright as the stars on
highland so it should do ! Such unflinching dis-
cipline, such manliness and intrepidity has never
before been excelled, and seldom equalled. As in
the case of the ,Light Brigade at Balaclava, so
with these men, these heroes of undying and
inextinguishable renown—
“ Theirs not to make reply,
Theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die
Though someone had blundered.”
And so, shoulder to shoulder, in the grim, deathly
silence of an inevitable doom, they sank for ever.
The lesson brought home to our minds by the
details of the disaster is, that evenjn the moment
of death, strong nervous organisations feel no fear
or aught that is akin to it! The path of duty is
still the chosen one. though it leads *to the grave.
Safe on land we, cannot experience the perils of
the sea; but we should prepare ourselves to„ with-
stand the onslaught of the unexpected deadly
surprises to which we are liable, and no surer
remedy and no more vitalising and reliable safe-
guard can be obtained to aid us in combating
and overcoming the arrows of disease than Mar-
shall’s Tonic Nervine. It acts as a charm, elim-
inates the seeds of death, builds up the constitu-
tion, and causes the ruddy glow of healthy blood
to testify to its wonderful efficacy.
It is wise to provide against emergencies which
are liable to arise in every family. In sudden
attacks of gold, croup, asthma, etc., a bottle of
Ayer’s Oherry Pectoral, will prove a never-failing
remedy.


U is said of Royal Oak. winner-of « ma i c l en
steci.lwl.ascreoentJy.trut nothing less than
a bottle oi ale daily will malice him to par-
take of his regular feed. He emnti-d a.
bottle after J>.» last win. *
y,
, 'MI
/YW*
/¥*/
AWj *
,y \ ii^
\
* m
‘ j m •
igjsi
, a i fc
\
,o Ht
H,
V
/ 7
c >d
$
Chairman, in his address, said that
under an antique law that Parliament had
refused to repeal everybody attending the,
meeting was a misdemeanant, but he
challenged the Government to put the law in
force against himself, ever, if it did prosecute
NMr. Field
for. preaching in Mooro-street.
v <4^ 1 /
to
vl£l <iUee »’. iu a 'neaiaßp on'thc Dufee rtf
aWro 1 th$ ma, * e l ****-“ M y people at*
»h2 ra *i- h S al ‘ t bfia(a for them, and
empire" 3 tle 1 * ,le Teal strength of the
§' ■ k
/
£s\ '
%
\Vt'
%/p H/lfifrsoqs
C /art/p
Pt/lrfi/fq/ a/&vy "
The Licensed Victuallers’ Association
1 suggests that, by way of dealing with the
"push-" nuisance, every hotel in the city
and suburbs should be connected by
telephone with the nearest station
Te/efijeye - Tjcres a roh/oy of
frjyfila.ee, 7/jc fius/j /s S'n^a sfiy' tf'Vf 5
7*ofit? /pay /y - Jusfi dsfr f^e
/fiacffif fZ Coye fi> rfe f//
Prefer ey /a fitese oy. _ a'rc/'Py/fe/Pyf-
ye '7o'ss S//rcf /ye e/ner a P'fiasre/'y.
<f*/f it *ra ? s/-. "
C / '/?a6pf fa/ /fas? y
£o/}1 foS/ps ( fa yi/e^'/0./fa /
' —~— Jbotr
fai s ‘
Cfir/a/yly
y6##/' &/? Sfxa/ OfefCfi /xtfr tffi/’sfs
a/ryrafc.
THINGS IN GENERAL.


THE
Salary T hermpmetor\
H 0+ WO'n 5 SI
"Warm.
IV[|IA
Cool
m
fL l f, nrv
sio-cnn>
. i /. OTT> i>.
. 5". 00 3
l! /\n*i-
}l a< * U 7)
“ //> e ‘-/i 7T .
n zore?/ /gT'we r?o7~ ZZ
Ze/nfi 7erf to rnf
Z>Zoa7eol h-iCorn*
/> -
/Ati At-a>■>e-A. of oAje£7fons ma.r~ Ze
sTdTe. <z-/~ //£ c
i'ne-07-rxe. Vrofa Te % c r h fe.
ZecS Z 2 pf~ friTo r fe*yyi~ fa ’TiaZYZo n * ° ZDe*.iLy
mt
i •.nwciAU
Eh&7
on 'wCt ca n IJo J,- Voj^?"
u-r 7 7 ‘. ~ / w.«.
J[^ unro - —- /Aey~ natfe been cruel rz^ci(^ f
un ol I IATd rTt a n sit, e.t- c?ose of iS~o u r ~/ontc~.
•■s«l' • 1 * *' •f!?! -
//n=:^T?s:i,*!!!iii^6”‘'
»•>»' J?:.;.*
ii&!s*|;: :
!te'-
\
\
li
1
<*\
f
LITTLE TUCKEft
SETTLEMENTS
a tt- n<?
re $ ;■ / /S
Sir. /* JUf TZr
-IteCcAtj, t-f P(*IT*R &£yV-v£cesryijL*~- isv~tyC*C &Vo &/ttwiA*.
to <v £&4%£t-sy>%£stytyf -
S/r. V*} %t*~> &i-ffferf'
o
/'/on. mem Tiers ?o~
■ford of ittoOt zv7,e.n. f/ef re fie eft OL
/oaAars#?r on fAe/r offon e-n-Ts 7 Aejf
fA* ete<X',r of YAe eor* rCTry
He Tiim. self betel m ccdZe. -m< sTa-ket. ~YAafT **-<*■, ■
fa A Ctcl srn ce cm! n f off /J e see 71
, • *5 ,C>
Ur > > r?:
V
u 0-
Qu _r*
'X-
7~ //£ 'T l/V'O C R
a9<A —' -Fik ' C* r7r '-. ' r
, ft a* ~ s
y- £, S « «2- Jo e
Sausages
rfo r
<2
of*
'i e co z*
= ’i7r'^*Zior'
■^rh e
fd
J CP' £
O-f r~‘ r ‘
ihe’^ *‘T^‘ii^
jT> e 'e' fYU 1n iA
j T l ' 11^
I
Nf I
$
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Ooolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
JglO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
vho will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
Arrival in 'AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
the sjreat French Specialist. No medicines. Ills trcjiti.sc
on “ Woman’s Salvation ” sent FREE, in close envelope,
upon application by letter to 359 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
WOMAN'S SALVATION.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Oases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)
Energy will do almost anything, but it cannot
exist if the blood is impure and moves sluggishly
in the veins. There is nothing so good for cleans-
ing the blood and imparting energy to the system
as Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
IP .ctitsch- JUtstrdkdic fl .oat
Erseheint jedcn Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis
Zu haben bei alien Zcitungs-Agenten.
Abonnoment 10 sh. jahrlich dirckt bei der
Foreign Publishing Oj/ice, 2G Hunter Str., Sydney.-
Society
A heavy “Swell,” living hi Sydney under
an assumed name, is said to be one of the titled
heroes of Cleveland-street, Whether he be the
lord in question, or not, he is an out-and-out
scoundrel, whose game is getting hold of and
“bleeding” rich men’s wives. He has already
wheedled and bullied several hundreds out of one
particular (she has not been too particular) married
woman in Sydney, is still at the same business*
and is said to have similarly worked American
“ society.” This man frequents the elaborate
bar of a vety well-known sporting hostelry, one qf
the barmaids whereof he is said to play off against
his married women, more of less.
♦ ft ft
“Give your opinion, but not your reasons.”
Mr. Whittingdale Johnson, S.M., sentencing a
Sydney cabby to imprisonment, “ without the
option,” last week, observed (it is reported) ; —“ I
remember a case in London, many years ago,
when an officer of the Guards was sent to the
treadmill for an identical offence , without the
option of a fine. It was in 1851, and the officer
was sent to the House of Correction for ten days.
I therefore send accused to gaol for four months
with hard labour.” Ten days—four months—
identical offence and an elaborate piece of remi-
niscential reasoning !
« ft ft
Detective Whitney’s little hill for his trip
to Colombo after Matthew Davies amounted to a
few shillings under £73, including £5O passage-
money. With this as a basis of calculation, it can
be estimated that Mercantile Davies’ expenses
were at least £2OO, for he stayed twice as long,
and there were two of him. Taking into account
Matthew’s valet, his carriage, and the probability
that in other respects he lived in a superior style
to a “common policeman,” his jaunt would cost
something like £3OO. Who paid it ?
• • - « * • •
When Whitney called on the Ceylon police, he
was told that, since he had arrived, he could look
after Davies himself. The local authorities sym-
pathised with the ex-Speaker, and would not
interfere with him. Whitney says, in explanation
of this, that the Ceylon police ate a bare-footed,
spindle-slianked crew who are paid Is. 3d. per
diem, carry a pot-stick baton by day, and a stable
lamp tied round their stomachs at night.
A town coun-
cillor of Hampton
(Eng.) and a highly-
respected grocer in
the ordinary way,
outraged the de-
cency of his district
by proposing to in-
vest the local Royal
Wedding Present
fund in a silver
cradle. As a prac-
tical shopkeeper,
with a large family
of his own, he
meant his sugges-
tion for the best*
But the Mayor,
being a tailor of
high breeding, re-
quested the Offender
to withdraw his
insulting motion
and retire to hide
his shame, where-
upon the poor grocer
tottered out under
protest, saying
“they were bound
to want one soon.”
It seems that the
reporter present was
sworn to secrecy
concerning this dis-
graceful incident,
lest the bride-elect
might hear of it.
• •
In the recent
football - match, at
N e N. 3. W.,
one of the Maori-
landers had his ear
torn almost off, an-
other swallowed
three of his own
teeth. The gallows
and football will
probably be abolish-
ed'sirnultaneously.
A Ballarat man has man slaughtered a
Chinaman who wanted to marry his sister. He
was probably afraid of being asked “How’s your
brother-in-law ? ” Theme for Y. W.C. A. debating
society : Is a Christian justified in clubbing a
Chow under such circumstances?
* * #
It is indeed very likely, as averred by the
New Australians, that the N.S.W. Government
had no special desire to facilitate and make
pleasant their departure; just as, on the other
ifend, it is perfectly plain to all who have eyes to
see and ears to hear, that a Government in which
the banking and shipowning interests Are so
potently represented has no wish to enforce the
letter of the law against steamship-owners
who man their boats with “scab” crews at 3d,
an hour. But it must not be forgotten that were
wrecked and the crew saved, they
Could, by international’ law, be returned to this
country at the cost of the N.S.W. Government —
which, we presume, would also have to stand the
eost'‘w returning ship-wrecked passengers.
« * a
The new N.S.W. Commandant, Major-
General Hutton (who evidently “doesn’t care a
damn ! ”), having already made himself cordially
hated by the officers of the staff, soihe interesting
developments may be looked for when those
potentates shall have got their forcesinto position.
The Major-General’s term of office is three years,
and how fervently does the whisky-and-soda
brigade wish it were but three months !
# # •
Mayor Willcox, of Adelaide, who gets
.£lOOO allowance for his year of office, has hitherto
been guilty of no festivity. He wanted to evade
holding a ball by giving £5OO to the unemployed
fund and privately con veiled his councillors to
advise him. oil the point. But they prudently
declined. Last year Bullock spent £l2OO on his
ball. Cohen, the year before, disbursed £2500 in
the same way, and Edwin Smith got rid of
between £2OOO ahd £3OOO during his term of
Office.
* * *
National Ass Baker strongly objects to the
proposal to make Chief Justice Way Governor of
S.A. in succession to Lord Kintore. This fact
helps to further popularise the suggestion* which*
apart from other advantages, will result in a
saving of nearly £4OOO a year. The Chief
Justice’s now historic Pomeranian pup may pos-
sibly be appointed aide-de-camp, thus effecting a
further economy,
# * #
The uncommon name of Jeater turns up
again. Curiously enough, one Frederick Walter
Jeater got married at Sydney a couple of days
before the execution of Archer for murdering the
girl whom W. H. Jeater was engaged to marry.
# # #
ijp to time of writing no news had come
of the result of the Privy Council appeal made by
Herod Makin, the Sydney wholesale baby-slayer,
against his sentence of death. Makin Was re-
spited for three months pending appeal, and
since his respite two hangings have already
taken place within the gaol. Makin has evidenced
the possession of splendid nerve, but one wants
much fortitude for suoh an ordeal.
# ft ft
Cold-blooded indeed is |the judicial hang-
ing business. When the date of a man’s execution
is fixed they weigh him, and the day before he is
hanged they put him on the scales again to see
exactly what drop he should be given. A penny
in the slot—for the information of the hangman.
By the way, Nosey Bob, Monsieur de Sydney,
when he heard Archer groan at the end of tin-
rope, actually shed tears.
TOIL.
THE FAT GENTLEMAN: “Why don’t you work?”
THE OTHER ONE : “ I am at work.”
THE FAT GENTLEMAN: “What work?”
THE OTHER ONE: “The hardest work of all—trying to get work.”
Antoinette Sterling was, at latest, being
accorded enthusiastic receptions by the “religious
women workers ” of Maoriland. But the syndi-
cates who hired her would not let her sing except
at their concerts. By the way, a lady tells The
Bulletin that the conduct of the Sydney
Y.W.C. A. Crowd after one of the religious meet-
ings attended by Sterling, in Sydney, was most
wonderful. Score after score of women grabbed
her, kissed her hair, lips, eyes, and ears. Butter
on bacon !
# * *
Some disgraceful exhibitions of seaman-
ship were inevitable accompaniments of the pre-
sent maritime strike. Thus a Bulletin corres-
pondent :
I came down along the coast by a steamer manned by a
double scratch-crew, four-fifths of whom had too evidently
never entered a forecastle before. A youth of 19 was put
at the helm for seven hours, without a break, and got
too sleepy even to be able to read the compass. A raw
novice followed him ; he had never steered before, but he
said that he supposed there wasn’t much in it ! In half-
an-hour he had the boat six points off her course, and
nearly ran us “overland.” Then he complained that his
knees were “giddy,” and was allowed to go to the side
and gulp “ steward.” A man in bell-bottomed panfs and
a stiff hat, engaged as an “ A. 8.,” got a bad rope’s-ending
because he thought that he had to do no work on a Sun-
day ! The sea was calm all the time, but every mother’s
son of them was sea-sick. About 30 passengers’ live
depended on these “sailors.”
* • %
Editor Bulletin, — Did Shakespeare antici-
pate the release of the Broken Hill strike men?
Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious summer by this sun of York.
T.S.J.R.
# # *
Feminine Canvassers of books, soap, hair-
wash, etc., attired as hospital nurses are the latest
M 1 bourne enterprise. This is blit the thin end
O' the wedge. In another year or so a gamboge-
hai ed houri, in pink tights, will push her way
int . the sanctity of the private office and press the
cotpulent merchant for a subscription to the “Life
of St. Agatha,’’ in 14 volumes—and she’ll get it,
too.
• « #
Again! At South Melbourne Police
Court, an oitrang-outang who slit his wife’s nose
from forehead to lips, with a penknife, was mulct
“Mr. Peterswald, the S.A. Commissioner of Police, has expressed his entire
satisfaction at the result of the experiment of mounting a portion of the
police force on safety bicycles.”
TAKEN IN TOW.
(Sketch by an artist who is obviously neither a bicyclist nor an engineer.)
in 40s. or 14 days, while attother hardened criminal
who bathed a dog in the sea was fined .£l. Same
day, a Melb. court sent three men to gaol for a
month, without the option, for breaking branches
of trees on Yarra bank.
• • •
A certain Australian judge has recently
had much trouble over his morganatic wife and
her numerous brood. The same row occurred
when he was in politics.
# # *
There is no beating about the bush in this
Sydney E. News “ad.”
LADY wants meet rich Gent, who will befriend her.
By Saturday, Faith, Park-st. P. 0., Sydney.
» ft *
The Melbourne ’Varsity Anthem is in
keeping with the puerile folly of a students’ night
at the theatre. It breathes loyalty, not to say
pious grovel—
To our noble Chancellor
The Queen has given honour ;
To lend us more light she made him a knight,
God’s blessing rest upon her !
Young men who can sing that might be guilty of
anything—under the influence of colonial beer.
* ft , #
A Sydney daily-newspaper correspondent
has for months had an ever-growing desire to see
Christians wearing a badge. So has The Bulle-
tin. When every loud-mouthed “Christian”
flaunts a badge, the police will always know where
to look for the authors of all offences involving
the meanest kind of sneakery.
ft • *
Chiefly owing to bad blood existent be-
tween the doctors, a Government pathologist has
been appointed in Sydney, who will make, fot
£3OO a year, post-mortems which formerly cost,
say, £OOO. An extract from evidence at a recent
inquest
Dr. Milford: 1 believe that Mr. Jamieson reriiained thefe
With Dr. Rennie for sollie time longer.
The Coroner: What Was Dr. Jamieson doing then ?
The Witness; I don’t know, I did not see any necessity
for skinning the body, so I went away.
And so on,
# ft *
Four Sunday-night secular concerts in
Melb., and the Public Library shut!
# # #
That was a gruesome mining case at
Charters Towers (Q.). The Worcester and Vic-
tory mine had nowhere to dump its dirt except
in the back,-yard of the “Church of Christ.”
When the Church “got its back up” at the
sacrilege, the Worcester questioned the right of a
church to “occupy ” land at all. The’Co. scared
in the lower courts and was only defeated in the
higher on a technicality.
# ft #
Melbourne is now over-run with quack
cheap dentists.
# .* •
A retired Melb. bun-merchant has loyally
christened his St. Kilda mansion “Lady Fife
House.” It isn’t a bad sort of house either, and
seems to feel its position keenly.
• ft #
Melbourne Standard headlines: “The
Royal Marriage—Prince George Enjoys Him-
self.”
# * »
A sight in Adelaide streets on Thursday,
July 13. An old and decrepit man limping along
with boards hanging behind and before, announ-
cing “special gospel services by the Rev. Joseph
Berry ’’—who poses as a friend of the oppressed
and an exemplar of the rich.
# ft ft
William Murphy and Henry Webster gone
to gaol for a month at Melbourne. Homeless,
unemployed, and without credit at a Chinese
laundry, they removed a few of their garments in
a secluded part of the Domain, washed them, and
hung them bn a tree to dry ; at which stage the
men were discovered and run in for “ vagrancy.
Had they not attempted to wash they would now
be at liberty. Moral for the unemployed ; Hon b
wash—take piattern front your superiors bn the
Bench. |.
• * *
Fowl, 6d,. Melb. Chinese restaurants
Play suspected.
# * *
A cavalry herd from the fastnesses of
Byron Bay, N.S.W., writes on scented paper
from his barracks in London, describing the feats
of the Australian braves. Among other exploits,
be says the company wen«t to churchy in fivil uni-
form one Sunday, and that over 10,000 ladies
riveted their eyes on each gallant form. -the
letter has so much in it making Tommy on horse-
back look insufferably noodleish that it will become
Australia’s duty, if she keeps up a standing army,
to engage in battle from tithe to tune to kill some
Of his species off.
# * *
A Sydney paper, which apparently doesn t
like the law-firm of Crick and Meagher, cour-
teously stated in its report of the execution of
Archer that “prisoner appeared oh the seattold
bolding’ the band of bis friend and attorney, JMr.
Meagher.”
For the second time within 12 months
Matthew Davies lias been met by his brothers
at the Spencer-street railway terminus on his
return to Melbourne. On this last Occasion,
Speaker Bent and the legislative flunkeys
were not present to receive the ex-Speaker
in semi-state. Neither did the brothers
snort, as before, at the “ indecency
of newspaper reporters in obtruding
themselves upon the occasion; Ihe
time for “bluff” has passed away.
Instead of a burst of cheers from
Matthew’s friends and supporters,
there was a storm of groans from
the vulgar populace. Unseemly,
but perfectly natural. An un-
couth demonstration in favour
of the Law, as against that
nolle prosequi.
The bank - smashes
have produced deplor-
able results among
several retired
lights, resident
at Melbourne,
of the old
Australian
the atrical
work!. Mpre
than one of those now
finds himself absolutely
beggared, and has, in his
old age, to take to the road again.
* * *
B.A. Government, has well-balanced views
On the asphyxiation of murderers. It has com-
muted the sentence of Page, the 1 ort
Lincoln assassin (white), and, confronted with the
problem of dealing with ten Malay-slaying N.i.
blackfellows, decided to hang five and keep five
alive. Good old white brudder !
• * *
Poor Adelaide is now left entirely without
spiritual oversight. Bishop Reunion is in Eng-
land and Archbishop Reynolds in Heaven.
* . * *
Now that a section of the Sydney police
have got their revolvers always by them, it Will
be interesting to note the number of suicides
aniongst the force for the next 12 months.
* * *
A «ian Was killed the other day while
leaving a train at a S.A< country station, and
although deceased wa”S possessed of a return-ticket
his widow was charged £7 freight by the railway-
authorities when the body .was restored to her.
The S A. railway-commissioners have thus\got a
leg-and-a-half in for The Bulletins next cake.
* * *
Beer in Melbourne three-halfpence per
half-pint.
$ * *
T-he N.B.W. Pharmacy Association 5-s
another of those close corporations which, need a
whiff of the popular breatho The examinations
passed by candidates for the-pharmaceutical busi-
ness in Queensland, Victoria and Maorilahd are
Tip to the mark requited in N.StW., and the certi-
ficates of those other boards are actually accepted
as sufficient, but the N.S.W. Board insists that
the holders of these other certificates must, if they
desire to practise in N.S.W., reside in that pro-
vince for three years before they are allowed to
begin business. Talk about the irrational man-
dates of the Trades and Labour Councils !
# » *
Livingston Hopkins, American citizen,
Republican, and Bulletin artist, last week gave a
lecture on “Picture-Writing,” at Mosman’sBay,
Sydney. When he had finished, the good clergy-
man of the district arose and said something to
the effect that just as Queen Victoria had honoured
artist Tenniel by making him a knight, so might
they one day have the pleasure of beholding Sir
Livingston Hopkins. And this wasn’t said as a
joke, but in solemn earnest. As a jibe it would
have been excellent.
A * * *
" Three things The Bulletin refuses to
believe. (1) That the family of that Sydney man
who last week stole a sheep’s pluck from a
butcher’s shop started to eat it raw. (2) That the
letter in Sydney D.T. signed “ A Forced Striker’s
Wife” was composed by any woman, to say
nothing of a seaman’s wife. (3) That the so-called
“dynamite outrages” on board the coasting
steamers weren’t mere jobs “ put up ” by persons
working in the interests of capitalism.' On.the
second question The Bulletin feels very strongly
indeed.


Don’t fish for sharks in a rain-barrel
Mit print your advertisement where it will be seen. “In
my travels in Australia I found Tins Bulletin every-
where, and everywhere found it powerful,” wrote David
Christie Murray in the London Contemporary Review.
That is true. The universality of The Bulletin’s circula-
tion in Australasia is the envy of all other papers. In and
beyond Australia, The Bulletin, now in its fourteenth
year of issue,‘is the most popular, hest-knowm, best-
•pioted, and most widely and numerously circulated of all
Australasian publications.
To The Deaf.— A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W,
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, Subscribers and Others.
Messrs. Fitzgerald, Hr os,, of Launceston, are
no longer Sole Wholesale Agents for sale of
“ Thft Bulletin” in Tasmania, Agents and
Subscribers can be supplied from Head Office.
1 Terms upon application.
Carter & Co?
JJUAUTaBIjE
NON REVERSIBLE
rpiIIS Ingeniously Constructed I£UMAUCIJ I>INI\G-
TIKLKis acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-atlraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggeutle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES— 25 to tilMlcas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-Si.
From a Yankee paper’s account of *
Chicago World’s Fair incident: —
The carriage had been kindly loaned for the occasion bj
Mrs. Cyrus M'Cormick, who not only lent her vehicle,
which is a new one, her gold-mounted harness and two
coal-black steeds, but sent a coachman and footman along
in new liveries to add eclat to the occasion. The carriage
and liveries were decorated with the M'Cormick crest;
which has been in the family since their last trip to
Europe ; so long, in fact, that both the hired men seemed
quite at home in their decorations.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 4.
The competitive lists for The Bulletin’s No. 4
Missing Wold Competition closed oh the 8th in*
stant with 2349 entries, representing a pool of
.£117 9s. Through a blander in cheeking the
coupons, the name of H. Waddell, Mass, N.S.W.;
was overlooked. In addition to this there were
the whole of the entry fees in the No. 3 Competi-
tion, which no contestant solved —984 entries, or
£49 4s. The total sum to be divided among the
prize-winners of No. 4 is, therefore, £166 13si
The number of these being 11; the individual
cheque due to each is £15 3s. which amount has
been duly forwarded. The “ missing word ” was
“ SENSATIONALISM.”
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—l To. 5.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office until Saturday, Augusts, 1893,
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to b#
added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin's” Missing Word
Competition Coupon —No. 5.
~dfut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to be received by Saturday, sth August,
1803.
“ Women are employed at railway
switches and crossings in Italy because
they do not get intoxicated.” This, cut
from a Sydney paper, is triumphantly
hurled at the world in general as a
fact. But it’s a lie. Women are so em-
ployed in Italy because they are cheaper
than men. Why are men employed at
Australian railway switches, pray? Because
the lines have not yet been collared by Bat
Man, and it isn’t policy for the State to
employ Chinamen or females.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
ivill be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
jN\ B.—Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been So thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEREL AND LECHLEITEK, CARL ECKB,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.’*
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular
Answers to Correspondents .
No notice ivill be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“FIy”(M.L.): (1) “What did it all mean?”
you ask. Well, it doesn’t look as if it meant an> thing of
importance. (2) Use them, by all means “ Allan Moss”
(Hobart): Well written, but the man who goes to sleep
for a hundred years and then starts “looking back-
wards” hasn't one gleam of originality left in him....
“Henry M.” (Tas.): You say, “ Consider my arguments.”
Well, you haven’t any arguments-only shrieks....
“ Ajax ” (Ballarat) : A dreary, tangled waste of seduction,
and forged bills, and shoddy anomalies generally ...
“ The Jackeroo ” : Verse calculated to create a riot ...
“ J.R.”: You say, re the Camperdown-Victoria collision,
that Tub Bulletin is wrong, because “ the duty of obe-
dience only applies to ‘ lawful,’ that is ‘ reasonable ’ com-
mands.” It does nothing of the kind. Discipline demands
that every man shall obey, or do his best to obey, all
“lawful” commands, and it says nothing ht all about
their being reasonable. Markham had either to sink the
Victoria or be court-martialled—probably ruined. He
couldn’t even prove for certain that the command wasn’t
reasonable except by sinking the Victoria... “ R.C.G.”
(North Sydney): The biography of a horse is just about as
interesting as are the opinions of a new laid egg ...
“Felix Charity”: Your yarn would fill ten Bulletin
columns. You might as well send us 40 tons of Assyrian
inscriptions dragged along by a traction engine. ..
“A. Bullock”: Disordered drivel “H. J. Mao.”:
That old “hand in the pocket ” ending spoils the story.
However, as the start is most promising we must invent a
lie that will match....“ Molo ” : “Has accepted” is an
odious conventional hypocrisy which really means “ has
grabbed” “A. Mackenzie”: Send it to Sydney E.
News—which, in its blood-frenzy, printed a statement
that Pert was kicked until his bowels protruded
“ Jacalba ” : Absolutely horrible ; but we let you 0ff....
“E. V. Cras ” (Vic.); Only one redeeming point in your
verse. You manage to make “Snazelle” rhyme with
“hell” “ L.L.8.” (Cooma, N.S.W.): If you write us
in parables, please send accompanying explanation ...
“ Northerner” (N.S.W.): You want a series of miracles.
If we all grew wings we might be angels “ L.H.T.”
(Brisbane); The Bulletin thinks your “ law ” (teste Lon-
don Labouchere) bad ... “ Waihoa ” : Arise and shriek
“ Casablanca ; ” it recalls youth and birohiugs, but doesn’t
help Tryon out. Mcc'.c sentiment is eveiQ“mock”
“Tasman”: “0.L.A.” sends address to you—“Ponto
Point, Kaipara Heads, Auckland, M.L. ; ” this, for
another couple of weeks....“ D.8.H.” : Good album
verse which ought to enable you to become poet laureate
to a tobacconist “Alpine ” ; It sounds commonplace...
“Mariner” (Bundaberg): Very welcome “C.S.S.”:
See “ Wild Oat” column.... “ Merv.” : Mr. M'Cooey, we
understand, from his name, is a myall Ilielander or an
aboriginal Scotchman “Juinnie” (Hay): Don’t re-
member having seen them.. . “ S.H.” (W.A.) : Dirty and
malicious “C. J r”: “Marriage” too heavy
“ Marco;”: The man who can write an interesting story
containing neither a murder nor a woman has not yet
been born “ A.0.D.” : You’ll find it in “A Golden
Shanty.”.. J.C.W.” (Con.) : Unprintable. ..“ 0.A.8.”:
Thanks “Henry G.G.” : “Sensationalism” mayn’t
be in the dictionary, but it is quite a “live” word.
(2) The Bulletin doesn’t affect pedantic English in its
colloquial columns. (3) When the printer leaves out an
“r,”for Heaven’s sake don’t write ua a letter about it.
Life is short. [Many replies held over.]
Flesh, and Blood.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
LitTle Bourke-street, Melbourne, Sunday after-
noon. At the rear of the Theatre Royal, a band
of amateur evangelists is singing a popular
hymn, to the accompaniment of an injured cornet
and an energetic but uncertain clarionet. A
short, puffed-up man with a loose, heavy mouth,
reads the next verse in a voice that is rather a
clever imitation of the mellifluous intonation of
the society parson. He holds the hyirin-book far
from him, and sways to and fro off his toe on to
his heel as he reads. The vulgar pride of the
ignorant bourgeois who aspires to be a preacher is
visible in his moist, fat face,
A miscellaneous crowd lingers listlessly around,
a few frowsy, sleepy-looking Chinamen, and a
number of countryfied men “doing’’Littleßourke-
street —despite its present comparative respect-
ability still one of the lions of the city to the
back-blocks man. There are several females lean-
ing against a shop-front, watching the proceedings;
one of them, a girl of 20, sharp-featured, thin-
lipped, with muddy eyes and short, rusty-black
hair, is smoking a cigarette in that ridiculously
ostentatious manner always assumed by the
woman who smokes in public.
Presently the hymn is finished, and a young
man takes his stand on the kerb. The antithesis
of the ponderous leader, he is tall and thin and
very sallow. He begins to speak, driving home
each sentence with the nervous hand in which he
holds a bible. He soon warms to his work; his
language is fervid and continuous. He talks of
the Divine Wrath, Judgment, Hell—all the
horrors of conventional religion, and his cheeks
begin to burn and his eyes to gleam. He is like a
man mad with conviction. As he talks he strikes
out with his right hand at the girl on the pave-
ment opposite, and looks only at her. The people
gather in closer and glance from the speaker to
the girl, and from the girl to the speaker. Interest
quickens.
The young woman laughs derisively and blows
the smoke towards the evangelist, or exchanges
oaths with a red-faced slattern behind.
“ Accept Christ or perish eternally !” cries the
preacher. Genuine tears stream down his face,
his outstretched hand trembles like a leaf in the
wind. There is the enthusiasm of the zealot in
his voice.
The girl jeers at him. Then placing her arm
About the neck of a grinning Chinaman at her
Bide, she kisses the brute’s hideous cheek.
The act was one of defiance, and it succeeds.
The young man's voice is stopped with sobs, he
breaks down, and cries like a woman, on the
shoulder of one of his friends.
“The comes here t’ convert me,’’squeals
the girl, triumphantly. “He’s my bloody brother!”
E.D.
Kit Marlowe.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Because, three hundred years ago to-day,
A spirit that dull custom could not tame —
A soul of fire that had* no part in shame,
Nor recked what babbling tongues of men might
say,
But trod its wild and self-elected way
I earless, and left the rest to love and fame—
Sprang from unworthy earth like leaping flame>
But left a name that envy cannot slay ;
Therefore we meet, strange mixture of divine
And human, to do honour to thy shade ;
Prince of Bohemia, bard whose lips have made
Our English verse like draughts of fiery wine;
Our godlike brother, thou whose words have been
I ierce joy to us, be with us, though unseen.
Ist June, ’93.
J. LE GAY BRERETON.
Sonnet.
CHRISTOPHER MARLOWE.
With Eastern banners rustling in the breeze,
Royal processions, sounding fife and gong
And showering jewels to the jostling throng,
March to the tramp of Marlowe’s harmonies.
He drained life’s brimming goblet to the lees.
He recked not that a compeer calm and strong
Would tune great notes to his impassioned song,
And top his cannonading lines with ease.
To the wild clash of cymbals we behold
In crimson hues the ending of his life !
The revelry of kisses bought with gold ;
The just and wrathful rival, and the strife;
A harlot weeping o’er a corse scarce cold ;
A scullion fleeing with a bloody knife.
Brisbane.
ARTHUR A. D. BAYLDON.
A correspondent : The building of that
big life-assurance office, in Melbourne, by contract
work has resulted in the death of seven men,
whereas the Melb. Cathedral was built by day-
work without a fatality.
c, /"f-
- DcjiiaU
HE (sol) : “Now, let’s see of what shall I deny myself? Ah, I have it! The wife can do
without that new bonnet.”
It is regarded as certain that Princ 6
Alfred of Edinburgh will eventually marry th e
young Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands —th e
richest heiress in Europe.
The R.C. Church in Australasia has six
bearded bishops—Drs. O’Reilly, Port Augusta ;
Corbett, Sale; Salvado, Westralia; Torregiani,
Annidale ; Redwood, Wellington ; Luck, Auck-
land.
The Earl of Longford recently assaulted
an Irish reporter who wore his hat whilst a band
was playing “God Save the Queen.” That’s the
beauty of “loyalty”—it is so broad-minded and
tolerant of other religions. Now the reporter,
being a miserable bigot, never thought to wallop
the noble earl in the first instance.
The cable stating that Lord Iveagh (Edward
Guinness, brewer) has given £GOOO to the anti-
Home Rule fund, recalls that it was his grand-
father’s opposition to O’Connell which made the
firm. O'Connell advised “ the boys ”to drink no
more Guinness, which advice they took. Then
the Guinnesses began to brew for exportation and
made a vast fortune.
“The Shadow of Desire,” a just-published
novel by Irene Osgood, is described as an “oscula-
tory ” novel. As thus :
Of late she had felt the subtle animal magnetism of this
man, and had resented it; but somehow, when they had
been waltzing that night, the warmth of his breath on her
hair, the spell of the music, and the mood of the moment
had intoxicated her. When they glided to a corner of
the room, where sheltering palms clustered thick, she
sank in his arms breathless and panting. He crushed her
to him, and, stooping, kissed her fall on the month. . .
She noticed, as she had never done before, his voluptuous,
heavy red mouth, with its sensuous curves. She hated
and desired at the same time. The blood crept up to her
slender throat, and spread in a rosy glow over her defiant,
frightened face. Will Uunstan caught his breath fiercely,
trying to control himself. “Ah, Ruth, what have you
done to me?” he whispered ; “1 am mad, for I love you,
love you ! . . . You know that you have led me on.
Ah, God! how sweet you are !”
Before she could cry out or make any resistance he had
caught her in his arms again, and, with one hand on her
throat, held her head back. She closed her eyes, almost
fainting, for he was kissing her again. His thick, sensuous
lips were pressed hard against her delicate ones. He was
kissing her eves, her hair, her bare, pink arms; he was
kissing her feet where the flesh shone fair through the
open work of the silk stockings. She had never dreamed
of such kisses before, and she gave back kisses hot and
fast, until her heart a'most ceased to beat, and she lay,
like a dead thing, overwhelmed by this new and strange
sensation.
Yum-yum !
Wanted, an Australian Geary.
Dear Bulletin, —America is highly excited over
the affirmation of the, constitutionality of the
Geary Law by a majority of the Supreme Court
Judges. The Gemry Law was passed on May (5,
1892, and is entitled “An Act to prohibit the
coming of Chinese into the United Stales.” It
confirms and enforces previous prohibitions, and
deals with the existing Chinese population by
compelling them to register names, occupations,
and residences, in order to facilitate the detection
of new arrivals smuggled in. All Chinese not
registered by May G, 1893, are to be deported from
the States.
The American Chinese are controlled by what
are called the Six Companies, organisations osten-
sibly formed for benefit purposes, but really exist-
ing to uphold Chinese interests if in conflict with
the laws. These companies contract with Chinese
immigrants to America, who practically become
slaves for a term of years in return for the ad-
vanced passage- money. Hitherto it has been
possible to evade the prohibition laws ; the regis-
tration clause of the Geary Act makes evasion
impossible. So the Six Companies fought against
the Geary Act with might and mai l ; and, when
it was passed, they tried to nullify its effect by
ordering the Chinese not to register.
* * *
Their orders were obeyed. They took legal
opinion, aud were told that the Geary Act
exceeded the powers of Congress, in that Congress
was unable to banish the subjects of a friendly
nation, or make exceptional laws concerning them.
In a word, the Act was unconstitutional. The
friends of the Act contended that Congress was
quite competent to do as it pleased. A test case
was brought before the Supreme Court, which
decided, by five judges to three, that the Act was
constitutional. The ease was one of the most
important tried for years.
The Chinese were aghast. They had relied
implicitly on the Six Companies’ assurance that the
law could not be upheld, and not one in a hundred
had registered. Consequently they were all liable
to deportation. When the American mail left
the country was waiting for the Executive to take
action. President Cleveland is not over-anxious
to enforce the law, and is making the excuse that
there are no funds available; To send away the
100,000 Chinese in the States would cost about
.£1,000,000, and "Congress must first appropriate
the money. The event is anxiously awaited.
It is noteworthy that in the Eastern States the
opinion is generally expressed that the Geary Act
is too severe. In California, on the other hand, and
in the States where there is a considerable Chinese
population, . the Act is thoroughly approved.
When the Supreme Court decision was announced
bands played, banners waved, processions marched.
Plainly, those who wear the shoe know where it
pinches.
What America is doing, Australia will one day
have to do ; and the sooner it is done the better.
In spite of the prohibitive Acts of the various
provinces, Chinese are pouring in by thousands.
The leak is greatest in the Northern Territory of
South Australia, where already Chinese rule the
roast, and the humble white man goes from one to
the other for a job. John Smith and Mike
Callaghan are only too glad to swing a pick or
feed the stampers in the claim or the battery
owned by Wun Lung or Lee Fat. From Port
Darwin, as the telegraph line-repairers know, the
plague is fast spreading. White coolie politicians
wink with sympathy at the yellow coolie labourer.
Where is the Australian Geary?—A.G.S., San
Francisco.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors —The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT.
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECB, F.1.A., F.P.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling- Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Office: 07 HITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
18-A-lSns: HAKTDICAP* - Warwick Farm, August 1, 1893.
5,000 at 10 5,000
Roaelxill Au.Ku.st XXa,zidicap Kostlilll, August IfJ.
5,000 I3T at 10 5,000
rREGISTER TO
CIEOKGIi ADAMS
, Owner Tattersall’s Hotel St
Old Club Premises, Pitt-at.
v Sydney, N.SVVV.
ADAMS’
| TATTERSALL’S HOTEL |
PITT STREET. SYDNEY.
pnHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
J- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
eomoleted, arrangements can be effected for accotumoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fitting*, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hdte DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now*the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
5. EACH.
[<yj
5. EACH-
f
df
d
ON THE
BAKTK EIA3>!n3ICA.r»,
Warwick Farm, August 1. (For Horses Only.)
At 5 Each 4000 n iAi5 Each
fd
Third .. 100
S. and N.S. d. equally 400
Less 10 per cent.
Important Notice. Subscribers can address
Letters either
“ «AI;A,” \
C/o. H. Alexander, J
67 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY,
Or, Box 171, G.P.0., BRISBANE.
ADAM BEDE’S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CAUTION.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY
Address
1
ildLam Bede,
is Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M. &J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gtunsler’s)
S Y D U E T.
S3T Commissions Executed on following ©vents :
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5,
V R 0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
W
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
THREE CHANGES.
1
171011I 71011 the person who is not a millionaire, there are
- ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated (>;i x
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “ POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELLIS.
gin GEORGE DIBBS’
TESTIMONIAL FUND.
SUBSCRIPTIONS to the above will be received
by the COMMITTEE : Hons. W. J. Trickett, A.
J. Riley, John Toohey, J. Watson, Ms.L.C., F.
A. Wright, J. Hayes, James P. Garvan, Ms.L. A.,
Messrs. A. W. Meeks, T, Littlejohn, J. Houri-
gan, J. M'Elhone, M. C. Cowlishaw, F. B. Lark,
John Woods, W.Henderson, Captain Broom-
field, 0. 0. Beale, J. Burns, L. Lloyd, P. Mac-
Mahon, R. Binnie, John Meeks, R. Pendergast,
Alfred Hancock; and at the TOWN HALL
DAILY.
W. P. MANNING
R. J. BLACK
F. A. WRIGHT
A. J. RILEY
Hony. Treasurers.
Hony. Secretaries.
£49,420 worth for £l.
THE CHANCE OE A LIFETIME.
THE EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
105,000 SHARES AT £l.
Anyone Can Apply ! !
No Liability ! ! !
2403 PRIZES valued at =£105,000.
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
First Prize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, value .£30,000. Rental value,
.£l5OO a year, and other prop; rties valued as
under ;
2 of .£10,000; 1 of .£5OOO ; 4 of .£2500 ; 5 of
.£lOOO, and 2390 of from =£s to 45500.
Clear Titles ! ! No Deductions ! ! !
See particulars in advertisements in other issues
of this paper, or apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or CORBIE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Remember ONE SHARE (j£l) may win 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, valued at .£49,460.
ses Maiglbckw
USTW 10»S S
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the mostfasfoionable in +be world.
Sold by all Ijigl) class'ferfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
PIERCES
\
z
RUPTURE CURED!
Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag*
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture in all parts of the
world and givingrelief to thousands
af sufferers. This entire newspaper
could befllled with letters likethese:
A Resident of London.
Mr. John Kino, of No. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden sEstate, S.E.,
says;—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Truss I
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
haw worn your Truss. It fits so easy
that I don’t notice that I have gota
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses.l can j ump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
ofitsretnrn;itholds everything firm andsure.
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mr. J. Tomaseeri, of the Government House,under date
of December 9,1892, writes“On the 17th of last April I got
one of your trusses and it has already nearly cured me of a
very bad rupture of about 26 years’ standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your Truss has
done what doctors and trusses have not bgen able to do in
l ?You may publish my letter for the good of the
Latest from New Zealand.
Mb. T. W. Nahbet, of Akaroa, Canterbury ,m aletter dated
Feb. 21,1893, say s: “I received the Truss in good order and am
gl&Atosswitfitsmeli/ieag’iove. I can ride with ease, lift,in teot,
do anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while I can get one of yours.”
nCF'Oall or write to-day forourfree'Tllust.PamphletNo.
1,” and please mention this taper. Address the Australian
agents. Messrs. W.H. Soul* C0.,158 Pitt St., Sydney; Elliott
Bros., Brisbane ; or, the Magnetic Elastic Trues Co.,
•To. 704 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Oar.. U. S. A
j/eve*
fd
ft Pleasure t ° hs £
KROPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
RAZOR
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“I find your
Razors excel-
lent
From all Dealers,
Or direct from the
BMUsh Depot, 61,
Frith Street, Soho
1 Square, London, W.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
m
SHARPS
o f
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
Amusements.
Theatre royal.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“JESS.” “JESS.” “JESS.”
In Active Preparation—MARMONDELLE, THE POUR,
In which Mr. Thos. Walker, M.P., will appear.
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 25.; Stalls, IsC
Family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Mr.. Geo. Rignold & Miss Kate Bishop
In the Powerful Sensational Drama,
THE CRIMES OF PARIS
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove
LAST 2 NIGHTS! LAST 2 NIGHTS!
of
“LIBERTY HA.LL.’
Saturday, July 22—Mr. TERRY’S FAREWELL.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
miVOLI THEATRE
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OI
| Mr. HAIt KY It I€KA It D S |
And his Neiv Tivoli Minstrels and/Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Dr< ss Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s.
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists
_ Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
£« RIT E R lON THE AT RE
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS OF
“THE -A. 3VE uA. ZOKTS.”
A Farcical Romance in 3 acts, by
A. W. PINERO.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, W. H. Wallace.
£* E N T E N ARY H A LL
J. CHARLES HARRISON, M.D.,
Tub Famous Traveller and Specialist,
Graduate of two Leading Universities of the United
States, will
LECTURE TO MEN ONLY
as follows:
THURSDAY NIGHT, JULY 27, at 8 O'clock,
Admission, FREE.
MONDAY NIGHT, JULY 31, at 8 O’clock.
Admission, Is.
“The liver, ribs, tibia, and things interspersed with
beautiful views, and many well-told stories, made up a
delightful evening.”— Detroit Free Press,
Both Lectures Illustrated with Magnificent
Stereopticon Views in Colours, covering 100 C
square feet of canvas ; 200 views at each
Lecture. Positively the Most Beautiful Views in
the World.
V|IHE LYCEUM THEATRE
Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove, Lessees & Managers
H|r6. J|ong6hore l|ott6, |||,||
Graduate of the Women’s Medical College of
Philadelphia, will Lecture on
XXealtlx & Disease,
TO WOMEN ONLY,
as follows:
TUESDAY, JULY 25, 26, 27, 28, and 29
At 2.3 Q p.m.
First Lecture, FREE.
Reserved Seats at Box-office of Theatre aftei
July 20, without charge.
Illustrated with Coloured Stereopticon Views,
including many of Art and Scenery. 200 Views
each Lecture.
QENTE N A R Y HA L L
Mrs. Longshore Potts, M.D.
FRIDAY NIGHT, JULY 28, at 8 O’Clock.
Famous Lecture on
Hearts and Homes, or Is Marriage a Failure ?
TO BOTH SEXES.
Moral, instructive, and very amusing.—London Truiu.
PRICES—2s. and ONE SHILLING.
Now Ready, Third Edition:
Post Free, Is. 6d.
mHE LIFE, ADVENTURES and CON-
FESS lONS of a SYDNEY BARMAID ;
being a truthful account of Private and Public
Bars, the Inner Life of Cafes, and the Manners,
Habits, Customs, Aspirations, and Morals oi
Barmaids generally, with a glance at the patrons
of Private liars. Highly interesting. To be had
only of Mdnie, P ANZ A, Box 913 G.P.0., Sydney,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Handsome Scotton, the Nottingham cricketer,
cut his throat to escape the female entanglements into
which his “ fatal beauty " had led him. A while back, ic
may be remembered, this masher pro. was summoned on
a maintenance charge, and now the cable mentions
“ family troubles” as accountable for his “ disturbance of
mind.” Probably his wife and the other girls drove him
mad amongst them, which really means that he hadn’t
sufficient money to support him in the gay Lothario line
of character. Poor fellow ! Scotton saved All England
from a defeat in 1884, at Lords. The Australians, going
in first and having Peate, the slow bowler, as their chief
adversary on a very hard wicket, did as they liked. They
made some 500 runs in the innings. The Englishmen put
in Scotton with Grace, and the left-handed stonewaller
made his “century ** in the best Bannerman style—the
English score being more than 300 in all. Thanks to his
slow play it was late in the afternoon of the third day
before the “ follow on ” commenced, and the match ended
in a draw.
• • •
There are more lacrosse clubs than senior foot-
ball clubs in Adelaide. Lacrosse is the genteel athletic
clerks’ game ; football supports the—others.
* # *
Curtis Reid, the cricket enthusiast, put in some
time on Melb. World, and once went to report a cricket-
match. The Herald sent a sont of Yankee, ignorant of
crictet, who wanted to know if the bowler was a pitcher.
Curtis vyrote a proper, dry, technical report, but the
Yank embodied in his all the enthusiastic exclamations
that Curtis kept firing off. The result was a really
splendid report, knocking Curtis’s out of time.
# * *
The early scratching of Fernando for the Mel-
bourne Cup has robbed the poor bookies of a nice little
bone. Fernando had his little following of believers.
* # *
The uncertain quality of the Yorkshiremen’s
bowling was shown in their second match against the
Australians, when the latter made 470 runs for an innings.
Peel had the respectable average of 7 wickets for 11(3,
and the other three wickets cost 354 runs. AsforVVain-
wrigbt, a destructive bowler in the first match, he got
nobody out for 108.
# # *
Malvolio can be purchased to-day for .£3OOO.
Eighteen months ago the Redfearns wouldn’t have parted
with their pet horse at £15,000, he was going to do such
wonderful things. Meanwhile, Malvolio has started only
three or four times, never getting near the front on any
occasion, and his value as a racehorse grows beautifully
less whilst he munches the corn of idleness. Donald
Wallace seems to be about the only man on the Australian
turf who realises the folly of keeping a good animal in
the stable when there are valuable prizes to be won by
the simple policy of running him out for them as often as
possible.
# # #
John Roberts was “bested ” but not disgraced
in Ills billiard match with Ives. The Yankee stipulated,
in the first place, for pockets slightly smaller and balls
slightly larger than the regulation measurements.
Roberts conceded this along with the “push” stroke, and
yet seemed to have Ives at his mercy until that smart
young man played his trump trick. Under the altered
conditions it was a comparatively easy matter for him to
get the balls jammed in a pocket by working one of the
“systems” of the American game. Then he had Roberts
at fits mercy. From his first “jam” Ives scored a break
of 2540, and might, had he chosen, have made the odd
1000 required to win the match. However, being 1500
points ahead, and much groaned at, he smashed up the
balls and presently let Roberts in again. As there was a
chance of Roberts' profiting by experience, the American
didn’t “play the game” for long. He jammed the balls
in another pocket and went right out with another
monotonous break of 852. The Britisher wasn’t exactly
swindled, but he was bested. At the game he is champion
of, Roberts could apparently give Ives about 2000 in 6000
—the “ jam ” stroke being barred. When Taylor, some
years ago, made an immense break by getting the balls
fixed in the jaws of a pocket it wasn’t reckoned as a
billiard performance at all.
* * *
Murray, M.L.A (Warrnambool) again intro-
duces the Totalisator Bill (the Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill
of Australia) into Vic. Assembly.
** * * *
Corbett and Jackson fight for £2OOO in November
next. £lOOO has already been planked on either side.
Jackson at latest scaled 15£sb.
# # •
A Sydney bookmaker, the other day, lost a
pocketbook containg £270 in notes, between Rockdale
and Arncliffe. A railway fettler found it and handed it to
a station-master. When the “bookie” got it back, he
said: “ What a (vermilion) goat he was not to keep it.
Give him a reward ? No blooming fear. The (thisan-
that) doesn’t know his own (scarlet) luck ! ”
# . * *
The Sydney horse, Albert, just missed winning
the G. N”. Steeplechase, run at Melbourne on Saturday.
Trojan and Albert took command until the last fence,
which Albert struck very heavily, Nolan keeping his seat
by the skin of his teeth. The rap, however, knocked
Albert out of it, leaving Trojan to finish an easy winner.
Tyro broke down, Sir Wilfred put his stifle out, and Quilp
broke his neck during the running.
# * *
Stanbury broke one of his fingers in ’Frisco.
Ned Trickett never did any good after he had the joint of
a finger jammed off by a cask. It is to be hoped history
does not repeat itself.
• * #
The deciding match between Maoriland and
N.S. Wales footballers is fixed for the 29th instant on the
Sydney Association Cricket Ground. If fine, the show
will probably draw thirty thousand people.
• • •
At Grafton, last week, Tridentine won the City
Handicap, carrying list. It would take a pot of money
to buy the beautiful mare from her present owner, but
Sam Hordern ought to have her for his stud, at any price.
* * *
In face of the palpable “ stiff ” running at the
pony meetings, a recent disqualification comes lather as a
joke. If the Kensington people really mean business,
they should strike at the fountainhead, and deal with the
person or persons who “ stiffened ” pony and rider.
At an aquatic carnival at Texas, Stanbury
rowed third to Gaudaur and Petersen. Stanbury could
not have been in form, for whatever Gaudaur might do
with him, Petersen could not make him row fast enough
to raise a peispiration.
# * #
The writer was once told, by an eye-witness,
that whilst two pugs, of the Hough-Chalker period were
fighting-, their respective sisters, who were onlookers, had
a “barney,” which ended in the pair having a fair ding-
dong fight on the outskirts of the ring. Sing hey ! for
the “ good old days.”
* # #
The English press is very rough on Slavin over
his showing with Hall. Slavin may have been drugged,
but it is just as likely that the left hook Hall got in at
the start was the only drug administered. That there
was a show of bona fides about the affair is evidenced by
the fact that Slavin knocked off with a terrible face. He
had an immense lump over his right eye, his nose was
broken, and his face was generally battered out of all
recognition. A lucky “ chip ”on the right spot, although
the blow be of no great force, will make a man as drunk
as a cask of Queensland snake-juice.
* * *
Editor Bulletin, — Apropos of Murdoch play-
ing for Sussex against the Australians, I have before ipe a
speech delivered by the “champion” at Spoflorth’s
“Farewell ” in ’88: “ He (Murdoch) hoped yet to recover
sufficient foi m to get a place in the Victorian team against
S.A. But he had made up his mind that he should never
go into the field against N.S. W. In the same way he
hoped that their guest, whatever his success might be in
England, would never be found opposing an Australian
Eleven.” Times change quickly. What do we find now
but Murdoch playing against an Australian Eleven him-
self? Of course Billy is “narked” with the Australians
because they wouldn’t have him, an English resident, in
the team which went “ home” as a represen I ative one of
Australia. There is wisdom in silence. No one can see
far enough ahead to say of anything—“l will never do
it.”—J.F.
# # #
Up to date, Lyons’ batting average is a point
ahead of Graham’s.
* * *
Joe Goddard, the pugilist, who returned per
Alameda, remains in Australia four months, and chal-
lenges any man for £lOOO.


Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
Opp-
s
c>
*********
[(the celebrated ch.lpren s sweet)
iv-Puy&d <r7tz&
Cq7%j(<L cJ-tc?i.eMst/s- «
Kancet. /
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAQTO-OLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
pm
J
gg
ass®ssi»Srt
S«*
S«
1
«»*,
: ■;:;•■■ ’
The Best Dressing
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
1 its rich-
ness, lux-
ur lance,
and color
to an ad-
vanced
... , period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
supplied by nature, in youth and health, as
modern chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Or. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
SUP” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
Ann
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Ib. and 2a. 6d.
M. BEETHAM&SON, Chemists,
Chelten hanv, Eng land.
Another new Melb. paper. No. 1, vol. T.
Carefully note the vol. I,
f
B
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the LABOUR
yon can produce more polish with TWO Packets
of the “RISING StTN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
df
B
miU
R'S^
umm
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Solo Agents for Xew South Wales and Victoria •
T. H. MATE &. Co,, Lei*,
AUmry, Sydney, and MriEiaurnp.
NESTLES FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all tlie elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM. —Yol. YIT.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm, O.
Leube.
•On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—YoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I,recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal} experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SGROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended hy the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
d
Beuter’S Little Pius
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate but by their general action please all whc
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
"on. The smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a phial.
IJIOM WILLIAMS, late of South Melbourne, last
"*■ heard of working on Corella Station (via Bourke),
N.S.W., or anyone knowing his whereabouts, please com
municate with HARRY WILLIAMS, c/o Cackett, Hair,
dresser, Clifton Hill, Melbourne, Victoria.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, July 18,1303.
VENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Goviciinmknt Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 2G.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
Construction of Wharf, Sheds, and Approach at
Wagonga Wharf, at Naroorna
Bridges Nos. 1 and 2, Baker’s Creek, road Armi-
dale to Hillgrove
Bridge, Bega River, at Tarraganda, Completion
of ; fresh tenders
Repairs, &c;, Royal Mint, Sydney
Lining Stronghold, Royal Mint, Sydney
Iron Grills to Windows, Public Works Offices
Construction of Service Reservoir, Moss Yale,
fresh tenders
Construction of Station Buildings, &c., Railway,
Cootamundra toTemora ; Ist section, Baloura,
Yeo Yeo, StOckiubingal, Gundibindyal, and
Combanning ; 2nd section, Temora. Tenders
will be received for each section separately, or
the two combined
Painting (labour only), Public Works Office,
Sydney.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9.
Construction of Timber Beam Footbridge or Sus-
pension Footbridge over Moonan Brook, at
Denison Diggings, alternative tenders to be
submitted
Bridge, Chambigne Creek, road Grafton to Glen
lanes
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23.
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King-
street to Ocean-street ’I ramway
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with Iron
Piers, over the Murrmnhidgee River at Wagga
Wagga. Plans, &c., to be scon after 24tb
July," 1893.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
JO URN ALTSTIC. Experienced Journal ist
editor, sub., or reporter, desires engagement.
AddressScaiiiK,” Bullkhx office.
Gladstone is said to favour a Prose
Laureateship with Rtiskin as the first holder.
The cargo of the State-subsidised Van-
couver-line steamers grows rapidly : this time the
Mi nvera carries away Toby Barton.
An amusing manifesto is that issued (as
per cable) by the amorous Mr. JLXeasy, M.P., con-
victed of assaulting a girl in a Pimlico (London
version of Woolloomooloo) lodging-house. He
lias resigned Ins seat, and “ expresses regret at his
painful severance from politics at the moment
when success is crowning the efforts of the Irish
party.” Yerrah!
At Poverty Point.
Editor Bulletin,— There is, or was, a “singing chamber-
maid ” at Brisbane Opera Houso Hotel with a wonderful
contralto voice and a fine presence. Offers and induce-
ments to take to the stage have been made to her and
consistently refused. Besides having a voice worth train-
ing, she has a wonderful ear and memory, and would be a
catch to any enterprising manager.— Wai R.
Frozen out at London Royalty, the Gharringtons have
taken Terry’s theatre, but biz. seems bad as ever—even
with a quintuple bill, including a laughless farce by Lady
Colin Campbell and a traveslie of Becky Sharp, by J. M.
Barrie. Where does the money come from? So'me people
think that Lady Colin and her friends have a hand in the
deal.
After all (writes The Bulletin’s Lord in correspondent)
Penley may not take his great success, “Charloi’s Aunt,”
to Australia. This merry piece of fooling has not yet run
its course in England, for the provinces have yet to be
exploited. If you see it, it may be with Thornton in the
title-role. Frank is dying to appear in petticoats, and
has offered Penley a big sum for the Australian rights.
Apropos this farce-comedy, all (he profits don’t go to
Penley. _A lucky friend of his in the city undertook to
finance him when he set up in management, and this man
now draws his £3OO or £4OO every week like clock-work.
There is universal sympathy for Alfred Dampier in his
insolvency, even among his creditors. He took Melb.
Alexandra when it looked hopeless, and pulled it out of
the mire, conducting a prosperous business for long.
Perhaps the old managerial family trouble accounts for
much. The successful manager is a Williamson, fettered
with no ties, able to change his front from a “..Vicar of
Bray” to an “ Esmeralda,” and from that to,“A Million of
Money.” ‘ ~
l>r. iseild’s daughter, Carrie Bilton, has falsified the
doctor's prediction that she would soon exhaust her ambi-
tion to become an actress. Miss Carrie has stuck to it fir
some years, and is now a passable exponent of street-arab
character. The difference between Jennie Lee and Carrie
Bilton is decidedly vast, however—save in the fact that
they are both accustomed to trousers on the stage.
Oracle Warner is said to have mightily improved in her
since she left Australia. But Oracle’s voice was
the thing that most needed strengthening.
A youthful dramatic author, named Mandelstan, is said
fo have come all the way from Westralia to produce his
‘ittle piece in a large city. He succeeded in trotting it out
the other night at Richmond (Melb.) Town Hall, but his
efforts to lure the critics down to a suburban hall were
unavailing, and the “notices” his heart hungered for
didn’t come off.
“Leah,” at Melbourne Bijou, became chiefly interest-
ing, last week, as a question of when the curtain would
ascend. One night it made no movement until 8.40, by
which time the score or two of people who had paid for
their seats began to raise a feeble tumult. The orchestra,
as usual, was at the bottom of it all.
The Melbourne University boys soon “ spotted ” Nancy
Gallagher, as a maid of honour, or something, in the one-
night play at the Hale Ck. They had made the acquaint-
ance of Nan at the family pub., seemingty, and it was a
common remark that cubs of such tender years had no
business to know' anything about such matters.
Mrs. Patrick Campbell, the distinguished actress, is one
of our old-time Australian Howson family.
“ Only one actor was ever hanged,” writes an overbold
somebody. Wilkes Booth wasn’t.
A black spider appeared on the wall while an inter-
viewer talked with Terriss in his dressing-room. “ Luck !”
says Terriss. “ Nonsense!” says the interviewer. Next
day came the order for “ Becket ” to be acted at Windsor^
Williamson and Rracy both predict a big operatic
future for May Pollard, who has immensely improved
latterly'. Besides, May fetches ’em in tights.
Miss Ethel Haydon(a daughter of theV.A.T.C. sec,,by the
w'ay), who starred in the recent amateur opera, makes her
dehut on the professional boards with B. and B. in “My
Little Girl.”
The Sunday-concert-colleotion game is being played in
Adelaide—apparently with much financial success. Jude,
the organist, crowds the Town Hall, and another show’inan
fills Hudson’s Bijou each Sunday evening.%.
Extract from a lady’s letter from London to Sydney
about the great Eleanora Duse“ Another artistic treat
was the Duse yesterday in ‘La Dame aux Camelias.’ My
heart felt choked up all the while, and to-day I’ve been
most unhappy. One can’t compare her to any other
actress, ariy more than you could compare a live pretty
face to a Sargent. One picture can be compared to
another, but not to nature ; and so it is with Duse. She
isn’t pretty, to my mind, as I expected her to he on the
stage, and her voice has a slight Venetian twang. Her
lovely dresses aren’t carried tl la Sarah. No show, no
sudden poses, but you feel for her as if you knew her.
She hadn’t even whitened her hands enough in the death
scene. Her face may have had a little—though very
little, for her colour comes and goes in a most wonderful
way. She had hundreds of fascinating hits of acting, all
so original and natural. Ellen Terry, Blunt (Althur
Cecil), Miss Robins, and heaps of other actors and actresses
were there to give her a welcome. Off the stage she
seems too short, simple, and without enough style abotft
her to be a great actress. The first time I saw her in Venice
she was tidying up her boxes, and I book her for some
meek little dressmaker as she stooped down to pick up
Gino, the landlady’s grubby little girl The
English audience is too uneducated, and that gem of a
play, ‘Cavalleria Rusticana,’ they don’t take in at all.
They are so used to the conventional, well-fed operatic
peasant, or when they do come down, the real article has
passed him by at thirty miles an hour. At the back of
me they discussed ‘ who was the star,’ and ‘ if that’s her
she makes no show.’ When the play was over, one of
the party remarked ‘How sad and terrible,’ arid thej
others chimed in, too. Duse had made them feel without
making any show. The male actors are perfect in their
way, only lapse into Italian gestures from time to time,
such as kissing one another or crying. This starts part
orthe British audience giggling. After the ‘Cavalleria/
Duse acted a comedy of ‘Goldoni’—a regular Italian
innkeeperess, spooning all her male lodgers. Wish I ha'd j
been a man ! She’s got such a strange face, that can look
quite fascinating and pretty When she chooses, only she
doesn’t always choose. The men acted perfectly, too, in
this. They are all good when.they are let loose at Italian
and everyday life. They stiffen and freeze when turned
into nobility.”
When Harry Lyons, now of Fitzgeralds’ Circus, first
took Blondiu to San Francisco, he found all the shop win-
dows filled with lithographs of George Washington, it
being February 4, the fete of the Father of his Country.
Lyons wauled to put Bloudin’s lithograph in the windows
and waited on the bill-poster. The latter was a hit of a ;
humourist and started to “take Harry down.” “ Who’s
picture' is it?” he asked. “Blondin’s,” said Harry.
“Who’s Blondiu?” said the man. “ Why, don’t you
know,” said Harry, “(he man who walked over Niagara
on a rope? The greatest tight-rope walker in the world.”
“ Never heard of him,” said/,he man. “ But,” he added,
“anyhow I can’t get room for the pictures hecause-the
windows are full of portraits of George Washington.”
“ Who’s lie?” said Harry Lyons wit h a grave face, “Don’t
you know ?” said the man. “No!” said Harry—“what ;
is he? Is he a rope-walker? We’ll hack Blondin ” j
“ No,” said the man, “lie ain’t a rope-walker. He was i
the father of his country—first in war, first in peace, first
in the hearts of his countrymen.” “ Oh,” said Lyons,
“ / never heard of him.” He got his pictures in the
windows there and then.
William Hayes, circus proprietor, now in Maoriland,
was engaged with his partfier, Banhamo (the clown), for
an Australian tour by Burton. Thinking Australia like
England and full of large towns at short distances, they
were furious when dragged away into the hush with a
waggon show. They broke their contract, a law suit en-
sued, and in the evidence it was shown that Hayes’limit
of endurance was reached one evening when the show was
belated on the road, and Burton gave him the order to
“ jump down off his waggon and go ahead and look for
the town with bottle-lights. ”
Where are the she playwrights and composers?
When is the second Mrs. Tanqueray to visit Australia?
A tremendous part for somebody ; but perhaps too rough
for Mrs. Brough.
At Hobart Theatre Royal, Maggie Moore and Co. in
“Struck Oil.”
Dear Bulletin',— There may not he in Australia a
theatre standing in which G. V. Brooke performed, but in
Tasmania, where it takes old things a long time to die,
there exists one, the Hobart Theatre Royal, in which the
ill- I ' tarred tragedian played two seasons—one, I think, in
’56 and another in ’5B. Ido not know if the building in
which he appeared in Launceston is still used as a theatre.
—Scotia.
“Loveable young lady wishes to be
adopted by an elderly gentleman.,’—Melb. advt.
A back-blocks paper says that things “ out
West ” are very bad for the emus, as starving'
swagsmen have eaten all the quandongs.
Melbourne Evening Standard is eternally
bragging about its size. We knew a man with
hydrocephalus, who was quite proud because he
took fifteens in hats.
The charge to become a British duke is
£350 ; a marquis, .£300; an earl, £250 ; a
viscount, £200; a baron, £150; a baronet, £100;
and any* other “ honour,” £3O.
Fifty convicted IS. SAY. prisoners were,
more or less surreptitiously, released, prior to the
expiration of their sentences, during the last nine
mouths of ’92. Which further accentuates The
Bulletin's oft-repeated contention that a man’s
approaching premature release from prison should
be notified, with the reason therefor, as publicly
as his arrest or the fact that he had 'been com-
mitted for trial.
One of the wealthiest and straightest men
in the West was sent out over half a century ago
for stealing a copper kettle. Although he has
been in the Legislature, the little, old-country
blemish prevents his being nominated a J.P.
Astonishing how soon wejl-known men
drop out of the memory of the living. The late
Henry Halloran, of Sydney, was the only man
with a distinct remembrance of John Oxley.
And there is but one likeness of the explorer
extant, and that is a miniature of him as a young
man, probably taken in England,
t ßeview of Reviews (Australian edition)
for May :
Jenny, a white donkey, 25 years of age, Who has been
with the Queen since she was a foal.
Treason !
Seven fatal accidents, the last costing
three lives, is indeed a baptism of blood for the
Equitable Insurance Co.’s new Melb. office. In-
competence or rotten tackle?
The funeral of one of the men killed at
the -Melb, Equitable buildings, last week, was
profoundly significant. Funerals usually go along
Swanston-stre'et, but this one, from the Morgue,
went out of the way all round to Elizabeth-street,
past the Equitable place. Which conjuncture
smote every beholder to the heart.
At the M.L. Cadman v. Rees trial. — Ex-
Republican K.O.M.G. Stout, counsel for plaintiff,
after three-quarters of an hour’s wrangle with de-
fendant over a point of law: “Well, X may be
mistaken—l am not infallible.” Defendant Rees
(gasping with astonishment): “ Wha-a-t! Not in-
fallible —Well, I never!” Collapses, overcome
with emotion.
“Jack Want,” Q.C., in speech perhaps the
most vulgar man in N.S W. Assembly, when he
finds the irresistible impulse upon him to use
slang, looks towards the Labour end as if he were
quoting what they would say, and not his own
habitual criminal-court vocabulary.
Dear Bulletin,— No one at the present
time styles Shakespeare “Mr. Shakespeare,” or
Oliver Cromwell “Mr. Oliver,” etc. Yet every-
one seems to give Walter Raleigh the “ Sir,” and
Byron is generally “Lord Byron.” (The names’’
mentioned are only instances.) As “Lord,” “Sir,”
and “Mister” are merely civil titles, why retain
two of them (as though they were prenomens) and
drop only the plainest—viz., “Mister?” Why
not bury all such titles in the graves of the
“ clays ” they were supposed to honour ?—Yours,
&c., J.E.
The number of Imperial titular distinc-
tions already bestowed in Australia has lowered
the value of the “honour,” if it ever had any
value. The Imperial authorities will have to bid
higher. Even now some of our “statesmen”
have been heard to mutter that they won’t be
tempted by anything less than a P.C. This shows
that the price must be raised.
A' writer in London Chronicle says of
the Groat Napoleon : “ His substantial power
as First Consul was as great as when he pro-
claimed himself Emperor, while his real glories
were far higher. Why then, did he not content
himself with the consular title? The answer is
plain. He succumbed to the vulgar ambition of
founding a dynasty, of allying himself with the
Austrian Royal House, of ranking his Empire
with the old European monarchies. In short, he
had the instincts of a parvenu brewer with an eye
to the House of Lords.” Or, the writer might
have added, the instincts of an average “colonial”
statesman with an eye to a K.C.M.G.-ship. One
touch of nature makes the whole world kin.
The P. & O. Himalaya’s best day’s steam-
ing is 411 miles, but the Sovereign of the Seas
sailed 475. So writes editor Reay of Melb.
Heuald. N. B.—Old salt—no cum grano.
Melb. Evening Standard narrows its
sheet, not its views, which are still broad enough
to embrace both sides of every question. The
loyal emblem on its title, said to have been 1
designed -by the wife of one of the staff, has
vanished. 4
A Hillston (N.S.W.) “cocky” writes to
vindicate the Riverina class of that settler, and
sends a statement showing that ho forwarded 60
bags of wheat to Sydney ; it topped the market at
3s. Gd. per bushel, realising £45 4s. lid. But the
deductions were—Freight, £5 14s. sd. ; receiving,
10s. Od. >-advertising, 55.; commission, £1 2s. 9d.~
£7_ 12s. Bd. ; giving him a net balance of
£37 12s. 3d. His wheat, therefore, had to stand a
strain of a fraction over 7d. per bushel ; besides
which he carted the grain himself GO miles to the
railway-station. “We want,” he says, “ a rail-
way to Hiliston ; it would run through miles of
Crown Lands—very rich, and fit for village settle-
ment.”
It is becoming clearer every clay that the
forgotten and undiscovered “Dora Dora blacks”
belong to the “ Miller’s Point push” of Sydney.
The police must be armed with cannons.


Mr. JAMES L. TURK,
Of the Commercial Gazette Office
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Describes the Suffering and Distress
of His Daughter
How these are Exchanged for Health
and Happiness by the use ol
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“ I wish to state to you what your blood-
punfying Sarsaparilla did for my daughter.
Some two years ago. she was attacked with
diphtheria. A physician was called. He helped
her a little, but not much. Finally, I called
another. She got over the soreness in her throat,
but a large swelling came outside of her throat,
hard and angry looking. We poulticied it for
three weeks, but it looked no better. She then
lost her voice, and her throat swelled inside
again. The doctor lanced the swelling, and it
discharged for two or three weeks. She then re-
gained her voice, but was paralysed in the lower
limbs. I became discouraged, dismissed the
doctor, and sent my daughter to the country.
My wife, knowing Ihe purifying qualities of your
Sarsaparilla, determined to give it a thorough
trial; and after, using two bottles, the news
came to me that my daughter had begun to im-
prove. From that time on, she continued to
gain, until she became sound and well again, and
she has enjoyed good health ever since.' I have
used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family many
years, and I know it to be the best blood-purifier
extant; ■
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell Mass., U.S.A.
Has Cured others, will cure you.
ery
Vv,
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
v°
f°Ud Street
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Sewareof imitations. The genuineis signed
The World Renowned
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS”
Velveteen
Rich and rare
new colours for
present wear.
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK.
“ T GUIS” VELVETEEN has this in its favour,
I i besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL. —Each yard of genuine “ Louis ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S', and in no other way,
and is stamped with a guarantee of wear. ,
Ladies should reject all substitutes. i
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
8 nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BO F-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co. s
98,0’ConnellSt, N.Adelaide, S.Australia
If. <l. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Widow Welch’s Pills for Female Complaints.
TVJ RS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
I'T Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
he careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receipe. The genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAI’ER, and signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smitheis, and .the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 67, St. Paul’s, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by
most chemists
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery.
NEWEST DESIGNS, at Makers’ Prices, all Government Hall marked, DIRECT from their HEAD ESTABLISHMENT, LONDON,
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
m
warns
ms
mA3 *3c Wi
•jfy \*m
j?^v
> 'Wt
Ladies’ 18-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 10,
Unapproachable in quality and price.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
SX3G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 9/6.
Ditto Silver, 2/6.
True
Lover’s
Knot
Brooch.
With Charm Bell “against fascination.”
611. G.H.M* 9-ct. Gold, £1; 15-ct., £1 15.
515.—G.H.M. 9-at. Gold Brooch, 15/6.
Ditto, Silver, 4/6.
516.—Brooch of unique desiqn,
G.HTM. 9-ct. Gold, 12/6.
G.H.M. 15-cfc. Gold Brooch, £1 5.
618.
388. Suite Studs, G.H.M.
Very Strong,
9-ct. Gold, 12/6 ; 15-ct. £ 1 5.
Silver, 3s.
226. Set Q.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
The “ Nuptial ” Brooch.
505. G.11.M. 15-cfc. *.Gold
and 2 Diamonds, £3 3.
227.—Set G.H.M. Links,
9 ct. Gold, 18/6;
15-ct., JBl 15; Silver, ss.
224.—0.11. M. 15-ct.
Oold. 12/6; Silver, 2/6.
225.—Combination Pin and
Sind, Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Gold, £2-
The New Lucky Bells. Latest London Novelty.
756.-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, £2.
755.—G.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 3 Bells, 7/6.
15-ct. Brooch
£1 15.
506.-G.H M.
Diamond Centre,
757
-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-ct. ditto £4 10.
“against
vn
Charm
Fascination.”
Bell
517.—Elagant Brooch, New Design.
O.H.M. 9-ct. Gold. 18 6 ; Silver, 5,6.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £1 10.
Ditto Silver, 10,6.
619.—0.11. M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, Set with Fine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
IC6.— Gent. ’a Albert. G.H.M. 9-ot. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 15; Silver, 15/6. 107.—Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6 ; 15-ct. £5 17 6; Silver, 13
126. —Elegant Seal to match either Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 21/-; 15-ct. Gold, £1 17 6; Silver, 4 6.
fd
fd
35.- Single Stone Dinmond
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10s
Special Value.
Ladies’ 5-st. Diamond
-ct. Gold Ring, £5 5.
32.—18-ct. Gold Ring:,
X Diamond, 2 Rubies, £2.
33. —18-ct. Gold Ring,
7 Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
£4 10.
25.—18-ot. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
*B-ct. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, out hole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
5-ct. Gold Earrings, 15/6.
50.—Nickel Silver Electro-
plate Breakfast Cruet, 10/6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
601.—G.H.M. Silver Match Box, 116.
• A size smaller, 8 6.
G.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, £2 10.
-G.H.M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, handsome
design, Diamond Centre, £3 5.
SOVEREIGN
605.—G.H.M. Silver, 9/6. Plain ditto, 8,6.
Q.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
PURSE.
521.—Elegant Bow Brooch.
G.H.M. 9-ct., 17/6; 15-ct., £1 10;
Silver, 5/-.
.
F-. r -
-mmm
VVN'I
h^sEl
fit.—Mnguifioent 0;il< and Niikil Silve-
Klectro |t.e Liquor Frame, ;i Fine (■»'
BoUKs (14 ii dies lonsr, 13 hljili), 13 10.
Delivered Free, 2,6 extra.
NOTE. —The Letters G.H.M. stand for “Government Hall Marked.” Each Article I in? so Stamped Guarantees the Quality and protects the Buyer ; at the same time our Pri< s arc iibout Half the Colonial Charges,
Add to Remittance for Post and Register ; One Article, 6d.; Two, 9d.; Three, Is.; Six, Is. (id.
We despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address—
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Manly Lagoon.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Where the long beach runs to its far north end,
And the sand ways cease at the north rock’s feet,
And the foam is fiercer, the waves more fleet,
Lies a low lagoon that the high tides blend
With their billows’ brine as they come and go ;
And the ways of its waters are smooth and slow.
Though the salt waves sweep through it night or
noon,
Yet its mother-stream from the backland
sweeps;
With a sighless swaying her water creeps
O’er the inward edge of the slow lagoon,
And her tender bosom bears life and grace
To the ways of the lake in the sea-girt place.
In the summer dusk when the moon rides fast,
Ere the sunset’s burning has faded quite,
And the seas fall eastward in liquid light,
On the sea-lake’s face such a gleam is cast
That it lies on the earth in its golden glows
Like the quivering leaf of a heavenly rose.
All the seas to the east move silver sweet
In a floating shroud by the moonbeams made,
All the westward skylands their lights have laid
On the lake that lies at the sunset’s feet;
And between the shroud and the golden lands
Is a narrowing pathway of surf-swept sands.
But in winter eves when the sun is not,
And the moon is buried in mist and cloud,
And the sea, unlit, is a moaning shroud
For the bones of the dead that the sea-waves rot ;
On the narrow shore between sea and lake
Boils an ocean of sea-foam and billow-break.
In the far sad sky not a rose is blown,
Not a fleeting gleam in the grey-bound west,
Not a mirrored glow on the lakelet’s breast,
And no light where the waves round the north
crags moan ;
But the cold sea creeps on the narrow sands,
And the shroud has enveloped the golden lands.
Redfern.
LOUISE M. MAUK.
Fife watches events with anxiety, and
would never have obtained Louise had the present
juncture been foreseen.
There is now a monthly average of six
deaths among the divers in Torres Straits. The
last victim was a white, W. H. Mapplebeck, who
went down to prove that deep-water diving was
quite safe so long as one was very careful.
John Bale has been a N.S.W. coast farmer
for 30 years, and, though somewhat illiterate, is
eminently practical. When cane-growing first
came into vogue, Bale must needs try with the
rest, but, unlike many others, he made it succeed.
Cane-growing, however, was one thing; sugar-
growing, another. Having neither money nor
credit wherewith to get mill-machinery, Bale
made his own lathe, turned his own hardwood
rollers, and, picking up at a sale an anvil, bellows,
and some cogwheels, fixed up his own gearing.
Old water-tanks furnished him with boiling-pans
and clarifiers. With these primitive appliances
he manufactured very decent sugar, while the
planting aristocracy were ruining themselves with
costly appliances (bought with borrowed money
and mortgaged) under the direction of sugar-
experts hailing from the Mauritius, or the West
Indies. Old John, at latest, was experimenting
with coffee
The poor man’s levde—Levy and distress.
Out of 10,000,000 French families, 2,000,000
have no children, and 2,000,000 more have but one
each.
During the last two years no less than five
R.C. priests, including Bishop Verms, have died
from malaria in New Guinea.
King Jacky visited a bush hospital the
other day. “I say, boss?” “Well.” “Gib it
nip out of that peller bottle?” “That no good,
that no grog, that physic. We're not allowed
grog here.” Pause. “You gib it poor peller
baooa?” “We’re not allowed to smoke here.”
Pause. “You no grog?” “No.” “You no
smoke?” “No.” “Spose you can swear?”
“Oh, yes.” “Mine tink it you better plenty
patter plurry swear, or you die altogether.”
The last Samoan naval demonstration—
when the seven war-ships were sent to watch each
country’s interest and got wrecked all but one—
was an unqualified success—from the view of the
island Phrynes and Liiises—and much money was
circulated. Apropos , some years ago, a native
teacher from Siumu called upon a white store-
keeper in Apia, in re a long unsettled aitalafu
(debt), and asked for more time, admitting his
fear of his white creditor informing “ Misi ”
(the local white missionary). “We are very poor
at Siumu,” said the worthy man, “cannot even
get paid for our ‘Pese ma Yiiga’ (hymns and
psalms); but if a man-of-war comes ” It is
customary for malaga, or excursions of young
people of both sexes to be made to Apia from the
outlying districts when a war-ship arrives. And
to obtain a ■“gilt-edged edition” of the Word
(vide Stevenson) a Samoan girl doesn’t stand on
ceremony with the white stranger.
In view of the release of Labour-leader
Sleath and his colleagues of the big Broken Hill
strike of last year, the following letter (from the
pen of a leading B.H. mine-manager), which has
just fallen into our hands, will be of considerable
interest. The Bulletin doesn’t just now say by
whom the letter was written, but it will give the
information as soon as it procures formal identi-
fication of the signature. The communication
casts a lurid light on what were the real feelings
and motives of the chief agents of the Broken Hill
capitalists during that memorable era :
Broken Hill,
27th Sept. 1892.
Dear , —No one has yet molested me, and if anyone
was aching for a row it is my friend and I. We
have been running Ihe place ever since I returned and
even had the impudence to drive to the races. They will
not even hoot us, any little excuse would satisfy us, but
it is no go, they are thoroughly cowed and beaten and
they are thinking of the future. The races were very,
funny and a horse fell in the steeple which it was thought
would require shooting I wanted the clerk of the course
to ask the grandstand men for the loan of a gun.
I’ll swear 50 could have been produced. I and several
others had one in each hip pocket it was a fair
Kentucky meet and I fully expected as the whisky
got in a fight wou’d result but we came home dis-
appointed and dishearted I am disgusted as well.
I think it will soon be all over now, as soon as a train-load
of men come in, which will be to-morrow r . They say they
are going to upset the train, but there is a man to nearly
every mile of the road on the look-out, so their chances
are small. I have started on the plant, and
it will soon be licked into shape, say five or six weeks.
T don’t think there is much chance for a new explosive,
but I am quite willing to try it, if 1 can get a sample of it
and see what it is worth. If lam not killed, ! may be
down again before very long, as we are expecting to be
subpoenaed for the defence of SPath & Co., the conspira-
tors. With kind regards to all enquiring friends —I am,
yours truly,


nimnss!
HOW TO
IT.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), of 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
prepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
Invigbrator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate-
ful cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint. . _ ,
The ALFALINE VITALITY FILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss or
Memory Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and all other Affec-
tions of the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended to all sufferers
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary Course, 335. Od,
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s. Warninglmitators will be Prosecuted.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
RegiateredL. PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
CURED over 100,000 SUFFERERS. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS OF HERR RASSMUSSEN.
“ Herr Rasamussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove."—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Rlood
and Nerve Remedies.”~N.Z. Tikes, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
11 Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leatling people of New
South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.” Cooktown
Courier, Q.
How to Cure
THE NERVES.
TAKE A COURSE OP
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to Cure
nervousness; weakness;
DESPONDENCY, DEBILITY,
NERVOUS I BRIT ABILITY,
SPECKS BEFORE “THE EYES,
WANT OF SeLF-CONFIDENCB,
MELANCHOLIA, LOSS OF
MEMORY, WEAK BRAIN AND
" NERVES." .
' Boxes—6 s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6(1.
Testimonial.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Here Rassmussen. Dear Sir,—l
think it my duty to inform you that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
their use.—Very truly yours, R.
Adams Luckham,
Uil—lll I 111 W I HI !■
How to Cure
COSTIVENESB,
TAKE A BOX OP
Aifaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
COSTI VENE S S, W INTD,
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION;
FLATULENCY AND IRREGU-
LARITY. _
Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and 6s.
T e atirooixial.
Herr Rassmussen. I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies. —A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
How to Cure
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
alLcomplaints peculiar
' TO FEMALES.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testixuouia,!.
Herr Rassmussen,—l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Vic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, and
wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.—
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remedy for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all
Affections of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 25.;
posted, Is. 6d. and ?8. 6d.
Porous Plasters.—These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each; posted,
Is. 6d.
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaint's.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil. Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. Gd. pe r bottle.
Herr Rassmussen’s Head Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Also at
150 Sourke Street, Melbourne,
91 Umbton Quay, Wellington, IS,
C H
alfa/If
yN
mb
Rav'Us
°Ry
&
or
Vt
O
5 47
S 4 7
PILL ARCADE
-_-TT
Bt
SYDNEY tif
NEY
HerrRASSHUSSENS
PILL PALACE
BA
ITALITY
LOCK
CURE PIUS
E.S- R —
PILLS
IMYEipAII i I IblooI?
BLOOD the
DISEASES NERVES
tml n \i R D 1 Hi
liiiiLl U— FORTH
CdebraLedkßegislercd ALFALINE PILLS
fe BLOOD&HERVE DISEASES!
IES
PREPARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
• HERR RASSMUSSEN •
SSEN •
1 6 Jlf if 2jHi
SOLD HERE IN BOTTLES^!/2
BOOKS WH'”* ■“
ALFALINt
HAIR
RtSTORM
& BEAUTIFIES
iimntt
alfahne
RHEUMATIC
PILLS
Bo*|S2>^
ALFA LINE
UVERiKIONfY
PI LIS
80A ONESHIUIf*
ALFA LINE
COMPLEXION
BEAUIIfIER
BOTFIESi/kJ^
n:m
■
pENTE^
All
w>.
m
rmm
tHtltr
DfeCERNEE
fft AS#
iTTH
Also at
160 Queen Street, SrUb no.
154 Eundle Street, Adelaide,
■ ■
!iX!V
*
\
mm'
■
St^riv.3
'luiL.iii 7imri=2f
!err Eassmussen
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALF ALINE REMEIDIEIS!
Which have CUBED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist Of Aoaddmie Parisienne des Inventeurs, France ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U.J.F.C.;
Honourably mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries ; Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney for his Herbal
Remedies ; Author Of “ The Natural Doctor formerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal,” Sydney ; Discoverer of the “ Minto Process "
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Expert Blood • and. Nerve Remedies —Cured 100,000.
SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
GrUiV.ftiV.]\rT£l£il3 HEHBAI. CURES
FOR THU
L O O D ana NERVE
REGISTERED and AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Head Depot:
South Australian Head Depot:
New Zealand Head Depot;
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
91 Lambtou Quay, Wellington
How to Cure
THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Lock Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOC D DISEASES; SKIN
AFFECTIONS, SORES, BOIL’S
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COM-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND
OTHER UNPLEAS AN T
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. Gd.
Special Powerful I'oiirse, 435. 6d.
X e stinaonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
health.— Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
Boxes—3s. and 65., Posted.
235. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Xestlxxxoxxial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Hkrr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,— l
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A,
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND COUGH.
TAKE A BOX OP
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Guaranteed to Cure
asthma, Coughs and Colds,'
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxes—Posted, 3s. x 6s., and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted;
X e stimoxilal.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. -H. Kimm,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER & BEAUTIPIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Xeatimoniala.
The Alfalimfeair Restorer and Beautifler
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.— J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of
Debility.—Tnos. Mudiman, 515 George-st..
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albury, 64 VVash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me oJ
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.—Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son.
after many doctors had given him up.— -
Jons F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria,
Herr H.A.SS»OCXJSS3ESIW 7 S
Chief Laboratory & Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 ieorge Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


fd
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR and SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
, Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., .New York.
J\ Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
f
d
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of miik, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
11/TALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick 1)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
jUTALTED MILK is the best food for In
fants. “ The composition of Malted
i Milk resembles that of human milk.’
i — Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants. ’
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Eu.iott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane,
MALTED MILK CO , 39, Enow Hili, London E C.
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
wvsiva
S.N¥WA\
31
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &c.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 Jd. 2s. 9d. f
4s. 6d., and 11s
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & CO.,
18, Albemarle Street, London, Eng,
Aoents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
The Strongest Arguments.
From an issue of the Wolverhampton Chronicle
we extract the following “ We have for a long
time heard various reports of the wonderful effects
produced by the use of St. Jacobs oil in chronic
cases which had been given up as incurable, but
had always supposed these were enlarged upon
for advertising purposes, like all other patent or
proprietary medicines, but the reports from all
our leading chemists must be considered one of
the strongest arguments which can be advanced
respecting the value of any leading article of trade
in their line. The uniformity of these reports will
be noted at once. All speak in the highest terms
of the value of St. Jacobs oil as an outward appli-
cation for pain. The oil is only advertised to cure
rheumatism, neuralgia, gout sciatica, and those
bodily pains where an outward application is used.
The proprietors of this popular remedy never
advertise the oil to cure those diseases which it
will not actually cure. By so doing they have
gained the confidence of the people. We see by
the Liverpool papers that St. Jacobs oil is used
largely on board of nearly every steamship that
sails from that port. Many companies, including
the Cunard, White Star, and some of the South
American lines, do not even consider their ships
ready for sea unless a sufficient supply of this
popular remedy is on board to last the voyage.
Latterly, we are informed that all H.M. troop-
ships leaving Portsmouth take a large supply of
the oil on board. The oil in yellow wrappers for
veterinary purposes is being used with equally
good results by the leading omnibus and cab com-
panies of London and provincial cities for use on
horses for sprains, sore shoulders, and general-
ailments where an embrocation is required.”
A leading article in an issue of the Chemist
and Druggist stated that St. Jacobs oil had the
largest sale of any medicine in the world, and
when an article possesses the actual merit which
St. Jacobs oil undoubtedly does possess, the pro-
prietors are entitled to receive the benefit of the
enormous sale which this popular remedy has.
IF you want a watch to SWEAR BY,
Buy a Waterbary ; but
IF you want a watch to SWEAR AT, then one
of those numerous dear-at-any-price, Swiss rattle-
trap imitations can be warranted to give you
every satisfaction.
“ The Last of Six.”
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
!£»
XST The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUCHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS
AMD. Urn '
IIfPLUENZA-
It can now be had of al'
Chemists, in Is. and 2s
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
1. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Dity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st
Wholesale ef BUiotl Brothers, Limited
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Asrtsx Undejclothtng;
FOR WINTER COMFORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated Unshrinkable Merino>
Singlets and Pants just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (J sleeves), 7s. 6d.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 78. 6d.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily"
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. Ort.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure l -
- also height, and include in Postal Ordea or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
Sole Agents :
BRAHAM Sc MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
TTENRY FARMER’S ARRANGEMENTS
for VIOLIN and PIANO.
“ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,” “ Crown Diamonds,”
“ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William Tell,” “Faust,” “Un
Ballo in Maschera,” “ II Trovatore,” “ Les Huguenots.”
Of all Music-sellers, or the Publishers, PAXTON Jb TO,,
19 Oxford Street, LONDON, and 251 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE.
i3r” 1000 SONGS, DUETS, WALTZES, etc., 3d. each.
Catalogues Post Free.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
merits and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. %
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
MAY
This Building
For
Half-Share,
Quarter-Share,
£Jl_
lOs.
ss.
First Prize— Value, £35,000.
WMVI, RENTAL, £1750.
KT-B. —To effect tlie realisation of BanSfc arr<a
Building Societies’ effects, rendered unsale-
able Toy the present commercial depression,
THE
Mutual Freehold Property
Distribution Society of Sydney
Are issuing 145,000 Shares at £1 each, with no further liability
3441 PRIZKS.
All Sydney and Suburban Properties, and largely rent-producing.. No unimproved back-Mocks or
inaccessible squatting properties.
First Prize, .£3s,ooo. —Those Magnificent Offices and! Banking Chambers, Park and Castleiwli
Streets, occupied by the City Bank (Castlereagh Street Branch), and the Mercantile Buildintr
Land and Investment Co., Limited, having a rental value of £1750 per annum *
1 PRIZE of £15,000
2 PHIZES of 10,000
;{ PRIZES of £5,000
;s PRIZES of 2,500
I 10 PRIZES of- *l,OOO
| 9 PRIZES of 501)
10 PRIZES of 4*2,10
50* PRIZES of 100
100 PRIZES of
100 PRIZES of
£5O
25
150 PRIZES of £3O 1000 PHIZES of £|o 3000 PHIZES of " £5.
14 CHANCES FOR EACH SHARE.
Apply perfonally, or send Cash, Money Order, Stamps or Cheque (add exchange), and two stamped envelopes fot reply.
Bankers ; CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
The Date of Drawing (which will be supervised by a committee of eminent citizens) will be announced on Slst lUf V
For Shares, Prospectuses, agd full particulars, apply to ••
m:a.ktag-em,
Co R. HOPE ATKINSON, 25 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY ; or LOO AT, AOENTS
NOTICK TO SIT ALT TNVKSTOTtS.-To facilitate. the In vestment of small sums, and to
enable. those irho in iff hi other irlse he debarred to participate in the benefits of this distribu-
tion, nrrnn(/emenfs hnre been made for the side of Half-Shares ail Os. and Quarter-Shares
at Us,, for irhieh eerfifteafes trill be issued.
Italy s annual production, in round num-
bers,.* 697,000,000 gallons of wine, while Franco
and Spain yield each 608,000,000 gallons. Spain
is the chief exporter, getting about .£12,000,000
f<)r the 200,000,000 gallons which she sells abroad.
1 ranee gets about the same sum for her 56,000,000
gallons, while Italy gets only £2,800,000 for the
45,000,000 gallons annually exported. Algeria
produces 97,000,000 gallons wine, while all Aus-
tralia only yields something over 4,000,000 gallons!
DIED WHILE IN PRAYER.
“ Another man was found in a kneeling posture,
his face teas hurled in his hands, as if he had died
in prayer.”
I clip this pathetic sentence from an account of
the St. Etienne coal mine disaster which occurred
in France, in December, 1891. The fire had been
smouldering for years in a remote part of the
mine, but its further advance had been stopped by
barriers. Yet they proved insufficient at last, and
the terrific fire-damp exploded, scattering death
throughout the mine. Such incidents are too
well-known in England to need further explana-
tion or comment.
Has it ever struck you that the interior of the
human body is like the interior of a coal mine?
Well, it is. All its operations go on in solitude
and darkness. Gases are engendered in it that
are just as dangerous as fire-damp. Generally
they—yet hold on, let’s have the little story first.
It’s about a woman. In fact, it’s from, her, too,
and is sure to interest somebody; may be you.
She says that a long run of time, from childhood
to years after her marriage, she never knew what
illness was ; that is, so as to remember it, or to
have it make a mark on her, as we may say. But
mighty few folks manage to escape the old slave-
driver-altogether. Nor did she. “It was in the
summer of 1890,” she says, “ when I began to feel
bad. My appetite was poor, and what I did eat
gave me great pain and distress. My food seemed
to lie like lead ; and after every meal, no matter
how simple the food was, I had the most ex-
cruciating pain you can imagine. I had a nagging,
thudding pain at my chest, and through to my
shoulders, that was very hard to bear. So bad
was it that I thought something (perhaps a
tumour) was growing within me. As soon as ever
food entered my stomach I used to say, ‘lt is
beginning,’ meaning the gnawing pain.
“I took all kinds of things for relief and applied
mustard plasters to the chest, but nothing did me
any good. After a time I dared not take a proper
meal; I was afraid to eat, and got very thin and
weak. It was as much as I could do to go about
my house work. In October of this year (1891)
Mrs. James Mercer, of 176, High Street, Longton,
recommended me to try Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup, and I got a bottle and commenced to take
it. After a few doses I felt relief. My food
agreed with me, and by the time I had taken one
large bottle all the pain had left me, and I now
feel as well as ever I did.’’ —Yours truly (signed),
Mrs. Elizabeth Wright, 12, King-street, Hanley,
Staffordshire, November 19th, 1891.
You ask me what the sad fate of the miners has
to do with the case of Mrs. Wright. I’ll tell you
in half a minute. This lady says she was taken
ill in the summer of 1890. Now, do you suppose
the illness and the cause of the illness came up at
the same time ? By no means. Cause first, effect
afterwards—that’s the order, always. And, see
here ! A cause may be at work for week or years
before you notice any results; and until you do
notice results, you don’t know there’s aught gone
wrong. Isn’t that so ? The miners, to be sure,
knew there was a fire in the mine. But it was
fenced off from them and they thought they were
safe. The barriers leaked, and death gripped them
in the twinkling of an eye.
The body is like a mine, as I have said. Disease
and death are caused by the action of poisonous
gases and acids inside of it. They all start from
the stomach and then creep into every part; some-
times fast, sometimes slow. In some acute
diseases very fast. The doctors often call gout an
“ explosion ”of uric acid. The source of all these
deadly things is indigestion and dyspepsia. Slight
symptoms first, then the more terrible and alarm-
ing. Watch the way it comes on. This was Mrs.
Wright’s ailment. She suffered fifteen months
before she found out what the matter was and
what to do. Gracious, mercy'! if we only knew
the sort of things that go on in our bodies we’d
understand that it’s about as dangerous to work in
a kitchen as in a coal mine.
“ Lawyer ” now figures on Melbourne
brass-plates.
There is an uneasy feeling that the N.S. W.
Government is negotiating for a loan in London
behind the back of the Agent-General.
To meet its engagements N.S.W, will
have to raise or save, or raise and save, another
one million a year for several years to come.
James Kennewell, who arrived in Sydney
on the day Waterloo was fought, died at Botany
last week, aged 107 years. His wife predeceased
him at the age of 90, and he leaves two daughters
—one 72, and the other 02 years old.
A N.S.W. Minister of the Crown ob-
served, on the evening of the strangulation of
Archer in Darliughurst Gaol, that among the
most potent causes of larrikinism was, in his
judgment, the low moral level of the evening
press.
At Sydney Water Police Court, one day
last week, John Matthews, for stealing from Hoff-
nung and Co. a box of tobacco, value 13s. Gd.,
six months’ imprisonment. At Central Court,
same day, John George Bay, for stealing a gold
watch, value ,£2O, three months.
Patrick Burke, killed last week by a
Woollahra (Sydney) tram, was one of the three
magistrates of Orange (N.S.W.) struck off the
roll, at the instigation of Francis Abigail, for
signing a Home Rule address in which England
was alluded to as a “foreign power.”
Sangster, of the Vic. Seamen’s Union,
gets back at the Steamship-owners’ Association re
the attempt to scuttle the Wendouree in the Yarra
the other day. They cast suspicions upon the
unionists, and the reply was that the Wendouree
is a costly boat to work and carries less than any
other vessel her size, barring the insurance, per-
haps. Tit for tat.
Editor Bulletin, —Talking of economy,
look at the hundreds of harmless prisoners, locked
up in Pentridge, Darlinghurst, and other prisons.
I believe in chaining lions, tigers, or panthers,
but not antelopes, or hares. Here are miserable,
backboneless customers who can only twiddle
ledgers and cheques, taking advantage of culpable
carelessness. —Thinker.
At the worst, members of Parliament now
go for ,£3OO a year and anything else they can get.
Formerly they hungrily went for whatever they
could get. That is the difference. The present
system cannot, perhaps, make them all honest,
but it gives them all a reasonable chance of being
honest. The former system simply gave them an
alternative between being honest Tories or hungry
thieves masquerading in democratic skin.
The nine youths and men committed at
Sydney for wilful murder in the Pert case, were
tried in the coroner’s court in an atmosphere dense
with anti-larrikin passion. Had the trial been
the capital one before a judge and jury it is quite
likely that the entire crowd would have been sent
straightway to the gallows. They will be lucky if
the spasm from which Government and public
now suffer has been worked off ere the im-
portant day arrives.
At the recent Women Writers’ dinner, in
London, a lady with the suggestive name of Blind
said that “in the roll of women writers of her
reign Queen Victoria would hold a very dis-
tinguished place, and that, but for her, English
literature would have perished as utterly as
Pharaoh’s hosts in the Red Sea.” This is the rot
spoken, under the influence of bad tea, of the
“woman writer” who published the miserable
commonplace stuff about life in the Highlands,
after it had been sub edited out of all recognition
by Theodore Martin, who was made a “Sir ” for
his pains—which must indeed have been acute.
In the redistribution of Assembly elec-
torates under the new N.S.W. Act “Manly ” will
probably find itself hitched to and included in
“Mosman’s Bay” (which contains 1300 electors
as against Manly’s 900). Several people already
seem to think they have the Mossman-Manly seat
in their pocket—including Messrs. H. S. Badgery
(stock-agent), R. P. Abbott (attorney), and John
Woods. Attorney Shorter is also suspected of
local political hankerings—and there is a dark
horse on the track. Provided that two or three
squatter-politicians start, a forceful Democrat
might win the seat. It appears to be assumed
that Parkes will not contest that division of his
present constituency.
Sydney Morning Herald :
The salary of a Judge must have relation to the average
incomes of leading members of the Bar. Men have been
known to leave the Bar for the Bench at a sacrifice
[Names? —Ed. B.] being willing to make it for the
honour of the position and for the public
good. But an undue reduction of the salaries of
Judges would carry with it the risk of the Bar being
stronger than the Bench, and the administration of
justice becoming a byword.
But what are the facts ? A leading barrister
accepts a judgeship when he begins to find that
he can’t any longer work with impunity until
2 a.m. And when he accepts it he knows that
should he, ten minutes after receiving his appoint-
ment, be stricken down with paralysis he gets
>£lBoo a year Treasury pension for life. To
parody a legal axiom, or what ought to be a legal
axiom : “It is not the severity of the income, but
the certainty thereof,” which makes a judgeship
prized. Suppose, for example, Melchizedek,
Q.C., suddenly got a pea-sized blood-clot in his
brain, where would his colossal professional
income be next day? But, supposing Melchizedek
had pocketed<4i Supreme Court appointment just
as that blood-clot started to operate, his income
would still be ,£35 a week in hard cash, even if he
lived for 50 years thereafter in a bath chair or a
lunatic-asylum. Provided you give a handsome
pension, first-class Judges can easily be got for
,£2OOO a year. The best advocates don’t make
the best Judges.


Established 1876.
fd
WRITE JOB
D R
HAIRS
TREATISE
«N
ASTHMA^
fd
f
Melbourne
Rocke.TompsiHart?.
, Sydney: Elliott Bed*.]
BRISBftWE: ElllOtt/
"Ape LATpiTHFauld i nft ar (?.
"Wellington HZ.SharlanjfrC
* C° . -o^.
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
-"•W*® Jj.E.C.P. AND S.
BTTHE Medical Boakdof N.S.W.)
May be consulted at tbe moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from £K3O a.m. to 8 p.m. ■
In those times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been a ccordcd
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
AND CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A, BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dektal
SURGERY.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial 2eetn,
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS-
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and 1 1 Ue
lists forwarded upon application .
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REACTS PATENT
invigorate
m
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’DO, says: —‘1 think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
‘ SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort*
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves .it 1 is the best invention.,of the Kind for
improving the carriage and ajipear lined of the
figure without tlio iuiurious enacts of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put oft with old shapes ; insist on
having onv new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from D apes’ «ri'e !• >
olaro.non*. '.l.istm'.a, England.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
MS
/ Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Bong,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new, list of
df
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FRF.
d
INTO
Zl. BLOOMS.
TIIK COT.ON i;s.
15. Holborn, tendon,
Why Suffer One Moment
From Torturing Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
rest and sleep, speedily heals the CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tified, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cut e every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
At i ABOUT THE Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illuslra-
,;. lK „ n ,i 10 0 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Co ,I ICURA Resolvent.
t 0" Cur cuRA Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, ClWka , 50c.; Cuticura Soap | S c. ;
Cuticura Resolvent, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, boston, L.S.A.
i
to
m
Bad Complexions,
pimples, blockheads, red, rough, and
oily ski:i and hands arc prevented and
cured by that greatest of all Skin
P .rifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other
skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing .a purity the most expensne o!
toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap , and the only Preventive of inflammation
and clogging of the fores, the cause of most compiexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
Thames Electric St Steam Launch C°
p*
&
ELECTEIC LAUNCH “GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. l>y 7ft. 3m
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Hail our or
Ferrv purposes. . ... ,
Bui’d ts of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and mr.l.crs of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches a.ways ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulais will oe
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND
ssssss^"' JSKOVW E'T’S PiIT^MT
DERMATHISTIC CORSET.
ELEGANCE!. COMFORT!! DURABILITY!!!
fd
“The actual wearing out
of such a Corset as this be-
comes an absolute impossi-
bly.” -Lady's Victoria’. j
“ An ingenious method of
insuring durability.” —Myra
“ft seems, indeed, as |
though one pair would last ,
a wearer the whole course of j
her natural life.” —Sylvia.
EPiCIAU fE.
BONES. BUSKS, & STEELS,
PROTECTED BY LEATHER,
(Solours;
Blade, Cardinal, Tatac,
Gold, Euby, Terra Cot fa»
Apricot, Bovs, White.
The Registered ‘ Coach Spring
Husks’ with which these
Corsets are now fitted arc
T( arra'iii't U?ihreakao:e
Every Lady should try
them. Order at once.
fd
f
df
Csnuitioi?- - Do not take a Substitute,
of Worthless Imitations.
Beware
O.f^
rO&
'v G b
OP MEAD
B.MOONTCASTLE& S9H
OiRtCT IMPORTPRS & WAN 0 FACTO R£R3
0 f H/\TS & C^PS
d
fd
fd
f
d
fd
fd
f
df
d
m
urn'.
i
m
a
fd
f
df
d
fd
fd
f
df
fd
f
df
d
fd
fd
f
dfd
*ls*
sr
§
FDR
[OOKSEY & [ELEBRATED [OHOON H*T5
When ordering number of hat ivi!l be sufTicicnl
The Joker on the Job.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Alack ! there's little tame indeed
For many men of lofty mind !
The constant trier gets the lead,
Though better horses drop behind ;
'Tis true the mettled steeds may run
Their furlong faster than the cob,
But in the end we find he won
Through being fairly on the job.
Cervantes, with your Don Quixote,
You set the world from knight-thrall free,
The sword of satire out the throat
Of good, old-fashioned chivalry ;
Yet, better far the hauberked squire
Who, now and then, would raid and rob,
Than he whom modern crowds admire
The fellow always on the job.
True Talent shines with fitful light;
A blending flash—the sparks expire !
(It pleases me to think I might
Play once upon immortal lyre).
The orator with magic tongue
Occasionally “ knocks ” the mob,
But praises are more often sung
To him who sticketh to the job.
What made Jones “ great ? ” We do protest
He is not brave, nor wise, nor strong;
A pompous duffer at the best.
What lifted him above the throng ?
He has no nerves, no heart, no soul,
He keeps his gold within his fob,
He lets us quaff the flowing bowl,
And all the time he’s on the job.
Were I the lord of feudal tower,
On Mr. Jones I’d put a check ;
I’d seize his hoard this very hour,
And pour it molten down his neck ;
On high his vulgar corse I’d swing—
The notion makes my pulses throb,
Confusion take the shoddy king
The man who’s always on the job !
But I am only what I am,
A genius, and nothing more—
Some fools, perhaps, will mutter “ Damn
The wings on which he doesn’t soar !
I mix my “go” of whisky hot,
And lo ! the kettle on the hob
Sings, “ Brother bard, wjiy are you not
Persistently upon the job?”
J. A. PHILP.
The Pope lias displaced Bt % George from
uis sinecure as patron saint of Itnglaud. II nv
would Ireland like to have kt. Patrick re-
trenched?”
farmer at near Uatlinisi, is
old enough to remember when that city had on y
four public-houses. At one time it had 110; it
now has 36.
A “dodder” is in circulation in Hobart
(Tas.), notifying the reduction of the Mercury to
one penny, with the novel addition that cpiarteily
subscriptions are—payable in advance, Bs. ; credit,
LOs. 6d. So that it will be cheaper to spend a
penny daily than to beeome the regular patron of
this remarkably priced paper.
Candelo (N.S.W.) Union very justly im-
mortalises the “ record ” of a local Airs. Cochrane
—mother of 13 (eight sous) ; grandmother to 91;
»“reat -gran dm other to 75 root of 170 souls, all
'iving. Says the Union gladly : “She still steps
mr wav with the elasticity of a youngstei. Om
poor grey hairs!
A certain N.S.W. horse-thief says lie can
bear his long sentence, but can’t forget the “ nas-
tmess” of the judge who tried him. While
making his statement to rebut the Crown evi-
dence, he appealed, in his untutored, back-block
way to his Honor’s sense of reason by the interro-
gatory phrases “D’yer twig?” and Dyer
tumble?” In passing sentence, the judge said,
“ Seven years—d’ye twig ?” and, later on, “ No, 1
can’t give you leave to petition— d’ye tumble?”
A Rio Janeiro paper offers a liberal prize
to the ugliest man in Brazil, and 258 men of in-
human hideousness are competing. The surprising
feature of the case is that the awful 208 are mostly
married. A few remain single, but tin y are
among the more alleviated horrors of the exhibi-
tion Those who have no redeeming feature
whatever are all married, while an unspeakable
object who looks like a visitation from an angered
Providence, and who has got one gnailed leg and
shapeless foot in for the money, has been wedded
twice.
In the ’9O floods in Queensland, a China-
man stood for 48 hours on a stump, and, when the
water was at its highest, he could lap it without
stooping. Unfortunately, he was in the back-
water” or there would have been one yellow
heathen less in Bananaland. He was, however,
born for “reconstruction.” After the flood he
new a crop of bad tobacco and got further into
mineral debt. The next season he grew a crop of
’ood tobacoo-about eight tons. He borrowed
the money to go to Brisbane, lie got the tobacco
•aided 76 miles into Stanthorpe “on the never,
he bought a horse on “ cledit, ’ he sold his tobacco
p, Brisbane, and—he forgot to return to his
nourning district. No bank-boomer could have
I.me the whole thing more neatly, and his chief
;reditor finds that his present address is some-
where along the Great Wall of China.


Wa
II i
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
obin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Profcssoi SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
( Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.)
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The in 'p. pendent testimony of Scientific Experts
Old the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps.
V
' JPi.
IPHI
H ■ ! jl
W
MH
«/.
'J?/■':■■
Uiai
/ms*
»
Wmlm
V ■
W 8
® li I ..ji'iMii \ ihk
Sir ' .£!
■ ■■
• •
Ml'iV t*. •*'-'■• •
?^5
Hi
s mmmm
mm
s?
ir
isS^’
Christ’s Complaint.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The earth is the landlord’s, and the fullness thereof.”
Reconstructed Version.
Eighteen hundred years at least
(That is well within the mark)
Sleeping in the public park,
Waking like a hunted beast:
Things from bad to worse have gone,
Long ago I pawned my bed,
Had not where to lay my head,
Standing now, they “ move me on/
Move me on from street to street,
Ever wandering up and down,
In the country or the town,
Scarcely where to rest my feet.
Yet this life was once divine,
When the valleys and the rills,
And the everlasting hills,
Crowned with sunshine, all were mine.
Death was gentle, gentle birth—
Till the father of all lies,
Ran a fence round Paradise,
Took possession of the Earth.
Landlord, sitting in God’s seat,
Cracks the stockwhip of his power,
Labour turns, from hour to hour,
The world beneath its bleeding feet.
Hopeless is the upward tread.
Falling with the falling wheel;
Heel to head, and head to heel,
Living trampling on the dead.
Landgod ! Lord of Life and Love,
Life—that lives ! and cannot flee
Through the whirlwind or the sea,
To hell below or Heaven above.
Love ! that sells her soul to lust
For leave to weep upon the earth,
Or slays her offspring at the birth,
And mates with murder—as she must !
•Still beneath the iron rod
Writhes the helpless multitude,
Humbly supplicating food
From the man who would be God.
Bulrush sceptre, crown of thorn,
Purple semblance of a king,
Were mockery without a sting,
Contrasted with the subtle scorn
That hangs about my withered neck,
This little modern cro-s of brass,
As on to Calvary I pass,
A God-forsaken, battered wreck.
O pray my prayer so often ,s aid,
My little children, pray with me
That God will quickly set me free
From him who steals our daily bread.
For, save the whirlwind and the sea,
The life I love has nothing left,
While secret, universal theft
Usurps the Land—and Liberty.
N.S. Wales.
DOWELL O’REILLY.
A Sydney importing firm, which laid in a
huge stock of tartan plaid in view of the advent
of Gov. Duff frae Scotland, now bites its under
lip.
D’Arcy, the London Mount Morganaire,
was once a Rockhampton (Q.) solicitor. When
the mine blossomed, on his own application the
name of D’Arcy was struck off the Queensland
law rolls. It was the only case of the kind ever
known.
Extracts from the leading article of the
Western Courier —an English-owned Valparaiso
newspaper of April last—and headed “Her
Majesty’s Subjects Abroad : They demand pro-
tection against illtreatment ” will prove cheerful
reading for Lane’s Argonauts :
In the Frontier towns of Chile our countrymen are
barbarously murdered, their homes rendered desolate and
their children orphans by bands of organised ruffians
whose villainous deeds are winked at by the authorities.
In Brazil, the Argentine Republic, Uruguay, and, in fact,
all these southern republics, the murder of Britons, the
violation of their wives and daughters, and the destruo-
tio i of their homesteads, sometimes by Commissionaries
of Folic -, frequently by officials holding minor positions,
are of constant occurrence, and appeals to British inter-
ference fail apparently upon deaf ears-when, as in Val-
paraiso nearly two years ago, British property was
destroyed by a drunken and successful revolutionary
soldiery. Yes! the sufferers by these infamous outrages
we do most heartily pity, but have not one grain of com-
passion to spare for the States that are crumbling to
pieces through the selfish avarice and ambition of their
own sons.
The Courier then asks :
What redress has a British subject in South America
who has been the victim of ill-treatment?
And gives “just one recent sample case” :
The victim was an Englishman, Dr. Edelmann, an aged
and learned man of over 70; the guilty parties, the
authorities of Mendoza (Argentine Kepublic). The Dr.
incautiously exhibited to the Governor of the town rubies
to the value of £4OOO. Almost immediately after he was
arrested by the Commissary of Police, “another scoundrel,
hand and glove with the governor, and thrown into
prison, and utterly at a loss for a plausible pretext for the
doctor s arrest, they declared that they believed him to
he Jack the Ripper!” His passport proving him a
British subject was thrown down, trampled and spit upon.
The rubies were then “divided by the Chief of Police and
his subordinates.” After a time he got released and for-
warded his claim for compensation through the Imperial
Government, with the result that he is just in receipt of
a telegram from H.M.’s Minister in Buenos Ayres to
H.M.’s Consul in Valparaiso, which we copy verbatim :
‘ Please inform Edelmann that Minister for Foreign Affairs
declares Edelmann must lay case before governor of Men-
doza soliciting summary enquiry original affidavits being
returned by post. (Signed) Pakenham.’ The p -or doctor
is referred for redress against the thief— to the thief’s
partner ! ”
England doesn’t seem to worry much about such
matters. If Captain Carpenter, of the Australian
whaler Costa Rica Packet, whom the Netherlands-
India Dutchmen flung into prison, had been a
Yankee, in charge of a Yankee ship, his case
would have been very differently handled.
Ada Jackson.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
No one ever called her “ Miss ” —she was
simply Ada. Even the school children—well, not
exactly to her face—called her “Ada.” She had
a gun of her own, could vault any fence, ride
without bridle or saddle, and was adored by every
male jn Boalong, from the downy-cheeked,
freckled goney of 17 to the bushy-whiskered bigger
boy. And as a teacher, she wasn’t popular.
She was too rowdy for some, too proud for others,
and too pretty for all.
• # #
Hers was a provisional school—payment
by attendance. And yet, even when there was
once a long spell of wet weather, and again when
the measles were bad, her salary never varied.
Everyone knew it; she cashed her cheque at the
store. Then a plot was hatched by the parents.
Whenever a child was kept at home, the date was
noted and duly certified.
When the inspector came round the conspira-
tors reported, and had the dates compared with
the attendance as shown by the roll-book.
* * •
The scholars were dismissed. The In-
spector and Ada were alone.
She was a born flirt, and, with the thought of a
disgraceful dismissal before her, desperate. He
was ardent and susceptible—in fact, a man.
She wavered Strategically.
* * m
H e signed a document.
A moment after, a bareheaded man, chasing a
girl down the road until within view of a house.
What happened ? Why, the complaint was dis-
missed, of course; and, shortly after, Ada,
although unclassified, was removed to a ninth-
class school.
She is married now. I wonder where the paper
is ?
PONTE.
Premier Patterson (Vic.) has invented the
• happy idea of receiving deputations by telephone.
Lord Brassey, it is cabled, finds one gleam
of joy in the ghastly carnage of the Oamperdown-
Victoria collision—it “ illustrates the value of the
ram in naval warfare.” This is attenuated con-
solation, anyhow. The Victoria wouldn’t have
sunk if the water-tight compartments had been
closed—at least, all the evidence points that
way. In action they would assuredly have been
closed, and then the Camperdown would have
required to hit a lot harder to produce the
required result. In the present case she nearly
sank, and if she had banged herself a little more
violently she would probably have gone down in
real earnest. If the Oamperdown’s compartments
had been open both vessels would have sunk; if
the Victoria’s had been shut both vessels would
have floated. That is about all. It is just the
same as rushing your head against a door. The
head and the door have practically an equal chance
of breaking. And, in any case, the sie.n of a
galliot laden with condemned fish often gets thcie
just as effectually as the biggest iron ram in
existence. A few years ago, a lumbering barque
struck an Atlantic steamship, in a fog, and sank
her, and yet the barque herself turned up in port
comparatively uninjured. Even the Camper
down’s record is no better than that—if it is as
good.
TWILIGHT.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The Lord spake and said, “ Let there be
light”—
And 10, bright grew the Heavenly arc,
So that man could choose ’twixt Wrong and
Right,
Until the Church said, “ Let there be dark,”
And Twilight reigned.
PAUL MELL.
In the atmosphere of the House of Com-
mons your Labour-member, up to date, writes a
malicious English correspondent to The Bulletin,
is like clay in the bands of the potter. Bradlaugh
became almost a Tory ; Burt and Broadhurst are
muzzled ; Joseph Arch visits the Prince of Wales
at Sandringham; John Burns now “roars like
any sucking dove; ” Keir Hardie wears a necktie
and an ordinary “ bowler ” hat; and J. H. Wil-
son, secretary of the Seamen’s and Firemen’s
Union, is now known as Mr. J. Havelock Wilson.
No hyphen yet, but that will come as soon as he
is appointed an Inspector of Plimsoll marks or
something. “J. Lionel ” Fegan all over again.
Original reply recently received by a
Sydney man in answer to a “ Board and Resi-
dence” ad vt. ;
No, , Terrace, Street, . Sir,- When
I look over the Herald of to-day’s date and see the
number of advt. from persons wishing to let rooms in
various parts of city and suburbs, I know your discrimi-
native powers will be a little taxed when making a choice
between those you may see advertised and the letters you
will receive from old and young, loquacious and taciturn,
industrious and easy-going, educated and illiterate, &c.,
&0., inviting you to inspect the room which thev
will offer you at various prices, from ss. a week
to 15s. You will have to be very cautious, or you
may fall in with associations which you will not
find harmonious; the landlady may be covered with
“ jam ” when you first meet her, but, after you have
lived wdth her a week or two, you may discover ‘her to be
a regular “ nipper.” Or, you may find that your room
after a little while is not kept as nice and clean as it ought
to be, that your sleeping hours are somewhat disturbed
by various unpleasant invertebrate specimens of animal
life whose prtsence and constant attachment you would
much rather be without. Or your room may he frequently
invaded by the junior members of the family, whose
curiosity is excited by some of your personal property
and who have not been trained to notions of respect for
the personal property of others. All these and many
more experiences may be yours if your powers of judg-
ment be at fault and you fall into an unsuitable household,
even if it be in the vicinity of Phillip or Macquarie-streets.
Is it not far better for you to have a quarter of an hour’s .
walk away from the odoriferous streets of the city to
that, healthily-situated and select locality at the top of
William-street, known as Darlinghurst, where, at the
foregoing address, you may find a very nicely-furnished
front room, on ground floor, where you may feel “at
home,” and where your weary brain may' he sometimes
refreshed by the cool invigoraticns of a shower-bath or
supplemented by a friendly interchange of thought w’ith
a person of “ideas.” Where you will avoid all the
unpleasant consequences of an unharmonious home and
the many disagreeable influences mentioned on this and
the preceding page of this letter. My wife is a model
of cleanbm ss and order. She is of a nice disposition and
" ill do you justice in making your surroundings free
I • an all that is objectionable to one’s comfort and happi-
ness for the small sum of 10s. per week, sitting and bed-
room combined. No young children, only two boys and
one girl, the youngest in her 12th year. If you onlv want
a sitting-room, or only a bedroom, we can arrange accord-
ingly. At the top of William-street, turn to - 1 and
opposite is street. Yours truly,
. P.S.— lf you do not at present approve of this
arrangement perhaps you may at some later period A
note will oblige.


Hotel.
THB IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(i'ioiii I’ltt-street to
t’astlereagli-streei),
Bitween King & Market Stt.
BVI>\EV.
’ 111
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS 8s ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SS&NS ]V[anagoit,
years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CSM4
0
PATENT
PILLS.
n
A
*
&
£*3
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. Every
nifferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable!
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bnng about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEEOHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
De found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give JjEKCUAm’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Bs. fid. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
H O O J>.
HEALrk . STR§mril AAV. Is'/GQK. RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
X) ® RICORO's
cE °f |,t F E--
The only Infallible Remedy for DERILITi.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 06s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope. _
Agents for Aimti dlasin—Perry <t Co., 7S Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
■tST. NOW PITBT.T^HKD.
“The Last of Six.”
Medioal.
9
ROSES
£
&
THEONLY
C
LOTI
RELIABLE
•esn
fd
rrHIS valuable Lotion, is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
j toy i
&
'
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTfV
i V.
m
\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwaids. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improv m°nts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, etc.
T A. S 3MC A. IST X A.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
ows
EMBROCATION
)f%OLO |
'\£\/£RY n WHERE'I
m
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL— COMFORTING
COCOA
‘Tales of the Convict System,*
—BY—
‘ r»rice Waning,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of, any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. Bd. in stamps.
Business Announcements
prson's
Jf
W HISKY
mmm
m .'I
«r»V
■■SiK
Best on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allfs Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited.
///
A
mOM
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party : “Why didn’t you keep
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
f ATKINSOK’S^
WHITE BOSE
Universally admired. Other Odours
pall upon the sense, but Atkinson’s
“ White Bose ” is over fresh and sweet.
ATKIHSCN'B
EAU DE COLOGNE
Benowned for a couple of centuries,
this Perfume has given rise to a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English— the finest.
Of all Dealers.
& E. ATKXnSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield
and address in full.
Men I have Smiled with.'
w E STAY at Bruton’s,
jgHnginos
AAT^A-G-Gr-A-.
/TLive E. hTanghton.
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Grand
MBLUOORNIS.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, €3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55,; Double ditto. 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. E. BICKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
THE GROSYENOR HOTEL,
Sydney.
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Rooms from 3s. Double Rooms from 6s.
Inclusive Tariff 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
THE LANGHAIvT HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 80s. per WEEK
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia's Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,'*
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Comolete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinan i in, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
N The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, .instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one J louse to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailing spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com*
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It bad at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the olauns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff. ,
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to tiie bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
- Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official —that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going- ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per . I nnum.
* Snsinem communications to be addressed to
William MaoleoD, Managing Director , to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


“The Bulletin’s”
MISSING WORD
COMPETITION
(SERIES, No. 5)
Will Close on Saturday,
Stb. A.UC3-'CT^T.
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX ; ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EBITEST ZPJAVZEUSTO,
Price, One Sliilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Sthket, Sydney.
A PROPHECY.
DON’T BE DISTRESSED. 'Depression will soon give place to prosperity by thoughtful economy
and good laws. The lands of the colony should be its source of wealth, but this can only be
practicable by a profitable market being provided for the products of the land. The railway rates
should be adapted, somewhat upon the Zone system, to the wants of the inland districts. By carrying
rates to the sea-board, so that the tillers of the soil may have a profitable market provided (America
owes her great prosperity mainly to this), emigration would then flow into the country, population
increase, and a natural boom the result.
LEYER BROTHERS, LTD.,
Are doing tlieir best to encourage Trade in the Colony, having, since January,
Bought over 2000 TONS OF TALLOW in Sydney.
Value, £50,000.
This benefits BUTCHERS, SQUATTERS, WHARF LABOURERS, CARTERS, etc.
This Tallow goes to make the far-famed
Suiin.lig'ii.t Soap,
WHICH IS USED IN
Her Majesty the Queen’s Latm.dlry,
And by all who believe that THE BEST IN QUALITY.IS THE CHEAPEST BY RESULT.
Lever Erotliers, Limited, Sydney.
A
ZX3
>
sJ
o
o
o
X
€
o
o
o
o
o
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 38 I’iM-st , Sydney,
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,*
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si C 0„ SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY,
"VT OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
H Islington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
-f 74-&
Frue Va-ner or Ore concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
OLIIMIITIBID),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Macliinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Macliinery and Supplies,
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlie “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
f
M)
*£ - I
."■e
wmss*
m
Kncw’es' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT!
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip—ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle, Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, if’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duffs or Bibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. I am POY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
•with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery-man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEI
“VST'srsa.’yea.rci. Square, fi3"s£'3olKriEs"X'.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED.
ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACINO THE RESERVE.
13T” Terms—llls. fill, per Way. W-llltS! SldllOy isteWCastle), Prop.”
DEWAR’S WHISK ,
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, IsOn.
UNDER C'.»M PETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at'the .BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Cm
ZOO'W'OjIT’S W liiSlfelST'-
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIiil ITON
Sydney Agents:
CURCIEK, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
THE BULLETINSERIES, No. 3.
PUBLISHED.
Price, Is
■
- x
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Short and Pithy Australian Tales by the Adven-
turous Queensland Explorer and well-known
W riter,
Ernest Paveno.
