

ms
a
m
xfi
o*.
t>
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS * T 5 EACH.
SSS“ H r - | |||
melboulnl cupl novlmbek (For Houses OnhT) .... 20,00() @lO each.
Register Letter, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with £ vamps loose —one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
“GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171, G.P.O , BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
xs.
Mining
9
107 Kent street, Sydney.
-FOB-
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’
"Crv,
RY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
ole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. 6ca.
<#
foteJfcucT
h j*j>
f
(lenry Hert^S
TRADE MABif
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. €*c3L.
If GTOOfr
A Splendid Hat for Boating:, Yaetitinsr, Hawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three shapes at the will ot
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really iro in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture ot velvet.
G. K. SMITH & SO3ST.
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
“THE 1. AST OF SIX:”
hies of the Austral Tropics.
Price, is.; .... per Post, Is. 3d.
2
*p
A
OM
DIM
urn
Oxford Hotel, King Street, SycLxiey.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
--THE—,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
<UMITED)
FOR
>IILH „ The Purest Country.
>1 .. .. Dos We or Single.
ICIE .. The Ch a rest Crystal.
BBITTEK .. “Goltleu Star” Creamery, Regd.
I-'SSB .. .. Colonial, English, X.Z., American.
<»A>IE .. .. Xlie Choicest Sorts.
I*o6 I.TK V .. From the famed Farms of the Colon',
PA r. Till, dr. .. The most Exquisite.
JpfT" The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SI lit KBS.
The splendid railway facilities . tiered by tile Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony;—
3MEIZ.K, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAM E,
]Pastry, erfcc.
Ist July, 1833.
IS. P ATESOSf*
Manager.
film’s WHISKY.
All
JOKC3V
,
•WA-X.15:3E33Ft,
24
BOKTO
—— *
ST^S-lESIEST,
S3cTUII«r3ES-Sr.
J.
Solo Agents
jsr &-w
I
isO’<Pl.fc,|;3-
Wales
Mesav-B. Clayfcosi and 3S.ia.-w. t&*ew -> i' tJcx.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.-
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
it
■ mi ■
WITH HANDLES.
Q R DIN ARY ST EE RAG B,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also xu Riding.
CLAYTON. SI SHUriwf.'JVO^H
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENOTXE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requuementaftf N.S.VV.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD
Single (Minder Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines
Kon.al Sues of all 'classes : Under, yje Engines : „ Boilers of diking
Portable
Portable
iital Engines of all clauses: Under.ype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
lc Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators; eiiches.
Ic steam-power Ulmff-cutling and Bagging Machines; I ortuble Steain-pov
er (
torn Shellers.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Ligh. ness m Draught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
sST'
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each,
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRT C LIGII TING
J. &
ENGINIS, WINDING ENGINES. TRACTION ENGINES. Rnf
c. Howard., 280^
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on
Pitt street, Sydney.
ion.
The Bulletin
Vo] 13.— N0. 702. J
[Saturday, July 29, 1893.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
l“ho Brighton of Now Soutb Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining
Sitting Md Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &e., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK,
lurvm. Kn-MINSTBR -0 ~ .... Proprietreaa.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
<*
The ouly TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager run ArsTi!Ai<iA-*JL*. J. IMCaoW 111± am, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Wl
m
5 AY
ml
|s.Always The- Best
Medical,
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &£., should
send for Dr. 51. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen's Hospital
Ship‘ Dread-
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifies-
Dr.
ivr.K.c.s., L.S.A., &0 .,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
r. PERRY S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
w Tumors and all
Glandular. Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
hinj to undertake the treatment of these oases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Pern spamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
I? J*”'’ ot / lie hotly. He supplies a Genuine
&LECTRR B.slt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £ l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
EPPS'S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Chas. H. Pxesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm, Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
mALKS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE ON E SHILLING.
ƒ
EMBROCATION-
f
%
♦ lli
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes <o grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied tor their use
m every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxfokd-st., London, p ur -
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snunous
Vr-
POWDER
m
Shb: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S 1 ’
Hk : “No 1
She : “Know my cakes?”
He ; “Ah !■ Dem that make me love.”
fll'HE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
I Svdxry Branches:
C. 4 PITT STREET, and 538 (IEORGE ST-KEET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
t'2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Hotel.
*“ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From ntNtreet to
CsstloreaKh-atreet),
Between King <b Market Sts.
1
EPtf
i
I
m
w
Wm
m.
tw- IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SSt&NK notify, JVJanageit,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
"yryr E STAY at B ruton’a,
Aianainoo
WAGGA.
R.ive Jbi. INaup-^ton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
tfELBOORNB.
Opposite Parliament Hn
'erlooking
Treas \ry Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding- Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto. 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKEK, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The most refined of all Perfumes.
Sweet as the Rose itself. Imitated the
world over, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON'S
EATJ DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the
German kinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinsoji’s.
Of all Dealers.
J. 8c E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION } —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ White Hose
and address in lull.
IVI A N XI o O X>.
BEAL TH, STRENGTH AND FIGoA RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the i
df
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century With unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the humanframe.
In eases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasm—Perry ,b Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE
AgentsforN.S. Wales—W. H. Soul&Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
To Newsagents, etc.
T S IMC A. 3XTI A.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
Medical.
ROSES
B
Lit
Fa
ST
(8
THEONLY
d
r 1 valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BL1(; HI, I N FLAMED EYES and LIDS
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, Ac. It will be found very
ncial ana cooling- to those who have weak eyes or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes.’ Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. HOSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale House*.
Established ISOS. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
ft
M
\\
5?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC I
as
BELTh'
x - ■
>Nr
r
Nr
s -•
X
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt bv
the wearer. It has great ira-pnminputs over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what ■' e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a c< ntinuous
mild, soothing current of elec* ricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorousstrength
even the worst case permanently cuted in three months’
It is more convenient to w.ar than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any di-ease of the Nervous System
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d stamn
for postage. 1
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
'
Beeclmm’s Pills
PAi
£iNT
n
PILLS
&
$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a ttuim-i
a Box for bilious
ami nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiwess, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, Hashings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling Sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
J?? erer earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pula, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
for females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
»f the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of- any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcham’s Coiiou
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in »
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists arid Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


Medical.
D» JECKELL VINES
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Heal til (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous I, Skin Complaints /
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Fee-
ling after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms, Thi ?
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr, J, Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what 1 claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
Weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday —9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Address all Communications :
Dr. JEOKELL Y INKS,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
<-rl
3
□
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi 3
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a_
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
lie sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONS ULTATION EliEB.
Hotel.
m.
m
Sara
The (Sydney Coffee (Palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Doiitiiin. Sydney, Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranjrinn from ±'4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
■T>omi.<3 PATHS, (fee.
MKSCItIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Ovtrlookimr Government
Domain and
Pjotanioal Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post office, etc.
The quiet of a country
homo without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
itaaies’ Tea Eooms.
IJHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one cf the hist-appointed Ladies’Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It vi 1 also he a great boon to Business
Men in I he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, c' inhined
with a little of tl ~e cup that cheers without inebriating.
IKT o Ota-tre, 3KT o HE® a,y.
s
» » «.^buisaß^Sl.'. i-'
IfflEi- V v ->To >/
0
ii
ri'HIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Renumber, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently curr
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely whal we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
Afuv TTFWV
SKIN TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused hy
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s. 6d., or, three bottles together, £1 12s. 6d.
Valuable new Book on “ NATURAL BEAUTY,” given
away for a short time only to all callers.
Head Office —89 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australasia—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
R 3
IS|fg£y
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. C- BLDBIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
E
NGLAND
IN
VIA AMERICA
3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding ajike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SIMP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this lino are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
fiSco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
' SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d,
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. \V. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIEB MARITIMES.
,SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
FORT SAID, will be despat dud monthly as follows:
Dates of Departure.
Steamer Commander Sydney jMelbourne ; Adelaide
Noon | I p.m. I 1 p.m.
At STB ALIEN iGTDidier ” AmgTlYAugT ”81 Sept. 2
V dclaCTOTATiFiaschi .. Sept. 27 Oct. 1 Oet. -- 3
YuLYNLESIEN L. Boulttrd Oct. 27 Nov. 1 Nov. 3
I I’ -I
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.- ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, e(c., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N B. —Passengers' luggage conveyed fiec of cost to
London by steamer.
For further p-r'.ieulais, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Maequarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
V.O.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. TE4
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine—los. 6d., Post Free.
CKIKi .A AITKIN', Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
m
m
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decide 1 improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <3c AITKEiVT,
new SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 «V 683 George Street, Sydney.
rST" NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six. 5 ’
tHOMflRf'
I 1!?
v.o.
Cromarty
Whisky:
i
GREENLEES BROTHERS
QHSUOW LONDON AND


pp
Sim& est
n&SBST
S@/VIN6
machine
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
*
yu
HOME
i
assa®
fkfn°,
\
JMohnsfon&Co-
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
' 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
“n
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
SHAVING MACHINE.
These Machines or Razors, 8/6 each, post free. Please see that
the name “ W. Jno. Bakek, Sydney,” is on each Box.
Illustrated Booklet, showing accompanying Machine fitted
up in handsome cases for presentation, forwarded post free on
application.
W. Jno. Baker, C TITLEB,
3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
rw
Shaving
Machine,
Bs. 6d.
POST FREE-
NEWTON & LAMB.
Special Designs iix arcsosao. E'lam.it'u.re.
c- v :'o W -Y- L
0 •; . r
C -6,9 <0
So- 1
<o^
o c C 1 n
O' 0
>
‘TO,
JO-
A
40
'N
Li
e 2
or
0^
r s
r-
-0
\-o . 1
ej
i
o
m
a
Wis
rr
cv
SI
A
A V
CiCL
OS2-
Sl9
SUITE, comprising SIDEBOARD, with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK,
DINING TABLE, SETTEE, Two ARM CHAIRS and Six SMALL CHAIRS.
SUITE, comprising SIHEBOARD, with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK,
DINING TABLE. SETTEE, Two ARM CHAIRS and Six SMALL CHAIRS.
COTTAGE SUITE, in WALNUT, comprising SIDEBOARD, with Bevelled
SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK, EXTENSION DINING TABLE with
SPARE LEAVES, SETTEE, Two EASY CHAIRS and Six DINING-ROOM
CHAIRS.
SPRING O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
ZiimitedL,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, B oilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
f
*3T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Plum ’
PL
Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
I Sing’e Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
and sad Post Free to any of the Australian colonics , Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
“ Leger” Tobacco. “ Leger” Tobacco.
AMOURCEMERT !
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
“LEGER”TOBACCO
£5O DIVIDED £5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER, 1893, Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893<
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS! DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING!
“ LEGER ” has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success of the “ LEGER,” the manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O £5O £5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEG-ER,” distributed as follows :
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER” paper tags or labels
from the plugs during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS •...
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS
For the. Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS
Competition closes December 17, 1893. Tickets must be sent in not later than December 21, 1893.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23, 1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public may be present to see the contents counted.
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—" LEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy ol
our statement that the “ LEGER ” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, but of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. 3d. and often'
Is. 6d. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for the “Leger” Tobacco —Price, Is. per Block.
“ Leger ” has caught on !
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, anc
your week’s-supply 25 per cent, cheaper.
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who it
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part oi
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMAKKET, SYDNEY.
£l3 0 0
10 0 9
7 10 n
5 5 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
3 2 0
3 0 0
“THE LAST OF SIX.”
Price One Shilling*.
YOU
MAY
WIN
For
Half-Share,
Quarter-Share,
Tliis
Building
■SS
SOT
"Tc?
First Prize— Value, £35,000.
ANNUAL RENTAL, £1750.
UNT.iO. —To effect "tlx€3 realisation of Bank and
Buildlixig Societies’ effects, rendered unsale-
able Iby th.e present commercial depression,
THIE
Mutual Freehold Property
Distribution Society of Sydney
Are issuing 145,000 Shares at £1 each, with no further liability.
3441 PRIZES.
All Sydney and Suburban Properties, and largely rent-producing. No unimproved back-blocks ot
inaccessible squatting properties.
First Prize, £3s,ooo.— Those Magnificent Offices and Banking Chambers, ParlAud Castlereagh
Streets, occupied by the City Bank (Castlereagh Street Branch), arid the Mercantile Building
Land and Investment Co., Limited, having a rental value of £1750 per annum.
I PRIZE ot £15,000 llt PRIZES of £5,000 110 PRIZES of £l,OOO I 10 PRIZES of £250 I 100 PRIZES of
3 PRIZES of 10,000 llt PRIZES of 3,500 | » PRIZES of 500 |5O PRIZES of 100 | 100 PHIZES of
150 PRIZES of £3O 1000 PRIZES of £lO 3000 PRIZES of £5,
£5O
35
14 CHANCES FOR EACH SHAKE. ISA
Apply personally, or send Cash, Money Order, Stamps or Cheque (add exchange), and two stamped envelopes for reply.
Bankers : CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
The Date of Drawing (which will be supervised by a committee of eminent citizens) will be announced on 31st JULY,
For Shares, Prospectuses, and full particulars, apply to
’E33FI,
C/o R. HOPE ATKINSON, 25 Imperial Arcade, SYDNEY ; or LOCAL AGENTS.
NOTICK TO SMALT TN VJ'ISTOHS.—To facilitate the i a restate at of small smas, aa<i to
enable those tehii at iffht other trise he debarred to part lei pate la the benefits of this distribu-
tion, arraaf/eaieats hare hern made for the sale of Half-Shares at lOs. and Quarter-Shares
tit .Is., for which certificates trill be issued.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13— No.
SATURDAY, JULY 29, 1898.
Price, 6d.
f*
f
d
A turf's?
dsf
-i ■
'A'
„, f p)f
'SeaiF:
~fle patriotic
iu
Co LO K I 1—
STfCRtTfIRy.
)Vo More S oap 1
jr
/Vo N| cm*<! 30 0A- SEA\ |
, ty ‘j
/le/’u bh'CCih- JS>lbbS‘.\
■s©e> MJSS
||/= mkt\
/A 1 1
IfPWWI,
flfif
'te^
lirin™
DEMOCRATIC SIMPLICITY.
This is a view of the interior of the N.S.W. Colonial Secretary’s office as Dibbs intends to make it according to his Penrith speech. Hop, trusts that this picture
will have a reassuring effect upon the British investor.


The Bulletin
Th 3 National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for tin Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO , Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... 012 6
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending (Erect to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
ivhich you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any A mtralian province —you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
City The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with uhoni we do not wish
to interfere:
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and dll Business Communications
to be addressed to William MAcleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
• Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, ShoH Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are Specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. Alt
communications icill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return ail unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
London.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mailt at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limitedi 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal: —The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: It. A. Thompson and Co., S Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 2d:
added for postage.
No papers tvill be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule:
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
♦
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Lannces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY-, JULY 29, 1893.
The Coming N.S.W. Elections.
As the New South Wales general election
grows nearer the chances of the Protectionist
party at the polls become smaller and smaller.
Under the party system the chances of an
election are always more or less against the
Government, though in the present instance
—even apart from Dibbs’ latest and worst
apostacy—the Ministerial prospects are a
trifle worse than usual. The great, principle
of the present political system is always to get
rid of the party in office. That party is, in
99 cases out of a hundred, a failure—more
or less ghastly; generally much more ghastly.
Therefore, in the last few months of its exis-
tence there is always a general declaration,
in .the press and elsewhere, that the present
Parliament is the most utierly hopeless upon
record, and the present session I ho most
barren in history, and the present Govern-
ment the most/ absolutely incapable which
ever held office since some period before the
first beginnings of legend or myth. Also, it
is invariably declared that any change must
needs be for the better, for there is nothing
worse within the bounds of human possi-
bility 7. And thereupon the public—that
great, slow-moving, inert, reasonless, form-
less mass of illogical atoms —looks round for
some one to save the country, and entrusts
the work to the Opposition leader who, some
three years before, had also been at the head
of the worst and most utterly corrupt
Government on record, and had been sup-
ported by the most incapable, weak, and
absolutely villainous Parliament ever heard
of.
# • *
Then the new leader presently developed
—just as he developed before, and probably
on several other occasions—into the worst
and most unscrupulous politician within the
memory of the very oldest inhabitant’s
grandfather, and the country appeals to his
predecessor to come to its rescue, and he
comes and travels the same road as Ixffore
And on each occasion the shore-sighted’
shoi t-meuioricd populace scorns to bo abso-
lutely unaware that: its temporary idol had
any previous existence, and to have utterly
forgotten that it had alternately slobbered
him and thrown bricks at him for a genera-
tion. Even if politicians lived to the ages
of the patriarchs it would probably remember
the faeb no better ; it would appeal to the
two old, white-bearded, party hacks in turn
for six centuries or so, and every time it put
the other hack at the head of affairs it would
feel sure that at last it had found the ouo
spotless patriarch of whom it had been in
search ever since the Middle Ages. Except
when a coalition or the formation of a
powerful third party breaks up the ancient
routine, this rule is almost absolute. The
chances at a general election are always
against the Government, and they are against
the Dibbs Government now even more than
usual.
* # #
The public always judges the Government
in power by the material prosperity of the
country. Its short and simple rule is that
if the country is reasonably well-off, then
the Government is good ; if it is not well-
off', then the Government is irredeemably
bad. As the country seldom is reasonably
well-off, the Government is generally about
as bad as any mundane institution can be,
and for that cause it is thrown out at the
next general election. The Dibbs Ministry,
estimated according to this logic, is even
worse than the average. The indictment
against it consists of the evil consequences
of the great maritime strike ; the failure of
the strike at the Barrier, and the reduction
of wages which followed ; the closing of the
Indian mint and the collapse of the silver
industry ; the shutting-up of many silver
mines and the consequent loss of employ*
ment; the Clarence River floods and the
appalling losses resulting therefrom; the
fall of several dozen banks, building societies
and finance institutions (whose rottenness
began with the failure of the last boom
away back in ancient history) ; the impossi-
bility of raising more loans save at utterly
ruinous prices, chiefly because the London
financiers are broken by South American
speculations and have no money to lend ; the
fact that the original loans—floated when
New South Wales first started her borrowing
policy—are now beginning to fall due, and
have to be met somehow out of an empty
treasury ; and the utter failure of the
attempt to raise a gold boom, principally
because there is neither gold nor faith nor
capital, nor any other essential in the
country.
* * *
Then there are a number of smaller sins
to be laid to the charge of the present Pro-
tectionist Cabinet. It is cursed for not re-
trenching sufficiently to make the Treasury
accounts square in a time of ceaseless
disaster, and it is cursed for the retrench-
ments it has effected because they involve
throwing hundreds of men out of employ-
ment and thus add to the public distress.
Its greatest crime is not starting large public
works to absorb surplus labour,, and its next
greatest crime is that it didn’t absolutely
cease to float new loans for public works and
similar purposes. The country is tired of it
because of the dead infants that were found
in Makin’s hack-yard, and because of Pert’s
violent death, and because wool is not higher,
and the crops are none too prosperous, and
the hospital funds are low, and the weather
is cold, and because of the rabbits, and the
Bathurst burr, and the Paraguayan exodus,
and other troubles. When Sydney Evening
News charged all these, and many other evils
of the same kind, to the Protectionist Go-
vernment it unconsciously struck a great
truth. Hardly anybody formulates any co-
herent reason for his hatred of the present
or any other Ministry, but deep down in the
great, illogical, unreasoning soul of the
nation it is hated with a great hatred,
because of the northern floods and the fall
in the price of silver, and the broken banks,
and all the other extraneous disasters. And
every other Government is judged by the
same standard ; only it is the misfortune of
the Dibbs’ Cabinet to hold office at about
the most unhappy period of the country's
history, and therefore it is disliked even
more than the average.
* # *
Aparb'from the curse of Dibbs’ two apos-
tacies, the present N.S.W. Ministry has
made two stupendous mistakes in its policy,
though, so far as the available evidence goes,
they have made very little difference in its
popularity. The first error was that it had
nut (he courage of its convictions, and its
Protectionist policy was never more than a
poor, half-hearted apology for a creed from
first to last. It tried to serve two gods, and
it served neither, it endeavoured to obtain
increased revenue through tne Customs
House, and to establish Protection at the
same time, and as genuine Protection does
not yield revenue the attempt was a failure.
And its second mistake, the inevitable result
of the first, was its failure to impose a Land
Tax. Also, this second blunder was, to some
extent, lhe cause of the first; it was because
the Dibbs Government dared not impose a
Land < ax that it did not dare to carry out
its Protectionist policy. In the old days of
the Foreign-trade ascendancy it was com-
paratively easy to avoid the necessity of
taxing the mighty landlord. The Foreign-
trade system was always to obtain revenue
by levying duties which served no purpose
except to bring money to the Treasury and
to enhance tire cost of the necessaries of life.
For something like forty years the party
travelled on this device and called it Free-
trade, and in all that time the idea of a tax
upon land monopoly was hardly even men-
tioned. Since then the conditions have
changed. The result of Protection is not to
raise revenue through the Customs, but to
block the importation of revenue-producing
goods, and, therefore, to steadily reduce the
receipts from this source, and as it becomes
more and more perfect the Customs revenue
diminishes until it approaches the vanishing
point. But, simply because genuine
Protection would so reduce the amount
exacted from the nation in Customs
charges that a heavy Land Tax would
presently become essential as the only
means of filling the gap, the Dibbs Govern-
ment dared not adopt a genuine protective
policy. It only fouled around feebly and
abjectly with a revenue tariff, and by calling
it Protection brought its ow n alleged prin-
ciples into disrepute. Dibbs betrayed Pro-
tection just as he betrayed Republicanism
when he sold himself for a miserable one-
horse title, and as he betrayed Democracy
when he became the tool of the National Ass
to abolish payment of members.
• # # #
The one resource which can permanently
supply the shortage in the New (South Wales
revenue and furnish the means for construct-
ing necessary public works out of revenue,
and put an end to a disastrous borrowing
policy and the absolutely ruinous land
monopoly, is land-taxation. And the only
road to laud taxation is by Protection. The
Freetrade-party has been tried for 40 years
and, judging by its past record, all hope that
it will ever be induced to lay an impost on
wealth may be abandoned. It is the wealthy
party in New South Wales politics—-the
party of landlordism and prosperous usury—-
the party of all the ancient fossils whose
mighty estates cumber the face of the earth ;
and the idea that it will ever put an impost
on land monopoly is as absurd as the hope
that Leo XIII. will join the Orange Lodge
and drink to the blessed memory of
Dutch William. The present hope of
the New South Wales Land Tax party
should lie with the Protectionists ; any
attempt to ally itself with the so-called
Freetraders can only be based on the childish
hope that that party will commit suicide to
oblige its new ally. But even if the Protec-
tionist leaders are disposed to repair the evil
of their ways it is eminently unlikely that
the opportunity will come in their way. The
bank failures, and the Clarence River floods,
and the reduction in seamen’s wages, and
the fall in the price of silver, and the horrible
scene at Archer’s execution, and the dead
infants that were found in Marin's back-
yard, all lie like a mountain on their soul,
and at next election the country will as-
suredly get level with them for these and
other troubles, and send them into obscurity.
The Coming Daily Paper.
There never was a time when the need of one
straight, honest, democratic daily newspaper
made itself so conspicuously visible from end to
end of Australia as to-day. Occasions have
been when journalistic enterprise, affected at
the time, perhaps, with a passing spasm of
patriotic sincerity, perceived that the existing
press did not represent popular feeling and
grasped an opportunity. Almost every daily
paper in Sydney 7, for example, morning or
evening, came into existence as a champion of
popular rights and liberties. Each of them has
served the popular interest fairly well for a
time and become widely circulated in conse-
quence. Wide circulation brings advertise-
ments and prosperity—then comes fatty de-
generation. The daily that began as a champion
of reform and succeeded through its champion-
ing, has invariably become the mere organ of
the advertiser. It has bowed the knee before
the banking, mercantile, shipping, wool-
broking, and building-society arbiters of adver-
tising, and set up a pot-bellied Baal on the
pedestal of its former god.
# # #
The last of the Sydney dailies to make its
bow as the mouthpiece of the multitude was
the Australian Star. Its professed purpose was
to force to the front a fiscal creed which was
supported by the earnest and progressive part
of the community as a revolution against the
old regime. The Star to-day is as thoroughly
destitute of sympathy with democratic striv-
ings, as it is enthusiastically favourable to big
“private enterprise” schemes, every one of
which involves monopoly of public rights and
public robbery. And where else can one look
amongst the Sydney dailies for the spirit of
fairplay to all classes?
# # #
It is the same elsewhere. No more corpulent
rat ever withdrew from the sinking ship of
Democracy than the Age. Of late, the Argus
has said some things on certain subjects very
grateful to the public ear, but, without being
uncharitable, one may largely credit that fact
to the exigencies of business opposition. The
S.A.- Register has forgotten the past and
become the creature of the local National Ass.
The Brisbane Courier supports the most
traitorous combination that ever existed in
Australia, and assails with gross abuse the few-
clean men who fight against it. Such an abject
and whole-souled abasement to the Dagon of
Fatness is far more suggestive of class con-
spiracy than the gathering together of any
number of trades-unionists. The most colossal
frauds upon the Democracy, the most glaring
acts of powerful political villainy are approved,
passed over silently, or, where neither can be
done, referred to with apologetic reluctance.
The man in brick-shaped bluchers of factory-
make who gets tired of working for next to
nothing is held up as an intolerable ruffian
whose unreasonable demands scare away capital
and prevent the development of the country.
The boodler, the cormorant of the parliamen-
tary lefbbies, is now the master whom almost all
“ leading ” dailies serve.
» # *
Why is a sincere and able Democratic daily
not established ? There is no lack of journal-
istic talent to conduct it. Three-fourths of
the most bitter and poisononsly mean leading
articles against labour organisations and all
kindred subjects are written by men who, we
know, hate their work and curse their drivers
while writing them. In the army ranks of the
National Ass there are, despite the miserable
snobbery of the miserably-paid paget-coated
clerk who regards as his enemy the labourer in
moleskin, many full privates who have joined
because the Boss is there, and who, every time
they shout in rapturous applause at the inspired
words of Epps, Baker, Tozer, Harper and
Co., register a vow of vengeance. So it is in
the newspaper offices. The most capable and
intelligent writers necessarily realise the rotten-
ness of the social conditions which they are
paid to uphold and the dishonesty of the
political games those men of many investments,
their employers, are playing. “Their poverty
but not their will consents ” to aid in sustaining
a state of things they abhor, and to help in a
game which may rob their own children. The
average pressman stands in the same position as
the average lawyer; he will take a brief from
either side. But, other things being equal, he
would always choose to write according to his
convictions. And some have strong convictions.
There are front-row journalists, like Medway
Day, of South Australia, who would rather be
gatekeepers of Democracy than dwellers in the
tents of Apoplectic Privilege.
* * *
The men could be found readily. And the
money should be easily procurable. If there
w'ere no other motive in question than that of
profiDmaking, here is a golden opportunity
indeed. Honesty mayn’t always be the best
policy in journalism; but a consistent instance
of it just now would prove a success by force of
contrast. With a capital of £50,000 the right-
man could establish, in Sydney, a morning
newspaper which would, in a month or two,
command a great circulation. Such a paper
should not ostentatiously proclaim itself the
organ of anything or anybody. It should fulfil
the requirements of a newspaper in a world
that is too full of newspapers —or rather, of
printed sheets which misuse the name. It
should not print columns of frozen reports
about commonplace proceedings, or under any
circumstances use two words- w here one would
do. It should not rate the most vapid utter-
ances of a Premier or a Crown Minister as of
more interest to readers than really thoughtful
and pertinent speech from a Labour member. It
should measure everybody by the foot-rule of
public interest. It should not make the mistake
of supposing that people want to receive stolen
goods in the form of reprint, especially such
shoddy goods as can be stolen safely. It should
render the facts and the meaning of every
notable daily occurrence as clear as crystal to
popular comprehension, presenting facts within
the limits of law and the minimum of space.
It should focus the electric-light of truth and
democratic purpose upon every financial scheme
submitted to the public, and explain on every
occasion who was going to suck the cocoa-nut.
As a profit-making concern, it should never
take up the muckrake of misrepresentation to
gather in big advertisements,
# # •
In the multiplicity of readers and of small
advertisers would be its strength. Such a
paper, manifestly catering for the honest intel-
ligence of the people, up to date in news,
absolutely unsparing of individuals or parties in
its devotion to public interests, and managed
with ordinary ability, would distance al! com-
petitors. For its usefulness in the ordinary
newspaper sense it would obtain a great city
and suburban circulation. For its vigour and
probity it would be as manna in the desert to
Australian readers everywhere. The political
intellect of the world has been aroused lately us
it never was before by profound thinkers,
whose universal verdict, by whatever differing
paths of reasoning arrived at, is that the masses
are being robbed by the classes. There arc
many able writers on the Australian daily
press who know this, and who agree with the
profound thinkers—and who are paid to know
nothing and to agree with their employers. In
such a paper they could speak to an abundant
congregation. They could show the naked
iniquity of Acts of Parliament whereby tax-
payers are loaded with the private debts of
bank-shareholders. They could make such acts
impossible in the future, and stay the hand of
the political looter midway between the public
pocket and his own. Australia is starving for
able and honest political guidance, and would
quickly realise the difference between a daily
newspaper that supplied it, and the others that
are simply organs of the interests—hopelessly-
opposed to the general public interest—in w hich
most of their proprietors are steeped to the very
eyebrows.
# # *
The danger that, if a daily of this sort were
established and succeeded, the proprietary would
sell their pens to the big advertiser, is not so
great as in the past, because doing so will never
again be so profitable. The organisation of
workers has entered a new stage, and rightly
looks to political action more than to active
resistance as the remedy for class oppression.
Politically, organised labour understands that
what it wants is not class legislation but fair
play, and the daily paper which advocated
justice and the recognition of established prin-
ciples in law-making would have its enthusiastic
support. Labour organisation is not dead. It is
sleeping with one eye open and fixed sardoni-
cally on the fatuous gambols of the Ass. Within
the next year The Bulletin predicts a fusion
of popular discontent in a more pow erful politi-
cal organisation than has yet arisen. The
Farmers’ Unions, the Socialists, the various
trade-bodies, theSingle-taxeis, theFreelrade and
Protectionist wage-earners should combine to
fall upon the Fat Man and his Ass and remove
them from politics. They probably will.
# # »
A paper of the kind must, and ultimately
will be, brought out. It could best be done I>\


an individual proprietor, whose god was his
paper and the brilliancy and the honesty
thereof, and who would abandon all else to
follow those things. If a highly intelligent
and expert moneyed man could be found and
trained for a year in the experiences of the dis-
contented worker by wharf-lumping, navvying,
or enjoying the hospitalities of a non-panperis-
ino-labour-farm, he would be the right person.
Ot° if several moneyed men who could agree
too’k the matter in hand, purely as a specula-
tion secured a competent editor and let him
loose, it would pay them better than in-
vesting in bank shares. Barring this, the
labour organisations must address themselves
to the matter. There is but one real difficulty
in the way of their doing so. They could raise
the necessary funds by an annual levy, which
would not fall heavily upon them if generally
agreed to. A small percentage of the money
lost in strikes during the last decade would
have sustained a powerful daily paper in
defiance of all chances. But a paper specially
(subsidised cannot exercise such influence as one
which is beholden for its existence to no orga-
nisation, and can only depend for support on
the public approval. The big rock ahead of
such a scheme is the difficulty of determining
the details of editorial policy, and of preventing
the columns of the paper from being used in
furtherance of personal political ambition. The
editor who would be worth his salt to the cause
of Democratic advancement would have to
be a Dictator, chosen because of his fitness for
Dictatorship. The coming daily newspaper
will come, and its existence will mean the
exposure of the wholesale schemes that are
now being hatched by political brigands, the
crippling of dangerous forces now gathering,
that otherwise would soon cripple the country,
and the gradual enlightenment of the com-
munity regarding the true economic laws which
all other laws must express.
Hic Jacet.
At time of writing, Sydney Echo, the S.M.
Herald’s little penny pup, is turning up
its toes. Really, it was time the Echo
died. Somebody once said, in Parkes’ hear-
ing, “ The editor of the Echo told me.”
“ The editor of the Echo told you !” squeaked
the old man, “ you don’t mean to say that
the editor of the Echo is alive ? I always
thought that the Echo was edited by a
mummy.” It apparently was edited by a
mummy—a dull, commonplace, respectable,
middle-class mummy, one of the first ever
embalmed and rolled in a winding-sheet. Its
jokes wore seemingly -written for infant-schools.
Its political articles were twaddle, save that
now and then a bitter, one-sided diatribe, too
outspoken and malevolent to appear in the
crafty twopenny Herald, -was launched forth
in its columns. With these exceptions, the
Echo never put forth any opinions of its own.
* * *
It is said, however, that the Echo did once
originate one new thing. It is reported to
have coined the famous phrase “ all right-
thinking persons.” .What class of people this
was meant to cover was never made quite clear,
but, so far as could be gleaned from a perusal
of the Echo, people concluded that a right-
thinking person is one who believes in things
as they are—who supports Imperial Federation
—who opposes One-mau-one-vote who is
frantically delighted when any of the rabbit-
like horde of royalties in England get married,
or bear a child—who is correspondingly plunged
in grief when any of the royalties aforesaid die
or go off their heads—who hates the Labour
movement and opposes it in every way—who
believes in Britain and all imported British
institutions, habits, and ideas as superior to
the Australian article.
* * «
We never hear or read the phrase, “ all
fight-thinking persons,” without recalling an
incident which lately occurred at the General
Post-office, Sydney. A man had proffered a
forged cheque at a George-street bank. The
forgery had been detected, and the fellow came
flying out of the bank like a scared rabbit,
with a couple of bank messengers after him
yelling out, “Stop thief!” He raced along
through the crowd in front of the P.O. with
his ears back, knocking sparks out of the pave-
ment. Everyone got out of his road, save one
paunchy, white-waistcqated tpan with gold-
rimmed glasses, who must have been “ a right-
thinking person,” It was the duty, he no
doubt reflected, of all right-thinking persons to
get in front of a thief running for his life, so he
held out his arms as if trying to stop a horse
and danced about in front of the runner. The
latter turned not to the right nor to the left,
but came along at full gallop, and as he got near
the right-thinking person lie drew bacK Ids fisk
and hit that well-nourished potentate one
paralyzing smack on the fourth waistcoat-
button and laid him out as if he had been hit
by a Hotchkiss ball.
* # «
Ihe Echo, in its efforts to ignore all the
devilry and general cussedness of human
nature, was like the fat man who tried
to stop the runaway. It is of no use pub-
lishing and selling to grown men and women a
journal only lit for babes and sucklings. It is
humoured that several offers have been mad,e
by various parties to buy the paper, in which
case we may yet see the Echo advocating
unionism, eight-hours’ legislation, republican-
ism, and Australian interests and ideas, all of
which things are as abhorrent to the Echo of
o-day as they, no doubt, are to all other right-
thinking persons.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Gimcrack Government.
Premier Patterson, pleading for mercy for the
v ictorian Governor’s salary, said :—“ There is
something in ceremonial after all. The whole
constitutional system is built upon ceremonial.”
-qnvmg said this, Patterson evidently con-
sidered that he had justified the cost of vice-regal
Inactions,” and brushed away every Demo-
ci’atic objection to tlie public maintenance of
Government House. Inasmuch as the corner-
stone of the Empire is a cocked hat, and the
“ bonds that bind us ” are the silken stockings
pertaining to Windsor uniform, therefore the
cocked hat and stockings are things to be held
in respect and liberally subsidised by the tax-
payer. Patterson — vide his never-forgotten
disparagement of Marcus Clarke— is a
“ thinker,” not a “ scribbler,” and ibis is a fair
sample of his thoughts. There is something in
ceremonial, because the whole constitutional
system is built upon it. By the same token
there must be literary virtues in a melodrama
which rests upon a lavish display of spectacular
effects for its popularity. If the Queen had
twenty, instead of six, cream-coloured horses to
her state carriage, and the Prince of Wales
were to stalk around the Imperial Institute in
chain armour, there would be even more in the
system aforesaid than at present. Or, apply-
ing Patterson’s thoughts directly to the sub-
ject in hand—“ What is the good of a Lord
Hopetoun unless we pay him to make a gaudy
official show of himself ?” There is the point. To
the loyal Orange mind, mummery appears admir-
able for the reason that it is the social mainstay
of monarchial government. To the enlightened
mind, the monarchial system, pure or diluted,
seems to call for condemnation on account of its
flimsy understructure. That which Patterson
regards as an unanswerable argument in favour
of a large stipend for the Governor is really a
crushing argument against the necessity for
any Governor at all. If the vice-regal office in
its own naked self commands no respect from
the multitude, why should the country pay for
the tricking out of that office in barbaric finery,
and look for dignity and honour and glory in
a mere exhibition of paltry pomp ? The Vic-
torian Assembly debated, the other day, the
question of reducing the Governor’s salary, and
in a flabby, indirect manner many members
expressed contempt for Patterson’s ceremonial
sentiments, but nobody ventured to attack the
vice regal principle outright. Alfred Deakxn,
whose Republicanism seems to be the thinnest
veneer, suggested that gubernatorial “ func-
tions,” being for the benefit of “ sassiety ”
(not “society”) alone, should be paid for by
sassiety solely. Deakin, in short, would
have the country recognise the Governor
as the political figurehead of the State in his
social capacity of a toy, bought in the English
market by the gentry of Toorak and St. Kilda.
Such a compromise were far worse than the
present arrangement. Mr. Henry Wrixon
thought that the Governor’s salary should be
reduced on the understanding that “hospi-
tality ” might be diminished in like proportion,
“otherwise colonists would be placed in the
contemptible position of asking gentlemen to
come out from home to spend their private in-
comes on them.” Wrixon’s speech was after-
wards quoted with admiration for its temperate
tone; Temperate Toryism ! Our vice regal
persons are not asked to come out from “home”
by “colonists.” They are sent out by Eng-
land to maintain the system which is “built
upon ceremonial,” and England bristles with
men of the Brassey class who would be quite
willing to supply any amount of ceremonial at
their own expense. As long as Australia con-
sents to recognise Excellencies in cocked
hats it doesn’t matter a curse whether she
pays for them or not. They will be here. On
the whole, it is well for Australia to pay their
salaries, for every reduction of “screw” is a
nail driven into ceremonial’s coffin. As things
go each Governor is ticketed, and from time to
time the Government is compelled to mark him
down. One of these days he will be left out
of the stocktaking and given away as a
remnant.
*
Bibbs’ Latest Apostacy.
On Saturday last, Premier G. Republican
Dibbs, of New South Wales, announced that
the abolition of payment of members would, in
future, be an essential plank in his political
platform. This, he says, is his general-election
cry, and he will stand or fall by it. The
Bulletin hereby prophesies that he will fall,
and fall heavily, and that in his fall he will
drag down the Protectionist party which is
cursed by his leadership. Dibbs has cast off
the last shred of Democratic clothes and openly
attired himself in the skin of the National Ass.
His treachery is so miserable and so base that
there is no hope in him. He traded off his
loudly-boasted Republican sentiments for a
cheap and miserable title, and he now abandons
the few remaining vestiges of his alleged Demo-
cratic instincts simultaneously with receiving a
cash testimonial, chiefly promoted and contri-
buted to by persons whom the Democratic
party cannot fail to recognise as its bitterest
and most uncompromising opponents. Dibbs
states his reasons for his latest change of front,
and they are as pitiable as his apology for be-
coming a K.G.M.G. a few months previously.
There are four pf these reasons, as follows :
(1) If you, gentlemen, will compare the amount of
legislative work that was done before w e had payment ot
members with the quantity done since, you will find that
both the quantity and quality and character of the work
have seriously diminished. (2) Resides this, it is too
great a tax upon a million and a quarter of people to have
141 members and pay them £40,000 a year to do nothing
but talk. (3) Xlie reward of the legislator should be the
honour of serving bis country. (4) I want you to remem-
ber that £40,000 a year would pay the interest oil
£1,000,000 of money, and vve want that million, and a
good many more millions, too, before we can square the
yards.
With regard to the first assertion The Bulletin
has looked up the records of the old, blatant,
drunken, riotous Parliament of the unpaid days
—the Parliament whose members swore amj
cursed and fought in public—which spent 25
years trying to pass one Local Government Act
and never passed it—which had year-long sit-
tings that were utterly blank and void—which
passed the infamous Treason Felony Act, and
fooled away the public money on the Soudan
goat-contingent, and it defies Dibbs to show
that the paid Parliament is one-half as useless,
brutal, and unscrupulous as the unpaid one of
times past. (2) The country can afford the
£40,000 a year, for that expenditure is its only
guarantee against more Soudan Contingents
and naval tributes and similar expensive frauds.
(3) If the reward of the legislator should only
be “the honour of serving his country,” the
reward of the Minister and the civil servant
should be on the same ratio, also the reward of
the Minister’s relative who is made an inspector
of agriculture and his friend who is ap-
pointed inspector of scaffolding, and the Judges
should be unpaid, and the police, and the
railway servants, and the military, and the
corporation scavenger; they all serve their
country, and the honour applies equally all
round. And in any ease the plea is a miserable
hypocrisy from the mouth of any insolvent
man. (4). The £40,000 that now goes in pay-
ment of members would doubtless pay interest
on £1,000,000 of borrowed money. But if it
should be saved on that account, then the
£lO,OOO paid to the Governor should be
saved, because it would pay inter-
est on £250,000, and the salaries of
Ministers should be wiped out because they
would pay interest on £375,000 more. But
all these arguments and refutations don’t even
begin to touch the question really at issue.
The objection to payment of members is that it
introduced a Democratic party into Parliament,
and that party, even if it hasn’t done anything
else, which we in no way admit, spoiled many
of the Fat Man’s little private Bills for the
establishment of profitable monopolies at the
cost of the State. And G. Republican Dibbs,
K.C.M.G., and Lyne, the man who hankers to
have the State railways run by “ private enter-
prise,” are the prophets and precursors of the
Fat Man in New South Wales,
<►
The Law “takes its Course.”
TriE British Privy Council, having rejected the
appeal of John Makin, baby-farmer, sentenced
to death for wholesale and retail child-murder
at Sydney, the law will “ take its course.” If
there is any moral justification for hanging,
which The Bulletin utterly denies, then
Makin assuredly should be hanged, and
hanged more promptly than the average assas-
sin. He was a cold-blooded professional homi-
cide who killed, not from lust, or incipient
madness, or a desire for vengeance, or any other
emotion ; he committed murder for a few
shillings per corpse and made it a business. Yet
Makin, who was worse than other murderers,
was, simply because he had the command of
money, able to buy three months’ respite—
three months of life—three months’ escape from
the gallows; and he got it, all things con-
sidered, very cheaply. Also, he had two
chances for his life where other men who have
no money —or no affluent relatives—are allowed
but one. Had he been an ordinary penniless
prisoner with no kinsmen to come to Ids assist-
ance, the “Crown” would have allowed £l5
exactly for his defence, as in the case of other
“pauper” prisoners capitally arraigned. He
would have been defended about as much as
any man could expect to be for £l5, and there
the matter would have ended, for (as in the
Morrison case at Sydney) you never find the
Crown, even when the best of lawyers think
that arguable points have been raised in a con-
demned “pauper’s” favour, paying, say, £2OO
cash in feeing counsel to argue his case pro and
con. before tiie last earthly tribunal of appeal.
The mere formal appearance before the Supreme
Court to apply for permission to appeal to the
Privy Council probably cost as much as the
Crown allows for the entire defence of a money-
less suspect, and the appeal itself most likely
costs 15 times as much more. It all, then, resolves
itself into this; If Makin had had no monied
relative to assist him he would have had no second
show for his life and no respite. Therefore, if
the appeal had ended in his acquittal on a techni-
cal point, he would have bought his life with
hard cash. The system is not open corruption,
but it is corruption none the less. Justice, to
bo pure, should rest on such a basis that even if
a convicted murderer has billions of money he
shouldnot be able to buy thebillioneth of a second
longer existence than the other convicted mur-
derer who hasn’t a cent. Makin, at the worst,
has bought three months of life—if the Church
is correct it probably means three months out of
Gehenna—a quarter of a year sawn off the
hither end of eternity! What the exact value
of that may be no one can estimate—it pro-
bably won’t make eternity look any shorter or
infinity any the less infinite; yet, to the man
who is still on this side of the great Divide, that
three months is beyond all price. And the figure
at which it was purchased—probably about
£2oo—doesn’t seem exorbitant. It was a toss-
up with the hangman for the prisoner’s life,
and the gamble went wrong; the penny canie
down the other side • uppermost. But the
prisoner who hasn’t got the penny can’t toss.
. ■
A Crying' Evil— Well- Washed Nurses
The Australian Star has a bitter grievance
nearly two columns long, about the nurses
quarters at the Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney.
Its object in publishing the grievance is not
openly declared, but it seems to be intended
as a warning to people in general not to sub-
scribe to the hospital, because'its funds are
wasted in riotous luxury for the 50 nurses. And
the grievance itself consists principally in the
offensive cleanliness and neatness of the quarters
aforesaid, and the occupants thereof. The
young person iu nurse’s costume who
opened the door looked remarkably “ fresh
and well.” The sun shone through the
“elegantly curtained windows.” The car-
pet was of quiet pattern, and there was
a voluptuous and extravagant air of “ studied
refinement ” about the place. The dining-
room was “attractive,” and “everything was
scrupulously clean.” The utensils in sight
were “spick and span.” And the bathrooms
were furnished with “ hot and cold water,”
which seemed to strike the Star lyriter all of a
heap and fill it with righteous indignation. That
paper has evidently decided in the vast recesses
of its intellect that the clean variety of hospital
nurse needs to be put down with a firm mud-
shovel. The obvious meaning of the whole
article is that the girl who opened the door
should have been frowsy and sleepy, with her
hair all in knots and a burst boot appearing
below a skirt that cocked up at one side ; that
the window should have had a torn
holland blind dragged up askew ; that
there should have been no carpet and
no “studied refinement,” and that the dining-
room shouldn’t have been clean—it obviously
regards that cleanliness as a personal wrong.
Also the dishes in sight ought to have been
greasy, and someone should put his foot' down
vigorously on the hot and cold water in the
bath-room Ordinary people might suppose
that the best thing which can be done for an
invalid is ta furnish him with a well-trained,
refined, pleasant, and scrupulously-clean
attendant, but the Star, man views the niattei
differently. The article is a plea for dirty
nurses—for the wild bush variety with a large,
red, onion-smelling hand, and a draggled frock
—the kind which doesn’t want hot and cold
water, and which wolfs its victuals off the bare
table.
Graham Berry’s last budget proves to be a
great and awful monument to his financial
incapacity. Now that the year’s returns are
complete, it proves that tlie aged bank director
was only a trifle over £2,000,000 out in his
calculations ; he estimated the Victorian revenue
at £8,969,700, and it panned out £0,963,300.
After this it is obviously not worth saying any
more about Berry’s horrible misrepresentations
of the Mercantile Bank’s accounts in that
famous “ rallying speech ” which he delivered
to the drooping shareholders on his return from
England ; it can all be safely set down to his
phenomenal inability to understand anything
about figures. So far, unfortunately, Trea-
surer Carter’s financial arrangements don’t
promise much better than those of his pre-
decessor. The Bulletin’s fixed opinion is that
-—while Party Government lasts, at all events—
the finances never will get much better until the
whole Cabinet is paid solely by commission on
the year’s surplus, said commission to be payable
only when the books have been thoroughly
overhauled and the surplus counted in actual
gold by the State auditor, and certified to by
the leader of the Opposition—the Govern-
ment which hasn’t any surplus to be dismissed
from office on the spot. Also, if the State
auditor and the other man certify to a surplus
which afterwards proves to be bogus, the com-
mission paid thereon to be recovered from the
pair by levy and distress as an alternative of
imprisonment. If any less drastic measure will
abolish the perenrilal shortage, The Bulletin
hasn’t yet heard of it.
Black Thursday in Queensland dispenses with
“ Black Rod ” and the Sergeant-at-Arms. L. A.
Bernays, the many-billeted clerk of the As-
sembly, however, escapes untouched. As
usual, the little men are the greatest sufferers.
Among other proposals, the vote for mainten-
ance of railways is to be reduced. This, of
course, means a further reduction of lengtha-
men, and Heaven knows the extravagantly-
constructed Queensland railways won’t stand
that. Should this proposal be carried, a sensa-
tional railway accident looms in the near future.
The Main Range railway keeps employed a large
gang of men, for every heavy rain causes the out-
break of springs and consequent landslips and
washaways. Some day a truthful scribe will
arise and write the history of the building of
Queensland railways, and then will lie shown
how, when a line has been projected, interested
parties have tugged hither and thither till the
course of the line is a series of curves. Take
the line from Gatton to Cambooya. The most
practical route is about 20 miles. Yet the pre-
sent line runs over 80—the greater portion
being over steep mountains yield'"V not one
cent, ’s worth of produce.
Editor Bulletin,— ln your last issue “M.
writes on the threadbare “ meejum of ex-
change” to demonstrate that silver, instead of
falling further, is going to rise violently. (I
number his statements for convenience in refer-
ence.) He says :
(1) Suppose the U.S. simultaneously with the repeal of
the Sherman Silver Purchase Act, declares for silver
mono-metallism, and decrees that silver shall be the sole
letral tender and standard of value throughout the States.
What would happen? (2) The U.S. exports food to Great
Britain to the extent of £44,897,710 yearly. For this
payment could be demanded in gold, which London could
ill afford to pay. Britain exports £41,060,147 of manu-
factured goods to the States, for which her merchants
would be paid in silver. This silver would have a fluc-
tuating day to day price in London, and the British
exporters’ profits would he eaten up by his exchange
loss s. (3) The States will never allow the drain of cold
from New York to continue till gold reacln s a premium
of 300 per cent., and every security, share, bond, and
bank-receipt in the Union becomes worth only 33 cents,
on the dollar. (4) My dear Bui.lktin, hell will'freeze ere
the Yanks allow their 4000 tons of Treasury silver, costing
them 3s. Oct. an ounce, to be knocked out to 2s. by the
Fat Men of Lombard-street I
I wish to reply to these statements in a very
few words, ■’ 1 1
(1). If the U.S. makes silver the sole legal
tender and standard of value, she only puts
herself into the position which India has
hitherto occupied, and under these conditions
she couldn't hold up the dollar any more than
India could the rupee. The thing has been
tried and has failed Utterly, and it is no use
arguing against accomplished facts. (2). If the
U.B. becomes a purely silver country, then the
Englishman can pay the American in silver, and
the latter couldn’t “demand gold for his produce
in London.” He would simply get a draft on
New York payable in his own" coin. Also, he
couldn’t pay the Briton in silver for Ms produce
delivered in the States, any more than the
Hindoo can pay him in silver, or any more than
the Dahomian can pay the Yankee trader in
shells, or the Guatemalan in his own debased
pewter coinage. Moreover, the American
wouldn’t be such an unspeakable ass. “M. ’*
has got the thing upside down. It
is the gold country which will de-
mand to be paid in gold, and the silver
country that will have to take its own depre-
ciated metal. What use would gold he to a
purely silver country anyhow ? (3) The
Yankee isn’t God, and the drain of gold goes
on in spite of him. And as for him not
“ allowing ” silver,‘which cost him 3s. 6d. an
ounce, to lie knocked down to 25., nobody will
ask his permission, even if it goes down to
eighteenpence. Things decline in value in the
U.S. just as they do everywhere else when the
supply becomes enormously in excess of the
demand, and the omnipotent Yankee can’t stop
them. (4) Has “M.” got any satisfactory
evidence that hell isn’t frozen already ?—Yours,
&c., Titus Salt.
Attention is drawn to the fact that The
Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition closes
August 5.


Ipticd to ||uit all §ightd.
r
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10/6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <3c ROBERTS,
Jewellery Showrooms,
$S HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FROS SARDS SWISS.
A. Good and. Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
Ws
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO.
PAYEUNE (SnlDcrland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
July 26,1893.
Mt Dear Moorabinda—
That bushy-whiskered, crafty Monte Cristo, or
masquerading valet—whichever he is—who tried,
for nearly two years, to penetrate the inmostness
of Melbourne and Sydney society, but only got in
as far as the mat or the men-folks, has at last
abandoned the hopeless task and left for older
lands on the ship freighted with returning Gaiety
girls. The mysterious one had rather a “ rise ”
taken out of him at a Sydney hotel one night. He
and a crony were making loud and merciless com-
ments in French upon a youth at an adjacent
table, and—but, of course, you see it already—the
youth answered them back in the same jargon to
the confusion of both. I really believe there are
some travelling monkeys who wouldn’t be at all
surprised if a full-grown Australian couldn’t even
speak English—only a “ you-gib-it-thickapence ”
lingo.
Whence this odious and fast-spreading custom
of loud endearments between woman and woman ?
“My darling, take a biscuit”—“Own pet, your
hat’s not straight”—“Oh! there you are, dear-
est !” One woman can’t ask another to pass the
butter just now without talking as if in an ad-
vanced stage of calf-love. And the way in which
you see women pecking—l mean kissing—each
other ! Can the object of this outbreak of vocifer-
ous endearments be to show men how women like
poodle-laugnage applied to themselves, and to
encourage their admirers to put more “ducky ”
into their love-letters and verbal communications?
And the most amusing thing about it is the sharp
verbal raps that lead off so lovingly ; “ Darling
one, I don’t think he’ll ever propose to you—l
hear he hates red hair!” or “Sweetest! Another
tooth stopped !”
As a piece of vice-regal news the Charity
Organisation secretary has had it printed that
Lady Duff, soon after her arrival at Sydney Govt.
House, had two large boxes made, lined with
zinc—the one for broken bread, the other for meat
and “ stock soup ” (a more shrouded mystery than
even the dubious saveloy), the contents to be
given to soup-kitchens—which will now, I sup-
pose, be advertising .their meals “V.R.” What
a hideously Scotch —I don’t moan Scottish—
announcement! Lady Duff, after this, will surely
pray to be saved from the friends who would
advertise her unostentatious zinc-lined bene-
volence.
Somebody with kid gloves and an ivory tablet
has been interviewing our recent visitor, the
powerful contralto, Patey, at her snug suburban
villa at’Ome. The loveliest bit is an aneedotelet
of Grisi —Patey’s former crony—who first wished
her all joy and happiness on her marriage, and, as
she embraced her, whispered—“Be happy; he is
my greatest friend!” Just imagine this hypo-
critical hugger-mugger between women of a trade!
Poor Mr. Patey ! —to whom, by the way, someone
threw a bouquet when he was in Sydney. He
was very much like the average woman-genius’
husband in every way.
The festive male scion of a festive society family
has drifted into the asylum, through worshipping
too fervently wine and woman. The first sign of
his disturbed mental condition was when gold-
washed damsels began infesting the bank where
his account was and presenting thumping cheques,
drawn by the unhappy youth. The shrill indigna-
tion of these houriswhen the cheques were returned
them, pending a medical examination of the un-
fortunate drawer, made things very lively in the
bank for nearly a week.
But a lady-relative of this hapless youth had
rather an ugly experience in regard to him. She
borrowed his seal-ring and had, for the moment,
forgotten to return it, when she was suddenly con-
fronted with a warrant for her arrest on a charge
of larceny! Needless to say, the doctor made
waste paper of that, too.
The vice-regal visit to St. Vincent’s hospital,
last week, was the usual parade, and it is becom-
ing more apparent that Lady Duff doesn’t shine
at those meaningless amiable nothings which are
the sword and buckler of so many leading ladies.
The best talker is generally given the job of escort-
ing her over the premises, and the Duff silence
seems more marked coming on the heels of the
Jersey “ jaw.” The queerest thing about the
hospital visit was the way in which the Admiraless
ignored the civilian patients while taking marked
interest in the sick sailors.
wonder if people who are encouraged by the
vice-regal presence at their entertainments are
aware that the Governor’s carriage loiters until
the vice-regalities comprehend the full horrorof the
situation inside ? In case the Presence might have
been misplaced, to the social encouragement of
something objectionable, the said chariot tarries
outside so that His Ex. can make a dash for the
door if he deems it desirable. Only when His
Ex. approves of things and settles down does his
chariot vanish round the corner.
Apropos of vice-regal etiquette—there was a
little fuss in Westralia recently because Perth
Musical Union (conducted by a Supreme Court
Judge, by the way !) let Gov. Robertson leave a
concert without the help of the Anathema. One
or two superior people from ’Ome objected in the
papers—but Government House didn’t, for Sir
William is a musician himself. In Perth, a really
clever showman would play the present Governor
in and out to “ Remeraber-ine-no-more ” and leave
the other man’s music to the spiders.
Sydney Quintette Society’s concert last Satur-
day was V.R. The instrumental part of the show
was successful, although the “Danse Macabre”
demands a full orchestra; but the society (with
the gifted Madame Kellermann, in shrimp-pink,
at the piano) got as much gruesome effect out of
it as six people could, to my way of thinking.
The failure of the concert was the lady vocalist in
a lemon-coloured frock, who seemed to think it
artistic to gasp as if she had been diving after her
head notes and had come to the surface with the
melody between her teeth. Many vocalists seem
to have an idea that the more physical suffering is
apparent in their song, the greater the effect of it.
There was a dressy audience, including a party
from Government House, in burnoose-looking
opera-cloaks.
Terry’s farewell at Sydney Lyceum on Satur-
day was warmly seconded by the populace,
who attended in large numbers. I liked one
woman’s appearance in the circle —amber silk and
spotted net, an amber necklace, and amber hair
and eyes made up a very harmonious whole. On
the stage the only tiling I noticed was Hilda
Spong’s unexpected back-kick to reveal a lace-
edged petticoat.
One thing struck me at Terry’s finish—a he-
star exploits the community far less than a she-
star. Not a crumbled rose-leaf fell to Mr. T., who
left an absolutely clear stage behind him—for
woman is mean, even to her favourites, and the
Terry has done no dress-cirsle damage that I
know of. How different when Mrs. Mondaine or
Tottie de Yere, the girl with sea-gull-like legs,
has a farewell field-night! Every vanid youth
who has ever dreamt she winked at him staggers
in with a floral wreath the size of a horse-collar
for his divinity to grin her adienx through. But
even when woman succumbs to the attractions of
the stage-hero, her passion only leads her to the
desperate lengths of—a demand for his cabinet-
photograph ! Actors have told me so.
“Room for the ladies” isn’t the sentiment of
musical Sydney, evidently, else Mayor Manning’s
action in allowing an alderman’s daughter to play
a solo on the touoh-it-not city organ wouldn’t
have filled the newspapers with adverse criticism.
Mind you, if the lady be allowed to perform on
the face of that mighty instrument, I think all the
other Johnny Morgans ought to play, too —all the
furious, malevolent organists filled with gall and
wormwood who have been banging on to second-
rate stops and making awful noises with rusty
voces humane and relieving their murderous feel-
ings with lofty criticisms of the city organist in
between—l think they ought also to have a cut
in, don’t you? The City Council has a calm front,
truly. Firstly, it reserves to itself and its friends,
gratis, the use at all public entertainments of a
whole gallery in Sydney’s biggest hall. And
now it claims (apart from the rights of the city
organist) a monopoly of the use of the big organ
for its sisters, its cousins, and its aunts.
The very latest storyette runs in this wise. A
pretty Sydney matron, who drives her carriage,
was walking along a suburban street recently
when a strange man suddenly rose and stood upon
her shadow, as it were. To shake him off she
went into a shop to buy a paper—but the
shadow followed and bought two.
Outside her tormentor grew bolder—hazarded a
remark and pinched her arm, and the lady—
frightened, took refuge with a cabman. “ Cabby,
thrash this person-he is insulting me,” she said ;
but the cabby pointed across the road to a detec-
tive. (Cabbies are not fond of thrashing gay
Lotharios—they make such good customers.)
When the detective appeared, Don Juan beat a
retreat for a ’bus —but the lady, whose “ monkey ”
was up—stopped the jingle and had him hauled
out. The detective demanded his name—he
handed his card with the remark: “ These servant-
girls are always on for blackmail,” given with
the air of a past-master of the game. The detec-
tive read the card, and the name was—well, the
well-known cognomen of a well-advertised married
man with a dimple in his chin, who is always
screaming (in print) that people ought to know
better.
Actually a new trick in table decoration. A
well-known French lady, resident atone of the
Points, gave a musical dinner-party the other day
when the menus were tied with ribbons, the
colours whereof signified the amount of affection
felt by the hostess for each of her guests. For
example—the “ white-haired ” visitor got a bright
red bow, signifying warmth of sentiment, and the
colours tapered down through rose-pink to pallid
white—which tied up the food catalogue of the
least-loved one. Subtle idea. If love-ribbons
“catch on ” I wonder just how big a white satin
bow will ordinarily bridle the Bill of fare poised
opposite the man of the house? —that is, if the
hostess sticks to the solemn truth in her decora-
tions. p(
A Sydney writer, dilating on the Toorak young
lady who died in a Melb. tram from tight-lacing,
makes the rather amusing (from a feminine point
of view) statement that the waist at the narrowest
part was only inches round ! Now, you might
as well say that butter-tub girths are the one thing
needful, if inches are to be held up as an awful
example and warning to all wasp-waists. Eighteen
inches is a whipped-in circumference, if you like,
but a lady—especially a young lady—measuring
241 inches after girthing, must be excused her
folly, for if she only arrived at that generous ’cum-
ference after cutting herself in two, what must
she have measured unlaced ? Of course, there are
stacks of double-chinned women who probably
run to three figures on their waist-tapes, but
they’re not the question. The Toorak tight-lacer
hadn’t reached the spreading age.
I expect, though, it would surprise men hugely
if they only knew that the smallest waist is not
necessarily the cruellest waist. Your billowing
Lady Jane in tight black satin, bursting over a
35in. centre, has nearly always a good deal more
strain on her tackle than Miss who is only a couple
of spans. Who is it—l ask in a sepulchral voice—
that has her gown oftenest fastened with a boot-
hook, wielded by the strongest person handy ?
And echo answers—“ The fat chaperone.” But
the ignoramus man says, “How Angelina must
squeeze!” even while ma breathes from her collar-
bones to avoid bursting her buttons.
You don’t wonder that such things are out of
fashion when you see it solemnly chronicled in the
“ brightened ” Sydney D.T. that a surprise-party
of “ twenty ladies and gentlemen” waited upon
the keeper of the Manly (N.S.W.) watch-house the
other evening ! At first the custodian of the ves-
tibule to the police-court thought “duty lay
before him ” —the crowd, no doubt, sounded so
like aggravated intoxication being brought in on a
wheelbarrow—but a second glance revealed the
whole party. It strikes me that surprised
Manly policeman let slip a lovely opportunity for
decisively stamping out the surprise fiend. It
would have been so easy to lock them up and have
them charged next morning with burglarious
entry, as an encouragement to the rest.
Australian help is not all so callously devoid of
sentiment as some people like to think. One
reconstructing Sydney family was forced to
dismiss its hirelings, the other day, and do the
washing-up in person. So all the servants were
sent away one evening and the family went to
roost oppressed with the horrible thought that
some of it had to get up and cook breakfast in the
morning. But, when a woebegone damsel did
steal down to try and light the horrid morning-
fire and cook the dreadful chops, there was the
fire cheerfully blazing. The coachman had come
back in the night resolved to stick by the family,
wages or no wages! What yells he would get
from the gallery if he only happened in a melo-
drama !
They are really very entertaining—all these
paragraphs re Dr. Anna Potts, of whose lecture I
hope to write next week. Some people doubted
whether the gifted doctress was really born to
petticoats, because of her hands. It therefore
makes your mouth twitch to read about the “com-
mittee of well-known Sydney public men who
certify to the genuineness of Mrs. Dr. Potts.’’
While Mrs. Dr. Potts is enlightening “women
only’’ (how the Y.W.O.A. brigade and co. did
puff and rush and pant up the street on Tuesday
on their way to Mrs. P.’s first—free—lecture,
whereat they hoped to learn How to Manage a
Man !), Dr. Harrison will be educating “men
only,” and the result ought to quite do away with
chaperones in Sydney, don’t you think? What
the local damsel doesn’t know after a long course
of Dr. Potts, the local youth will be able to supply
from his vast experience under Dr. Harrison, and
so we get another half-inch on the way towards
the equality of the sexes. The only drawback to
the series will be that each audience will be wish-
ing itself at the other lecture. Some people are
never satisfied.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Double Event.”
Lyceum “ The Vicar of Bray.”
Criterion “ Lady Bountiful.”
Tivoiii Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ Marmondelle the Moor.”
Redeern Railway Station... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ Sweet Lavender.”
Bi-'ou Greenwood Dramatic Co.
Opera House Variety Show.
Thomas Walker’s new drama at Sydney
Royal, with Thomas Walker (M.L.A.) as the
hero, is—despite a lot of really beautiful scenery—
going to die very young for a good many reasons.
There is no plot at all in “ Marmondelle, the
Moor,” and hardly any action, barring the fact
that the papal legate loathes and contemns the
Moor through four acts, and the latter falls down
dead in act V., leaving the after-fate of the legate
buried in profound mystery. The hero seems to
be called Marmondelle only that his name may
rhyme with “hell” on various occasions. His
petticoat is rather too short, and his speeches are
a great deal too long; he takes every possible
and impossible opportunity to deliver 40 pages
of soul-harrowing oration about grief, honour,
religion, his lost child, and everything else, while
Mr. Rolfe, who is cursed with his friendship,
balances himself uneasily on one leg and waits for
him to finish. He is the sort of man who couldn’t
ask anyone to pass the salt at dinner without
giving a lengthy sketch of the history of the
world and gesticulating till he knocked the
cruet; into the middle of next week. Also,
he is a dreadfully lachrymose old person with red
stockings on a pair of brief and transitory legs,
and the abbreviation of his petticoat altogether
spoils the curse that he lets fly at his daughter—
no man can curse effectively when his skirt is so
short.
* * #
The most distinctive feature about the
drama is a certain grateful odour of nicely-
browned heretic, served up without vegetables,
which seems to scent the air. There is much
overdone Protestant in it, and much fried lady on
a plate, and a certain burnt-flesh odour hangs
over it in an indefinite fashion. Also a dreadful
funny character is inserted who falls backwards
into a basket of eggs, and whose humour consists
mostly of the fact that he is reported to have
violently undressed an old woman to look for
signs of witchcraft. Mr. Dampier takes a small
character as a monk, and contrives somehow to
make him look manly and natural among a
crowd of stuffed images who stand around and
listen to the long speeches of the Moor on things
in general. And that old-time favourite, Miss
Blanche Lewis, whose,youth hasn’t yet begun to
desert her, makes a pretty and thrilling heretic
who evokes much public sympathy. In fact, when
Miss Lewis is found chained in a dungeon and
moaning on a bed of straw, the house is troubled
witli a half-formed longing to rise up and tear the
Moor’s petticoat on general principles.
* * *
Mr. Terry farewelled at Sydney Lyceum
on Saturday night in a lame and halting speech
with laborious puns in it —a speech that consisted
chiefly of uneasy pauses and stoppages, with an
attenuated fringe of observations round each
pause. The show consisted of the one-act
drama “My Friend Jarlet,”in which Mr. Terry
achieved a considerable dramatic success, and the
comedy “In Chancery,” in which he success-
fully demonstrated once more that he isn’t a great
comedian and never will be one. “In Chancery ”
is the story of a man who lost his memory, his
name, identity, money, and soap - samples
in a railway accident, and found another
man’s coat with his card-case in the pocket.
Therefore he concludes that the other man’s name
is his own, and tries hard to recollect the other
man’s history, and his wife, and the reason why a
detective is after him. He gradually finds out these
things, and tries to force himself to believe, by
cold baths and knocking his head against the wall,
and other violent remedies that he spontaneously
remembers them. “In Chancery” was played in
Sydney long ago by the members of the Brough
and Boucioault Co., and compared to them Mr.
Terry and his company are a gifted failure.
Terry has a melancholy habit of always looking as
if he wasn’t certain what to say next, and as if he
was trying to get to the door, and his legs insisted
on rushing at the wall instead, and his delivery is
feeble and lachrymose, and he looks uncertain in
all his doings, and The Bulletin is saddest when
he laughs, for his laugh is depressing to listen to.
He seems to have carefully cultivated a feeble and
doubled-up habit of mind and body, and a wet
blotting-paper attitude, and, as an imported god,
lie has been about as disappointing as are im-
ported gods in general. Therefore, upon the
whole, this paper feels glad that he is gone, and it
doesn’t want to see him, or hear about him, any
more.
** * *
“Lady Bountiful,” a new comedy by
Pinero, will be staged on Saturday at Sydney Cri-
terion forfivenightsonly. On thesamenight,George
Darrell will commence a season at Her Majesty’s
with the horsey drama, “A Double Event.”
Three variety shows continue to be very much as
they were before. Harry Rickards, at the Tivoli,
has adorned his programme with a marionette
show and the “National Anthems of all nations,”
and it is a lamentable fact that the British one is
the saddest of the lot. Also, sundry high-kicking
events are received with enthusiasm. The Alham-
bra is full, as it has been for a good many years
past, and the Opera House is partly full, to a
greater or less extent, the statement being made
without prejudice.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s Circus programme was adorned
with an unexpected item, one night recently,
when the principal lion ate part of Captain Hum-
phreys, the “elephant subjugator.” “Dick
Turpin’s ride to York” is the other novelty on
the bill.. This item would be equally thrilling
if it were billed as any celebrated bushranger’s
ride to Kangaroo Flat, and The Bulletin, which
is tired to death of the very name of Turpin,
thinks the change would be for the better. Let the
Fitzgeralds, as proprietors of the only Australian
circus, look up, for business purposes, the details
of the memorable chase and shooting of Thunder-
bolt by Sergt. Walker, many years ago. Fillis’s
Circus starts for regions unknown at the end of
next week, and when it goes it will leave a good
reputation behind it. The bicycle-riding ele-
phants, the wrestling tiger, the lady who is shot
out of a cannon, and a few acrobats and bone-
dislocators have been reserved for a final blaze of
glory.
*
The return to Sydney Lyceum of the
Comic Opera Co. was received with a subdued
roar of welcome, but the fact that influenza had
marked most of the co. for its own reduced the
noise in front, and the opera finished on three legs
at an early hour. Ryley—whose acquired plump-
ness destroys a lot of the poetry of his speaking
visage—beat his manly chest like a tom-tom
to infer that the frogs had got into his throat;
Vio. Varley (she wants a little toning down,
by the way) was vocally conquered by a hacking
cough that would have got an encore in “Camille.”
Graupner’s nervous soprano was weakened in the
middle to inaudibility, and wants a rest; but
Florence Young warmed up to Casilda and
puts more ginger into the girl than heretofore,
when a mechanical doll would have got there just
as effectively as Miss Young used to do. Other
people who helped to, cover the sneezing of the
afflicted in the bill were Lauri, who has achieved
more confidence in his gallery now that Elton is
forgotten; Howard Vernon, and the ever-favourite
Bracy defying the weather and tackling every note
ofjiis music. Clara Thompson, as the Duchess,
didn’t fit the part vocally, and if The Bulletin
only had one anathema left it would hurl it un-
reservedly at Sidney Deane, who never had com-
mand of his voice, and who now doesn’t seem to
be able to cope with his feet. “ Gondoliers ” was
sumptuously staged, and the chorus was as fresh
as paint, and it probably was the now stage that
made them run into one another in the whirling
dances, “The Vicar of Bray,” an opera brand-
new to Sydney, goes up this Saturday.
m* * *
All last week the interminable Greenwoods
went on and on at Melbourne Bijou, the band
playing meanwhile with a mixture of calm resig-
nation and despairing energy, which struck home
to one’s heart. Conductor David Cope would
have largely assisted the success of this inclement
season had there been any success to assist. Under
existing circumstances the interludes have done
much to alleviate pain, besides proving the value
of the British concertina as an orchestral instru-
ment. Two or three of Mr. Cope’s “ seraphina ”
damsels supported the fiddlers skilfully, and a
rich, fruity blend of music was tiie result. On
Saturday the Greenwood Company was strength-
ened by the inclusion of “mamma,” a lady who
acts with much promptness and determination.
“East Lynne”—that piece of putrid remorse,
consecrated to the worm that never dieth !—was
Saturday’s funeral, with Marwibel Grween-
wood acting chief mourner. Mrs. G. braved
the elements in the role of Cornelia, whose
interferwence drwlves Lady Isabel “frwan-
tic ” —or almost “frwantio.” Norwa Grween-
wood officiated as the second and less un-
wholesome wife, and Rwuby Grweenwood
wrwrestled with a minor oharwacter. Often it


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
Oa Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,292,016 s<=s Irl
and its SURPLUS oner all liabilities to £3,457.808 ss. Id., being the LARGEST
o urplus heed by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co, in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts. ' ’
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.NY.
Note.-This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination of recent date from tu sht.
e'State**!>y 6 the In^iminee^Superffite ndent U 11 * 8 and Sur P" ,s to Policy-holder* have been certified to under the seal' of
fd
Edinburgh.
The Oldßlead
WlusKy
WH |TEHOKSE
of tKe
f
was difficult to say which of the young ladies was
“on ” because they all talk alike and are as
beautiful as a “drweam the same “drweam”
in each case. The curtain-rise was delayed by the
dereliction of Greenaway, he having refused at
the last minute to play Sir Francis Levison,
owing to a dispute concerning a benefit (in which
benefit he performed “David Garrick” very
creditably). Therefore he withdrew suddenly,
leaving a short, lugubrious stranger to play Sir
Francis in a manner terrible to behold. The sub-
stitute brushed up his hair to increase his stature,
and clothed his habitual melancholy in evening
dress. Unfortunately, Sir Francis forgot to put a
tuck in his trousers, and his lamentable conquest
of Lady Isabel left a baggy memory behind it
which even the pathetic death of little Willie
could not wholly obliterate.
** * *
Bland Holt, accompanied by his chariots
and horses, the vessel that smote the reef when
the flowing tide came in, and many other bulky
fittings, retired from the Princess’s on Tuesday
night, after a fairly triumphant reign of two
weeks and a bit. The immediate destination of
“ A Million of Money ” is Maoriland, a country
that Bland Holt intends to paralyse regardless of
expense. Wednesday was to see Edward Terry
established at the “only” Melbourne theatre.
He opens with “Sweet Lavender,” and will run
a little round of characters over a period of six
weeks,
** * *
Sundry variety houses are fighting for dear
life in the usual way, but their pulse-beats are
feeble, and the ghost is often on the point of being
given up as a bad job, so people say. The Alham-
bra, Gaiety, and Victoria shows have their cheer-
ful moments, nevertheless, nor does the glory of
the daily advts. appear to fade. An occasional
murderer expiates his crime for the benefit of the
Waxworks, where a Japanese troupe form the
latest thing in “extraordinary attractions.” Last
Saturday’s concert at the Exhibition drew an
audience of 3000 souls, presuming that each
visitor had a soul ; also the beautiful Jerusalem
Cy do ram a is being boomed under “distinguished
patronage.” Old King Cole, of the Book Arcade,
has laid out a “ Field of Gold ” in a long slip of a
shop lined with mirrors. The effect secured by a
simple arrangement of gilt ornaments, nuggets
of tin foil, and bogus wdd animals, is almost as
striking and illimitable as the view in the
“Garden of Eden ” at the Rotunda Hall.
** * *
Gounod’s oratorio, “Mors et Vita,” was
performed for a second time at Melb. Town Hall,
on Tuesday, with a new tenor in the foreground.
Next Saturday, the same airy building will be
open to the friends and admirers of Mdme. Fanny
Simonsei), who takes a concert benefit on that
occasion. Which reminds me that a season of
Englisii opera at the Royal, under Martin Sirnon-
sen’s management, is talked about. Snazelle has
finished for the present with Rational Sunday
Evenings, and taken his entertainment far beyond
the Melbourne radius. Leumane, likewise, is
running a concert company into the wilds, whilst
many other professionals turn their weary eyes
towards village settlements and have serious
thoughts of attacking the soil with a shovel.
** * *
Professor Marshall Hall, who frequently
feels that he must profess something or burst, was
at large again last Saturday afternoon, in Melb.
Town Hall. Before starting to conduct his
orchestral concert —an excellent but heavy affair—
Mr. Hall stood forth and scorned “a shameless
and ignorant attack on Henrik Ibsen,” from the
pen of James Smith, in that morning’s Argus. It
appeared that Ibsen has so lived his life
as to compel our (which means Hall’s)
respectful admiration, therefore, thundered the
Professor, “rather than have it said that
in Melbourne the name of a world-honoured
artist can be defiled by any scurrilous
newspaper hack without protest from his brother
artists, 1 beg to dedicate this concert to the name
of Henrik Ibsen.” A more damaging compli-
ment has never been paid to the crazy Norwegian
play-writer. It is for sham enthusiasts, destitute
of sense of the ridiculous, that he caters. When
a musician of this class goes so far as to dedi-
cate a concert to Ibsen, because the “ earnest
worker ” has been mocked at by a newspaper, he
exposes the pretentious stupidity of his religion
in all its naked seriousness. As long as there is a
joke left in the world, the “ art ” which knows no
humour must be crank art, nourished by the vague
volubility of Marshall Halls.
For “Poverty Point” see page 18.
The Wild-Cat Column.
, The City Bank of Sydney, hitherto a humble
little institution with a paid-up capital of £300,000, pro-
poses to call up £lOO,OOO more, and transfer £lOO,OOO
from reserve fund, making half-a-million in all, and to
issue new shares to the value of £1,000,000! In other
V lte " ds t 0 increase its capital in one act from
£3OO 000 to £1,500,000. Apparently the small bank,
wnionis born of poor, but honest parents, is of no use
nowadays, and the directors of the Citv intend to swell
up to the size of some of their inflated neighbours or
explode in the effort. Meanwhile, the old shares of the
nrst issue, £8 paid-up, are being offered on die market at
and apparently find no buyers; and those of the
ecoml issue are ohlai liable at any thing between one fourth
f",, f 0 '! e ' e, " hth of their paid-up value-yet noone seems to
want them even at that lamentable figure.
* * #
flir« h f 0 P ,° int: ’ therefore, which the City Bank
’ave to consider is this: Who is going to buy
as e-onA f hai ' es at ~ar u ’ hen the o!d ones—which are quite
doifa h-o" lnv estment-can lie bought at such a tremen-
t The institution, not having judiciously
sehwVmflfnn®^r° f ltS n ®'» hbour9 . is in a position to
make 8 , d ®P osi t°iB and shareholders by the throat and
Shareholders ' subs . onbe the new capital, and unless new
ral ' . m -'’ m dra »» ed 1,1 'w the hair they are prac-
ehar s “ no '' tai " able now-a-days. Even a hank whose
assault pa , r can fc Ret money save by this process of
been at “rf ,attery> and the sliares of the City haven’t
survived thl 01 a v . er ?. lon R time. Among the banks which
list and Ha B pai . l, ° ,t stands at the very bottom of the
the’ Couin.lvC U ? a e 0 , are far lovver eveil than those of
stmcied nf Cla ° f S -V'lney-which broke and re-oon-
new sht m ° cours ® things may get better before the
likely to IVwn PUt U)e m ? rket > but they are quite as
yto n et woise, or to remain in statu quo .
* # #
hafc.'!! 1 :} 6 ’ 9 |fy declares a dividend for the
absorbs aU the iff ° 6 perc " n > » ,er annum, ami as that
£8 4s Sd n,' haif - yeal ' B P rofl, s, excepting a trifle of
thing which h c ®,fl,nkp U H 0f a me J" Quotations—the one
doesn’tamount to much P, '° POS “ ew ShareS saleab,e ~
A * * *
Cit v rifiS ctlmr sins, as already mentioned, the
hud to cail tf| (le d to transfer £100,009 from reserve
which dora!i f inn, I<J reB ‘ rv, ‘.’ at 1*1036111, is only £lBO,OOO,
and it V vin tiuw^ 6 a ve , r,v w , lde margin for depreciation,
there vvi b e e? nn b ® *{‘ duced to £BO,OOO. Consequently,
emergenev 1 - o^’ ooo 083 unpald capital to call up at an
positors a * i means £lOO,OOO less security for de-
dividends S ' he i e Wlll be £lOO,OOO more to pay
which remainp l’nff Pd ccr ! sideri ' 1 R the dismal £8 4s. Sd.
Sen t cam til .Rafter paytng only 6 percent, on thepre-
follv. Xheinnt- 'ccvease of liability is mere gratuitous
by the change not be made one penny more solvent
The City simply transfers £lOO,OOO from the
rund on which it doesn’t pay dividends to the fund on
wnjon it does. And the transaction isn’t even an advt.
ror the bank ; a large reduction in the reserve-fund, from
whatever cause it may arise, is the worst “ad.” any hank
?i w i ave 111 t * lese ev il days. One or tw o banks—notably
the JN.y.- propose transferring large sums from capital to
reserves, partly, no doubt, for the sake of appearances,
and partly' to increase the shareholders' liabilities and, as
a consequence, the security for depositors. The City is
the only institution, as far as Tub Bulletin is aware,
which is reversing the process.
• * •
Bank of New South Wales shares, last week,
took another drop, and were sold at £2B 10s.. Union
Bank got down to sellers £4l, with no buyers above £37.
Australasia shares have almost vanished out of the share-
lists, anil the City Bank old issue, £8 paid-up, is offering
at £5; t,he new issue is down out of sight at about 3s.
in the alleged £. These are the four “legal tender”
banks whose paper is supported by a State guarantee,
and apparently public confidence in them has been
diminished instead of restored. The shares of the re-
constructed Commercial of Sydney have dropped from
£2O to about £l7. A.J.S. shares, £5 10s. paid, have no
buyers above £1 10s., and the other reconstructed banks
don t seem to be heard of on the market. Apparently the
bottom is still a long way off, and something will break
before it is reached.
* • •
The little, one-horse Standard Bank re-opens in
Melbourne this week. It seems a pity it didn't sink.
Australia is about the most over-hankedcountrv on earth,
and when it is necessary to throw a few joint-stock
Jonahs overboard the Standard would be a very good
Jonah to go with the rest. It is an old boom-time land-
bank which is struggling hard to look like a “ legitimate”
and old-established institution, and is failing badly in the
effort. The attempt is about as hopeless as that of the
cow w hich calls up additional capital in the hope that it
will thereby become a horse.
* * *
A celebrated old Melb. pro.’s “call” liability
on shares in the Commercial .of Australia and Golds-
brough, Mort & Co., adds up, we are sorry to hear, to
£30,U00 or more.
* * #
From the Age’s florid description of the new
Commercial Bank of Australia building, in Collins-street,
Melbourne: "Just outside the chamber is the teller's
d iy-supply strong-room, which holds £250,000 in gold, to
be used hi case of a rush, the more capacious treasury
downstairs, with us £1,000,000 supply, being barred and
bolted with keys held by two directors, who are not
always at hand when there is a run on the bank.” Which
reminds us that the apocryphal million wasn’t at hand,
euher, the last time they had a run. However, the room
Tub Bulletin would like to examine is the one that con-
tains paper-security for those 10 or 11 millions of locked-
up deposits.
• # *
This gaudy joke of a bank-building cost £120,000
—what a pity they can’t pawn it at its full value, and
give the money to the poor creditors I—and “the beauti-
ful mosaic floor of the chamber ” was imported from ’Ome.
A magnificent place, truly. “ Indeed,” says the dazzled
Melbourne reporter, “there is no bank in the city of
Loudon which can compare with the Commercial.” And
a dashed good thing for London.
• # *
The Mercantile Finance, Trustees and Agency
Co, (Melbourne) perished last week. It was one of those
unspecified institutions which lived on commissions and
percentages, bill discounting, mortgage business, loans on
things in general, guarantees, bonds, and promiscuous
finance. It never ranked among the bogus banks of Vic-
toria, having about £728,000 of actual paid-up capital—
not paper capital but hard cash which w'as once actually
alleged to have been seen by reasonably reliable wit-
nesses. Up till the bursting of the boom it paid good
dividends and accumulated a large reserve fund, which
seems also to have been moderately real. Then it wrote
off £350,000 for “depreciation.” in 1891 it stopped pay-
ing dividends, and in 1892 and 1893 it called up 17s. 6d.
per share and used up all its reserves in meeting
more ” depreciation.” This filled the gap for a time, but
when the reserve was all gone, and almost every visible
asset had been more or less “written off,” and the
£160,000 called up had gone into the same bottomless
gulf of depreciation, and the only visible result of all
these sacrifices was that things kept on depreciating
worse than ever, the Mercantile Finance Co. gave up the
struggle. The shareholders are mostly men of some sub-
stance, but even when the whole lot are crushed in the
liquidation mill, 15s. in the £ is about all that is hoped
for. As for the paid-up capital, no one has even seen it
through a telescope for quite a long time.
• * *
Melbourne Herald, which has buttoned so
vigorously for Matthew Davies and Millidge and the Mer-
cantile Bank crowd generally, indignantly denies the
Evening Standard's assertion that it is, or was, partly
owned by Davies, and was financed with money advanced
by the odoriferous Mercantile. This is, no doubt, quite
true, for it is doubtful if the Mercantile ever advanced any-
thing in a direct or visible fashion to anybody, and things in
which Davies had an interest seem now and then to have
been held in the name of his third cousin, and further
protected hy a mortgage to his uncle’s fifth son bv a pre-
vious marriage. Therefore it would be a great deal more
to the point if the Herald would swear positively that it
never received financial support from anybody who got
the money from a land and finance company which got a
big overdraft at the Mercantile about the same time, the
said overdraft being granted after Davies had gone out of
the room and entirely without his knowledge.
* * #
And as regards the other alleged transaction, no
one ever seriously supposed that any share or interest in
the Herald was ever held directly in Matthew’s honoured
name. The question that wants to be answered is this:
Were any shares ever held in tile names of any of his rela-
tives, or partners, or partners’ friends, or in the name of
anybody that any of his many banks advanced money to,
or discounted an unsecured bill for, or otherwise accom-
modated ? A sworn statement on these points would be a
lot more relieving than the bald contradiction above-
mentioned.
* # *
“Those boa-constructed banks” is how an old
lady is made to refer to the broken financial institutions
in an English paper.
* * *
What promised to be an extremely interesting
case has been extinguished hy defendants (Jas. Service
and others) settling with Murray Jones over the City
Road Co. out of court.
* * *
James Marwick has left Melbourne after 12
months’ investigation into the affairs of the E. & A.
Mortgage Bank (nee Henry Arnold & Co.), and that
financial expert is now on his way back to Glasgow.
Marwick s mission, which excited lively anticipations at
the outset, threw no light upon the matter in hand.
He came 12,000 miles to find that the E. & A. Mortgage
Bank was hopelessly insolvent, a fact quite generally
understood before he arrived. Marwick never had other
than words of comfort and joy to utter during his stay
in Melbourne, and before the banks began to burst around
him he gravely proposed an Assets Realisation Company
for the purpose of putting everything right again.
Indeed, the optimism of Mr. James Marwick was so
glaring as to give rise to a rumour that he had been
specially imported hy Fat Man to “ restore confidence.”
It the Glasgow creditors of the E. & A. M. paid him £BOO
for his labours, as stated, it would be interesting; to know
whether they are satisfied with the results achieved. Or,
whether they will be satisfied, two or three years hence,
with his present opinion that all the reconstructed banks
are bound to flourish.
# * *
The collapse of the Yorkshire Brewery Co.
(Mell>.) seems to suggest that that twangy institution,
“colonial” beer, is falling into disfavour. The trouble
arose chiefly because many of the tied houses weren’t
paying anything like expenses. Assuming that the debts
—£74,000, much of it owing by hotels which don’t pay
expenses can he mostly recovered ; and supposing that
nearly £lOO,OOO worth of freehold public-house can he
sold, in a frightfully depreciated market, at original cost,
the loss is £26,500.
* * *
According to a Queensland paper, the meeting
of creditors of the Q.N. hank, held in London, was one of
the liveliest on record. The meeting, so rumour saith,
had to be adjourned, as the creditors would not agree to
the “reconstruction” scheme. Brisbane directors have
since cabled to London refusing to allow any alteration of
the scheme, declaring that the suspension was brought
about by the English depositors, and threatening, in the
event of the bank being forced into liquidation, that the
Q. Govt, will enforce its preferential claim. Whether or
not this is true, it is certain that the British depositors
have now judiciously caved-in.
* # #
The City Mutual Fire Insurance Co. (of Sydney)
presents a remarkably good balance-sheet, considering
the combustible nature of things in times of depression.
The profits for the year are £6326, of which £l5OO goes to
pay a 10 per cent, dividend, £1377 in bonuses to uncom-
busted policy-holders, £2OOO to reserve-fund, and the
balance to depreciation account or carried forward. The
City Mutual’s best features are that it lias an immense
unpaid capital (£135,000), that it shares its profits with
customers on the mutual plan, and that it spends less in
dividends than in building up the reserve-fund.
* * *
The V.D.L. liquidators propose to hold an art
union of £300,000 worth of the bank’s assets.
* • #
The officers of the City Bank of Sydney have
“ submitted” to an all-round reduction of 10 per cent.
* # *
One of the hardest things on earth is to get a
fraudulent banker into gaol; the next hardest thing is to
keep him there when he arrives.
# # #
An ugly rumour is around about an Australian
silver-mine long in liquidation. A lot of silver and copper
matte had accumulated, and for the purchase of this
tenders were invited. Samples were obtainable at the
manager’s office, hut the bullion of these was so poor that
tenders tor the bulk were very low. It is now declared
that the accepted tender was really that of certain of the
directors! and that they divided £l7OO on the deal. A
long silence has been disturbed and a French detective
is on their tracks.
* * *
The falling-off of the Victory (Charters Towers)
returnsis pronounced in the drop from 9d. to 3d. dividends.
They would have a £200,000 capital and now the mine
suffers by comparison.
* # #
The writer has long waited to bear results from
the heavy 20-head stamp-mill at Mt. Gahan (the erection
of which began months ago), operating on the thousands
of tons of rich ore at grass. But—silence! Surely it is
not true that work has been almost suspended and that
there is little hope that the battery, when completed,
can be kept going? The share-market barometer reads
ominously—sellers, 4s. ; no buyers. And this of a mine
which paid 6d. a month without a battery ! Too often in
this market-mining-cursed country does the battery go up
when the mine goes down.
* it *
And what has become of thePambula G.M. Co.,
and Faulkner’s and others which were going to put a head
on the world’s gold production ? Oblivion veils even the
extensive cyanide works so often projected for Pambula.
* # #
Blessed are they who expect very little in
milling. A drop was predicted for the Tnmhemtnha Flat
Sluicing Co. when the machinery was going up, hut now
it is up the mine seems to just about pay its way. The
work was about l|dwts. to cubic yard—a verv good tiling
but for the overburden, which is about 9yds. to one of
work.
* * *
After a long call-paying period, the No. 1 South
True Blue, Croydon, joins the dividend-payers of the
field. It is poor consolation to some Sydney men, who
paid calls till they were tired and dropped out, to hear
that it lias recently divided £6700.
* * #
Every mining man has laughed at the news-
paper explanations of the “dynamite outrage” on the
s.s. Bnmnnbeet. First, we heard of a dynamite cartridge,
which some hero threw into a bucket of water, thus
saving the vessel from destruction ; thi n it was attached
to a lighted fuse, and, if so, why in thunder did the
dynamite not go off in the water? Finally, the D.T.
made a champion ass of itself, by saying the unexploded
cartridge did not contain dynamite but a sort of brown
powder. The Bulletin’s theory is that it is a packet of
cocoa.
• * #
Already three steamers have sailed direct for
the Cape; several others are advertised, and each has
been crowded with Australian miners hound for South
Africa. The condition in which one was allowed to leave
Sydney filled with passengers was a disgrace to the
marine officials—wlio so carefully overhauled the Royal
* * #
Things look sick at Golden Gully mine, N.S.W.
The first lift in the new ground, bought by the co. for
£lOOO, looks like a duffer. It was always a patchy, will-
o'-the-wisp, honanza-or-nothing concern. The life’of the
mine hangs on two threads of hope: public crushing
which is done at good profit; and the chance of finding
gold in the old southern workings, whence bio- cakes
issued a quarter of a century back.
* # #
One mine one boom is the N.S.W. custom. A
few months ago the gold absorbed in an iron dish led the
Peak Hill people to imagine that they had struck a huge
ore body worth an oz. per (on. Shares boomed to 2s. 6d.
on “dish prospects.” Now the mine is regularly crushing
with a big battery masses of half-oz. rock,“shares *0
begging at 3s. They have dished the market.
* # »
The New Prince of Wales Co., Pegleg Gully
Bendigo, has a reef 20ft. wide at its 300 ft. level. Twenty
years ago £lOO,OOO was taken out of this mine over 250 ft.
from the surface. It is believed in Bendigo (hat the mine
is on a practically untouched line, parallel with the St.
Mungo and Devonshire group. The Diamond Hill mines’
seven miles due south— Herbel’s, New Comet, Great
Comet and Phillips Water-wheel—are all on rich stone
not 100 ft. down, which is supposed to belong to the New
Prince of Wales line of reef. As the Bendigo miners now
know their reefs as intimately as Phil Stuart does his wax
“ Aggers,” it should not be long ere it is decided whether
a new line has been added to the wonderful reefs of
Quartzopolis.
* # #
The accomplished Dr. Peters, jun., after spending
two days in Broken Hill, had something to the
silver mines. At a depth of 1000 ft. probably, he seems to
have told an interviewer, the ore would be found richer in
lead and would contain less zinc. He was of opinion that
the Junction North was the best property afler the Pro-
prietary, and that the proper m tborl of treating tlie co.’s
ore was being pursued. The circumstance of placing the
Junction North ahead of Block 10, block 14, and various
other companies did not strike Dr. Peters as ludicrous,
nor did lie seemingly compare the value of Hie mines
named as evidenced by the shan market. Meanwhile,
shares in the Junction North stick doggedly at Is. 3d. or
thereabouts, while those of the other companies are
quoted at sinful prices.
* « #
Broken Hill Proprietary for the half-year ending
May 31 treated 230,403 tons of ore, producing 21,952 ions
of lead, 408 lons of copper, 5,972,1940 z. of silver, and
1848 oz. of gold. The directors bewail the fact that,
although the cost of reduction has been reduced by 15s. 3d.
per ton, the profit, owing to various causes, is £1 less. It
is gleefully shown that although 40 per cent, less men
were employed, 22,000 tons more ore were raised than in
the six months ending May 31, 1892, a result which is
attributed to the operation of the system of sloping by
contract instead of by day labour. ' Tire fact that the
returns for the half-year are swelled by the immense
quantities of ore recovered from the open cut at a fraction
of the cost of mining underground is apparently forgotten
in the anxiety to justify the silver potentates’ aclion in
forcing the system of sloping by contract down the
throats of the miners, despite that it involved the viola-
tion of a long-standing agreement and plunged Broken
Hill into a five-mouths’ strike.
* * #
On dit that Mr, Muller, formerly a Bendigo
news-agent, now a leading sharebroker, offered George
Lansell, at the beginning of the year, 1000 sovereigns a,-
week for Ids dividends for 1893.
* * *
Yongaleatha Flux and Tramway Co. has just
had five of its leases cancelled for non-payment of rent,
and has probably gone hence for all lime, leaving ns evi-
dence that it once existed a new Act on the N.S.W.
Statute hook, a line surveyed through unlimited mulga
and saltbush, and a quantity of scrip scattered through
the country. It would now be interesting to know whac
advantage accrued to the "community at large through
Die passage of special Acts on behalf of Pine Ridge,
Balaclava and Rutland Flux companies.
9 # »
The Mount Lyell Co.’s secretary writes tJ say
that it is quite untrue, as stated, that Mr. H. H. Schlapp,
the Broken Hill Proprietary Go’s metallurgist, is to he
appointed general-manager of Mt. Lyell when it is floated.
“ Mr. Schlapp has never been approached on the matter,
nor have the directors any intention of doing so.”
# # #
If there were more sovereigns in Australia, the
price of gold-mining shares in dividend mines would
double itself. The low prices of Gympie dividend stocks
have long been a marvel. For instance, No. 1 North
N.Z. shares 145., only about four times the amount of the
recent dividend. Nojl South Phoenix, 344 tons for 1076
ozs. ; dividend Is. 6d., shares 15s. 6d. Crown and Phoenix,
188 tons for 412 ozs.; dividend 6d., shares 3s. 3d. No. 2
South Phoenix, 512 tons for 706 ozs, ; crushing not up to
expectations, so shares fell to 3s. Some Sydney men
made a plunge into Gympie stocks six months ago, and
have already received in dividends more than their shares
cost.
# * *
Again we have a prospectus of the Bindley
Sluicing Co. This time a no-liability claim is proposed.
It is only another case of amateurs paring for ixperience.
Good machinery badly erected has involved the owners
who now have to ask the public to help them along.
Albeit the terms are easy, everything is nearly ready
for active work, and, above all, the mine has
proved a good one. It is an alluvial lead on the Murrum-
hidgee at Gundagai.
* # *
Same old game in same old style. The pro-
moters of Bayley’s Reward No. 1 South G.M. Co. want
£25,000 casli as well as a heap of paid up shares for the
property, to develope which £5OOO is also to he put aside.
It appears to live, move, and have its being on “ next.”
The ore expert calculates tons by the assay of ozs. “ Not
sufficient work,” says he, “ has been done to enable me to
give anything like a definite opinion of the payable char-
acter of the stone.” In another place: ‘‘Gold has been
seen at every point and is not confined to any particular
part or side of (he reef; it simply permeates the whole
mass.” If the latter part of the paradoxical report is
correct, why is so much said in the prospectus about the
richness of Bayley’s claim, or if £25,000 are so badly
wanted, why not take it out of the reef? This appears to
be what Sylvester Brown is doing with Bayley’s.
• * #
Melb. Metrop. Gas Co. has knocked yet another
6d. per day off its men’s wages, and, with an eye to keep-
ing up big dividends, is moving heaven and earth to
secure a 6d. a gallon tax on kerosene.
• * *
Two years ago a Melb. timber-merchant formed
a syndicate with £350 capital to prospect Westralia for
gold. The two experienced miners, after getting as far
as what is now known as “ Coolgardie,” pegged out
claims there, abandonee! them as worthless, and ai e now
amongst the unemployed of Melbourne. The abandoned
claims are now worth scores of thousands.
* * *
Says the London correspondent of Melbourne
Age:—“Another objection is that the banks have asked
their creditors to allow them to reconstruct without
affording any information as to their real position, and it
is urged that while most of the suspended hanks are
solvent, and are only temporarily embarrassed, others
have lost all their called-up capital and reserve fund, and
their ability to pay their creditors will depend upon the
manner in which the calls made upon their shareholders
are met.” Yes, and some more objection is that, if the
banks had “ afforded information about their real posi-
tion,” there would have been no more guarantee about
the reality of the information than there is now. Even
the truth is of little value until it is audited by some in-
dependent authority.
• • #
A Sydney advt.:—“ Sovereigns for sale at
ordinary premium." ,
* # «
A sign of the times is that some of the recon-
structed hanks are closing many of their country branches,
* # »
How city property has depreciated. Three
years ago the site of the old Burragong Hotel, George
and Hay-streets, Sydney, was valued by its owners at
£29,000. Nine months ago Richardson aid Wrench
valued it at £21,000. At auction last week the Mayor of
Sydney bought it for £14,400. Had a private individual
wanted it £lO,OOO would have been about the price.
* * •
“Wholesale ‘ reconstruction’—a mere shirking
of difficulties which ought to have been faced and which
will have to be faced in some form.”—London Times.
# # #
One of the schemes of the Kingston Ministry
is to take over S. A. Savings Bank in connection with a
State Bank of issue and deposit. How will this affect
legislation depreciating mortgages, which will then belong
to the State ?
• • •
James Smith’s lecture to the Melb. bankers the
other night evinced his many-sided mind. He contended
with historical banking references of much interest, that
bankers ought only to lend their own money.
# # #
“To write the secret history of how banks are
reconstructed would mean an endless record of crime and
intimidation."—Worker.


Crsv
Cro to H^EjSXjXj.—
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell Ihe Set of 14, unused, for Is. Cil.
Illustrated Price List of foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gmtig.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S. \V.
(< The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition—No. 5.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who oan correctly
supply the word missing from the paragraph on the sub-
joined coupon—which coupon is to lie cut out and for-
warded to The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will he paid the total amount- received in response to this
advertisement. Should there he more than one successful
competitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons received to August 5, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope in (he
custody of the manager of the Bank of New Zealand,
Sydney, and the contents are known only to the manager
of this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will be added to
that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may he forwarded by Post-office
order or stamps ; when the latter are sent, a penny to be
added for exchange.
“BULLETIN" NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’a” Miss inf/ Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 5.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word , and forward
coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to
Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney, in time to be
received by Saturday, sth August, 1893.
“ Women are employed at railway switches and
crossings in Italy because they do not get intoxi-
cated.” This, cut from a Sydney paper, is trium-
phantly hurled at the world in aeneral as a
fact. But it's a lie. Women are so employed in
Italy because they are cheaper than men. Why
are men employed at Australian railway switches,
pray ? Because the lines have not yet been collared
by Fat Man, and it isn’t policy for the State to
employ Chinamen or females.
Name.
Address.
M issing 1 Vord
The person ivho fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received—no deduction whatever bei.no
made. Should there be more than one successful
competitor, the total amount received will be
divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on
this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure
absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise conduct
the competition in a maim r worthy of Ihe reputation of
the paper.
Personal Items.
Cardinal Moran takes large 13’s in shoes.
Queen Victoria had to use the lift to reach
the first floor of the Imperial Institute on opening-
day.
Mayor Manning is said to represent more
“absentee” capi al than any other agent in
Sydney.
A Richmond (Vic.) coroner's jury recently
included John Long, John Short, John Small,
and John Large.
Apropos a certain hen-roost robbery :
“ Parkes lost a lot of ‘Ns ’ lately. Gone to join
his ‘ Is ’ and ‘ H’s. ”
Gilbert Parker breaks a lance on Francis
Adams, in the Pall Mall, over the latter’s new
book, “ The Australians.”
Mr. Henniker, private secretary to Gov.
Kintore, is heir to a barony, a god-son to the
Prince of Wales and a bachelor.
David Mitchell, Melba’s father, contracts
for the luckless Melb. Equitable edifice, at which
seven workmen have already been killed.
The bashful Princess May, asked what
she would like the County of Surrey to give her as
a wedding-present, modestly replied, “ A tiara of
diamonds.’’
There have been 39 Mayors of Melbourne,
of whom J. T. Smith was seven. Only one of
the lot was knighted during office —Benjy Benjy.
And just look at him now !
The late Chief Justice Higinbotham’s
charitable actions are beginning to come to light.
On the contrary, a lot of people have to die before
you find out how mean they were.
A subscription has been started in Bris-
bane to send away Thomas Glassey, late leader of
the Labour party, on a trip for the benefit of his
health, which has suffered greatly.
London Figaro asserts that the Princess
of Wales, shocked at the ease with which May
forgot her allegiance to her “old love,” did not
smile upon the York-Teck wedding.
Old friend Lord Sheffield has been amus-
ing himself and friends by unrolling an Egyptian
mummy in that delightful park of his. It was a
lady mummy, so the show was for gentlemen
only.
Dickens, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), was lately
complimented at a dinner out West on the ground
that he was a more practical man, and had a
great deal more common sense than his father, the
novelist.
Ex-Chief Justice
Lilley is again in
acdve practice at the
Queensland bar.
Dr, Cockburn,
S.A. Minister for
Education, relates
that a man once
called on and claimed
acquaintanceship
with him, on the
ground that they
were relations. “ I
am a son of Chief
Justice Cockburn. < f
England,” said tl e
visitor, “and I believe
be was your uncle.”
“The Chief Just ce,”
replied the doctor,
“ was not my uncle,
and, although I have
no right to doubt the
stall ment that he
was your father, I
ha\e always under-
stood that he died a
bachelor.”
William Fox,
Maoriland K.C.M.G.
and ex-Premier, the
veteran who led four
ministries, was a viru-
lent teetotaller and
used to have a cold
swimming bath every
morning until within
a few days of his
death. The sight of
this hero of 82 taking
a header in the early
morning of a snowy
winter day, with
nothing on but his
spectacles and the
white flower of an
unblemished life, was
a memorable spec-
tacle. Fox never did
anything v*ry great,
but he was an honour-
able old man and
thorough in every-
thing— including his
ablutions. But —a cold
sponge • bath, or a
tepid bath, and half
a bottle of generous
wine daily, after say
his 75th year, would
probably haveenabled
him to see, at least,
1900 a. D.
The N.S.W. estate, valued ab £lBl,lOB,
of A. J. Livingstone Learmouth, who died lately
in England, pays ,£9055 duty to the N.S.W.
Treasury. The will covers 200 folios.
Ex-Premier and Agent-General Munro
(Vie.) lias just got his insolvency certificate. By
affidavit he stated that lie was worth <£Bo,ooo
clear in 1885, and .£240,000 clear in 1889.
No journalist has been incarcerated in
Melbourne since Hugh George, publisher of the
Argus, was put in the Parliamentary coal-hole, in
1806, because his paper said that Premier M‘Oul-
loch told lies.
Cardinal Moran, while in Rome recently,
besought all the English residents and visitors to
preserve their faith in Australian banks, which
“had ample funds to meet all demands.” One
must suppose that the prelate got his information
from Heaven.
There is a very strong movement afoot to
secure the release of Francis Abigail who has only
served a small portion of his sentence of live
years for complicity in the Australian Banking
Company frauds.
It is alleged that murderer Archer offered,
if reprieved, to disclose the murderer of the man
stabbed in Dcvonshlre-street, Sydney, a few years
ago and for which murder a jockey and a com-
panion were tried and acquitted.
Policeman Sawtell, whom murderer
Archer so bitterly denounced on the scaffold,
presenter! him with a Bible the week after he
was sentenced, with the request that lie should
read it and so find joy in heaven.
The new R.C. Bishop of Port Augusta,
should Bishop O’Reilly go to Adelaide, is likely to
be Father Norton, of Petersburg!], S.A. He is a
native of Ballarat, and served ins time to G. R.
Johnson, the well-known Melbourne theatrical
architect.
Annear (Queensland Chairman of Com-
mittees) and Parkes ought to become acquainted.
Sample of Annear (as per a contemporary) :
“The question his that the Bill be h interdooced.
H as many has h are of that pinyun say Aye, con-
trary, no, I declare the Ayes ’ave Ait.”
An old Melbourne lady who, a few years
ago, had a row of cottages built for the use of
destitute women, has lately been permitted by the
men into whose hands the working of the chari-
table scheme was placed, to occupy one of those
cottages herself. Cause—bank reconstruction.
A certain Australian dramatist, now well
to the fore, is said to have severed his connection
with the Melbourne press because he was told off
to interview jurors who had tried a case—the very
thing for which manager Thomson, of Melbourne
Standard, has been sentenced to seven days’
gaol and -£lOO fine.
London professional Jews have formed a
club—the Maceabseus—from which “ mercantile ”
Hebrews are rigorously excluded. Cowen, Zang-
will, Solomon and other prominent musicians,
journalists and artists are members. One member
—Joseph Jacobs (erstwhile of Sydney)—is the
image of Victorian ex-Solicitor-General Isaacs.
Charles Flannigan, the half-caste hanged
at Port Darwin on July 15, for the murder of
station-overseer Croker, was the first person exe-
cuted in the'Territory. The authorities had much
trouble in securing an executioner, the difficulty
being surmounted within the prison walls at
Fanny Bay in an interesting way. No one knows
who wore the mask.
The Duke of York reads his little speeches
of thanks for the kind and hearty welcome
accorded to him on such and such occasion, &c.,
, 4/
M
!
MELBOURNE’S OLDEST LAWYER.
&c., “in a voice very pleasantly and clearly
audible.” Once or twice he lias tried to be im-
promptu, but his royal memory stuck him up
suddenly, and he was obliged to take his burst of
eloquence out of his pocket.
Dear Bulletin, —The true version of the
Morgan-Sleath affair is, that Morgan challenged
Dick to a duel, with pistols. Dick, however, with
a knowledge of the technique of duels which does
him credit, insisted that the choice of weapons
rested with him. When called upon, his choice
was “ brick-bats, at a thousand yards.” The duel
never came off.—Yours, Pistol.
Sammy Way, whom it is proposed to
appoint as (virtually) S.A. Governor after Kin-
tore, owes Ins success to - himself! He appointed
himself Chief Justice when Attorney-General, and
will be Governor because he is Chief Justice.
The once fragile farm boy has had luck. In our
mind’s eye : “The life of Sammy Way ; or from
Fowl House to Government House.”
Another Tichborno case ? The elder
brother of the Earl ot Aberdeen, the new Gover-
nor-General of Canada, went to sea in 1870, and
worked before the mast for years, under the name
of “John Osborne.” He then disappeared during
the passage of his ship between Boston and Mel-
bourne. Is it possible he has turned up in the
editor’s room at the Australian Star office?
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards' ad., p. 1.
“ No fruit ripens in England saved baked
apples and roasted potatoes.”— French.
When Gov. Hopetoun came of age, there
was, it is related, a great gathering of the Hope
family from all parts of the earth, and much
haggis and eockieleekie and usquebaugh and
blowing of bagpipes. On Sunday the whole clan
went to the kirk and nearly filled it And then a
dull old man in the pulpit began his sermon with
the words : “My brethren, the world is full of
blasted hopes.”
News of the death of W. H. Dick, well-
known as a newspaper-man in Melbourne, Sydney,
Ballarat, Brisbane, and Hobart, comes simul-
taneously with the announcement that he was
bringing out a novel in London. Mr. Dick, who
was a brother-in-law of the lately-deceased Tom
Price, once of S M. HERALD, was, at the time of
his decease, running a paper of his own in a
Brisbane suburb.
Mestou writes from Bris-
bane: “ Jte Cook’s first name
of Botany Bay. Cook named
it ‘Sting Ray Bay’because ha
caught two huge ray-fish weigh-
ing 336 lbs. each. In June,
1821, ' when King was at the
Northumberland Isles on the
Queensland coast, he hauled two
of these enormous fish ashore in
a drag-net, one of them measur-
ing 12 feet across, and the liver
filled a small pork-barrel. In
1881 I saw one brought into
Townsville from the Palm
Islands, or rather the cutter
only towed the head into port,
leaving the carcase which
measured 12 feet long by 14 feet
across, and must have weighed
about three tons. These fish
are ‘sun rays,” not sting rays,
having no barb on the tail.
They are common on the tropi-
cal coast where they are
frequently seen floating on the
surface like the tops of small
islands. They are quite harm-
less, unless a man accidentally
swam into the mouth of one
while the fish was yawning.
Sting Ray Bay was re-named
Botany on account of its
floral wealth. Morton Island was named after
the Earl of Morton, then president of the
Royal Society (1770). Cook had a criminal weak-
ness for scattering titled names broadcast along
his track across this afflicted planet.
Apropos Marcus Clarke. The Bulletin
once had, and treasured up for a special occasion,
an exquisitely cynical, closely-written, 47-slip
sketch from his pen, “The Money-Lenders of
Barataria.” It never saw the light, for it was lost
or stolen on its way to the printer. It was one of
the last, and best, things he ever wrote. A great
deal of Clarke’s “copy” appears in old numbers
of The Bulletin.
A certain Cabinet Minister, so the story
runs, was “ taking the oath ” in his favourite
pub. when lie was button-holed by a “ retrenched”
public servant, who started to retail his grievances.
“Yes, yes,” snorted the “big” man, “that’s all
very well ; but, my dear fellow, this is not the
place to go into suoli a matter.” “ All vera wee],
Meester Blank,” replied the other, “but dom it
mon, I canna ever find ye enny where else but in
a pub.”
A Mount Barker (S. A.) women has had six
children in four years ; the last three arriving in a
heap. The husband is a poor labourer and wonders
why he is thus afflicted.
Archibald Forbes writes that the death of
the French Prince Imperial in Zululand was due
to shoddy saddlery. When the Zulus appeared
the Prince hastily tried to mount and the quick
strain tore away the (paper-faced) leather. And
it was a British saddle !
Editor Bulletin,' —The old N.S. Wale?
pilot-steamer, Captain Cook, is to be sold
as she now lies in Watson’s Bay, Sydney.
Why has Government, in calling for tenders,
limited the time to this Friday ? Anri why
is it that the advts. calling attention to the
sale of the steamer only appeared in last Monday’s
papers? Have the authorities sent advts. to
papers in the other provinces? There are lets of
probable buyers outside N.S. W . notably in
Maoriland. The whole thing looks extremely
fishy.— B.
Judge Hood (Vic.) displays a finical nicety
of expression : —“ As to the impropriety of a plan,
whereby the creditors and the honest shareholders
of a company might be defrauded,” etc., etc.
“ Impropri* ty ” is distinctly judicial. Fancy
hearing Ids Honor addressing a man caught dis-
embowelling Ids wife, after having sawn her head
off with a broken soup-plate ; —“ As to the im-
propriety of such scarcely warrantable departure?
MOVE ON!
“The Sydney police have been armed with revolvers.”
from the usual rules of conjugal etiquette,” etc.
Wanted: A Judge who will, without “emotion,”
call the broadclothed, silk-hatted, bank-fakir an
infernal thief. Common people don’t grip the
Sydneymorningheraldese language.
“You might as well shoot people with
bullets as with new ideas.”—Wendell Phillips,
The man who had to choose between
listening to the recital of one of Parkes’ poems and
accepting half-a-dozen bundles of Frossard’s Swiss
cigars (it was a Frossard cigar which Albert
Edward gave to Dibbs) would most assuredly not
select the former. A Frossard smokes like a
dream. In the blue halo that rings upward from
it one sees the snow-capped Alps, with their
glaciers and avalanches, the pretty Swiss milk-
maids, and almost has brought to his ears the lute-
like note of the swain’s pipe. Besides being good,
Frossard cigars are cheap. They are sold every-
where ill bundles of 25, duly trade-marked.
As announced some time back it was con-
fidently expected by the promoters that the ballot
for the Columbian Land Distribution could be
drawn this month. The unparalleled financial
upheaval which lias lately aliiicted the colonies
has, however, had its effect on this undertaking,
and it has been decided, as the result of conferring
with several large shareholders, to keep the ballot
open until November, and thus secure the benefit
of being enabled to offer to the public the remain-
ing shares under more favourable auspices. In
the meantime we are assured, on the best autho-
rity, all moneys subscribed have been placed in
the bank to the account of trustees. In addition to
this, Messrs. P. P. Labertouche and Major 0. M.
Officer, of Melbourne; Mr. Christopher Wade, of
Adelaide ; and Captain Whitney, of Auckland,
have the affair in hand asa committee of reference,
which should be sufficient guarantee to any waver-
ing investor in even these financially sceptical
times. Further particulars in our advertisement
columns.
When you meet a runaway horse, don’t
you “give him room?” When the trams arc
coming, don’t you “step aside?” If you see a
falling brick, don’t you “stand from under?”
Of course you do! You are aware of the impending
danger, and get out of the way. There are other
dangers, though, that yon are much more careless
of. Yon are careless of your health ; you abuse
your strength, perhaps in one way, perhaps in
another ; it, however, all amounts to the same
thing. Wherever one draws upon life’s fund so
must the vitality decline;- as the health and
strength is depleted so must lifei be shortened, or
made miserable. Take warning when that tired
feeling first comes on, those intense and occasional
headaches, those aching limbs and sleepless nights,
they are signs that the nervous system is about to
collapse, and that danger is at hand, it may be
disease, perhaps insanity, perhaps death. Be
warned in time, tackle the first signs; do not lei
debility get a hold on your system or it may be
too late. When nature warns you that disease is
about to attack you, do the same as if yon saw a
chimney-pot descending on your head— stand from
under', send to your nearest chemist or store-
keeper for Clements Tonic, and continue its use af
long as there is the slightest sign of any disorder.
Don’t think that one bottle is going to restore
strength that you have been wearing out for years.
You can’t nail patches on the human body like
you can on a barn ; you must use proper means to
restore the impaired vitality naturally, and this
cannot be done in a day, but it can be and has
been done in hundreds of severe cases by a proper
and continued use of Clements Tonic, a medicine
that can be depended on to cure every curable
case, and that is saying a good deal. The value
of such a remedy is absolutely proved by Mr, S.
G. Williams, steward s.s Illawarra, Sydney, who
writes on April sth, 1893 lam only too happy
to add my testimony to the number yon have
already received, I don’t believe there ever was a
greater sufferer than my wife has been from
neuralgia, many a sleepless night she has spent;
she had tried a number of remedies without relief.
A storekeeper on the Richmond River advised me
to try Clements Tonic, as he had received great
benefit from it himself. I got two bottles, and
before my wife had finished the second bottle she
was entirely cured. I have used Clements Topic
myself as a nerve strengthener ami invigorator,
and never found it to fail. Make what use you
like of this. I advertise Clements Tonic daily,
and hourly insist that people would give it a trial
as I know they would derive the same benefit as
have done. —Yours gratefully, S. G. Williams
steward s.s. Illawarra, Sydney.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
r—oo3
Messrs. Charlemonfc specially commend their
PIiATINOTYPE PORTRAITS
on account of their being so PERFECTLY
PERMANENT.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 30 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
EACH deo
Dailey Estate, Manly Beach.
Allotments, £S Eac:u.
10/- Deposit. 5- 'ifoutiily. ,V> Interest.
FREE DEEDS (free of all costs) to Purchasers who pay
up in One Year from day of sale.
Messrs. STEPHEN & ICKERSON, Solicitors,
86 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Five p r c»t. DISCOUNT for CASH, teh
A Good Spec, for Surplus Savings.
Deeds can be made out in names of Wife nr Children
Postage Stamps taken for Deposits and Instalments. No
forfeiture if buyers are unable to keep up payments
through sickness of want of employment.
Plans from F„ C. V. IlKOMiliro.V. 801 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Free Plans sent to any address.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MILLING
MACHS MERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES A BUGGIES'
William Fleming,
22 * 24 01/ARESTK Street,
MIMiEV,
df
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
d
POLITICAL
POINTS
Land-tax v. Income-tax is the Victorian
fight.
Title for a “Colonial” legal groveller—
Q.D.M.G.
Private Enterprise is rapidly promoted to
the rank of General Robbery.
There were in Maoriland, by latest returns,
42,500 more males than females.
Since the land-boom, the population of
Melbourne has fallen from 490,000 to 350,000.
E. B. L. Dickens, M.P. (N.S.W.), has
turned Freetrader. An ornament to neither party.
Payment of members is as essential a part
of the Democratic system as habeas corpus or trial
by jury.
The Ass.-owned Sydney Daily Telegraph
daren’t say whether it supports or opposes payment
of members.
Nearly every Victorian Democrat looking
Parliament-wards has his eye on Footscray for
next general election.
In Westralia £'43,000 is spent yearly on
police, £19,000 in keeping rogues and vagabonds,
and only .£14,000 on education.
Should Parkes ever again become N.S.W.
Colonial Secretary, one of his first official acts will
avowedly be the disarming of the police.
The Liberator suggests that the venue in
the Davies case should be removed to London, an
impartial trial being impossible in Melbourne.
The yearly interest on Queensland’s public
debt now amounts to £l,2ss,2B3—rather a weighty
swag to be carried by a decreasing population.
The N.S.W. Solicitor-Generalship, now
conferred on Mr. R. E. O’Connor, was last held
by Judge Innes, in the Parkes Ministry of 20
years ago.
Among the Democratic “cries” for next
N.S.W. general election should be the cancella-
tion of all sinecures and reduction of the salary o!
the Governor.
N.S.W. National Ass. is going to revise its
platform, and will hold a solemn pow-wow to de-
cide whether it is game to officially oppose pay-
ment of members.
Rumoured that Forrest, the new Queens-
land Agent-General, is to be recalled in favour of
J. R. Dickson, who knows a lot of things and must
be politically placated.
Vic. Railway Commissioners pay a con-
tractor ss. 6d. aday of 11 hours for a man and a horse
for shunting. The Government Sweating Board
did not bring this fact to light.
Richardson, of Fish Creek notoriety, will
adorn Patterson’s Cabinet. What a cheerful
chronicle a “ Careers of Local Preachers in Aus-
tralian Parliaments” would be !
Thos. Ash, M.P., is articled clerk in S.A.
Premier Kingston’s office. Yet he was one of the
bitterest and most persistent opponents of the
Progressive Succession Duties Bill,
Premier Patterson (Vic.) says he looks
upon the profession of politics as a business. Yet
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs, in his insolvency schedule,
describes himself as “out of business.”
“ Killing is murder, with or without State
sanction, and every participant should be shunned
as though the foul blot of leprosy on his soul
were patent on his face.”— Twentieth Century.
There are now two distinct parties in
S.A. Assemblj'’, the so-called “Country” party,
including Downerites and the Ass members ; and
the Democratic Labour-members and Ministerial
supporters.
Unless the Democratic party establishes
and supports in each Australian province a
straight daily newspaper of its own, the workers
will yet eat grass and die, and deserve to die, in
the gutter.
N.S.W. Attorney-General, Toby Barton,
has gone for a flying trip to Canada. His visit,
to parody a Sydney daily, will probably tend to
promote harmony and good feeding between the
two countries.
Millionaire Angas will not seek re-election
to S.A. Legislative Council after his term expires
next April. Strange to say ha sits for the Central
District, which, out of six members, returns three
direct representatives of Labour.
The Kingston Ministry’s Betterment Bill,
a semi-radical measure, was actually supported in
the Legislative Council by National Ass Baker,
much to the disgust of the pig-voters. People are
now wondering what axe Baker has to grind.
N.S. Wales ex-Treasurer M‘Millan’s rela-
tions with his party admit of very little additional
strain. At Freetrade headquarters he is looked
upon as a “ suspect,” and if he snapped the weak
link which now binds him a sense of relief would
follow.
The withdrawal from the N.S.W. police of
the small douceur they have been receiving for the
detection of Sunday-trading in public-houses,
knocks the last leg from under a law to which
neither the public nor the police ever gave volun-
tary assent.
In reply to the telegraphic “feeler” pub-
lished in the dailies as to Cold Pie Blake, hero of
the historical Queensland gubernatorial embroglio,
probably succeeding Kintore in South Australia,
1 remier Kingston sent a warning cable to the
Colonial Office.
Only four M.’sP,—John Davies from tire
N.S.W. Council, and Neild, Lees, and Carruthers,
from the Assembly—took part in the Sydney 12th
only demonstration. The L.O. organisation fairly
stinks now-a-days. So many of its erstwhile gods
are in gaol for felony.
At a Colac (Vic.) Orange demonstration,
last week, several speakers declared they were
prepared to fight, like their Ulster forefathers,
were Home Rule granted to Ireland. Which
sounds like high treason. Colac mayn’t have a
gallows, but Geelong has.
Ven. Dean Macartney : “No Irish noble-
man or gentleman had gone into Parliament to
support the pernicious Home Rule Bill.” No?
Wasn't Charles Stewart Parnell, the man respon-
sible for the existence of a Home Rule Bill, a land-
lord and of a “ good ” family ?
At present South Australia and Maori-
land appear to be the only two of the Aus-
tralias where anything like common honesty or
decency, or solvency prevails either in public or
in private affairs. And, significantly enough, in
both Parliament is controlled by the Radicals.
The day (July 25) originally fixed for the
hanging of four aborigines at Port Essington,
N.T., was the 30th anniversary of the day on
which J, McDouall Stuart, the explorer, planted
the British flag on the shores of the Indian Ocean.
Mark the results of three decades of civilisation !
The more or less disgraceful condition of
the Australian military forces arises from the
insane attempt to adapt a system of instruction,
organisation, and equipment only fit for a standing
army to a body of men who cannot, in the nature
of things, get more than a week or two’s training
in the year.
Behold the attacks on Gewgawdom—in
South Australia the proposed covert abolition of
the imported Governor; in Queensland, the
brutally abrupt abolition of Black Rods, Ser-
geants-at-Arms, and other British Parliamentary
frippery ; in Victoria, the sacrilegious curtailment
of the gubernatorial perquisites.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs, when he quotes,
or refers to, Scripture, always “puts iiis foot into
it.” His latest is : “This Parliament will not be
allowed to do the penitent thief act by rushing
through a lot of business while it is dying.”
Which only serves to recall the fact that Judas
jr/at
NOT EXACTLY THE BRAND HE ASKED FOR,
DOMAIN CONVALESCENT: “Oh for a pick-me- (Just then the strong Arm of the Law
up! O Lor!” caine along and gave him one.)
Iscariot hanged himself ere the penitent thief was
crucified.
B, R. Wise enjoys the enviable fortune of
being regarded as a desirable colleague both by
Parkes and Dibbs. The latter suggested a politi-
cal conspiracy to Wise years ago, and has indi-
cated at resrular periods since that the subject
could still be re-opened. Parkes prefers Wise’s
support to that of any half-dozen members of the
Assembly.
Editor Bulletin, —What a mad world i fc
is? Here is a country full 6f acres ready for the
plough, and yet we see men reclaiming swamps,
up to their knees in water, in the hopes of getting
a little block to live upon ! Is there no Humane
Society to interfere on behalf of these helpless
sheep ? What a row there would be if the gentle-
men in Pentridge prison were given such a job !
Carmagnole.
Treasurer Carter’s Victorian Budget speech
was the most dismal on record, not alone in
matter, but as an unexpected failure by the man.
There never was a more caustic critic than Carter
of the dullness of other financiers. Verdon would
have seized such an opportunity, and packed the
whole thing into an easy, nonchalant forty
minutes. Carter is absolutely cowed, and not the
man for the situation.
Queensland Government Printing Office is
reducing its cost this year from £16,750 to
£14,577. Nearly the whole of the reduction is
screwed out of the compositors, readers, ma-
chinists, apprentices, and other small-fry, who
number in all 116, and receive £7349 : —average,
about 235. weekly; whilst the high officials—over-
seers, clerks, engineers, &c., numbering only 17,
get £7226—average, £425 each.
Talk about making a virtue of necessity !
N.S.W. National Ass claims that by its efforts
“ such checks and safeguards were imposed in
connection with the adoption of the one-man-one-
vote principle that it was unnecessary for the
association to persevere its advocacy of the
dual vote.” Delicious! A well might a man
suffering from tongue-eaim r say it really didn’t
matter, as he had painted his glands with choco-
late-cream.
A Sydney daily paper, on receipt of a
letter eulogistic of any M.L. A., now sends its re-
porters to ascertain the position of the signer.
That paner used to be “had ” by Smiths, Joneses
and Robinsons, who began their letters by saying
they disagreed with certain M’s.L.A., but could
not withhold admiration of such and such acts of
theirs—the actual writers, in every case, being
either the wives or other women connections of the
member glorified.
The S.A. Civil Service retrenchment pro-
posals will take .£7O a year from each Minister
and £2 10s. from every M.P. Said Ned Hawker,
son of a wealthy squatter M.P. : “Ministers
should be cut down to £5OO and members to £lOO
a-year. If they object to such a reduction there
are plenty equally good men outside who would
willingly take their places.” Just as if the repre-
sentatives of the people were “scab” labourers
under Fat Man’s thumb.
The Member for the Clarence, N.S.W.,
says that the “ most of the men now seeking work
are unsuited for agriculture, &c., and could not
live even on the very best land. What is needed
is a more liberal Land Act to give the present
farmers opportunities for increasing their areas
under cultivation.” “ A more liberal Land Act”
—something to give those who already own as
much land as they can use a chance of grabbing
more for rack-renting purposes.
George Hawker, one of the wealthiest of
S.A. squatters, voted consistently in Committee
with the framers of the Progressive Succession
Duties Bill, His son (and heir), Ned. as consis-
tently opposed its provisions. Should the bill
again be rejected by the Council the Government
can order the election of eight additional members
to the chamber of obstructives. As the country
strongly favours the bill, such an election would
be awkward for Chaffey Baker and Co.
“In other days,” says the Australian
Stab, “the populace made the King’s delights
their own.” So they did. Three English kings,
for instance, were unaccountably brained in dark
cellars; one heir-apparent was blinded and im-
prisoned for life in a vault, another was dropped
into a river at night; and yet another was sat
upon till he suffocated ; also, one more king had
his head taken off. And the populace, apparently,
rather enjoyed these things than otherwise.
For about two years the Melbourne Age
came out almost every day with a flaring leader
upon the horrible mismanagement of the Victorian
railways, and condemned almost every railway
scheme, past, present, and prospective. And now
that tile Age has found one proposed line that is
worthy of encouragement, it is absolutely brutal
of the Argus to rise up and demonstrate that it
runs almost nowhere except to Proprietor, Syme’s
own property at Killara, and to talk about it in the
same language which the Age used to heave at
other people’s little railways in other days.
Treasurer G. D. Carter, of Victoria, in his
Budget speech, said that when he and Edward
Wilson, of the Argus, were young men, they
lived together, and one day Wilson remarked to
him that he (the Argus man) didn’t drink, smoke,
or marry, and paid less towards the government
of the country than one of his compositors. “If
ever you go into politics,” said Wilson, “ tax men
like me.” Wilson lived for a quarter of a century
after that, never married, and spent most of his
time, and died, in England.
Contempt of Court is contempt of Fat
Man, on the face of things. That is to say, you
never hear of any impecunious alleged criminal
calling a newspaper to account for prejudicing the
fair trial he is entitled to. Deeming was hanged
by the daily press before he had been tried, but
no publisher was locked up on that account. Nor
do we find Justice—virtuous female!—visiting
her wrath upon the journal that “bonnets ” for an
influential defendant. Contempt of Court is a
grand institution in theory. Practically it begins
and ends with contempt of Eat Man, who brooks
no insult.
The Georgetown Mundic Mijwir ;
On the Johnstone River (Q.) sugar plantations there are
between two and three thousand colon retThands, and not
more than 150 whites employed, and those, for the most
part, at the most miserable wages—£l per week for
twelve hours a day, and all wet days stopped. The rain-
fall averages 130 in. per annum. On Mourilyan the
Javanese take the place of white men in almost every
capacity. They run the locomotives, look after the horses,
and do all the work in the mill, and it is fondly hoped by
the M‘llwraith crowd that the same state of things will
soon he accomplished on the other plantations. 'There
are not a dozen white settlers in the whole of the district,
and they are mostly hovering on the brink of insolvent*'!
Justice Bundey addressed a protest to the
S.A. Government against the proposed appoint-
ment of Chief Justice Way as Governor, on the
ground that the other Judges would have too
much work thrust upon them. Justices Way and
Bouoaut have, unlike Mr. Bundey, each had
a year’s holiday lately. Probably one Judge will
be retrenched should Mr. Way not assume vice-
regal office. The Secretary of State evidently
means to be obstructive, judging by his recent
cablegram to Gov. Kintore. Should the British
authorities continue their objections, they are to
be told that Adelaide Government House is in
urgent need of repairs and unfit for the reception
of a distinguished deadbeat. There are not want-
ing Democrats decided enough to vote for the
stoppage of supplies supposing a successor to
Kintore be forced upon the province.
Turley, Labour member for South Bris-
bane, works on the wharves all day until it is time
for him to go to the House. He may mean well,
but he acts unfairly to himself, for no man can
long continue to do heavy manual labour by day
and what should be engrossing mental work by
night. He is right in so ordering things that,
should he have to leave Parliament, he will be able
again to earn his own living as before ; he is also
right in keeping well in touch with his own order,
instead of turning his back upon it as so many do,
and assuming the uniform of the hostile camp.
But sad would be the day when, through the
abolition of payment to members, which so many
are now endeavouring to compass in the interests
of the predatory classes, the few Democratic
representatives who would be still left in Parlia-
ment would enter the House already exhausted by
physical toil. No, we must either have paid mem-
bers or “ bunts ” members. Pay or plunder—one
thing or the other.
Says an English paper : “ If we take the
Parliamentary history of the last 60 years, it is
impossible to point to a single occasion when
eloquence turned a party division.” Therefore,
let each member write out his speech and send it
to Hansard a week before the division; and
then, when the division is called, let half-an-hour
be allowed for gesticulation, after which the vote
can be taken. Anyone who has seen clever Dot
Boucicault as the Comte de Grival in “The
Amazons,” will realise that an eloquent gesticu-
lator, who merely threw his arms about for ten
minutes and said nothing, might do more to
undermine the Government than an ordinary
politician in a tw.o-hour speech. In fact, The
Bulletin knows one Frenchman whom, if he
could only be induced to read up the subject, it
would back for a large amount to completely
knock the ground from under the Colo Valley
syndicate Bill in fifteen minutes merely by dumb
show and pantomime, and without uttering a
sound. In fact, this paper will back Dot Bouci-
cault to do it.
The extinction by MTlwraith of those two
gaudy sinecurists, the Queensland Sergeant-at-
Arras and Usher of the Black Rod, will be
approved by all Democrats. MTlwraith has
occasional attacks which are curiously out of
keeping with his ordinary character as a big,
masterful, two-fisted, bull-headed oppressor and
frantic Conservative, and if the nation could make
it pay for him to be a violent Democrat, Thomas
of Auchenflower would probably prove, even at
this late hour, about the most violent Democrat in
Australia. But his price would be too high. If
he could be positively assured of the billet of first
President of the Australian Republic with a big
palace and a certain nomination for a second
term, together with the right of building a land-
grant railway right across Australia, and his bill
to be discountable at every bank in the country,
then MTlwraith would send back his K.C.M.G.
gewgaw whence it came, and shove the Governor
on board the 8.1.5. N. steamer, and lay the foun-
dations of the Republic forthwith. Mao, in short,
wants the earth, and when once he has it he will
probably prove a kind and even liberal-minded
man ; but he is soured and brutalised by the fact
that the earth isn’t forthcoming so promptly as he
thinks it ought to be.
A Melb. suburban medico goes round on a
bicycle, managing also to hold aloft an umbrella.
The New Australia Movement.
The sails of the Royal Tar have afc last been
loosed to the breeze that is bearing away from us
the pioneer settlers of a new country, colonised
under new conditions. “The world will be
changed if we succeed, and we shall succeed 1
We cannot help succeeding!” These are the
words of the leader of this little band of emi-
grants, and who can read them without silently
acknowledging the resistless power and resolution
they convey. Under such a captain how can
defeat be sustained ? Casting behind them the
vices and follies of civilisation, they are deter-
mined to tread the virgin soil of a new land, un-
fettered by the chains that have bound them
down so long, and
O’er the glad waters of the dark blue sea,
Their thoughts as boundless, and their souls as free,
they are speeding onwards to the goal of their
hopes. Every care has been taken in the selection
of candidates; an experienced surgeon accom-
panies, the medicine cheat is complete, and last
but by no means least, a consignment of “Mar-
shall’s Tonic Nervine,” the original and favourite
Australian antidote for all forms of nervous dis-
orders, has been shipped. The vigorous nervous
and muscular strength resulting from the use of
this superlative and unapproachable tonic must
assure success.
♦
Croup, whooping cough, sore throat, sudden
cold, and the lung troubles peculiar to children,
are easily controlled by promptly administering
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral. This remedy is safe to
take and certain in its action.


IMPERIAL FEDERATION.
LONDON, July 17.
It is likel}' that the Imperial Federation
League will be wound up owing to the
want of funds. '
Ss?
cC _U f
/ fact /j ft
X fiftrw &*y
<rf"//* r
A/
y* s
\
c
7 7 fcr
T
7 Oa?
fd
«•<{ 0 ,09. n,
,WV V ' rt ',
«■■'' oi' e< ' et t >**' '» V '° t es*" ve .
I iAt*®* Co°-° ra vo*‘ A *A dt ft.3\°"
v*» G *vf *> v
1«° v „.
\ c 6ceo’ i
, < * e \
Vi' a
r, ryf' u
60 / -
\sf'
i P sf ~
A-S v
, ■Do'*®"; , »s *
%k,
s^cL
i‘fie
.y / r e 'fe
ttrL
f
1 se ty
/ o/ J/V?,/ /p_/~ J
a / /i ///if fyo. ffc r
/*rs~<r*" /
-fi/"
/S M/'rf
&da arc/ f s/ose
j/ s #p d
J SArdocrc/ S'cd?
At? c^ 1 ’ 10
WOULD any kindflri'ena lend ••... tOo
sum of £lO at small interest, for tile pur-
pose of getting him an artificial leg? Security if
required, and mention the interest. If so. kindly 1
Communicate with him to Canterbury P.O.
// uf
I 0a
»■
*K 14 ■
<**”' oM 'y^
T .hewed .hat the doctrTn*
o' •• Reincarnation ami Karma bK, “» 1
M . , ,i. ..rain lo the position m " mu ‘
l-aaiy. M th., ueatad
v AM,,',! badly— this remark v\as ot
1 ieir , n.e acl to the men—Than They
course aUilie»sc«i w v "
ame back aa vmmm
T* ?
i 1 / ,
Q / frrv'tgft
bc/uiv W
Lie new south wales
If (JAVA LUV,
--
o*
J*
*
- ° v
e V^V
*" 2o< e
dsf
THINGS IN GENERAL.


hotsssa**
4roni n ]l £ n Ll «
'not' re.cLc.kJd ML, * au^ ce *
—4. I na* c/ ' Sum at*
t 7/* /fni ;A /s 7
* ttt e s T,^ <q y /[
a.nxovLidt~of
tieur duti‘e\
- Mfir,sro
' %e 7^
' S n k <*■ S e
fI J» £ 2,00 k. iflo
}s skrvrn
UeTl w <&cn ’ ~^ Lt '
r i£^“ rt^/
rte ?<* Ye
«*T iL**
V '‘T/,,
v , -Tht boat'd of
Jffow tkacT tve k‘»-' / ' e -
Oj- ~tk cCf~ little. , rn. a^ttcr
c*Jo o WT
fU
1 mi "'"^r
r^ j Le^ r< ’
yj-
<^p r e s •
J
\ . On * <
<l^
Its'* 0 \
.SHuimn’i
like a.t.oi xc l #- '
a-ovit-enijo I a-'t i A- Ife T!. r , &■ i^r
Mt. Jdlirlf &*e&- j. e F[ i * C .\/ p***
'J« LhLtl'lJf kit. ~tur tHI « ,jT>>'
A
I^QTlTer
4?
dsf
ds
fd
<
f^
wood k
<Ji
r °Jp
ti/lt.fairfe.i's ' M
*{ 4& J saoa? -~h~Q ,f $
ih*- S/s> e/ 4 id~'\A Sf**,*. a. a-se. Vn Vhe-c*. • •*— • ,
foxrfrttr wvUsJttfrs. >-fir s Ldl r in<
t( yfell X -itv lk €W;
£77)/^Cozcnril "fiChira.-*. kots^.,
u yvu*-w. ca.n.<& **■ cii -a.y a. 11 -jor (puffier
Con fs
(\|f. 'Bent _We 65A.«.U dea^l
With, ilte 'Widour in eommitfe.Z,
Vide 'ha.tiia.yvK-n.Ta.fY'
/liftoff
' l — ik*t< yi/tA cuirlrfow „
ike. IjaMitess ot
, \fiA c do wi,e-rf lC
.iyy
PRINCESS 5
THEATRE
THEf|?<?K ptA Y £ f? 5
Benefit ,
f
*"■1.
W , 4*
•f'X
Jjo^
n
CHftßlTf
,
u v o e.
PftTßona a^e
cit r
(“ OLTWCU-
4
MELBOURNE MATTERS.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &0., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., SOD Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
,4510 each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J, Douglas,
who will be phased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. KOBT. HERMANN,
the great French Specialist. No medicines. His treatise
on “Woman’s Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope,
upon application by letter to 359 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE
Advice to You not Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Jlc utsdi-Jlustra I mix c |3 ost
Erscheint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis So* ■
Zu haben bei alien Zeitungs-Agonten.
Abcmnement 10 sb. jiihrlich direbl bei dcr
Foreign Publishing Office, 20 limiter Sir., Sydney.
Society
There was a row at Balmain (Sydney)
Council last week as to who should pay for an
address presented to Governor Duff, anil whisky
drunk on the occasion. One “Club” alderman
actually proposed that the councillors who voted
the jam and spirits should pay for them. The
ratepayers are to “shout,” however.
* * «
The Balmain Borough Council, by the
way, voted £l2 3s. for the complimentary address
to Governor Duff aforesaid, and at the very same
meeting adopted a petition praying the Govern-
ment to grant a sum of money to relieve distress
in Balmain !
• • »
The Bulletin would like to hear of an
Australian artist abroad who has not obtained
honourable mention at the Paris Salon. Vive la
politesse.
* • m
Strenuous efforts are being made to force
schoolmistresses, whose husbands are station-
masters or are otherwise non-scholastically em-
ployed, to retire from the N.S.W. Education
Department. Before entering on an examination
of the merits of the question, it may be said that
no occupation should be closed to any woman,
married or single, poor or wealthy, while so many
men fill women’s positions, selling ribbons and
laces and pins in drapery and other shops.
• # #
Peculiar, but true —that every big em-
bezzlement from Melbourne solicitors during the
past three years has been carried out by English-
men, most of whom were qualified solicitors at
Ome.
• * #
How does it happen that the case of a
Southern suburban bank-manager, who got six
months for a nameless offence a few weeks ago, has
not been reported ? A similar case against two
young “gentlemen” employed in a big wool-
warehouse. who got three months each, has also
been squashed by the free and independent
local journals. Inflooence ?
Rightinthe heart
of Sydney city are
two adjacent blind
alleys one of ten
houses and the other
of six. “Houses?”
Styes, absolute. One
room on top of an-
other ; or two rooms
and a crooked stair-
case. Not even a
water-tap in a house.
The communal water-
tap rises nakedly out
of the ground in the
centre of the entrance
to the alley, and the
inhabitants fill their
bottles and jugs from
it to supply their
domiciles. Not even
a domestic office in
any house. Two pub-
lic side-by-side hum-
pies abut upon one
end of a five-house
row, and these offices
are all that ten fami-
lies have in the way
of necessary conveni-
ences. Any alley-
residents desiring to
do washing must per-
force wash out in tubs
placed on benches in
the open, and the
clothes-line seems also
to be collective pro-
perty. The rent of
each of these styes
is—nine shillings a
week ! They are the
property of an invest-
ment co.—a syndicate
that, upon the first
shock of the recent
banking cataclysm,
advertised that, for
the present, it would
refrain from declaring
any dividends exceed-
ing 15 per cent !
# *
To women. Un-
less you want your
pockets picked or cut
out, don’t allow any
nice young strange
gentlemen (or nice old
gentlemen) to help
you into the tram.
The identity of “A Forced Striker’s
Wife,” the individual credited with the author-
ship of that memorable letter to Sydney
D.T., is now known to the unionists, who say
they are willing to wager—and leave the bet to be
decided by any well-educated man of the world
that the lady (a lodging house keeper) couldn’t
possibly have composed the letter in question,
even to save her life. It is noted that amongst
her guests is a newspaper-reporter. Sydney D.T.
is emphatically Fat Man’s organ, although Fat
Man—such is human ingratitude chiefly sup-
ports the S.M. Herald. The Telegraph, which
has, in a sense, vouched for the absolute bona-fides
of its correspondent, should obtain her consent to
accept the unionist challenge.
* w a
A Melbourne bank-cashier, whose Chris-
tian name is Percy, was arrested the other day on
a charge of embezzlement. The man whose front
name is Percy always comes to grief, and the man
who names his son Percy lays a fate on him that
he can’t shake off. The same applies to the man
who names his baby girl Ruth ; Ruth is the young
woman who always seems to be “ betrayed,” and
who gets out on the cold streets with her hair
down and an unaccountable infant. After all, no
responsible human being should have a Christian
name till the age of 21, and then he (or she) should
select a front cognomen on his (or her) own
responsibility, and take the consequences. Also,
to avoid undue pressure from parents and guar-
dians who want the sufferer to be named Percy or
Gwendoline, he or she should be arrested a week
before coming of age, and should select a name in
solitary confinement.
# » *
“New literary life is upon us and around
us,” remarks a Sydney daily, “ and it behoves
Australia to see to its lot and part in it.” Our
colonial oath, yes ! And let us not steal so much
in future from the English papers, but give the
pen a chance against the shears with which we
now slit the weasand of the local journalist.
• » •
It was amusing to notice the demeanour of
Purves, Q.C., and Chief Justice Madden when
the learned counsel directed His Honor’s attention
to the case of “a certain notorious publication
called the Sydney Bulletin.” The learned
counsel puffed his cheeks and His Honor’s eyelids
drooped pensively. It might be unpleasant to
have to admit in open court that a journal called
The Bulletin— not Sydney Bulletin, if you
please—was known to them all, but “notorious ”
was a word with some comfort in it, A calm
judicial compromise between “ celebrated ” and
“ infamous.” A scornful compliment, spoken with
a regretful sigh.
# # *
A few mornings ago Gov. Hopetoun, with
a heavy heart, lathered his upper Up and removed
his moustache once more. It Las had a chequered
career, that mo., appearing and disappearing at
uncertain intervals, and never knowing at what
hour the razor cometh. The last time the Earl
was allowed to cultivate his bunch of vegetation
he took the precaution to get photographed, and
portraits of the young gazelle in his transitory
disguise may be seen in Melbourne shop-windows.
He, himself, was rather pleased with the photos.
A
ONE COMFORT.
THE MAN FROM KANGAROD : “So you’re thinking of trying
Paraguay?”
MR. SPAEKS : “Yes, old man. although I’ve heard that it is no place for
white men.”
THE MAN FROM KANGAROO FLAT : “Can’t be worse than Melbourne in
that respect, my friend.”
and used to chuckle over the notion that his Sove-
reign Lady wouldn’t know him when he got back.
But Ids other sovereign Lady—the real one—
argued that the “colony” had learned to love and
reverence him in his clean-shaven state, and the
end of a short but spirited controversy was
lather,
# # #
A Rockhampton (0.Q.) rumour is that two
local business men—one with £3OOO, which he
will throw in-Aare joining the “New Australia”
pilgrimage.
## ■ *
N.S.W. Govt, offers £lOO reward and free
pardon to any informing accomplice, for infor-
mation leading to the conviction of the burglar
who pistol-wounded Mr. Stanley Jeanneret re-
cently at Hunter’s Hill. That burglar com-
mitted a capital offence, and would assuredly
be hanged under the present regime.
# # *
Thus indiscreetly the S.M, Herald, re-
porting the death of an ex-police-magistrate, &c. :
“ Until the end of ’B7 he had been correspondent
of this journal in the district where he resided.”
Now, in N.S.W., officials are strictly forbidden to
write for the papers.
* * *
Barrister-evangelist Field, of Sydney,
evidently believes that the move-on prosecution
against him was incited by his brother-barristers,
who, on “grounds of professional[dignity,” object
to h.s street-preaching Mr lielrl ,s probably in
error. His professional brethren sincerely sympa-
ttnse with him.
Two contests at a
Sydney suburban buzaar
held the other day in aid
of a Parsonage fund were
Scripture and skipping !
But the odd thing about
it was that the parson
judged in the last class,
and a mere layman in the
other.
# * #
Bishop Barlow (0.
of E., N.Q.) recently
visited Croydon, and
several things happened.
An enterprising publican
applied for a permit to
have “ music and dan-
cing ” on his premises
on a specified night, “as
His Lordship Bishop
Barlow intended paying
the locality a visit.” The
permission was granted
(as a local paper says)
“ without a murmur.”
Then the topsawyers of
Croydon gavetheßishopa
“conversazione,” which,
somehow or other, also
included dancing. Social
volcanoes erupted plen-
teously. The barmaids
kept to their own wall
of the room, while
“ sassiety ” wrinkledom
and the “middle-class”
wallflowers clung to the
other ; but to the utter
wreckage of vinegary
propriety the male
“swells” gave the bar-
maids all the round
dances, and only frigidly
condescended to do
“ square ” ones with
the collective Mrs.
Grundy. The record of
Bishop Barlow’s own
programme has not been
preserved. We hope “ his Lordship ” was spiritu-
ally exalted.
* # *
The prohibition bladder has burst at the
“prohibition town’’ of Mildura, Vic., having
been pricked at every point by the steady and
persistent determination of the Anglo-Saxon to
have a drink when “so dispoged.” The ham-
bone and pumpkin shops still flourish, notwith-
standing fines and imprisonment. White man,
white woman, black man, yellow man, English-
man, negro, Chinaman, has each gone the way of
transgressors —to Bendigo gaol, but “one down,
t’other come on.” The profits of the trade are
too big for fines and imprisonment to act de-
terreutly. Mildura really is an irrigation settle-
ment.
* • *
Which' recalls a story wo lately read
about an English conjuror who was performing
before a rough-and-ready audience in one of the
U.S. Prohibition States, “I am novy about to
undertake a feat,” he said, “in which I shall
require the use of a pint-flask of whisky.” There
was a dead silence. “ Will some gent in the audi-
ence favour me with a pint-flask of whisky ? ” No
response, and the conjuror began to look flank.
“Surely,” he said, “in a South-eastern Prohibition
town I ought not to have to ask a second time for
such a thing. I give you my word I will return it
uninjured. Is there no ” “ Stranger,” said a
tall, gaunt man, as he rose slowly from a front
seat, “ wouldn’t a quart flask do just as well?”
“ Why, certainly ; I merely •” But, before he
could finish, the generous, open-handed audience
had risen like one man, and was on the way to
the platform in a body.
* * #
The Glasgow whisky-seller, we read, is
ahead of the police. On Sundays, an innocent-
looking milkmaid walks about with cans, calling
milk. Her regular customers step outside their
doors and wink. She fills their jugs—out of the
wrong can.
# # *
The illicit still is always with us. The
worm that never dieth.
* * *
Here is a generalisation of The Bulletin’s
which it may suit criminal lawyers and judges to
note. Whenever the last link of evidence, especi-
ally identificatory evidence, is required to connect
the capitally-accused prisoner with the mysterious
crime alleged against him, it will invariably be
supplied by a woman. This rule has held good in
N.S. Wales for more than 20 years—from the
Sussex-street murder of a quarter-century ago
down to the Archer case the other day.
# # *
Mayor Willcox, of Adelaide, will now give
a ball, but society moderates its transports, fearing
he will cut off everything calculated to differentiate
a private from a public dance. When he (very
commendably) offered to give an amount to the
unemployed fund ho assessed the cost of the
function at .£5OO. Which looks .ominous, for no
previous Mayor has spent less than .£lOOO on his
annual ball.
# # •
Adelaide “society” objects to the pro-
posal to make Chief Justice Way Governor of
S. A. after Kintore’s departure. Grown used to
hob-nobbing with the nobility, they cannot bear
the thought of paying court to a man whose
brother-in-law runs a restaurant.
# * *
The press was excepted from a recent
function at the Sydney Mint —so far as the lunch
was concerned —and now questions are being
asked as to whether that gorgeous meal was pro-
vided by the Master or by the taxpayers.
* * *
Can this be true ? Editor Bulletin, —
John G , idle for seven months owing to
depression and blackballing on the mines, is
serving sentence of two months for stealing two
loaves of bread. Had the cheek to plead hunger
and starving family.— Barrios, Broken Hill.
* * *
Jt came out the other day that there is in
Sydney a barrister not above introducing men
with money to fashionable demi-mondaines for a
percentage.
* * *
That was a horrible crime committed in
Sydney by the male who, meeting in the street a
young woman he knew, literally bit her nose off
because she refused him money. If in N.S.W. a
burglar simply scratched the skin of anyone in a
I -
■ r
WHAT HE WANTED.
LITTLE GIRL: “Mr. M'Guinness, who stitches your clothes?”
M‘GUINNESS : “ I do.”
L ITTLE GIRL: “An’ why don’t you get a mother?"
house he was robbing, he would be liable to be
hanged. For it would be an offence against
Property.
# * *
The Yic. Assembly is sorely afraid that Lord Hopetour,
will hasten his departure for Hingland if his successor’*
salary be iixed at the reduced figure of £7OOO. Air fro it
“ lolanthe ” :
Indignant toff, you frown and cough,
As though determined to be off ;
Don’t go.
You haughty, naughty peer,
Yes, naughty peer—
Don't go.
In truth sincere we thought you dear—
Ten thousand pounds, and more, a year !
Don’t go.
The price is coining down —
Is coming down,
That’s clear.
Your fist you clench, and storm (in French'
But all the same we must retrench,
Heigho !
Ten thou, we can’t afford
To any noble lord—
Don’t go.
We’d deeply grieve to see you leave
(We are not laughing in our sleeve ;
O, no;)
When you have gone away
There will be less to pay,
Ritooroolooroolay—
Don’t go.
But why look vex’t on vain pretext?
A present Gov. is not the next,
You know ;
Keep this great fact in view,
The Law can't touch your screw—
Don't go.
You need not care a jot, so there !
Because it is not your affair,
Lie low,
And think of Number One —
Good number, Number One!
Don't go.
The times are bad, we should be glad
To save a tidy sum, bedad !
Just so.
The country’s in distress,
Stone-broke, and nothing less,
Don't go.
# # #
The smallest-souled man at large in any
Australian community is at present a resident of
Sydney. He gave a threepenny bit to a beggar-
woman one day last week, and for five hours after
followed her about to note if she visited a public-
house.
» * #
Last week an unemployed created a big
scare by rushing down Swanston-stret t (Melb.),
opposite the Cathedral, in the busiest part of the
day, minus his pants. Ere the police could rush
him into a cab he gave one brewery a big advt.
by yelling : “Why do you, my feller labourers,
keep sober when you can get as drunk as this on
one pint of So-and-so’s beer?’’
# # #
At least two publicans a week now seek
relief in N.S.W. Insolvency Court —working pub-
licans, not suburban magnates who run whisky-
mills by the aid of lowly-paid managers ana
manageresses. Once said Judge Harding (Q.) (
“ A brewer is a man who makes beer, buys corner
allotments, builds hotels upon them, puts in men
with a little money and no sense, and comes out
with all the profits.”
# # #
The Sydney masher’s latest fad. Wearing
an artificial pink or scarlet flower The fashion
and flowers come from America per mail steamer
Alameda.


A clear head is indicative of good health and
regular habits. When the body is languid, and
the mind works sluggishly, Ayer’s Cathartic Pills
will assist in the recovery of physical buoyancy
*ud mental vigour.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none hut thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STETNWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBEL AND LECHLEITEH, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos hy all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTa
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
N.S W. Chari ties-Director Maxted, who
has a literary and artistic turn, has got out again
liia annual prospectus of the Sydney Benevolent
Asylum. Some of the “cases” written about are
illustrated, we read, “that of little Pearl, a bright
and very attractive-looking illegitimate waif,
whose mother has deserted her, and whose father
is unknown, being especially good.” The Bulle-
tin, not having received a copy of the Maxtedian
proclamation, is as yet unaware whether the
Asylum authorities are at their old game, to which
reference has here more than once been made, of
giving (apparently for the mere glorification of
Bumbledom) photo.-nature illustrations of whole
families who happen to be in receipt of Govern-
ment relief.
A Sydney magistrate said lately that he
could not an artist in Court taking
the likenesses of accused persons in the dock.
This is right, so far as it goes ; but as, if the
crime be a “sensational” one, the evening
newspaper makes a speciality of adapting the
accused’s visage to the accusation, it may
happen that an accused has a claim on Court pro-
tection. Comment by disfigurement of feature
should be as illegal as comment by distortion of
evidence.
# * #
Respectable people are driven to awful
straits just now in Melbourne, Only the ocher
day a policeman caught two burglars in the act.
Both were well dressed and wore gold chains and
other jewellery, and both carried umbrellas !
# # 8
A Western man coming to Sydney last
week to get married (his intended bride was on
board same train) left the'carriage at Dripstone to
get a drink. He had several. When he returned
the train had sped. The sequel is not yet.
• • «
“No. 1 (candidate for membership of the N.S.W
Government. Co-operation Labour settlement last week)
said. he had bad soma experience of bush work and
gardening, lie was a single man. He bad been mostly
a miner. He was held to be too old, and was therefore
marked ‘ O.’ (rejected).”— Daily Pater.
That gorgeous and aggressive humbug,
Mrs. Frank Leslie, is divorcing “ Willie ” Wilde,
Oscar’s brother, whom she married 18 months ago.
That makes three, if u >t four husbands, of whom
she has disposed. For years and years during her
most recent widowhood one read week by week
in the papers inspired paragraphs to the effect
that Mrs. Leslie has just refused some Duke or
other who has absolutely gone down on his knees
to her. Mrs. Leslie’s last husband was the cele-
brated New Y ork newspaper man, to whose property
she succeeded, and though a woman of no literary
ability or taste, she has, by dint of the most-in-
defatigable self-advertisement on both sides of the
Atlantic and the liberal employment of literary
“ghosts,” got a large section of the public to
accept her as something more than a heartless
woman, all “nerve’’’and front, who would make an
ideal book-canvasser. Wilde, is a big, brainy, good-
humoured, good-looking Bohemian, with all the
weakness, laziness, bad luck and femininity ever
associated with the name of “Willie,” as com-
pared with Bill. (Nobody ever calls Bill Long, of
Sydney, “Willie.”) All this by way of introduc-
tion to the following, which appeared in New
York r J Cruth, just after the Leslie-Wilde marriage,
and has long been pasted up in this office as unique
of its kind :
SCENE.—The grand combination salon-boudoir, edi-
torial room, counting-house, and general throne-room of
State. Mrs. Frank Leslie Wilde discovered sealed on a
Persian 01 toman with topaz legs, before a huge table laden
with avalanche on avalanche of documents of inter-
national, inter-social, and interplanetary importance.
Time, 5.30 n.m. Her highness, the supreme business
beauty of Gotham, touches hell No, 6,011.
(Enter private suh-snh-secretarv No. 412.)
Mrs. W.—- Go and call Willie, and see that he gets up.
(Exit secretary on the hardest mission of his life.)
Mrs. W. (after an hour of toil touching button 3,640.) —
Jones, have each one of my twenty-nine newspapers and
periodicals boom Harrison for second term and M’Allister
for chief cook at North Brothers’ Island; suppress emi-
gration and Col. Shepard ! denounce the German Kaiser
and get my papers suppressed in Berlin . . . and, by-
the-way, call Willie!
(Exit hireling. One hour later, touching button 2612.
Enter Lord High Offer-refuser.)
Mrs. VV.—Brown, return Prince Skyscraper’s look of
whiskers, the Duke of Ooldgrab’s potted violets, together
wtib the love-letr.ers and tokens of the miscellaneous
sixty-seven thousand marquises, counts, and barons who
have sought my hand. Tell them each, imitating my
handwriting as nearly as possible, that, whereas 1 feel
duly flattered w ith tiieir sundry-sealed proposals, I love
Willie, only Willie, and that be is in the best of health.
By the w'ay, you might also go and call Willie. (Exit
hireling.)
Four hours later, touching button 1641. Enter chief
brnin-purvej’or to her highness, balancing a forty-eight-
inch head on a pair of seventeen-inch shoulders.
Mrs. W.—Pinkersome, write me four lectures for Soro-
sis, an after-dinner funny speech for the Press Club Ban-
quet, four poems to be sent with flowers to Ella Wheeler
Wilcox and Carlisle Harris, a novel on “The Mystery of
Edwin Arnold,” and a pathetic song called “A Pansy
from the Leap-year Maiden’s Grave 1” , . . By the
way, on your way to your think department, stop and
call Willie 1
(Exit the Atlas-acrobat, still balancing his world of
learning.)
3.30 p.m. Enter Willie, rubbing his eyes.
Mrs. W. — Why, Willie, dear, how could you sleep so
when you knew I have been at work since five o’clock this
illuming? You must get used to our ways over here !
Willie.—My love [yawn] you’re so demnition last over
here, don’t you know, that I live as in a whirl, ’pon me
honah. I eawn’t seem to breathe, y’ know; I suffah
extremely with insomnia. I have been lying abed for a
whol" hoah, don’t 3'ou see, thinking about that demnition
lead-ib 1 am going to write for Labhy
Mrs. W. —What! that same two-guinea leader you
began the day after the wedding, months ago?
Willie.— Why, certainly, don’t you know. A man
f-awn t write a good learlah without a demnition deal of
thought, y’see. You Americans lack repose, bless me
soul I You live like ants ; you kill yourselves with work,
d y’ know. I think I’ll go down to the Lotos and finish
the second paragraph of me leadah I
Mrs. W. (falling upon his neck).-Oh, Willie, I adore
you for your good for line in being horn a man, so that
you could marry rich and have plenty of time to think !
Willie.— Yes ; ’twas rawthcr lucky, wasn’t it? Ah, but
it’s a demnition hard pull, anyway, iove ; demnition hardl
(Exit Willie, catching the refrain in the distance):
I love my Will!
I love my Will!
I love my Willie Wildly ;
But, ah, the Turk,
He will not work,
To put the problem mildly.
# # #
Melbourne G.P. O. has ceased to fly signal-
flags, denoting that the mail is at Albany, Ade-
laide, or “ in.” Another wrench for old identities
who can remember the time when the hoisting of
the “ blue Peter” sent a thrill through the city.
# * #
- %
CONTRIBUTORY NEGLIGENCE.
BUSH-HUB. AGONISED BOARDER : “What’s this, Nelly? I never ordered a mustard-plaster in
my bed.”
N ELLY (who in once sees the point) : “No, sir. I suppose you spilt the mustard at tea last
night. That was last night’s tablecloth, you know, sir.”
Barnby’s “O, Perfect Love,” was the
chief musical feature at the Duke of York’s
wedding!
* * *
“ No man with any feeling would take the
bed from under a woman in defendant’s condi-
tion,” said Stipendiary Giles, of Sydney, to a
landlord who had legally seized and sold a tenant’s
belongings for rent-arrears. The magistrate’s
lecture is construable into an express contempt of
the law, which puts no restriction on the use of the
landlord’s legal weapon. It does not say “Dis-
train, but be humane”; but, “after fulfilling
certain technicalities, distrain as soon as you like.’’
Why, Alien, should magistrates lecture on “ feel-
ing? ”
• # #
Sausages ticketed in Sydney Id. per lb.
# # «
It is now urged that Archer’s denial of the
murder of Emma Harrison was simply a quibble.
He was, they say, sentenced to deatli for wilful
murder, and as lie probably had not intended to
murder the woman, he saved his conscience by a
mental reservation.
* # #
A Sydney newspaper-proprietor was, last
week, the recipient of a nicely-mounted coffin,
containing a doll dressed in the clothes of death.
The coffin-plate bore the name, age, &c,, of a
newspaper then but not now issued from his office,
and with the coffin was placed on the table
a marked copy of another of the proprietor’s
papers, containing twoof the* most indecent “typo-
graphical errors ” ever published in a newspaper.
A spiteful eompo. who had received notice of dis-
missal is blamed for the latter, especially as refer-
ence to last revised proofs shows the words to
have been correct.
# # #
After attending a few times at the police-
courts, one must become convinced that the
strongest and most unanimous trades-union in the
world is that of the police. If 20 policemen go
into the box to describe an occurrence, the record-
ing clerk merely writes down the evidence of the
first one, and multiplies by 20. There will be no
inatrikd deviation i:i the n irriUives.
During Queen Victoria’s recent visit to Florence ths
Florentines poked not a little fun at Her Majesty s
donkey, but they learned to view him with becoming
respect, knowing that without the donkey there would
be no Queen of England. They also grew accustomed to
the strapping gillie in attendance on Her Majesty, whom
they at first mistook for a male ballet-dancer. — Austra-
lasian,
Editor Bulletin, — There is “such a word
as Sensationalism in the dictionary.” See Una-
bridged Webster. —N.P.W.
One of the biggest and most widely-dis-
cussed literary successes yet achieved in Australia
is Ernest Favenc’s new book, “ The Last of Six ”
{with preface by Rolf Boldrewood, quoted on
inside cover of this week’s issue of The Bulletin).
Will be sent post free from Bulletin office to any
Australasian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
A Napier (M.L.) juryman in a sheep-
stealing case, after a detective had sworn to all he
knew and had found out against accused, asked
witness if lie had made any effort to hunt up evi-
dence in favour of prisoner. The novelty and
apparent absurdity of this question struck the
officer like a brick, but on recovering his official
wind he answered that he certainly had not; he
supposed the accused would see to that—though
all the time after committal the latter was in gaol,
100 miles from where the alleged crime was com-
mitted. Verdict, not guilty.
“ Democratic in the sense of admitting no
superiors, but a host of inferiors.”— Fbancis
Adams.
Executioner Howard has been so com-
pletely overcome by the mis adventure at Archer’s
execution that he has not put in an appearance at
Darlinghurst Court house (where he is generally
employed as handy man about the Sheriff's quar-
ters) since the day of the hanging.
THE MODERN MUSE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Back ! Ancient Muse, with all your mirth
And love, and light, and laughter human,
Your sweetest charms are nothing worth,
Xo him who sings the modern woman.
Back ! into night and ebon shades
To share the everlasting woes
Endured by those celestial maids
Whose life and love were more than clothes.
. But come ! thou Goddess fair and f.eO,
And if more often free than fair,
At least a clothed divinity
With lots of hairpins in your hair.
Come ! mince it in your shapely boot;
Come ! blush it in your best complexion,
Assume a pensive air to suit
Your fancy-dress of true affection.
Sing Virtue’s rich monopoly,
Sing market-price of maiden pure,
And down with all improperly
Conducted business, to be sure !
Sing beauty wed to golden dross,
Sing (sadly) that parental bliss
Which nurtures up a sickly cross
Between a pound-note and a kiss.
Away ! you filthy hag, away !
With all your modern inspiration,
Fye ! Pah ! an ounce of civet, pray,
To sweeten my imagination.
O.O'R.
“HE WAS OLD AND HAD MOSTLY BEEN A MINER.”
The men wiio’vo pass’d their fiftieth year
Think they have lived too Ion",
With nought to do, or aim in view,
They mingle with the throng—
The throng of idlers who now stand
As the “ unwanted ” in our land.
The clerk who’s always tried his best
To please a master’s whim
Sees his employ pass to some boy,
And no more work for him ;
He seems to feel he has done wrong
By living in this world too long !
The swagman trav’ling to and fro
In search of home or bread,
For sympathy doth often sigh
And wish that he were dead ;
He is but one of that vast throng
Who know that they have liv’d too long !
The man of independent mind,
Who has no care for pelf,
Who is to other’s failings blind,
Nor even thinks of self,
Who loves the Truth and scorns the Wrong,
Oft sees that he has lived too long !
No DONKEY— No Queen.
When the Queen and her donkey first passed
thro’ the crowd
The gibes and the jokes and the laughter were
loud ;
E’en Majesty’s presence—in pomp and in pride
The mob in its merriment almost defied ;
But shortly the jeer and the gibe and the jest
In silence respectful retired to their rest —
For an awful reflection came—falling (I ween) —
Like a frost on the fun of the jubilant scene—
“ No Donkey—No Queen 1”
** No Donkey—No Queen !” O ! grovelling crowd
By the burdens of royalty bended and bowed,
Ye slaves of the great one who labour and groan
To feed and to fatten the fool and the drone,
Ye diggers and delvers who toil and who moil
To deck out a prince in his purple and spoil,
Ye paupers and landless—Ye poor and ye lean—
Bethink you awhile what these phrases may
mean—
“ No Donkeys—No Queen !”
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
‘‘Barney ” ; The man who talks in his sleep is
boo, but not so bad ns the man who sleeps in his think.
The latter individual is yon. 41 Exchange ”; The
shortest way to arrive at it is to multiply the pi oe where
the Dora Dora blacks haven’t been seen lately by the
person who didn’t pay Dibbs’ £lOOO into the 7 remiry,
and then bury the result in a keg of tar down a e< al-mine
till the day when a blue star shines on the fifth Friday in
the month. ...'* Bungalong”: We don’t care for the
abdominal variety of “humour” “J. J. Keenan
(Woolloomooloo); “Archer’s Doom” is a poem of the
draggled-hul lock’s-liver order. We put your address so
that the infuriated populace will know where to find you.
“D.D.” (Grafton); Thanks. . “Wai Rim”: The
crazy bushman who is combusted alive is horrible and
disconnected, unless you mean to prove that burning trees
don t fall on sane bushmeii ..“ Harper”: Stupendous
• le ; Also Sfons libel “Sundowner”: We have re-
ceived about 40 more copies of the poem, “A Tramp,”
about which you enquired... “R.0.H.”: Thanks ...
Mary M‘C. (Colac); Regretfully declined. The “ ram-
bling inn,” and the “rough-looking ’’landlord, and the
midnight robbery, and the trap door are all too old
“ J. 0.” (Cairns): We are surprised that the steamship 00.
doesn’t provide more facilities for getting away from
Cairns. We have been there. It is a splendid place to
get away from ...“ W E C.” (Camperdown): How is the
Royal Tar a “ sweet harbinger of spring ?” Also, how on
earth does it contrive to “swell along the vale?” Where
is the vale? “ J.S.” (Armidale): Subject treated over
and over again in The Bulletin. See last week’s leader.
••• “ D.W.": “ The debtor that cankers ” and the banker
whose cheques whirled and flee’d in the wind ” are bold
figures of speech, anyhow. Also, the country that is
“ rent with redundant explosions of banks.”....“H.
Foyle ” : Nicely written, but it is a story with the story
left out, and a tale with the narrative mislaid. L. 8.8.”
(Macdonald town); It isn't poetry, only slabs of cold fact cut
off with a blunt chisel and an unreliable two-foot rule....
“ Stakes ” : 1. Yes. You can send as many as you please
2. Yes; 20-21 tbs. The full amount realised is divided
pro rata between the successful ones... “J.M.8.”
(M.L.): Many thanks... . “ C.E.S.” : See “Wild Cat.”
... “J.W.A.” (Snake Valley): Neither good; one old
“V.B.’’(Hillsrove) ; We believe them to be square—
theMelbourne one in particular. But we don’t guarantee
their squareness. Nobody can safely guarantee ths
honesty of anybody until 20 years after he is dead
“M.”: Asa set-off to the alleged degeneracy of man
under modern conditions of life the active part woman is
now taking in athletics must be considered. Look, for
Instance, at the Gaiety girls who “ went for” the offend-
ing Dunedin editor.... “John B.” (M.L.): Thanks, but
this time you haven’t hit it... “ A.G.H.” (Greymouth,
M.L.); We are giving a long rest to bi-metaUsm and the
“ meejura of exchange.” After reading 6ovvt. of letters
on the subject we have come to the conclusion that no
one knows anything about it. We don’t profess to, any-
how “Native”: Why not? “ T.S.” (Launceston):
Many thanks ... “ Henry Martin ” : Yes, certainly. Also
we advocate the abolition of ever}' thing, the confiscation
of everything, and the removal of everybody
“ A. A. K.” (Gundagai); The Bulletin has given up trying
to understand the logic of the Paraguayan movement....
“M. M‘G.”: Noble sentiment. Inferior verse
“D.H.” (Cairns): Its redeeming feature is the vigorous
line: “Ba<e, h ood boozed bacchanal of Bananaland.”
We quote that on the off-chance that people may think
you are alluding to a certain leading politician
“J.0.C.”: Thanks; an old clipping “Doleful”:
England sends to keep us loyal
(’Tis our own fault that we let her).
Duff and costly Agents Royal—
Duff to eat would suit us better.
Some poets are men of one poem. You are a poet of one
verse. Kneel down and thank Heaven for it “Polo
No, because, as has been pointed out, the Indian Maho-
medans wouldn t eat Australian-killed frozen meat any
more than they would use cartridges greased with
bull-fat—“3X.”: You and all the rest of theN.S.W.
police have a sneaking regard for Parkes because he
raised your pay-out of the loan-funds “C<mmon
Honesty”: Yes, but not common decency “ E.Mo.” :
To suppose that teaching physiology will abolish prevent-
ive disease is as reasonable as to believe that teaching
morals will abolish crime... “Wilga”: Two thousand
years old; 22,000 times t01d... “Coo Green”: Thanks
“A. J. Patou ” : (1) No. (2) Any man with a really good
voice, adapted to street-singing, would probably make
three times as much by sending round the hat in the
open-air as by taking salary from a manager. Thestreet-
singer helps to pay no hall-rent, and his unconventional
performances appeal to the often-badly-founded sentiment
of pity “Hock” (Tas.): Not “respect,” surely but
only camaraderie-of the sort which induced the executed
murderer s four stable-mates to follow on foot his corpse
through the Sydney streets from the gaol to the railway-
station the other day. You say, Australians
w>ll never have to fight anything more ferocious than
rabbits and Chows—unless somebody starts a battue
of parsons and politicians... “C.A.B.”*(Melb.): Thanks
Col o”; If they dismiss the hangman and appoint
another, the new hangman should at onoe hang the old
hangman. No country can afford to let two hangmen
live at onoe within its boundaries....“ Rochnell ” • We
don’t make fun any more of such “In Memoriam ” advts.
• • • ‘J-B. ” (Gippsland): Decency forbids ... “E. Mus-
kervy”; “Loyalty," as you understand it, evidently
means the stupidity and meanness of the mongrel that
fawns on the savage master by whom all happiness
is welted out of its life “Millward ’"ft That
religious column ” man is a humbug who painfully im-
presses anyone having a sense of the truth of any religion
The wav he strings on the Salvation Army, RC-ism*
Anglicanism, Presbyterianism, Judaism, and all the rest’
giving each a pat of undiscriminating commendation’
shows such a frenzied and conscienceless determination to
be everything to everyone likely to insert an advt., that
people who believe in anything feel sick.... “ M.M "• As
a matter of fact there is no suoh official as the Mayoress
London. York and Dublin have Lady Mayoresses because
their husbands are styled Lord Mayor. The Mayoress
appears to be an Australian institution... .“James
Wilson : The Bulletin is post-free (within N.S.W. onlvi
within a week from date of publication “ Warrigal ” •
Mo?*, of it perfectly true ..." A. A.” : Kindly look hi ‘
O Wisha : Thirteen stanzas full of sheer brutality
blood, fat-lamp and fractured skull. Trv again
“J. J-Meeson”: (1) So you, too, think bread and water
" K° od wholesome food.” Did you ever live on it awhile ?
Even with fatless stringy salt horse thrown in. at the end
of ten days you’d be eating any candles you had on hand
and you’d quite understand why the black fellow hungers
for the bullock’s kidney-fat. A man simply can’t live on
bread and water....“ Wurlie” (Adelaide. S.A.): “Such
ye gods! is your sweetheart ?”....“ P.R h ” (Dubbo*
N.S.VV.): So you think the hank-hursts have created
Democrats and made white-vested Fat Men turn In-
dustrious. You might as well argue that a dry summei
turns a blowfly into a honey-bee.
A Nocturne.
( FOR THE BULLETIN. )
Steep hills, that shoreward sloping,
Dip down to one lone tree,
Hard pressed through fierce, long coping
With fresh, wild winds from sea.
Long, lithesome surges leaping
Round bare, black rocks in wrath,
And some sail shade slow creeping
Low' down to south or north.
A flash of white wings seaward,
Where swift gulls circle free—
Day dreams of night to leeward,
And night sweeps in from sea.
Brisbane.
K.
Gold Medal Artificial Tkktii, full sets £5. Warranted
modelied^Paffiless 11^ ExtracHons o '? i^ot^CoLS’e.
Aro?de(GwrgislwH ?m’S;iSy ,, ‘ l S> ‘" rXCOn ’


ESTABLISHED 1849.
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
The Oldest) Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors— The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT,
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
JE3Cg>sl€3. Office: B 7 PITT STREET, SYDMBROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
m
mm
3Bt-A.KT3ESZ 3E3C Warwick Farm, August I 1893.
5,000 at 10 5,000
rt.osel3.ill Augnst DE3Cekxx«sLxcekX> Kosclilll, August l‘i.
5,000 at 10 5,000
f KEOTBTEU "TO
Utioxvi: AD.i.ns,
| Owner Tattersall’s Hotel &
j Old Club I’rt'iui-jes, I’itt-st.,
V Sydney, N.S. W.
City Mutual
Fire Insurance Company, Limited.
HEAD OFFICES .. 95 PITT STREET.
Chairman ;
Hon. John See, M.P., Colonial Treasurer,
Capital Subscribed ... £150,000-
DIVIDEND AND BONUS.
The INTERIM DIVIDEND and BONUS to Shareholders,
at the rate of TEN PER CENT. PER ANNUM, is now
payable at the COMPANY’S OFFICE, and the Bonus of
TEN PER CENT, to Policy-holders is now' payable on
renewal of their Policies.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Sydney, July 1, 1893.
Mr. JAS. E. NICHOLSON,
A well-to-do Farmer of Florenceville, N. 8,,
Canada, suffers for seven long
years with
CANCER OF THE LIP-
Agonizing: torture relieved, Disease Cured.
“lam 55 years of cge, and until 1384 had al-
ways enjoyed good health. About that t : me, a
little hard bunch, like a wart, appeared on my
lower lip. Finally, the bunch gathered, broke,
and formed a sore ; then it began to eat into the
flesh. The Cancer—for that is what the doctors
finally called it—kept getting worse and worse,
year after year. It caused me great pain and
uneasiness. During the last year, I would wake
twenty times in a night, suffering intensely
from twitching pains. It was as if my flesh
was being torn from me by pinchers, bit by bit.
at last, I began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
In the course of a week or two I noticed a
decided improvement. The twitching and the
pains were very much less, and the sore began
to look healthier. In three months my lip
began to heal, and, after using the Sarsaparilla
for six months, the last trace of the Cancer dis-
appeared, and left very little scar.”—J. E. Nich-
olson, Florenceville, N. 8., Canada. /
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
Lo
*a£ ry
<s>
'P
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
i FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM ,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
V
h % V s ®
Street
Bewareofimitations. Thegenuineis signed
TRADE MARK:
fdsf
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
I
d
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS. ASTHMA. &c.
STOPS A COLO.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. Ud. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAVMAN & CO.,
18, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
AoESrrs.—Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung& Co.
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
fd
Reuter’s Little Pius
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use *<heni. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Protest
"•on. The smallest and easiest to take, ; Forty in a phial.
JOITRN ALTSTIC. Experienced Journalist
editor, sub., or reporter, desires engagement.
Address—“ Soribb,” Bulletin office.
ADAMS’
| TATTERSALL’S HOtEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’H6te DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Carter r Go?
JjtfAUTABIiE
NON reversible;
rpnis Ingeniously Constructed Itll Lllltll OIMVG-
* I't lil.i; is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation-
The PRICES—3S to JSJV6 Guineas, include cover,
balls, ones, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
“Yorkshireman’s” selections
—FOR—
EPSOM AND METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.B.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should be obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Referee, .News
and Star. jgT" “ YORKSHIREMAN,” c/o W. J. BVank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
5, EACH.
2
2
5, EACH-
fd
sf
df
ON THE
;o.A.:Kr;Es:
Warwick Farm, August 1. (For Horses Only.)
At 5 Each I®"" 4008 isa At 5 Each
PIlBt
Second
300
•200
Third .. 100
S. and N.S. d. equally 400
Less 10 per cent.
Important Notice. Subscribers please address
Letters to
H. Alexander, Furniture Warehouse,
67 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY.
AD AM BEDE’S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events
Our Printed Circul to any Address.
CAUTIOKT.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY
Address
Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M.&J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
Commissions Executed on following events •
Epsom & Meti’opolitan.
500 TO 1.
Caulfield. Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
V-R 0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
three chances.
fin nm-m
wiriirririrmn
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 63x
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office,
Proprietor
«EO. W. ELLIS.
The OALIGrRAPH Writing Machine,
,1 ■ f
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always he recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a fiat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Calisrraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph 1 as two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The next Australian Eleven will be chosen
without much consideration as to George Giffen, or his
little brother Walter. That’s one comfort.
« # #
It was M'Leod who had his bails sent
flying 40 yards by a fast one from Lockwood. Mac. has
no fancy for Lockwood. After the opening match at
Sheffield Park, he wrote to Melbourne friends saying that
a fellow was glad to be out when the Surrey man started
to bowl at top speed.
# # *
The Victorian portion of the Australian Eleven
thought that Gregory was a bad choice, while the N.S.W.
men were certain that Graham ought not to be included.
It would have been a poor show with the two youngsters
out of the cast.
« » »
Shrewsbury’s average against the Australians is
very fine. Four innings, and a “ not out,” for consider-
ably over 300 runs.
# # #
“Blackham and other members of the team
state that they regret the stoppage of the match with All
England owing to bad weather, as they are satisfied they
would have had a good show of winning.” A good show of
making 300 runs in three hours in bad weather !
# * *
A Melbourne syndicate that drew Glenloth and
£7OOO in one of “Tatt.’s” sweeps, deposited the money
in the Bank of Victoria. The members are cursing their
luck.
• » #
Gorry, who might have been the Fred Archer of
Australia, figured at Flemington again, the other day, in
a hurdle-race. Gorry looks equal to riding at Bst. 71b.,
and in the present dearth of capable jockeys he ought to
be able to get another show on the flat. Eight years ago
it was good enough to back “ Gorry’s mount ” for the sake
of the boy.
* * •
Melbourne’s worship of football is deplorable in
that it entails the waste of so much good bone and
muscle in tobacco-shops. A distinguished kicker usually
demands a tobacco-shop as a retaining-fee from his club-
patrons, and the stronger and more active the young
athlete the more likely he is to degenerate into a small
shopkeeper with an eternal pipe in his mouth.
# * #
Of the July Handicap, at Flemington, t’other
Saturday, the Arous said : “ One well-backed horse which
ran badly was Pigeontoe. Many made up their minds
that it was to be his day out, but they burnt their
fingers.” However, perhaps their sufferings were
alleviated by the vigorous riding of the jockey. Pigeon-
toe, somehow or other, remained conspicuously last from
start to finish, hut the jockey rode him down the straight
with the air of one bent on success. He was making a
huge demonstration on the last horse while the first horse
was passing the post.
* * #
The Davis party only netted ,£lOO in bets over
Tim Swiveller’s win at Flemington. They think they
have a sure thing for the Caulfield and National Hurdles,
and have backed him accordingly.
* * •
For “spieling,” commend us to the amateur
billiard handicap. The best amateur in Melbourne was
set to give a duffer 120 out of 250 in the Melbourne Stock
Exchange handicap last week. The crack reached his
opponent at 140 ; five, ten, and fifteen to one were laid on
the crack, and he was beaten by 81 The match is going
fo be won, apparently, by a man whom nobody but the
handicapper seems to have ever heard of before. £5OO
can be won in bets over this handicap.
• * •
The stick-racing luck of the Millers is very
streaky. One season they can win anything and every-
thing, and the next season their horses are bound to go
wrong, somehow. Sir Wilfred, after covering more than
half the course for the Flemington Grand National, was
right up amongst the leaders, but the old fellow managed
to put his stifle out, and, although he hobbled over the
last jumps, he was dead lame at the finish.
• « •
T. J. D. Kelly, veteran Victorian cricketer,
died July 20, aged 49, at Hawthorn. He was almost the
Bruce of his day with the Melb. Club, put up a century
now and again, and was an excellent point.
# # #
The latest Flemington (Melb.) racecourse cater-
ing move, says a contemporary “ When a fellow walks
down the steps with his best girl beside him, they are con-
fronted by a placard, which announces lunch 2s. 6d. and
ss. a head. Dare that young man take her in the half-
orown room ? Perish the thought! The crown has it,
and caterer Skinner has the half-sov. of that young man.’’
• * «
Colonial Secretary Tozer (Q.) told a deputation
the other day that he did not know the difference between
a double and a sweep. The innocence of acute lawyers is
something surprising.
• * *
Bishop Higgins (R.C.), of Sydney, like Pius IX.,
is an excellent billiard player. Father Aylward, of North
Melbourne, is said to be the champion clerical billiardist
of the Southern city.
• * #
Col. Sec. Tozer to the sweep-people: “If you
think you are going to make of Queensland a happy
hunting-ground for N.S.W. gamblers, you are very much
mistaken.”
# • #
The respective chairmen of the V.R.C. and
A.J.O. are ex-officio honorary members of the English
Jockey Club, which numbers in all about 80 regular
members, who have in their gift, as individuals, 250
church livings, and enjoy an average income of £40,000 per
man—taking no account of the wealth of the Dukes of
Westminster and Portland, Lord Cadogan, and other
many-times millionaires.
# • •
The football-match between N.S. Wales and
Maoriland, to be played on 29th inst., promises to draw
the biggest crowd ever seen at a football-match in Aus-
tralasia. The Maoriianders won the first match easily ;
and there is.no doubt that, underrating their opponents,
they indulged in too much late hours and festivity before
the second contest. But, for the deciding game, they
will be reinforced by four fresh men, and will probably
show very different form. By the way, the Sydney
Rugby footballers are trying to get a ground for them-
selves. There are really but two local grounds where
they can play, and as these are both public grounds,
managed, to a certain extent, by the same cbterie, the
footballers have to take whatever terms are imposed upon
them. The footballers have liberally helped other sports
lately, and their game, which has been, up to the present,
cleanly and honestly conducted, should be given every
consideration by the public-ground trustees.
# # *
Mr. M. J. M’Namara has given notice that he
will move, at the A. J.O.’s annual meeting on August 15, a
series of new racing rules which, if carried, will simply
wipe out the sport of pony racing. However, as nearly
every big trainer and owner is in some way connected
vyith the “little’uns,” it is not likely Mr. Mac.’s resolu-
tions will be carried.
* * #
Nor should they. Horse-breeding is not the
game it used to be, and it is no small help to the breeder
to know that if a foal turns out small, it is now worth as
much, perhaps more than the 16-hands thoroughbred.
The public take kindly to the sport, and the A.J.O. must
bow to the inevitable. The glories of Randwick, such as
they were, have faded ; even were the A.J.O. and its big
and beautiful course wiped right out, the sporting crowd
would still have their little gamble at the suburban
courses.
# * #
Mr. Vincent Dowling’s notice of motion to raise
the minimum from 6st. to 6st. 71b. is a sensible one. The
thoroughbred that cannot hump six stone and a-half with
a chance of victory is better off the track. The adoption
of the resolution will lessen the risk of good men and
horses receiving injury through the mannikins being
unable to manage their mounts.
• # #
Narabeen, 11 hands 3 in., weighted at Lillie-
bridge (Sydney) at 12st. 121 b., is enough to make the 6st.,
16 hands thoroughbred blush for very shame.
* * *
The pony contingent are trying to lease Mr.
Sam Hordern’s little Nordenfelt colt Cannon. Cannon
vyas beaten at Rosehill by Insignia, but, well-ridden, the
little fellow should have won. It is said Sam actually
invested a sovereign on the horse.
# # #
MirabUe dictu! Brewer, who rode Shylock in
the National Steeple, stated afterwards that his mount
would not have beaten Trojan if he had not struck the
last fence.
* • *
A member of the present Australian Eleven
writes to Melbourne setting out the jealousy of a man
who has been a failure, so far, in representative matches,
as the reason for Ooningham’s non-inclusion, which, on
his form at the start of the tour, is inexplicable.
* # #
“Sir Lancelot’’ says Sir Hercules Robinson
was one of the best judges of a horse Australia ever saw.
The two Bills, Forrester and Long, take a lot of beating.
* # #
•Joe Goddard, it is said, wanted a match in Aus-
tralia for £lOOO a side. No man in Australia could now
get backing for a thousand shillings.
* * #
Joseph’s get up when he landed from the
Yankee mail-boat was immense. The Yankees must
manufacture a special gloss for the silk hat of the profes-
sional athlete. Hanlan and Jonnel Sullivan both had
’em on.
* * *
Mrs. Highett, killed in the Melh. hunting-field,
by Barnato, her horse, had promised Barnato to Mr.
Foley, of Kilmore, when the season ended. Her executors
have given him to Foley. Not the luckiest of gifts, one
might think.
* * *
The just-demised Melh, cricketer, Kelly, had a
harmless affectation not uncommon in men able to do
something. He would pretend to Ire a dude. As he
buttevflied about the lawn, people would say, “ Ah, a
little cricket would do a fellow like that a world of
good." Then he turned out in flannels, and stuck at the
wicket all the afternoon, the Bannerman of the upper
crust.
* # #
RctheY.R.O. re-handicapping idea, by which
Dakin is allowed to alter the weight of a horse which wins
a stake over a certain sum. Would it not be much better
to defer entries for a couple of months? In the past,
when there was plenty of betting directly the weights,
and even the entries, were out, it was different; but now,
when there is little or no ante-post betting, it would be
more to the advantage of everyone to have entries made
(say) the first Monday in August. A horse entered in
June may go hopelessly cronk in a month, and another
horse which got in light (like Algerian and many others)
may afterwards perform so well as to make the race look
almost a cert.
• • •
Twenty-seven Sir Mod red youngsters sold in
New York last month ; averaged £2lB. What price our
studmasters to allow such cattle as Sir Modred, Darebin,
and Stromboli to leave the country ?
# # •
Gaudaur and Stanbury are matched to row next
month. Gaudaur rowed “Bill” Beach the race of his
life, and if he retains anything like his old form Stanbury
will have his work cut out to win.


NEWBY’S LIMCTUS
(REGISTERED).
V
fe-
/rV>
S3T The only thoronghlj
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
AMD
INFLUENZA,
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
■f. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers, Limited
<s»
m
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM Si MUTCH,
75 Kino St,, SYDNEY.
ws Maiglbckchei
liljoflbeValW
USTW IOHS'
■•• i ns, mu»....
a t"u« -in.iiuia •«*""
LOHSE’S
MMGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are tlje most fashionable in world.
Sold by all fyigfy class'ferfumers.
GUSTAVLOHSE,BerIin.
Now Ready, Third Edition:
Post Free, Is. 6d.
HE LIFE, ADVENTURES and CON-
FESSIONS OF a SYDNEY BARMAID ;
being a truthful account of Private and Public
Bars, the Inner Life of Cafes, and the Manners,
Habits, Customs, Aspirations, and Morals of
Barmaids generally, with a glance at the patrons
of Private Bars. Highly interesting. To be had
only of Mdme. PANZA, Box 913 G.P..0., Sydney.
~3iBn c a
SX3VIN
Requires No Addition or preparation, as it
CONTAINS: Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
£J~E NTEN A R Y HALL
J. CHARLES HARRISON, M.D.,
Graduate of two leading Universities of the
United States, will Lecture to Men Only as
follows : Thursday Night, July 27, at-8 o’clock,
admission free. The management reserves the
right to refuse, admission to anyone.
MONDAY NIGHT, at 8 o’clock. Admission,
Is. Both Lectures Illustrated with Magnificent
Stereopticon Views in Colours, covering 1000
square feet of canvas ; 200 views at each
Lecture. Positively the Most Beautiful Views in
the World. Dr. Harrison treats men only.
Residence : Oxford Hotel, King-street. Hours :
9 a.m. to 3 p.m., and 7 to 10 p.m. Consultation
Free. Remain until Aug. 7 only.
ijl H E LYCEUM THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Messrs. Williamson & Musgrove.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, Geo. L. Goodman.
Mrs. LONGSHORE POTTS, M.D., will lec-
ture to Women Only, July 27, 28, and 29, at 2.30
p.m. Admission to all parts of the House, Is.
Reserved seats at Box Office without charge.
Centenary Hall. Friday Night, July 28, at 8
o’clock, famous lecture on Hearts and Homos, or
Is Marriage a Failure? To both Sexes. Moral,
instructive and very amusing.—London Truth.
Admission, 2s. and Is. Mrs. Dr. POTTS treats
Women and Children only. Residence, Austra-
lia Hotel. Hours, 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. until July 29.
July 29 to August 7, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Consulta-
tion free. Special engagements—not to wait —
.£1 Is. Remain until August 7 only.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores,
Amusements.
H IS A T R 13 ROYAL.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
Mb. THOMAS WALKER’S, M.P.,
Play in 5 acts, entitled,
"MARMONDELLE, THE MOOR.”
In which appear Mr. Thos. Walker, Mr. Alfred Darapier,
Miss Blanche Lewis, Miss Katherine Russell, and the full
strength of the Popular Dramatic Company.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ;
family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
E R M A JES TY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
Mr. Geo. Rignold & Miss Kate Bishop
In the Powerful Sensational Drama,
THE CRIMES OF PARIS.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
“The G-ondoliera.”
Saturday, July 29—“ THE VICAR OF BRAY.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
I V OLI THEATRE
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
BARKY 11HRAKP8 j
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 25.;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
QBIT ERI O N THEA T R E.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Bouoicault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
“THE a.m:a.zows.»
A Farcical Romance in 3 acts, by
A. W. PINERO.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, W. H. Wallace.
■piTZ GERALD BROTHERS’ GREAT
X CIRCUS AND MENAGERIE.
LOCATION: Right opposite Redfern Railway Station,
George-st., Two Seconds from Trams, Trains and ’Buses.
TENTH WEEK TENTH WEEK
and
UNABATED SUCCESS. UNABATED SUCCESS.
Tents Still Packed to the Doors.
TREMENDOUS SENSATION ! EXTRAORDINARY
EXCITEMENT.
Alone in the Den of Savage Lions ! !
TO-NIGHT ! TO-NIGHT !
TURPIN’S RIDE TO YORK, or the LIFE and DEATH
of BONNIE BLACK BESS.
Great Success of Jim B. HAYES as Dick Turpin.
BENEFIT. — To-Night, Thursday, a Benefit will be
tendered to the popular Acrobat, Rider and Clown, Mr.
F. M. Jones.
Note the Reduction In Prices I
THREE, TWO, and ONE SHILLING.
Children half-price to all Parts at all Performances.
EVERY EVENING at 8. MATINEES WEDNESDAYS
and SATURDAYS.
Look for Fitz Gerald Brothers’ Circus Galop, by Pol.
Roskoff (H. Kowalski). All music-sellers, 2s. At Circus, Is.
Agents .. .. Morris, Webb and Sutton.
Press Representative H. P. Lyons.
Solfe Proprietors .. The Fitz Gerald Brothers.
TTENRY FARMER’S OPERATIC SELEC-
TIONS for VIOLIN and PIANO.
“ Martha,” “ Robert le Diahle,” “ Crown Diamonds.”
“ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un
Ballo in Maschera,” “ II Trovatore,” “ Les Huguenots.”
Is. 6d. each— Of all Music-sellers, or from the Pub-
lishers,
W. IMXTON A t'O., London,
AND
251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
FOR S \LE (Cheap).—Quad-Demy Two feeder
WMAREEDALE PRINTING PRESS, by
Dawson and Sons. In good order. Apply
Manager, this office ; or to John Close, Engineer,
393 Kent-street, Sydney.
Prospectus.
<£85,500
Worth of
Freehold Property.
The Mammoth Distribution of Property
amongst the Shareholders in
The Mutual Investment
—AND
Building Society,
J Brisbane, Queensland.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue of 85,500 Shares of £1 each,
2781 PRIZES, valued at £85,500.
As per Schedule at Society’s Office.
EACH SHAREHOLDER for every Share held by him
will have 18 SEPARATE CHANCES, or a possibility of
Winning Prizes to the value of £48,153 for £l.
£1 MAY SECURE £48,153 WORTH.
First Prize, £20,000.
1 PRIZE
1 ..
1 »
1 ::
l
£20,000
0.500
6,000
5,000
2,600
2,200
I PRIZE £20(10
1 „ 1800
5 „ 70U
3 000
S „ 400
0 „ 300
PHIZKS
120
010
700
380
£40
25
12
11
M
6
Ist VMIZE. —Those magnificent Chambers, situate
corner CREEK and ELIZABETH STREETS, BRISBANE,
close to General Post Office and Queensland National
Bank, lately occupied by the Royal Bank of Queensland,
Limited, at a rental of ±llOOO per annum.
PAYMENT of the sum of £1 will secure ONE SHARE
in the Society, upon which there will he no further liability.
The DRAWING will be by Ballot, according to rules,
and will Like place not later than NOVEMBER, 1893.
TRANSFERS will be banded to successful shareholders
immediately after lh> ballot, free of all rates, taxes,
mortgages and any deduction whatsoever.
INTENDING 'SHAREHOLDERS are invited to
make the fullest inquiry as to the value of the properties
for distribution.
Application for Shares in the Society must be
made to the SECRETARY, 186 Queen-street, Brisbane ;
or T. A. BOND, Broker, Queen-street, Brisbane ; or to
care J. H. WISE, 335 a George-street, Sydney, from whom
any further particulars may be obtained.
£49,460 worth for £l.
MONSTER FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS IN THE
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—Tos,ooo Sharks at £l.
Anyone Can Apply !!
No Liability ! !!
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Committee ;
Hon. B. B. MORETON, Hon. JOHN DON-
ALDSON, J. J. KINGSBURY, Esq., M.A.,
M.L.A., JAMES HIP WOOD, Esq., J.P.,
AITOHESON OVEREND, Esq., C.E.
Solicitor :— Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
2403 PRIZES Valued as Under
No, I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking
Chambers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
at cost <£30,000 rental value, <£lsoo a year.
Nos. 2to 2403.—Residences, Shops, &c., and
Picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of £lO,OOO
lof 5,000
4of 2,500
sof 1,000
5 of £5OO
10 of 250
50 of 100
100 of 50
100 of £25
125 of 20
1000 of 10
1000 of 5
Total, .£105,000. No deduction ! Clear Titles!
Apply to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
Stamped Addressed Envelopes. Register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49 460 worth.
Medical.
ds
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from alt parts of the •wond and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualitiespossessed by Dr. Pierce’s
•Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Read the letters:
From Australia,
f Mr. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. \V., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul & (Jo., (Agents for Dr.
. Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
Say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoon as it is placed on his hi dy, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe mo, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 16 A ston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows; “I can say that I have felt better, a great
cel have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
deal, since 1 „
thank you very much. I h ive taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _ ,
From America.
Mr. J.W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes —"V our No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, forit has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got up as if nothing had happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. For one year
notu 1 have felt as 1 used to at so. 1 '
trl”Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write forfree descriptive “Pamphlet No. 2, and
please mention this Paper when address ; > > It. Soul cz C.p. t
158 Pitt St.. Sydney! Elliott Bros., Brisbane; or. the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co , S ah Francisco, U.b. A.
WAS IT A GHOST THEY SAW?
Mks. H. H. Jennings lives at No. 211, Main-
street, Bridgeport, and Miss Minnie Parrot boards
with her. The house is an old one, but in good
order. One night early in December (1891) the
two women looked all the doors and went to the
theatre leaving not a soul in the house. They left
the gas burning, however, in the front parlour.
At about half-past eleven they returned, and
entered the house laughing and talking. But as
they went into the parlour the merry humour died
out of them in a second. Right in the middle of
the room stood a man of gigantic stature. The
upper part of his face was concealed by a mask,
his eyes gleaming through the eyeholes in it. His
shirt-sleeves were rolled up, and in one hand he
carried a long, old-fashioned pistol. The women
fled screaming from the room, and when Mr.
Jennings came in five minutes later he found no
one in the parlour and all the doors and windows
securely locked. What was it the women saw?
“During a recent period of ill-health,” writes
an American friend, “ I had slept badly for
several successive nights. On the fourth of these
nights, about two o’clock, I was suddenly aroused
from a doze by what seemed like the calling of my
name; and at the foot of the bed stood the image
of my mother just as she looked five years before,
as she was leaving home to go on a journey, on
which journey she was killed in a rail way disaster.
I screamed and fainted. I was foolish enough to
tell of it, and the local old women gossips said it
was a summons and I would never get well. Yet
I did, and am in perfect health now. I believe
that vision came of my weak nerves, for I’ve never
seen it since, and it’s more than three years ago
now.”
No doubt it was the nerves. Why, there’s no
end to the tricks the nerves will play off on you
when your system is out of condition. In March,
1890, it was, that Mrs. Jane Foster, of Darracott
Road, Pokesdown, Hants, wrote us as follows :
“ I was so dreadfully nervous I could not bear any-
one in the room with me, yet I did not wish them
far away in case I should call out for help. This
was in June, 1889. I slept very badly, and in the
morning felt little the better for having gone to
bed. There was often a severe pain in my head
and over my eyes, and I was sick most of the
time. My skin was dry and yellow, and the
stomach and bowels felt cold and dead. By-and-
bye I had to lie helpless in bed. The doctor said
he didn’t know what my complaint was. I took
nothing but liquid food, and could not letain even
that on my stomach. By this time I was nothing
but skin and bone. My memory completely failed.
My head ached so dreadfully I thought I should
lose rny senses, and my friends agreed that I
would never get better,
“I had given up all hope, when one day Mrs.
West, of Bournemouth, called and asked what I
was taking. She told me she was herself once
just as badly off, and was cured by Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. As she seemed to have so much
faith in this medicine, I tried it, and in three days
I was able to walk across the room, and by the
end of the week I went downstairs. Now lam
as well as ever. I can eat and digest my food,
and all my nervousness has left me.”
The malady Mrs. Foster suffered from was in-
digestion and dyspepsia and nervous prostration.
The original cause was grief and shock at the
violent death of her husband, by accident, and the
system rallied only when the Syrup had given
new vigour to the digestion and thus fed and
toned the nerves.
Whatever may be your opinion of the Bridge-
port ghost, it remains true that most uncanny
visions and sounds mean nothing more or less
than a set of nerves all upset by indigestion and
dyspepsia. Ghosts come from the inside of the
person who sees them, and when Mother Seigel’s
Syrup does its w r ork the eyes and ears entertain
only what is natural and wholesome.
A fruit-grower at Toongabbie sold, through
his agent in Sydney, some lemons, for which lie
received 3s. 6d. per case. Being in town a few
days later he put up at an hotel, and seeing several
cases of his fruit on hand he asked the landlord
what he paid for them. “Nine shillings.” Who
made the profit ?
Last year, Great Britain, with 38 millions of
people, imported only 3,300,000 carcases of mutton
and 7150 tons of beef from the Argentine, Maori-
land, and Australia combined; while America
alone, in that year, poured into England 87,500
tons of chilled beef, and realised far better prices
than our imports. American meat is only chilled,
not frozen.
A Victoria bi-weekly paper announces
that it circulates throughout “ Wooroonooke, Doo-
boobetic, Teddywaddy, Cooroopajerrup, Bungee-
luke, Ninyeunook, Towaninni, Quambatook,
Narrewillock, Buckrabanyule, Jeruk, Woosang,
Ooonooer, Korong Vale, Boort, Wycheproof,
Birchip, Karyrie, Wychittella, as well as in many
minor centres.”
Deep-water diving is bad for the temper.
Torres Straits pearlers frequently become so angry
at some imaginary wrong-doing on the part of
those in the boat above that they give the signal
to be pulled up, “ with the intention of knocking
the heads off the entire crew,” only to forget when
the surface is reached the object for which they
have ascended.
Henry of Battenberg, the German non-
entity who became Mr. Beatrice Guelph, and
arrived in England a pauper and a general
laughing-stock, is now, according to popular
belief, the power behind the throne, and virtually
the whole royalty of Great Britain, the prop upon
which Victoria leans in her old age and mental
and physical decay.
“ Must employers keep up the rate of
wages till they go insolvent ?” asks a shipowner.
Certainly not. No one takes that as the alterna-
tive. For instance, in the case of that shipowning
co., the directors, who spend, on an average, one
hour a week in meeting, draw two guineas apiece;
the managing director, who works about three
hours a day, draws .£lOOO a year ; and the bank,
which has advanced on overdraft one-half the
money in the business, draws 10 per cent, for the
accommodation. What Labour says is that these
should forego something at a time of pinch. But
Capital makes these first charges, and at a time
of distress falls on the 30s. and 40s. a week men to
keep these charges going.
One day last week an arrogant individual
telephoned The Bulletin office, and said that he
wanted the literary staff to come to the instru-
ment. Then he asked the staff three consecutive
times if it was there, and if it could hear him
quite distinctly. Being assured that it could he
enquired if The Bulletin paid for poetry.
When satisfied on this point he asked the
staff if it was “listening attentively,” and this
matter also being cleared up he announced that he
had composed some “lines”—the most hopeless
variety of poet always calls them “ lines ” —to his
deceased mother, and was prepared to sell the
“copyright” to The Bulletin at a reasonable
figure—which seemed to be somewhere about £5O.
Then he asked suddenly if the staff heard him
quite clearly. He further explained that two
other papers badly wanted the poem at any figure,
only he preferred selling it to The Bulletin.
After which he told the staff to listen very atten-
tively indeed, and proceeded to read in a dismal
chant about a column of dreadful verse
concerning his departed parent—who isn’t of the
slightest interest to anyone save himself. Twice
during the chant he stopped to ask, in a stern
voice, if the staff was listening attentively. It
may please that poet to know that the smallest
office-boy —Barney, in knickerbockers —was at this
end of the instrument, while he was perspiring at
the other. Also, every future poet will find
Barney there regularly. He will say he is the
editor, or the sub-editor, or the business-manager,
as occasion may require, but he will be the same
Barney all the time.


Established 1876.
I
wmjt ton
/ D?
/ HAIR’S
Treatise
ON
ASTHMA
o'
fds
Rocke.TonicsiUtfi.
imiY
iBANEr E(fi
BllOlt BfW
-f -fIOUAiPE:
Sharlin Jkr
Aockuhd: Shafland * C°. si^.
0 Seed Treatise andTestimnninhtfme
Auckijho: Shaflaad * (°. sir,
Wd/send Treatise and Testimonials fr%f-
dSLanyAddres^
'
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. and S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board os’ N.S/W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; wo hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS' SUNDRIES
—AT— A
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OCR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
u IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College op Dental
Surgery.
IKc guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from JE2 2s
- Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode,
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHTSIOIAN3, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
INVICDRATOj!
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“l think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. KellT L.E.C.P., Eclin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invent ion of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effecis of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Diapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
White Spotless Arms
Soft Whit© Hands
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. - They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
Ai .- l , ai ?out the Skin, Scalp, and Hair ”64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
yyP CURA Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure
-’ oc ' ’ Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent the
Oorpo^a^ion^llostonf Ltf S. 11 Remedles> Pre P areci by Potter Drug and Chemical
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are preventedand cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifies, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap, Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the-most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi-
cated todet soap and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most complexionaldisfigurations. Price, 25c.
ii
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
The Columbian Land Distribution.
FOR REASONS GIVEN BELOW, THE PROMOTERS OF THE
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION
HAVE decided to postpone the ballot.
The vacant huu leva if evisis 'necessitated: u vevy lurc/e ctmoiinf
of cheques being returned,
And the depression existing throughout that period greatly influenced the sale of Shares
J'f | P^ oterS ' K - re - iIU -y, reßrefc ,lftV , in * disappoint the Shareholders with regard to keeping the
ate of ballot as originally arranged, and assure them that every preparation was made to carry out
LIST SHOULD BE KEPT OPEN FOR A REASONABLE TIME
to enable this to bo done, and in submitting to this opinion, tiie Promoters trust that the Share-
holders will co-operate to their utmost.
It is computed that, by extending the CLOSING OF THE BALLOT TO NOVEMBER the
amount required will easily be,subscribed but should this not be the case, the best value of property
for the amount subscribed will be included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate percentage
of Bonus money allowed as originally fixed, * 1 ' H
The Subscribers will be consulting their own interests by in-
ducing others to participate in the distribution,
And it is hoped that, in nearly every case, they themselves will increase the number of their Shares.
The Piomoters beg to draw public attention to the absolutely unforeseen difficulties that
have hai to be contended against during the last four months,
They have never failed to recognise their responsibility to those who have entrusted them witl
their money and confidence, and every precaution has been taken to protect investors, the whole
amount received lo date now being perfectly recure m the hands of trustees. Shareholders are als.
assured that, on the part of the Promoters,
Neither trouble nor expense will he spared to briny the Columbian
Land Distribution to a successful termination.
m- THE FlilST BALLOT WILL BE WHOLLY FROM THE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
Which is universally admitted to be much the more valuable, and which itself comprises 285
out of the 351 Properties offered. This, ,t is hoped, will in some measure recompense Share-
usual to f ° r the de !iy ’ Applications for Shares, and all information, can be forwarded as
E. J, DE EOMFOBD, c/o j. h. astrop,
Maryborough Chambers, O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Eleirator.
Modern Sanitary im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
meats Jor Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy of access.
_ ■ ■ Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. 3
JAMES BAILEY, Managing: Director.
During April there were 872 births and
320 deaths in S.A., the population being 334 381
on the first of the month. The totals for the lour
months of the year were 3372 births and 1369
deaths.
Ibis reads like a plagiarism from Prof.
Pearson, erstwhile of Victoria :
J. N. Qoyinour & Co. will sell 300 merino ewes, in lamb
to wethers.-Border Watch (lit. Gaiubur,
“ Rock of ages, cleft for mo,” translated
into one of the Polynesian dialects, is made, “ All
tiie old stones split in two, let me get under a
corner of one,” said an ex-missionary, at the
recent Melb. Conference.
Earth-worms perish in soa-water. Those
of Maoriland are identical with those on the scraps
ot Antarctic Continent, but distinct from those of
Australia. Consequently, it is argued, Maoriland
was part of the Southern Continent.
We read that a French surgeon has suc-
cessfully trephined the vertebral column of a man
whose spine was fractured. Paralysis of the legs
had set in, but this was combated by the treat-
ment. If true, it is a sensational feat.
Editor Bulletin,— You miss the point of
that remark, in “the dignified London journal,”
referring to the fact that the Queen is “ usually ;
drawn about by one of the Royal jackasses.” The
loyal paper merely wished to show the British tax-
payer that son-in-law Battenberg does something
for his living. — Yours, Snell.
Bathurst (N.S. W.) National Advocate
gives a few thrilling facts about the Northern
-territory:—
After the railway works were completed the greater
portion of the Chinese remained in the Territory and
weie engaged to work on the gold, silver and copper-
mines. They accept a very low rate of wage, living being
' ery cheap in that country ; but their honesty cannot lie
relied on, and in many instances the Chinese have been
known to swallow the gold when down the shaft. When
caught they are summarily dealt with—the writer saw
one, who was suspected of stealing 1 gold, get slashed with
a J )ut 9 her 8 knife on the abdomen. This was a simple and
effective remedy to make the thief disgorge his ill-gotten !
gams. During the writer’s residence in the Territory,
leprosy, typhoid, and small pox were raging, and the
death rate was very large ; these epidemics were traced
to the Chinese, and many Europeans succumbed to the
diseases. The native blacks are present in large num-
bers, and walk about the streets in a state of nudity. The
stranger going into Palmerston will open his eyes in
amazement at the curious habits of the natives. Very
few European ladies live at Port Darwin, on account of
the excessive heat, the thermometer never being less
than 90 in the shade.
Apparently, it is only the temperature that scares I
European ladies away from Palmerston. The I
disembowelled Chow, and the fact that “large I
numbers ” of people walk about the streets with-
out any clothes, have nothing to do witli the
scarcity of cultured society females in the Ear
North, where it is never less than 90 in the shade.
At the Paris Mont de Pi&td a patriarchal
green umbrella has been in pawn for 63 years.
The amount originally advanced on it was a shil-
ling, and the original owner, or his son, or his
grandson has turned up once a year to pay the
interest ever since. The general impression is
that some 17th century ancestor of theirs left a
fortune which is to accumulate until the year 1900
and then be paid over to the descendant who can
produce the old original green umbrella as a proof
of his identity. Or else, possibly, it is a phantom
brolly with a curse upon it—a gamp which can’t
be lost or destroyed, but always keeps turning up
unaccountably on the door-step to bring disaster
on the family, and the owner keeps it in the
strong room of the Mont de Pi&te to prevent it
breaking loose. Many old families have curses
and spectres and ghostly umbrellas in them ; they |
are the penalties of greatness.
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows: One gold medal for the most i
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies i
to be signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra.
N.S. W.
“Rackarock is unequalled for clearing
ground. It does twice the work that dynamite
will do, and, therefore, really only costs about
half the price. We use one-inch cartridges and
l;£-inch auger, boring the hole well down in a
slanting direction, rather more than half through
the stump; put the cartridges in and tamp well
with clay or fine soil. For stumps two feet
through we use one cartridge, and for stumps more
than three feet through two cartridges. We
always out the surface roots from the stumps
before charging the hole and see that the cap is
well-fitted on the fuse and well-sunk in the car-
tridge. In conclusion we would state that we
never think of starting to clear land with-
out a supply of Rackarock. Rae Bros., Erina,
Gosford, N.S.W., June 21, ’93.”
Every year the London street-hawkers
offer further evidence of the steady reductions in
starvation wages. A cockney friend writes that
the amount of labour apparent in the manufacture
of five hundred different articles, which can be
purchased in Cheapside for a penny apiece, makes
his heart sick. Small toys and useful trifles that
were formerly sold at threepence, or even six-
pence, have come down to a penny, whilst any-
thing the poor man can put his teeth into remains
at about the same old price.
THE PENNY "NOVELTT.”
That tempting penny toy
On the harrow of the hawker.
Take it home to please the boy—
See his blue, wide-opened eyes,
As he carries off the prize,
Dance with gladness.
What a marvel at the price !
What a credit to the worker!
So wondrous, neat, and nice—
Pause, consider once or twice
All its sadness.
The pretty penny toy
Might tell stories grim and ugly
That would fright the happy boy,
Make his chubby face turn pale.
Did the toy but tell the tale
Of its making—
When he tumbles into bed.
And you tuck him up so snugly—
Men and women wanting bread—
Weary eyes, and heart, and head
Ever aching!
The toy can tell of tears,
Tears of children slowly dying
’Neath their little weight of years;
Lacking wholesome food and wine,
And the sun that cannot shine
On so many.
Very deftly is it wrought
By the toilers self-denying,
But with misery ’tis fraught,
Prettv toy which may be bought
t*or a penny.


fds
HOW TO
OXJUiE IT.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), of 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
prepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
ALTALINE VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
luvigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate
fnl cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint. . T f
The ALF ALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of
Memory Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and all other Affec-
tions of"the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommendedl to all sobers
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. (id.; an Ordinary Course, 235. Od
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s. Warning :-Imxtators will be Prosecuted.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
Registered. PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
CURED over 100,000 SUFFERERS. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS OF HERR RASSMUSSEN.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing: many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove."— Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassraussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Kassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
'• Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist. ’’—Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices aorree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the of his
testimonials appear to be well established.’ S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.” —Cooktown
Courier, Q.
How to Cure
THE NERVES.
TAKE A COURSE OP
Alfaline Vitality Pills. _
Guaranteed to Cure
nervousness; weakness;
des pondency, debllity,
nervous Irritability,
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA, _L 0 SS_ OF
MEMORY,"WEAK BRAIN AND
NERVES."
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
' Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful tonne, 435. 6d.
Testimonial.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, a gentleman whose TESTIMONY
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Herr Rassmcsskn. Dear Sir, — I
think it my duty to inform you that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
their use. Very truly yours, R.
Adams Luckham.
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS.
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
COS TIVEN E S S, WIN D,
BILIOUSNESS, IN DIG ESTION,
FLATULENCY AND IRREGU-
£jBr LAHITY.
Boxes posted Is. Gd., 35., and 6s.
Testimoiaial.
Herr Rassmussen. — I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate ease of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies.—A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
How to Cure
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
ALL COMPLAINTS PECULIAR
TO FEMALES.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
Here Rassmussen,—l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Vic.
m tbtit r w -Tm~~ : ™ a
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, and
wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas
Excellent for Golds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. Cd.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remedy for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked 'kin. Ulcers, and all
Atfeclions* of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 25.;
posted, Is. 6d. and fa. 6d.
Porous Plasters.— These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each ; posted,
Is. Gd.
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. 6d. per bottle.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, H.S.W.
Also at
150 Siurb Street, Melbourne,
01 knlilon Quay, Wellington, N.S,
Also at
160 Queen Street, Mine.
154 Eundle Street, Adelaide.
C H
Up
«4f'Us
°ry
5 c
&
or
5c
6S
oV
O-
G?
54 7
547
ARCADE
PILL
NEY
SY
SYDNEY
RASSHUSSENS
Herr
?A
PILL PALACE
VITALITY
PILLS
tor
LOCK
CURE PIU3
-
BMIERSAII IBLOOuj
MFAIIRtJ I 11 ■ 11 “
1 J j IPI ll
THE
NERVES
DISEASES
V FORTHE r
Celebraleikßegistered Al PALI NE PILLS
ms
BLOOD&NERVE DISEASES
Prepared from pure herbs only by
• HERR RASSMUSSCN*
bvSOLDHEREIN BOTTLES atl/-2/ 6 * 22£a
£ ROOKS
AIFALINE
HAIR
RMTOUtR
BoniES^
AIFALINE
RHEUMATIC
PILLS
BOIOJjtAjA
3K\r
AIFALINE
UVERIKIOWV
PILLS
60* ONEJWU/Ni
AIFALINE
COMPLEX lON
BEAUTIfIER
sornESiA#
T* i « V'j’ l,
CUAR
''l
HERBAL
VOW
Sr
HlßUlßNlffll
rBIMAIb
-' ■
. i** *1
DECERJJEE
m
■
iTTO
E3lorr Bassmusson,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REHVEIHSIDXESS!
Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of Acaddmie Parisienne des Inventeurs, Prance ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U. J.F.C. ;
Honourably mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries ; Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney for bis Herbal
Remedies ; Author of The Natural Doctor formerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal,” Sydney ; Discoverer of the “ Minto Process ”
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Expert Blood and KTerve Remedies —Cured 100,000.
SEND POR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
GXJA.RA.KTTBE33 HEnBA-L CURES
FOR TUB
L O O D and NERVE
REGISTERED AND AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Pegister all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS KASSMUSSEN.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Head Depot: ....
buuth Australian Head Depot: ....
New Zealand Head Depot:
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street. Adelaide,
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
How to Cure
THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Look Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
ELOODnOISE ASE S, S KIN
AFFECTIONS, SORES, BOILS
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
RHEUM,' OLD BLOOD COM'-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND
6 T HER UNP PEASANT?
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes —Gs. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful * oiu-sc. 435. Cd-
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
health. — Neils Larsen, Ithago-sfc.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
EHE UMAT I S M, GO UT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
Boxes—3s. and Gs., PostecT
235. 6d. per Course, Posted.
TestlmoMiial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir,—l
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND COUGH.
take a box op
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
ASTHM A," COUGUS and COLDS,'
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxes—Posted, 35., Gs., and 12s.
Ordinary JUourse, 235. 6d., Posted,
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. H. Kimm,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER Si BEAUTIEIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, Bs. and 6s.
Tegtimorriala.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.— J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of
Debility.—Tuos. Mudlman, 515 George-st.,
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albert, 64 Wash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me o*
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.—Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop.
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son,
after many doctors had given him up.—
John F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria
Herr RA-SSMUSSEM’S
Qhief Laboratory & Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547
George Street., Sydney, N.S.W.


MATCH IT!
Here Follows Just a Sample of What the
Greatest Remedy for Pain oan do in a
Case op Ohronio Rheumatism.
a crippled boy.
A few years ago, Messrs. George O. Osgood and
Co., druggists, Lowell, Mass., wrote to The
Charles A. VogelerCo., as follows. —Mr. Lewis
Dennis, 136, Moody-street, desires to recommend
St. Jacobs Oil to any afflicted with rheumatism,
as he has obtained benefit by using it, but he
desires especially to say, that “ Orin Robinson, of
Grantville, Mass., a buy of twelve years, came to
his house in the summer of 1881, walking on
crutches, his left leg .being bent back. He could
not walk upon it. Mr. Dennis had some St.
Jacobs Oil in the house, and gave it to him to rub
on his knee. In six days he had no use for
crutches, and went home well without them, and
he has been well since. St. Jacobs Oil cured
him.”
CONCLUSION—NO RELAPSE.
“Lowell, Mass., July 9, 1887. Gentlemen—
Mr. Lewis Dennis has just called upon me, and
informs me of the boy Orin Robinson, who was a
poor cripple on crutches, and was cured by St.
Jacobs Oil in 1881; the cure has remained per-
manent. The young man has been and is now at
work every day at manual labour, a case certainly
which proves the efficacy of St. Jacobs Oil. Mr.
Dennis tells me also that he had rheumatism in
his knee ; tried many remedies, but of no use ; and
it cured the rheumatism permanently, as it has
not troubled him for years.”—Geo. 0. Osgood,
M.D.
IN SHORT,
By this showing St. Jacobs Oil cures the worst
chronic and crippled cases ; cures promptly, cures
permanently; in this ease without recurrence of
pain in six years intervening since 1881. Sold by
all chemists and dealers in medicine.
Too posssess a. RELIABLE TIMEKEEPER
at the MINIMUM of COST, you must BUY A
WATERBURY. MR. GEO. BUTLER, of
Moonta, S.A., writing under date June 15, 1893,
states: “I have carried no other watch than a
Waterbury for the last five years, and have
always found it a good and reliable timekeeper.”
N ESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
F rame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Ne.stle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Lkube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—VoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FRE^c
fd
i
«
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
m
■5555' '■wSlib'il'iWiMj' 'ML. ' J[\
wwawwi
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15, Holborn, London, Eng ;
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, Subscribers and Others,
Messrs. Fitzgerald Eros., of launceston, are
no longer Sole Wholesale Agents for sale of
“The Bulletin” in Tasmania. Agents and
Subscribers can be supplied from Mead Office.
tSF” Terms upon application.
JI Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK.
f
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
for the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
[MALTED MILK is made from the <
l*l richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
[malted milk is not to be cooked, '
[ I*l no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
( and readily prepared for instant use
( by dissolving in water.
• MALTED MILK is the best food for In- j
i 1?1 fants. “ The composition of Malted
i Milk resembles that of human milk.”
i — Lancet. April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-111 valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane,
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
& BOfjr,
df
BUTTER ■ SCOTCH
CELEBRAT ED CHiLOREN’S SWEET)
CvVjft r Sertx.(7Uf/.»
Lancet.
St. John’s Works. London. W.C.
fifer*
m
pilLS
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Pills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co,, Lowell.
Mass., U, S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
SUP” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Pills— is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
ddf
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR-SKIM.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
_ Heals cuts, burns, braises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Aew York.
KIDMAN'S BUILDINGS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY,
6
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
5/-
||he ||ew Band portrait,
Size, 9x7 in.,
13s. PER DOZEN. 13s.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
CHE A P MUS I C.
PRINCESS MAY WALTZ, with Portrait of H.R.H. Tho
Duchess of York, and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets,
dec., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON.
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE,
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, J uly 25,1893.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9.
Construction of Timber Beam Footbridge or Sus*
pension Footbridge over Moonan Brook, at
Denison Diggings, alternative tenders to bo
submitted
Bridge, Charabigne Creek, road Grafton to Gleu
Innes
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23.
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King
street to Ocean-street Tramway
Erection of Engineer’s Cottage Parkes Water
Supply
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with Iron
Piers, over the Murrumbidgee River at Wagga
Wagara.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
At Poverty Point.
Shudder—Nellie Stewart (where is she ?) nears 401
Melb. papers now actually admit that Toole did not
quite come up to expectations, but Terry, of course, is
superlatively excellent, he cannot fail to, etc., etc. To
hear the truth about Terry we’ll have to wait till the next
man comes.
The male lion cub in Fitzgeralds’ circus was christened
John Burns in his early cubhood. His present trainer,
Captain Humphreys, was upon the best of terms with him
until the advt. appeared announcing Humphreys as the
“lion king.” The news must somehow have leaked into
the cage, for a change cam: over the demeanour of the
democratic cub, and he proceeded to manifest his claim
to the name of Burns by endeavouring to eat the “lion
king” raw.
Toole has written a National Review essay on the
subject of “Humorists and Non-humorists,” wherein he
maintains that while “ the old humour” is with us still,
there is with us also “ a new receptiveness.” There is no
doubt that the “ old humour ” is with us still. It never
dies out, alas! and is alluded to under the term “chest-
nuts.” As for “ the new receptiveness,” we presume that
it is an old variety exercised on something that isn’t a
‘chestnut.” It is the old receptiveness that is required
to appreciate the wit of Toole.
The Australian papers are now all printing “a good
Yankee lie” about Paderewski—to the effect that the
contract for his American tour bound him to keep all his
hair on. He was to forfeit 2500 dols. if he had his locks
shorn. This “good Yankee lie" happens to be a good
Bulletin lie (originally here told of R. S. Smythe and
Paderewski) —sanctified and made respectable by a tour
round the world.
The Fat Boy of Orleans is back in London from hi B
banishment to Somali Land, and, to the disgust of hi 8
parents, duly turned up at the opera to see Melba on the
first night of “ Pagliacci."
London chorus-girls are forming a union. The Aus-
tralian chorus-girl is always forming a union, and will
keep it up as long as the supply of Johnnies holds out.
, to the clergyman who spoke at the grave of
Madame Sterling’s late husband, deceased's children
feared to part with him when he left home for so long a
journey, and one of them enquired if God were in Aus-
tralia as well as in England. On being assured that He
was, the child said ; “Then, pa, you can go,” having the
faith that he would be in God’s hands in that distant
land. A good little story, but not quite original. The
writer heard the same anecdote beside a grave in Napa
County, Cal., 14 years ago.
If Sydney can run two circuses for a while, why not one
a Id Hengler altogether?
The Melb. benefit to the General Theatrical Fund was
another big success in its way, but unfortunately this
way doesn’t go far for the “ Poor Player.” The Fund’s
old capital of £lO,OOO is locked up in unpromising places,
and the trustees are at the mercy of liquidators as regards
some of the investments. Money raised from the benefit
performances will soon be swallowed up by current ex-
penses. Afterwards—well, something more will have to
be done. Perhaps the church may extend an oily helping
hand to the recognised sinners, whom the parsons, on
their own showing, are so eager to assist.
The prettiest thing in “Vicar of Bray" is a duet
between the converted curate and the Vicar’s daughter,
when they decide to abjure priggishness and go in for
something livelier than a “ purely grammatical ” exis-
tence. 'lhe best lines are often foreign to an Australian
audience, though. “ We’ll have supper at Scott’s ” —“Of
fun we’ll have lots”—“We’ll play all the lightest of
tunes —“ ‘ Forthe future,' say I, ‘Lindley Murray, good-
bye to Propriety, Prism and Prunes!’” Scott’s oyster
shop is scarcely more unfamiliar to them than Murray’s
Grammar, while the readers of “Little Dorrit” don’t
always know that ihe expression “Prunes and Prism”
has become classic.
“The baldest hashup of stale melodrama and sorry
fooling ever placed on the stage of a London theatre, even
at a matinee.”—Criticism on ex-bookmaker Sutton’s play.
“The Younger Son."
During the recent Gaiety Co. v. Workman fracas in
Dunedin (M.L.), one of the girls had her chest torn out
and scattered about the street. Said chest was composed
of an armful of cotton-wool.
Dr. Talniage says that in Heaven, Gabriel will have his
trumpet, David his harp, Handel his organ, Thalberg his
piano and Miriam her timbrel. And Antoinette Sterling
and Gormly, M.P., their voices. Our station, guard, is
hell, please.
Forty pounds is Snazelle's reported average Sunday
night profit. *
The humbler ballet, down South, protest against getting
four shillings for three weeks.
Saturday performances, at Melbourne theatres, were
forbidden, up to 40 years ago, and later.
Flemming has left the Achurch Co., in London, and is
replaced by another Herbert—Waring.
Coppinian advt. says that on Sabbath evenings a col-
lection will be taken up, at Melb. Theatre Royal to
defray “ part of the expenses.”
Michael O Shannassy is a sporting gent, in Sievier’s
London matinee’ed play, “The Younger Son.” Roivh
on Mat. H. H. Vincent acted in it.
Ethel Haydon, the prima-donna of Melb. Lyric Club, is
foolish to think of getting away from the amateur. She
will soon be lost on the professional stage. There’s noth-
ing of her, in the matter of figure, nor any stamina in her
sweet little bit of voice.
Sam Adams, lately proprietor of the London Troc. and
flashest of little men, is dead like the rest of them. He
lived to 53, a wonderful old age for one who had had 30
years’ experience of music-halls and their bars. It was
said of Isidore Wertheimer, the other day, that he “died
of music-hall, ’ nothing but music-hall, and Isidore was
only 26, or so. But then he never was cured of mixing
his drinks, as Sam Adams was.
An English Y.M.C.A. views re the theatre:—
“ The theatre is a gate of hell;
The actors consider well.
The audience ! Who are they,
The half of those who go to see the play?
Abandoned women of the town,
Their partners men of bad renown ;
The other half are simply gaping fools,
The Devil’s victims and his tools.”
A strolling theatrical co., “doing” the Sydney suburbs,
was announced the other evening to give a performance
at Parramatta. Not a solitary soul paid for admission.
When Greenaway was playing Launcelot Gobbo in
“ The Merchant of Venice ” at Ballarat, he added a bottle
of water to the property basket of doves, and took a swill
at it as a bit of “business.” Someone, he then found,
had “doctored” the water with a noxious drug.
When M. Wiegand’s (city organist) name appeared in
the advt. of a Presbyterian concert for a solo, Mayor
Manningiasked “Moosoo” who had given him permission
to play. M. Wiegand: “Miss Dean—(a pupil, who also
solo-d)—she say I could.” And the organist could not
understand the point, when the Mayor said Miss Dean did
not run Sydney.
Clement Scott explains why Sardou’s plays are so tardy
in getting under weigh. He won’t allow any other
author to squeeze in a curtain-raiser, and yet he will not
bring in his effects till the after-dinner audience drops in.
Therefore, in translation, his two first acts must be
knocked into one.
The actress who “ travels on ” her beauty is always
with us, and the actress who travels on her ugliness is
going to be with us, too. Mdlle. Paquerette, a Parisian
singer now doing immense business in New York, is the
first woman to realise that, as she can’t paintand decorate
her awful countenance to be anything more than plain and
commonplace, the only way to make money is to be
frankly hideous. She has enough defects’ to wreck any
woman, and she has acquired about a dozen new ones
w’hioh pay huge dividends. She has an immense
mouth—and has learned to wear it under her ear. She
has a real squint in one eye—and an artificial strabismus
in the other. She habitually hangs her lower jaw so as to
look like an idiot, and a tolerably advanced one at that.
Her arms extend to her knees, and terminate in hands
like carpet-bags. Also, her bust is flat, and her back
isn’t. Moral—only two kinds of women can make money
on the stage, the one that is really beautiful and the one
whose countenance looks like a lava-flow. The inter-
mediate woman is useless.
“Distinguished Melbourne hostelries,” writes Histrion,
“furnish their actresses. Did not Haydon keep the
Mitre? Miss Lane is making some kind of a mark in
London. Eva Pear did fairly. They inhale the reeks of
genius from the Yorickians, and put on the breeks if they
marry a literarian.”
The other day we dropped upon the full correspondence
(published in the Argus, 1855), as advts., re the dispute
between Brooke and Fanny Cathcart. Brooke and “Mrs.”
Brooke took charge of her under apprenticeship, for
which she got but £2 a week, but the tragedian paid all
her expenses, including her professional and private
wardrobe, which latter alone was £4OO, during the year
the engagement lasted. When she married Heir, Brooke
gave them £2O a week, but they abruptly left him. The
secret history was amusing, and Heir wrote, in the pub-
lished correspondence, that, “ as a man and a husband,”
he could not allow Fanny to go back. However, it was
quickly arranged, for the meaning was only that an
influential rival had been jilted, and he good-humoredly
laughed it off. Plays within plays.
There threatens to be yet some ugly work between
Meston and Purcell, the two late partners in those myall
niggers.
“ Probably' one of the most curious presents ever offered
to a bride was that given to Mdlle. Zucchi on the occasio
of her marriage to Prince Baserchitkoff. Mdlle. Zucchi
was formerly prima ballerina of the Eden Theatre of
Paris, and the friends of her husband presented her with
120 (?) silver drinking cups, all fashioned like dancing
slippers, of different sizes, one for each year of her age.”
Someone wagers that all Shakspeare’s plays have been
acted in Australia, another that they have not. Anyhow,
some of the most unlikely-looking ones have : “Measure
for Measure,” “Two Gentlemen of Verona,” “Love’s
Labour Lost,” “Timon of Athens.”
Myra Kemble tries to persuade an interviewer that the
“Million of Money ” supers thought Cleopatra was Clara
Parker.
“ Going right back to his very first ddbut,” writes a
Melbourne Standard small bov in a recent theatrical
interview.
A decidedly verdant company at Melb. Bijou. Five
Greenwoods, one Greenaway, one Greenfell, and one
Qreenless. The gallery supplies the rest of the Greens.
According to a Melbourne paper, Madame Antoinette
Sterling admits that she has met her most appreciative
audiences in the gaols and asylums. Lunatip asylums?
“Tommy” Walker, made up as Marmondelle the Moor,
was a striking likeness of “ Jim ” Toohey.
When “The Vicar of Bray” was being played in
Adelaide, Vernon sang a localised ditty severely satirising
ustice Boucaut on the score of his meanness, and lauding
ustice Bundey at his colleague’s expense.
Hayden Coffin, doing famously in the U.S., is not
unlikely to visit Australia.
Florence St. John says that by the time she reached
Melbourne she would be too fat to act.
The late Fred. Leslie, according to his autograph in a
Melbourne girl’s birthday-book, was born on April Fools’
Day.
Phil Stuart keeps in a private drawer, at Melb. Wax-
works, the identical hat in which Harry Power was cap-
tured 25 years ago.
Grattan Riggs, once wound up, goes on for ever. The
other night Grattan was in great form, and got so en-
grossed in his subject that the boys slipped out one by
one without saying “ Good-night.” And Grattan inno-
cently went on telling yarns to the table for a solid two
hours without noticing the absence of the congregation.
It was hideously cruel.
Bessie Doyle, violinisle, is in N.Q.
Maoriland papers fully endorse what Tub Bulletin had
to say about Madame Sterling.
English “humour” (in Ally Sloper Terry’s farewell-
speech at Sydney Lyceum): “ I apologise for my hybrid
costume—some people might say ‘lowbred’ costume.
(Laughter.) . . I tell you plainly, I admire vour
beautiful harbour. (Roars of Laughter.) . . I have to
take train for Melbourne, and, as you know, there is a
train in the affairs of men. (Great Laughter.) . . I
came as a stranger and you took me in.” Ye gods! Poor
old Johnny Toole all over again.
Sydney Echo is dead—done to death by
its Humour without vulgarity and Facts hocussed.
Beastly sectarian insinuation in the S.M.
Herald’s cable columns : “ The Tablet states
that Cardinal Moran is seriously ill, and that he
will soon leave Dublin for a warmer climate.”


Dears
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
<1
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Bailiffs I Have Met.
( FOR THE BULLETIN. )
It has been remarked that the worst use to
which you can put a man is to hang him. A
mistake. You can put him to a still worse use.
You can make him a bailiff.
I am writing this article in bed, using as a desk
a box which at one time, according to the printed
legend pasted on its lid, contained 71b. nett of
cocoanut ice. It commenced its career coldly,
this poor little box, but it shall end warmly and
famously. To-morrow morning I shall split it up
into neat little splinters, to which I shall deftly
set fire, and therewith boil my coffee. I know
that in years to come, when I shall have lost my
taste for coffee and all other worldly pleasures,
relic collectors will wish that I had not done this
thing, but one can’t boil coffee on posthumous
glory.
Alexander Pope is said to have written most of
his translation of the Iliad ih bed, but that was
mere luxurious laziness on his part. I am writing
in bed for the reason that if I were up I would
have to sit on the floor to write —a position which,
besides being uncomfortable, is apt to make one
round-shouldered.
The intelligent reader will gather from the fore-
going remarks that the bailiff has been with me.
He has been, with a vengeance, and liked my
taste in furniture so well that he took it all away
with him, including even my little Japanese
tobaeco-jar, and a Satsuma spittoon of fantastic
elegance. I shouldn’t have cared so much if he
had left me my engraving of Don Quixote which
used to bring the tears to my eyes every time I
looked at it. The noble knight-errant is shown in
it sitting in his chamber, with all his armour
around him. His withered hands, with their
bony knuckles and outstanding veins and sinews,
are clasped on the hilt of his long, cross-hilted
sword, and there is a look of visionary exaltation
in his faded eyes which is in itself an inspiration.
The valorous Mandregan had also his troubles
with the world, even as I have mine.
* # #
It is now 12 years ago since I gathered iny
first practical knowledge of bailiffdom. Even
then I did not see a bailiff in the flesh, but I
stood in the place—he had left nothing to sit upon
—where a bailiff had been, only a few hours
before. It was after dusk, one evening in autumn,
and, as I knocked at the door of the house in
which dwelt my guide, philosopher, and friend of
those early days, I thought that the knock
sounded singularly loud, as though the house were
empty. So it was, in a sense, its sole contents
being ray philosopher and his wife and family.
They were seated on the floor, in a circle, around
a sheet of newspaper, upon which were displayed
two or three loaves of bread, a paper bag contain-
ing sugar, a large billycan full of tea, and some
tinned sardines. They were eating with their
fingers, and drinking in turns out of a pannikin,
which passed from hand to hand, in the manner of a
bottle at a small and informal convivial gathering
of friends. “ You observe,” said my philosopher,
with a nod at the newspaper, and a wave of his
hand towards the bare walls, “you observe, my
young sage, how little the natural man really
needs to satisfy his legitimate requirements. All
else is mere superfluous luxury. The bailiff
relieved me of my superfluous luxury this morning.
I bear him no malice on that account. A man of
letters (my philosopher was a contributor to the
weekly papers, but always called himself a man of
letters} should fly light in the matter of fur-
niture.”
I looked at the squabbling children on the
floor, and thought that the remark might be
extended so as to include family as well as fur-
niture.
My philosopher, however, had his revenge on
bailiffdom in due course, as will be seen later on.
» * - *
A year or so after the foregoing incident,
which occurred in Melbourne, I was in Sydney
lodging in the house of a friend, who also described
himself as a man of letters. He was, as a matter
of fact, a reporter on one of the daily papers, but
was endowed with tastes and aspirations far above
his position. These found expression in speckled-
green jars, papier-mache statuettes of classical
shepherds and shepherdesses, vases of every size
and shape, brackets, tables with spiral legs like
crossed corkscrews, and other articles of vertu too
numerous to mention. The front room of the
little house in which he lived was so crowded with
these things that it was seldon opened, except
when his wife went in to dust them. He had also
a library, contained in a carven bookcase with
glass doors. It consisted of some 40 or 50 volumes,
works of the old dramatists. They were carefully
numbered and catalogued, and it was, as Arte-
mus Ward called the Tower of London, a Sweet
Boon to me to see him, when he required a book,
gravely refer to a small ledger, neatly lettered
from A to Z on its outer edge, and there, having
discovered the registered number of the volume,
take the latter out of the bookcase with the air of
a man who has found what he wanted on the
shelves of the Bodleian, or the National Museum.
Of course, Simson (this was not my friend’s real
name, but it will answer quite as well for present
purposes) could have put his hand upon the book
at once, without going through this elaborate
mummery, but that would not have been Simson’s
style. “My father,” he observed to me upon one
occasion, “ always kept an index to the books in
his library, and I do my best to follow in his foot-
steps. I haven’t the number of books he had—
his library contained several thousand volumes —
but I can, at least, have an index.” This filial
sentiment was expressed with so much dignity
that I almost felt ashamed of myself for having
laughed at the index.
The true shrine of the Simson household, how-
ever, was the room in which was stored the jim-
orackery previously referred to. Simson himself
entered it but rarely, and then treading softly
with slippered feet. I accused him once of going
in there to worship in secret a hideous porcelain
image of the Chinese dragon god which stood on
the mantelpiece, but he merely smiled and said I
was a hopeless Philistine.
# * •
One morning I came downstairs and found
the door of the shrine open. I went in, half
expecting to surprise Simson in the midst of some
mysterious rite, but he was not there. There was
somebody in the room, however. A man with
touzled hair, a dirty-reddish beard, and a face
that looked as if it had been (which was, no doubt,
the fact) soaking in beer for years, was lying in a
loose heap on the dainty green satin sofa, with
one of his huge feet, encased in a broken blucher,
resting carelessly on the glory of the shrine —a tall
Japanese vase embellished with illustrations of
the story of the Forty Ronins. I stared hard at
the man who winked familiarly at me with one
bloodshot eye, and walked out of the room,
greatly wondering. In the dining-room I met
Simson with hair on end, and wildly glaring.
“Who’s your friend ?” I asked, nodding in the
direction of the front room.
“ He’s no friend of mine,” replied Simson, and
then a base inspiration seemed to come to him, and
he added, “ he’s the wife’s uncle.”
Of course, the man was a bailiff.
He had insisted on camping in the front room,
because he saw that it contained all the really
valuable articles in the house.
I am glad to say that Simson managed to raise
the money required to meet the ruffian’s demand,
and to get rid of him before he had been in the
house more than a few hours. As it was, he left
behind him an effluvium of stale alcohol which
hung around the place for days afterwards.
* * *
Two or three years passed by without my
making any further acquaintance with bailiffdom.
And then it came to pass that I stopped one night
at a house in Woolloomooloo, wherein dwelt a
happy family, consisting of a poet, a piano-tuner,
a professor of mathematics, and an artist, who
painted religious subjects by preference, but,
owing to lack of orders in this direction, painted
panels of bar-screens and picturesque whisky
advertisements, for a living. The house was taken
in the name of the artist, he being the only
member of the party who did any regular work,
The piano-tuner came next in financial impor-
tance, but he was not a perfect character in other
respects. When he earned a few shillings by
tuning a piano, he often started to tune himself
up with beer to such an extent that the artist,
who was a fastidious person when not himself
intoxicated, always insisted on his sleeping in the
wood-shed till he became sober again. As for the
poet and the professor ot mathematics, they also
made a little money occasionally, the poet by
writing elegies and epitaphs—there is a story to
be told, and I may tell it some day, of the way in
which he canvassed bereaved persons for orders in
this connection—and the professor by “coaching”
students for examinations. They brought home
their money manfully, and handed it over to the
artist, who as manfully expended it in the purchase
of liquor and tinned provisions for the use of the
establishrnent. Taking them altogether, the
happy family was the most genial set of Bqhe-
mians I have ever had the fortune to meet with.
I do not even except the piano-tuner, as he made
up for his periodical bouts by long spells of self-
sacrificing total abstinence, and put the money he
earned during *these intervals into the common
fund like a hero. If they had a fault at all it was
that they were almost too convivial. r lhey used
to drink rum at breakfast, and bottled beer in
cups at tea-time.
Of course, a menage of this kind was too
gay to last. The end came, as luck would have it,
on the morning when I happened to be a guest of
the household. I was awakened by hearing a
sound of voices in the passage—the artist had
made up a bed for me on the floor of the front
room with newspapers, and covered me, in the
kindest manner, with one of his great historical
cartoons, representing the landing of Captain
Cook at Botany Bay, the paint upon which was
alone sufficient to keep me warm, without taking
the canvas into account.
I knew at once what the trouble was—the
bailiff was in possession. So far, however, he had
not penetrated beyond the passage, and the artist,
with a ring of pathos in his voice which revealed
to me unsuspected depths of feeling in his nature,
was imploring him not to take away the furniture
without giving him (the artist) a chance to find
the com required, or, at any rate, to come to some
arrangements with the landlord—the distraint
was, I may remark, about to be made for arrears
of rent. , . .
Not me,” said the bailiff, a brutal miscreant
bloated with intemperance, “I’m not that kind ot
bloomin’ goat. Fork out the com at once or 1
clean out the furnicher.”
. Heartless wretch, exclaimed the artist, turn-
mg away with a choking sob, “do your worst. _
The bailiff, signing to his assistant to remain in
the passage—a wily precaution against any of the
furniture being removed on the sly—went through
the house to take an inventory of its contents,
* • *
He had not been gone five minutes before
he was back in the passage again, cursing and
blaspheming in a most shocking style.
“What’s the matter?” his assistant asked. _
“This is what’s the matter,” he replied bit-
terly, kicking a table made out of an old packing-
case into the passage— “this is the kind of thing
they have the blanky cheek to call furnicher.
Why, s’elp me gawd, there isn’t enough in the
whole place to pay our blanky fees,
It was so. Every article of furniture in the
house was literally home-made out of palings,
packing-cases, and pieces of old deal board, picked
up from time to time by the artist and his friends,
I then appreciated the full burlesque significance
of the pathetic appeal made to the bailiff by the
former with regard to sparing the furniture,
“ I am glad to see, ’ observed the artist by way
of a parting shot, “ that your better feelings have
prevailed, and that you intend to leave me my
little household treasures.” _
The bailiff scowled horribly and went away
threatening unutterable things,
“We shall have to move now, boys, ’ said the
artist, addressing the others, “ we can’t stand off
the landlord any more [on the strength of our
furniture.’
• # *
I have said that my philosopher ultimately
y iac | Bis revenge on bailiffdom. I was on the spot
when the revenge was consummated, having occa-
sion to call on the philosopher with reference to
some impracticable scheme peculiarly in his line,
There was a van in front of the door, into which a
vanman was piling tables, chairs, washstands,
bedsteads, and other articles of domestic use.
philosopher, in his shirt-sleeves, and with
beads of perspiration rolling down his intellectual
forehead, was vigorously assisting,
“ Lend a hand here,” he exclaimed, as he caught
sight of me.
I followed him into the house and saw, lying on
a sofa, snoring stertorously, a man who looked like
Simson’s wife’s uncle,
“ Take hold of his head,” said my philosopher,
I took hold of his head. The philosopher
grasped him by the feet.
“Now, lay him gently down on the floor —
steady!”
We laid him on the floor. The movement didn’t
awake the sodden ruffian, who simply turned over
on his side, and grunted drunkenly.
“Now, take hold of one end of the sofa, and
we’ll run him into the van.”
Which was accordingly done.
The house was now empty of anything in the
shape of furniture. My philosopher, after placing
a bottle of beer by the head of the unconscious
man in possession, locked the front door and
threw the key through the window into the front
room.
“I don’t pretend to be a practical man, but I


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENCER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55.. and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin • Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros, & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
think I managed that little affair pretty well,” he
remarked, making a sign to the vanman to drive on.
“ How did you do it,” I enquired.
“ Well, I happened to meet the bailiff on his
way (lown to the house. I knew who he was, and
where he was going. I also knew he oouldu t
refuse a drink to save his life, and so I took him
into an hotel, with the result you have seen. He
knew me as a man of letters, but didn’t know my.
name or that I lived in the house we had just left.
I couldn’t make him slay in the hotel, however.
Drunk as he was he had still a muddled idea of
responsibility, seeing which I offered to accom-
pany him, and brought a flask of rum with me to
‘top off with.’ He topped off with it, and the
moment lie sat down on the sofa where you saw
him ho went to sleep like the debauched beast he
is. For all that I had to leave him something to
recover upon. Nob/csse obHr/e, you know—even in
dealing with a bailiff. He’ll be glad to find that
bottle of beer when he awakes.”
# * *
I havb met other bailiffs since then, and
the result of my experience is that, as I said in the
beginning of this article, the worst use to which
you can put a man is to make him a bailiff.
CRENVE ROE.
Mark Ye the Tortoises.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Silently, straightly, surely and slowly,
Onward through life from cradle to grave,
Be the commencement ever so lowly,
With hope ever high and heart ever brave.
The crown comes to him whose footsteps bend
solely
to paths on .which Truth alone is the pave.
, Mark ye the tortoises
How safely they go,
Shunning life’s vortices
Surely and slow —
Surely and slowly,
Minds elevated,
Flesh safe and lowly
Subordinated,
All Peace we can know.
Meet we each moment fresh at its birth,
Fill we it well with pleasure or work ;
If it bs pleasure, with pureness of mirth,
If it be work, the task never shirk ;
So shun the evils that ever on earth
In filthiness riot, in idleness lurk.
Mark ye the tortoises—
How like a kind fate—
Shunning life’s vortices,
Go quietly and straight.
Silently, straightly.
Honestly, cleanly,
Softly, sedately,
Simply, serenely,
Like tortoises go.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
Sir Morel] Mackenzie’s biography, a vain-
glorious thing by Rev. Haweis, is just out. This
saponaceity forwarded the proofs, in a loyal
humble spirit, to the regalities Concerned, but was
surprised by a request to suppress utterly.
Royalty can’t bear publicity, anyway. Haweis
was ready to duck, but the publisher wouldn’t,
and so the book is out, like Victoria’s bugbear,
the Greville Memoirs.
An Australian “Explorer.”
London Figaro, an old-established publication
wandering alone in a world of guile, has been
strangely and horribly taken in concerning an
alleged Australian “explorer,” one Albert E.
Calvert. It publishes the portrait of this gaping
youth, who is aged 25, and has a high collar and a
pedigree whose length is like unto the dimensions
of the Norse tale which was told by Skakke “ the
Long-winded ’’some time in the eleventh century.
Whether Mr. Calvert has perpetrated a cruel joke
upon Figaro, or whether some third party has
malevolently stuffed that betrayed paper concern-
ing him is a mere matter for conjecture. Any-
how, the poor, weak-minded editor is evidently
convinced that Calvert is a mighty explorer, a
man whose name is a household word throughout
Australia, a dauntless traveller through untrodden
wilds, an adventurer who plilnges into deserts
which no other man even faced, a plougher of
strange, green tropic seas which no keel ever
furrowed before, and, generally, a hero who is
one-fourth Livingstone* one-fourth Cortez and
Various other adventurers, and the balance made
up of the boy-detective out of the penny dreadful,
and Bishop Pontoppidan’s sea serpent, in about
equal proportions. And, in a general ~way, he
holds up Calvert in an aggravatingly patronising
fashion as a bright example to all Australians, and
urges them to rise up and emulate him. The fact
that, so far as the public knows, nobody in Aus-
tralia ever heard of Calvert at all, and that no one
ever knew that he had explored any place, will
probably be a serious shook to Figaro when it
arrives.
* • •
Calvert, it seems, “comes of a line that have
been explorers, miners, and pioneers for genera-
tions. His ancestor, Van Cal Verte ” (the name
of this great man has been looked for unavailingly
in the encyclopedia) “was the first Dutch navi-
gator to draw a map of the north-west corner
of the Australian continent.” Another ancestor,
“Sir George Calvert, who was created Baron of
Baltimore, was one of the very early colonisers of
part of Newfoundland.” The Baron, by the way,
was of Flemish, not Dutch, descent, so there
seems something wrong with the pedigree. The
descendant of this awesome potentate, according
to Figaro, “isone of the very few men who can
analyse a quartz specimen at sight and name every
mineral of which it is composed.” After that, he
probably goes away with the specimen, so that his
alarming statements can’t be audited. If he
doesn’t, then he has only one equal in history—
the Icelandic necromancer who used to analyse
the noise of oat’s feet in the dark, and to tell by
ear the component parts of the root of stone and
the spittle of bear, and other mysterious sub-
stances. But it is time to get on with Calvert’s
history :
He landed at Tasmania, where he made a short stay,
after which he journeyed along the South-West coast
from Adelaide to Albany, where he exchanged for a small
coasting steamer that was sailing to Geraldton. There
he boarded a pearling lugger, that landed him some hun-
dreds of miles further North on the Western Australian
coast, and from there he continued his voyage in any
cockle-shell craft that happened to he going North. There
was no line of steamers then, nor is there one now that
travels around the continent called Australia, and the
man who desires to make the trip must travel as best he
can. This is what Mr. Calvert chose to do. Occasionally
he got a lift in a coasting steamer, and at other times he
was taken aboard one of the free-lance vessels that appear
to float around the Polynesian seas because they have
nothing better to do, and so, passed from craft to craft,
he reached the Gulf of Carpentaria and waited for a ship
to convey him south to Brisbane. It was a long and un-
pleasant journey, but he was, to the best,of my belief,
the first man to accomplish it, and novelty, like virtue, is
its own reward. On his return to England in 1891, Mr.
Calvert undertook another journey into the interior
of Western Australia on behalf of the General Ex-
ploration Company. During this expedition he travelled
about a thousand miles through the heart of the colony,
marking new tracts, and discovering traces of gold all
along the route, and on his return to the coast, lie stayed
for some time on the pearling grounds, and made a full
study of the industry in those seas. On his homeward
journey he traversed New Zealand ; called at Samoa,
where he made a short stay with Robert Louis Stevenson,
and so to the Sandwich Islands and San Francisco. He
remained awhile in California, studying, with the eye of
a miner, the goldfields of the country ; and from there he
travelled across the continent to New York, en route to
England. On his arrival he received and accepted an
invitation to read a paper on pearls before the Edinburgh
meeting of the British Association, At this time Mr.
Calvert published many articles and pamphlets upon
Western Australia, its pearl fisheries and its gold J and in
October of last year he again left London for the Southern
Seas, and made his third exploration into Western
Australia. The result of this and his former journeyings
Will shortly be published, and will certainly be the fullest
and most valuable book that has yet been given to the
public on the subject.
The Bulletin diverges for a moment to per-
form a public duty hitherto neglected, and that is
to curse Robert Louis Stevenson with a great
anathema and a wild profusion of cursing -the
same to be taken inwardly while hot —to curse
him and his double-barrelled name, and his
brown velvet coat, and his wildly poetic
hair, and his novels about shaggy High-
land scenery, and his bloodthirsty yarns
concerning impossible pirates with wooden legs
"seeking after buried treasure, and his Samoan
maunderings, and his ox and his ass and every-
thing else connected with him unto the 40th
generation. For, nowadays, nobody seems to
go anywhere in the Southern Hemisphere without
calling on Robert Louis Stevenson, till his name
has become a weariness, and the man who never
visited him is a curiosity. Having got this
remark off its chest, this paper has time to admire,
with a certain solemn admiration, the assurance
of the harmless boy who professes, at the end of
the nineteenth century, to be the first person who
traversed the northern coast of Australia, and the
blank, unlettered innocence- of the editor who
published the statement. Also, when Figaro
pictures this hardy explorer at the Gulf of Carpen-
taria, “ waiting for a ship to convoy him south to
Brisbane,” it evidently regarded him as a solitary,
bronzed adventurer on a deserted shore, frantically
waving his shirt to attract the notice of some
passing vessel. The fact that he was living in a
hotel, and simply hanging round till the regular
steamer came along, and having his boots polished
every morning and his shirt starched at the local
Chinese laundry, doesn’t enter into the calcula-
tion. And the British editor is evidently pos-
sessed by an idea that the north coast of Australia
is situated in Polynesia, and doesn’t know that
the tired argonaut on these shores can quite
frequently get a lift in a mail-steamer when his
boots give out.
# * *
Also, Figaro’s picture of the heroic Calvert’s
inland journeys is interesting ;
During all his work of exploration the standing luck of
the Calvert family has never deserted him. He has em-
ployed the methods of his forefathers, and he learnt at a
very tender age that failure is a word not printed in their
vocabulary. When he is on the march lie pushes ahead
until his water is exhausted, and then casts about for a
fresh supply. But he never retraces his steps to find it,
and invariably has his luck held good. But it requires a
fearless man to engineer an expedition in a desert, when
water is a four days’ journey behind you, and God knows
how many miles of country must be traversed before you
strike it again. And all the while the sun is blistering
your back, the horses are deadbeat, the men are parched
with thirst and inclined to mutiny, and you travel for
days and see no shade save for the shadows thrown by
your own figures. And at bight you are “chawed up”
by insects and maddened with prickly heat, and you
endeavour to sleep with one eyeopen and one hand clasp-
ing the butt of your revolver.
From the above statements it appears that the
Baron of Baltimore and the Dutch ancestor, Van
Cal Verte, also made a point of never going back
to look for water, and the trait has become here-
ditary—like a long upper lip, or drink. But in
the Australian desert the man who always waits
till his water is exhausted before he “casts about ”
for a fresh supply hardly ever comes back to tell
about his own stupidity. The crow lives on that
kind of explorer, and gets his claws tangled in his
vitals. Also the man who sleeps “ with one hand
clasping the butt of his revolver” only exists in
the bloodshot Variety of melodrama 5 in real life
no man ever hangs on to anything in his sleep.
Further, the man who sleeps with one eye open
presently gets h big, green insect in it. Still the
spectacle of Calvert exploring manfully on horse-
back along the main road with perspiration
pouring down the jungle of his hereditary
hair, and praying for a swagrhan to come
along and tell him how far it is to the Govern-
ment tank, yet desperately resolved not to
retreat to the public-house on the back- track, is
touching in its way. The objectionable feature of
the story is the horribly patronising ignorance
which clothes the London editor like a garment.
He evidently thinks that there is an urgent
demand for information about Australia, and that
Calvert is the only man who owns the information,
and that he himself, as the man who owns Calvert,
is the one reliable fount of knowledge upon the
subject. And this brings The Bulletin back to
the one question that no one seems able to
answer —who is Calvert, anyhow? For the only
individual of that name known in Australia is a
person who once—so the story runs—started from
Geraldton with a large and expensive expedition
along a well-travelled stock route, but presently
gave up and came back —it is alleged because the
condensed milk was exhausted. And as this can’t
possibly be the person that Figaro enthuses over,
the identity of the other Calvert is a dark and
horrid mystery.
Dear Bulletin, —Apropos “Rearing Pil-
lars,” there are some good men in the southern
world, and there would be many more but for the
deplorable and pernicious habit of pillar-rearing
which seems to be mothers’ pet hobby. As the
child grows up, mamma fondly says : “ This is to
be a preacher, that a lawyer, ” and so on. Such is
bigotry. The lawyer may have the preacher’s
brains —possibly the brains of the lot. Also, there
should be a blacksmith. More, these inculcations
so firmly cement prejudices that eradication
becomes.impossible. This has deprived humanity
of the services of many men who would otherwise
have been useful. Further, a nation of scholarly
stonemasons, bricklayers, and carpenters, with a
handful of ed mated navvies thrown in, would be
the A 1 of the thing. I wonder how far the above
explains the bursting of our banks, the booming of
our poverty, and the beggaring of our country ? I
warrant me in this instance the magnet will bear
the trace of metal. — Polype.


“ Bulletin ” Series, INTO. 1.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISH HD,
SECOITD EMDITIOXT
OF
Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
“ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“ Bulletin ” Series, INTo. 2.
“ Tales of the Convict System
Br price warung.
“The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of The
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke, before
producing ‘His Natural Life/ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict system. The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer's knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘Price Waning,’ as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout : his thorough
acquaintance, even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary ability with which
the subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
“ * The Transportation System/ said Archbishop Whately, speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a monument such
as I suppose was never before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity.’ How true
this is Marcus Clarke’s great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung’s ’ stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not lie given to
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are narratives of the
blind brutalism of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the torture of
death, noble efforts of truly Christian clergymen to stem influences which deformed body and soul, pathetic records of lives
wrecked by savage laws and men scourged into kinship with devils. ‘Price Warung’ has taken this material and, choosing
the most suitable to his purpose, placed it with dramatic force before his readers. The stories, although connected by a thread
of general sequence, are so written that each is complete in itself.”—Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
- iißmf'uwiHimniiiiMHUiit iWi ii iir» -
“ Bulletin 99 Series, KTo. 3.
“The Last of Six”:
. i ;
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewood.
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms” : —ln these “Tales of the Austral Tropics ” will be found the
strange romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Aus-
tralia. That they are not less true than terrible, I take it upon myself to affirm. That such is far from being the case with the
larger proportion of literary manufacture professing to describe Australian life and character, I must distinctly assert. “ Those
who know seldom write, and those who write don’t know,” remarks the veteran colonist with accentuated emphasis. But this
author’s name is a household word among bushmen and bookmen from Albany to Thursday Island, from “ The Gulf ” to the
Snowy River—
“ Alike to him the sea, the shore.
The pen, the bridle and the oar.”
To him, familiar as highways are the endless solitudes of the “Never Never Country he has tempted Desert;Sphinx, gazed
upon gold matrix and opal hoards which gleamed in mockery of the exhausted wanderer. Trusted for dear life in forest glades
to a steady eye and a true rifle. Listened in a canoe on the Coral Sea to the moaning of the approaching tempest.
Long a leading actor upon Dame Nature’s stage, he has turned scene-painter for the nonce, and limned with lifelike
effect the drama of the Waste.
“ Rolf Boldrewood,” Albury, N.S Wales, Nov. 10, 1892.
‘ r— — "
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
U
A
By
Price, ONI
“THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNEY N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia's Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
"The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
t$ the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form’of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A ihw Parliamentary System —one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
"She entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the chums of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against thedark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or Oj}e Pound
per A nnum.
Business communications to be addressed ti
William Maoleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial coinmuni-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


«<>v i»;«.
Telephone »5'J.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
/
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated deeds
■ —AND —
OTTT’ILIE!R“!Z"
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sliow Rooms s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“TILE BLOCK”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
“The Bulletin’s”
MISSING WORD
COMPETITION
(SERIES, No. 5)
Will Close on Saturday,
stb. AUGUST.
Scale of Advertising
—lN-
ii
THE BULLETIN.'
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inch per insertion,
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 ~ „
10s. per inch per insertion.
nett.
nett.
A
ZX3
o
o
o
5C
«•
4-
ocK>
<RAcxA«
*;o^
O
O
O
o
*
o
-i
V
()
S. A. Hervey, Agent, 88 Pilt-st. Sydney.
Free FreaGriptiona
Are to be found in the “bight and Life,"
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDITSY PHARMACY,
70 HU .NT Eli STREET, SYDNEY.
IWT OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Fme Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee tor Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Maoliinery Mercliant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of the “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Orea by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
r
rm<\X
ds
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
.Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT!
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip —ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc. —for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duff’s or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife wil*l save surely Four Pdtinds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man -a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise Ids shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyardl Square, SX33MEY.
[Established ovbb a Quarter op a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. >,( ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACINO THE RESERVE. ‘
KT Terms— los. 6d. per Bay. Walter Sidney n»t«ofs«woMUe), “Prop.”
PRIVATE HOSPITAL,
Osuzm.cL.ezi. 3E3Zo-u.se.
MILSON’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Eeaident Medical Officer-Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-E-O-S., Eng., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical
Officer, Brisbane, etc.
BXFER.IEKTOED IffTJRSIWG STAFF.
Terms Strictly Moderate—inclusive of Eesidence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For Medical, Surgical and Gynaecological Cases.
CAMDJEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
THE LAST OF SIX’:
