

B
9*.
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST*
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-FOR —
TMTining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
c°-
<v° , $
<>
D
&
.V' S
iO
H»*'
S
0
$r &
tar- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, THY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st. , London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious.
Osszfox-caL Hotel, JgAaa-g S-fcgeeti, Sydney.
H. THORPE Proprietor.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh (good and (Ice Company, £td.
Fislx ! Fish I Fish!
ZAWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.— as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
.before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
Jd. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. Wf pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds— notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves Loudon sth May, 1893. '
Price-lists obtainable at Company's Depot, 136 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.— We shall be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs- Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
3ES:-y. Manager.
25 to S 3 Harbonr-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1593.
ALLS
KT.
LE
W
Jo3E3:axr WALKBK, SOKTEJ JS-^rJG&ESTJES'Sr
Sole -A-?
Clayton.
and
Skuttleworth.
Messrs.
JTor
W ales
Soutli
XSTei-w
5.33.
eiatß
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
■tiHptiin;
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Riding.
IM TROVE I) TOKTABLK ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AIN D SOLD.
m
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
- •
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all Kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shell
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
iLigh 'ness in Draught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY,
*Pr\
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for (id. each.
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES,
J. Sz O.
WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. tar
Howard, 2802
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Mashinery on application.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13. No. 688.]
[Saturday, April 22, 1893.


TALES or THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNGr.”
PRICE - ONE SHIELING.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20a. per box
post free.
i
ì
i
ì
m
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin'
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined,”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGES ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
v.o.
CROMARTYI !
Whisky
CvecmlECS Brothers ,\<t' y
at» m tcwci. »i s i j
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRA LIA.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘ Price "Warun.^,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative,
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS~
Sold in Paris by
J. FER R E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Csuni bur MATTEI’S
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIES,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ail other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S^)
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANOTiS
JOCKEY CLUB
I and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! Only genuine with ehield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
k Trade Mark—a “ White Rose ”
and address in lull.
JVX A A ll o c) 13.
HEALTH, RESTORED
TD ? R'GORO
t,sSE** cE of Ll F.&-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions ,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Lis, or four quantities in one for 565. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
V
Cosh ps
cf
c
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTI
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD)
Manufactory:
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW' ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Drapery.
“5*6
&
5 ha Hi
THE
JAEGER
TRADE MARK.
. •
ATTENTION of the Public
is respectfully called to the
fact that only goods bearing
the above Trade Mark are guaranteed by Dr. Jaeger to be
genuine and in accordance with his system. '
No round Trade Mark is used by this Company.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
LONDON - SYDNEY - MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital ... £900,000
Reserve Liability ... „ 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
6. A. WILSON, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Sole Agents for Henry Heath.
i
1
JSTO#X GTOOEr
JBvw aovai N
KHinHA»N3|/
Sole Agents for Henry Heath.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier. ’
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. These Hats are luxuriously lined with Real
Russia Leather, the aroma of which is delightfully
refreshing to the wearer.
C 3-. H. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE W A RUNG.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlae Brighton, of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining.
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
KIXjMIKTSTER .... Proprietress,
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Brand.
i
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
FOR Australia— T. J. MacWilliana, 297 GEORGE STREET, BYI
Js. Always Best
Scale
a
of Advertising
—IN—
THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... .
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extka discount of 5 per cent, allowed for
. 6s. per inch per insertion, nett,
10 per cent, discount.
20 ~
25 ~ ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
sh in advance.
V¥t
Ac*-
ì
EEIM
44
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
Tile LAST OF SIX:»
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
E X 2 IfcT E S T E -A> T 7" E InT C.
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strano-e
romances which wnte themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm. * J
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.’
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d


Medical.
Assisted hy Dr. BJLMSLiIE,
M.D.j L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
F.O. Box 020.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
nf N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES -of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing hut an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies ; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the most skilful- ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
is particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours : TO to 12 a.in.; 2to 4 and
J to 8 p.iu.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SI’EER has detoimined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of (hose usually charged, and he
trusts tiiat this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure ins patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS. <
In all cases,of
WEARNESS consult Dr. SPEER.'. .
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
1. "VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 65., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong,.37s. Cd.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. —EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL AND RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE-
Mention this paper when writing.
Men I have Smiled with.’
w E STAY at Bruton’s,
NHngTnoo __
WAG-G-A.
Q-ive ZE3, Maugliton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.-
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
GRAND Hi
Mk£dournh.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10a. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. P. BEKEK, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
A.SK for
Schweppa’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
Medical.
m
r
L.R.C.S..UM.R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals* devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted ease,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions:—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foql Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter., and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
. Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyno will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, $s a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them ope month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; lie will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus ('liable them to marry
honourably.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings : Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
OW Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Strest, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
5 . .
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now hears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges end hospitals of Europe,
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hij
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a, well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind,
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, fiver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness ip society, wakefulness, palpitation of ,the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insapity and
death, if sp, send 6d. ip stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receiv©
postage
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result ip
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book wifi prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical .treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangecous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you dp nop think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Cd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COIiIiEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
He sure to mention this paper when writing.
FREE, A LARGE
CONSULTATION FREE.
Shipping.
.UGLANI)' VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
, (Limited), , -
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OP SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn roiite
to New York,
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land ;
SALOON £O3 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, ahd guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
M ESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract' with the Government oi
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID;
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £63,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep-
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
fiEJS Kill Scrub Co.’s
DESTETJCTANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
Bathurst Bury, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
t. sts experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Esq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director-General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
se's Maiglockchcr
GUSTAV 10HS«
LOHSE'S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable ;in the world.
Sold by all Ijigfy class^erfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHEII
Capill nrino !
jgf” The Lightning Moustache Producer. "Si
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
<IUI£ A AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and CS2 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM,
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO M
137 TO 153 PALMER STREET.
<£49,460 worth for «£l.
See Amusement,
Column,


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN,.B/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/-each.
i
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLBK, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
J l*
a?
a^dfta*&
ram
i^Sfe
|P|
ofO
ROYAL HOTEL, fIANDWICK.
A F-mily Hotel, s l<~of and beautifully funiislied Situated in
the lest, subuib ef Sidney. Terms very model ale.
T. EtSOWK, Proprietor*
i
is THE -I
&W2Rllc)
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storckcei'cr to get yon one
T"?
'mm..
home
&
[H£
4
QJ
746 GEORGE ST. (Ilaynmket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
i
If-Hie old proverb beTrue,
■SAPGLIO Is greyer Hnan
royally itself: Try it in your next-
house-cleaning: Grocers keep ih
DO YOU LIVE IN GREASE?
As a true patriot and citizen you should naturalize yourself
by using the best inventions of the day for removing such a charge
To live m O-rease is utterly unnecessary when SAPOLIO is sold
in all the stores, and abolishes grease and dirt.
SOLD BY GROCERS. CHEMISTS. AND IRONMONGERS.
NEWTON & LAMB,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS.
Every Style of Household Furniture within
the Means of Everyday Purchasers.
BEDROOM SUITES.
£6
£9
<£l2
10s SUITE, comprising WARDROBE with silvered plateglass door DRESSING
TABLE, TOILET GLASS, WASHSTAND with TOWEL RAIL and CHAIR.
SUITE, comprising WARDROBE, with silvered plateglass centre door and drawer
TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached, MARBLE-TOP
WASHSTAND with tile back and TOWEL RAIL and two CANE SEAT CHAIRS
SUITE, comprising LARGE WARDROBE with silvered platen lass centre door and
long drawer, TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached
Marbletop Wasbstand with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD and TOWEL R Ml/
and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
£l3
10s SUITE, comprising BE AGON SFI ELD WARDROBE with silvered plateglass
door TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached, Marhloton
WASHSTAND with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD, TOWEL RAIL and tw •
CANE-SEAT CHAIRS. ’
£l6
Ifis SUITE, comprising BEACON SFI ELD WARDROBE with silve
door, LARGE DRESSING CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING
JEWEL DR \WERS, double Marbletop WASHSTAND (tile back)
CUPBOARD, TOWEL RAIL, and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
red plateglass
GLASS and
PEDESTAL
fs“| (A ASH and WALNUT SUITE, comprising WARDROBE with bevelled silvered nlate-
ovXt/ glass centre door, TOILET TABLE with SWING GLASS and J KWEL DRAWERS
Marbletop WASHSTAND with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD TOWEL
RAIL, and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
SPRING- & O’CONNELL STREETS SYDNEY.
AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHY.
CAMERAS POE
THE EASTER HOLIDAYS.
COMPLETE
OUTFITS
FROM
£2 2s.
UPWARDS.
Easily Worked.
No Trouble.
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
{ y
-/A
c m
t *
S&1
mz.
m
»
jst?
f
LS.
V *itn
a
PHOTOGRAPH
YOUR
FRIENDS
On
PICNIC,
YACHTING
AND
HOLIDAY
EXCURSIONS.
Send, for KTew Illustrated. Catalogue
BAKER AND ROUSE,
375 —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY- — 375
Directly Opposite SYDKTBY ARCiLDE.
Melbourne; 69 Rundle-st., Adelaide; 46 Quesn-st., Brisbane.
SAYWELL & 00.
pot
fQr f
MARVEL
£foflcE s t
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK;
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gras Engine
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING} MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
t®' Write «s with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. JUußtratfld Cataloging post FEEB,
H, A, ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Eleva tor.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Earn Hies.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, 6rc., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
‘Plum’
ì
Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years, ft never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
. i Single Razor, in strong leather cast
I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s.
6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
- . *
Solo
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY-
“rr
PALES Of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”


The Bulletin
Vol ir-Kc.G38,
SATURDAY, A PRIX 22. 1893.
Price, 6d.
fIiTORAi JtO Rif Iffi
lippnv^
house
i|||S
fSlir i
i
-it±‘
THE LOST BATTLE.
N.S.W UPTER House: “Hum! I should a thought he’d a gone through any hole that one Man would without any trouble. Well, fat has its drawbacks, after all!"
(Withdraws fat pin with a sigh,)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 21 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum PI 0 0
Half-yearly 012 6
Quarterly... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct fo» Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
tchich you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province —you can
have Tub Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
I Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or say 3000 ivords, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that ire are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also : B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetoim, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia oud Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future null be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 1893.
This Degenerate Nation,
Within the past few weeks the S.M. Herald
has been much troubled with a controversy
respecting the probable deterioration of the
Australian people. The Australian lives in
a semi-tropic land, therefore it seems to be
generally assumed that his faculties must
gradually decay under the enervating climatic
influences to which he is exposed. His ulti-
mate fate is to be the Italian beggar of the
South—a species of Carib leading a tranquil,
reposeful existence beneath his native euca-
lyptus ; he is to develope into an individual
of no particular mental faculties, indolent,
passionate, and generally of little account.
This is apparently the opinion of the majority
of the Herald’s controversialists ; it is also,
to all intents and purposes, the opinion of
the Anglo-Saxon race in general. It is one
of the articles of the British creed that intel-
ligence, energy, talent, endurance, courage
—all the gifts, in short, which go to build up
empires and accumulate hard cash—are
grown almost exclusively in the temperate
zone. And as the Australians are, in great
part, at all events, a people of the tropics,
they cannot hope ever to rise to the pinnacle
of greatness from which the original Bull '
looks down on the inferior earth. They are
already degenerating, and, as population
becomes more and more evenly diffused
throughout this continent, and the tropical
half of the country tills up, the degeneracy
must become more and more marked with
each succeeding century.
• * •
This theory is based entirely upon two
assumptions : in the first place, Bull himself
is a product of the temperate zone, and in
the second, Bull is necessarily the salt of
the earth ; therefore the conditions under
which he was produced are the only causes of
genuine greatness. H The theory of the Aus-
tralian’s future deterioration is built upon
the fact that he has departed from the con-
ditions under which his British forefathers
lived and died, the same being, according to
British tradition, the only ones whereby a
mighty nation can be produced. And, in
formulating this theory, it seems to bo
generally forgotten that nine-tenths of
history is a record of the strength, courage,
endurance and intelligence of the peoples
of the tropics, and that the remaining
tenth is sufficient to tell how the peoples
of the North struggled at last out of the
darkness of utter barbarism, and how they
borrowed their arts, sciences, literature,
civilisation, even their God, from the
allegedly indolent and incapable races of the
South, Bull and all his kind, in fact, are
things of yesterday, and they must live
and flourish and grow more and more
civilised for another fifty centuries before
they will have demonstrated that the men of
temperate climes are even the equals, let
alone the superiors, of those who were born
in the lands of eternal summer. Therefore,
the prospects of the Australians—especially
the Australians of the North—are not so
dark as they appear. The people of the
tropics have supplied the world with almost
everything it possesses, from its alphabet to
its heaven and its hell, while the naked and
half-frozen ancestors of the arrogant Bull
were mere beggars at their gates. And even
the paralysis which has fallen upon them of
recent years gives the Briton no reason for
the insane pride with which he is afflicted.
The first flickerings of his own intelligence
became conspicuously visible for the first
time some three or four centuries ago ; so
far as can be guessed from the absence of
any authentic records, he was born mentally
paralysed, and only in his extreme old age
did he begin to know enough to come in out
of the wet. /
* * *
All the earliest civilisations were located
close to the equator. That of Egypt can
be traced back to what looks like the edge
of infinity ; yet, before the Egyptians built
the first pyramid, their country was covered
with vast ruins left by a still older race
whose very name has been forgotten. In
the sun-blasted land of India there is a
civilisation which is reckoned by some to be
even more ancient than that along the Nile,
and a literature which had grown and ex-
panded for forty centuries before the original
seed Briton—naked and painted blue—was
heard of, emitting his discordant yell beside
the North Sea. The Hittite Empire, which
was crunched up at last between the two
millstones of Egypt and Assyria, is now
almost absolutely forgotten ; yet this shadow
of a shade lasted at least six times as long as
the British Empire, which only began to be
an empire three centuries ago, and which,
because it has not shrivelled up in its first
sunrise, Bull fondly prophesies will endure
for ever. Then, in the most scorched and
sultry region on earth, rose Assyria, with its
thirteen centuries of greatness ; Israel, which
supplied the western world with its God and
its moral code ; Phoenicia, -which first dis-
covered the primeval Englishman and fooled
him with shoddy trinkets on his own island,
and which gave the world its alphabet and the
beginnings of its modern literature ; Persia,
Carthage, Greece, Rome, the great Arabian
Empire whoso wise men furnished the un-
lettered and unclean races of Europe with
nearly all they knew of medicine, surgery,
mathematics, astronomy, chemistry, and
many other branches of knowledge ; Spain,
which found, and all but conquered, a new
world ; papal Rome, which held the con-
science of half the earth in bondage ; and
that later Italy which created painting and
sculpture, and started European literature
afresh after the mental palsy of the Dark
Ages. And then, last of all, came that
product of the temperate lands, the modern
Briton, with his entire civilisation borrowed
from the men of the burning South, to state
positively that there is no serious energy or
mental capacity except in the cold regions
where Jie himself hangs out, and that all
races except his own must deteriorate and
ultimately go under.
* • #
Whether the Australian nation is, or is
not, going to be a degenerate specimen of its
kind, only time can decide. But if it proves
itself a failure, climatic influences will not be
responsible for the result. So far back as
history extends, and beyond history into the
dim regions of tradition, and beyond even the
range of tradition into that era whose records
are mysterious broken columns and pyramids
and fallen monoliths, the story of the world’s
progress has been identified with the races
of tropical and semi-tropical lands. The
recent ascendancy of one or two tribes of
the temperate zone is but the tale of a
moment in the procession of the ages; it
has not lasted long enough to furnish
material for even the beginning of a theory.
So far as can be judged from the data avail-
able, the chief hope for the Australian people
lies in the fact that they must of necessity
become a tropical race, and that, in so doing,
they may developo the vigour, endurance,
and mental capacity which have caused the
children of the sun to fill so vast a space in
the world’s annals. /The prospect of follow-
ing in the footsteps of their own imme-
diate ancestors is not specially encouraging.
Even along the parallels where intelli-
gence is said to be specially developed, half
the world is still in a state of the almost utter
barbarism which seems to have prevailed
there since the beginning ; nearly half the
remainder is petrified and practically station-
ary ; and the balance is too small, and its
greatness is much too recent, to be of any
practical value as evidence. Almost every
country, however insignificant, has, at some
time or other, had a brief period of ascend-
ancy. Iceland was once the great repository
of European learning. Servia almost became
the leading power of Europe and the in-
heritor of the Byzantine empire. Forgotten
Venice, from among its lagoons, controlled
the commerce of the earth. Now they are
all three fallen'and dead, and, when Britain
falls like them, the moral which was so
solemnly deduced from her transient glory
will become a thing for ridicule and wonder-
meat.
The Queensland Elections and the
Sydney Daily Press.
The daily press of a country is its exponential
sign. Judged by this standard, New South
Wales is in a bad way. The correct broad-
cloth, snowy linen, and glossy hats of the men
of long prayers, bogus patriotism, and business
benevolence are imaged in the impudence of
the Sydney daily press that sounds the brazen
battle-cry of “ class privileges.” Sydney does
not own a single daily newspaper —not even
the feeblest of them all—that takes one un-
selfish thought for the men in the little houses
and the men in the tents ; not one that would
stimulate industry only for the toilers’ sakes; not
one that is not bound in its advertising soul to
the chariot-wheels of the conquering Fat Man,
whose one loudly-claimed glory is that he has
“ a stake in the country not one that does
not —week in, week out—proclaim the Gospel
of Vested Rights as the Alpha and Omega of
the political economy whose Deity is Proputty.
Yet, there is only one avowed and undisguised
muck-raker among all these banditti. The
S.M. Herald, after all the most honest of the
lot, hardly professes to be other than it is—an
organ of the Fat Man, for the Fat Man, and
worshipped by the Fat Man. It is not hypo-
critical save in detail, but openly derides the
creed of working humanity. The evening
Echo, its sun-dried gout of expectoration, is so
feeble a fraud that it deceives nobody. The
Evening News, too, is not formidable, for it
carelessly changes its professions with the
phases of the moon. The Daily Telegraph
and the Star are, however, two newspapers
that impudently claim to be taken seriously as
friendly to the workers, and are shocking
examples of more or less successful political
humbuggery obtaining support under morally
false pretences. Each was started with a
tremendous hum on a fervid democratic ticket;
each is the bond-slave of Toryism and capitalistic
tyranny of the most oppressive kind. Each
bows down before and licks the feet of the Baal
of Proputty ; each is a High Priest of the Fat
Man. At no previous stage of their careers
have these real characteristics been so empha-
sised as now, when the workers of Queensland
are called upon to upset the exposed aims of a
powerful combination of exploiters who cold-
bloodedly lie in wait to snavel a third of a
province.
* * #
The Daily Telegraph, which rests its
democratic reputation solely upon its penny
sale-tariff, swears by the Northern demi-god
MTlwraith, and lauds his manifesto as being
“ clear, fearless, and thorough,” and as possess-
ing “dignity.” “Clear,” as the peremptory
command of the armed bushranger to a defence-
less traveller “ fearless,” as the bravado of a
turnkey to a chained prisoner ; “ thorough,” as
the process of the flinty bailiff who distrains on
the bed of a sick widow. The “ dignity ”of a
truculent pandar ! It is probable that, were
the bladdersome MTlwraith now appealing to
New South Wales, the province which the
D.T. exploits in its own sphere, it would roar
more mildly, and would only sinuously and
darkly aid his projects by Jesuitical arguments
concerning expediency ; but, for the neighbour-
ing province of Queensland, in Which the
readers of the D.T. are ignorantly supposed to be
little concerned, the mask of bogus Democracy
is boldly torn off, and the Jackal of Property
stands revealed in all its native insolence.
According to this Fat Man’s champion, “the
commercial and trading classes, and those hav-
ing otherwise what is called a ‘ stake ’ in the
country ’’—the perpetual fetish of the enslaved
slaverer !—“ generally look with confidence
towards” MTlwraith, chief-nurse of the horse-
leech syndicates, champion providore of cheap
labour ! We should rather think they did !
They are financial partners in big, grabbing,
blood-sucking syndicates of which MTlwraith
is the typical head-centre. To his supremacy
in the country they look as to a geyser of
sudden special wealth, and as to a charter of
perpetual domination over the “ lower orders.”
Similarly, “ the classes opposed to his policy,”
drones the D.T., “are in the main composed of
disaffected operatives and socialist dreamers,”
&c. We should rather think they were ! The
enthronement of MTlwraith means the rivet-
ing of their fetters in a slavery that can only
cease from becoming perpetual by a freedom-
gaining civil war. Therefore, the fortunately
impotent bludgeon of the D.T. hireling de-
scends on the head ot Charles Lilley, who
offers his services to the people, as against the
“privileged classes.”
* # »
The Australian Stab, considering its
genesis and its pretensions, is still more boldly
fatuous. The Star was established chiefly
because of the treachery to the people displayed
by the D.T.; it was to be the one true demo-
cratic apostle of the press that would never
“ turn dog. ’ Its first editor was chosen as a
man whom the people could trust; and cer-
tainly W. H. Traill did not disgracefully
swallow any of his cardinal principles while
continuing in that position. But the Star
management gradually fell into the hands of a
crowd whose articles V>f newspaper faith may
bo summed up under two heads—Support the
Dions Government in every twist and turn it
makes ; and, while pretending to be the work-
ing-man’s friend, bolster up Property. “ Stake”
is written large on the goal-posts of the Star’s
political football-field ; and “ Barrack for our
own side” is its only motto. With these con-
siderations well in mind, what plummet can
fathom the imbecility that let this utterance
loose in the Star’s editorial columns?—
Lillky hat always posed us a Republican and an ultra-
Democrat, but when a title was offered to him by the
tiucen h> snipped at it with great avidity. In acce'pting
the knighthood he proved that in professing to he a
thorough radical he was an out-and-out humbug.
If MTfiWRAITH is one of the D.T.’a political
demigods, ex-Republican Dibbs is the Star’s
present Jupiter; yet, for “Lilley” read
“ Dibbs ” in the above quotation, and we have
in the Star, a disgusted Chinaman jumping on
his own Joss !
* # #
It is fortunate, perhaps, for the N.S.W.
workers that the Sydney daily papers don’t
even know how to conduct logically the left-
handed business they have adopted from choice.
But it cannot be too often reiterated that the
N.S.W, workers have not one single friend on
the metropolitan daily Press; ay, more, not
one metropolitan daily that will even extend to
the imperfect agitations of the people the
courtesy of honest representation and criticism
without malice. Until the workers obtain a
daily organ to which the freedom of the
Democracy is a sacred religion, they must
struggle against odds which will periodically
overwhelm them. The establishment of a
democratic daily paper, rigidly unswerving in
its fidelity to the masses, would be a lean half
way up the hill of Liberty.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Quacks.
Australia is the Paradise of the quack in all
his varieties. This individual flourishes enor-
mously in every country where the English
language is spoken, but in Australia he reaches
his grandest state of development. This unfor-
tunate land is the home of the quack physician
and surgeon, the quack banker, building-society
man and general financier, the fortune-teller
“palmist,” “futurist,” magician, diviner'
astrologer, clairvoyant and trance-medium, the
bogus consultation man, the spieler, card-
sharper, wheel-of-fortune ruffian, welsher, sham
bookmaker, cronk pedestrian, sculler, and
pugilist, the fan-tan and pak-a-poo man, the
swindling “tote” individual, and others with-
out number. Also, the patent-medicine man
prospers greatly in the land. Excepting the
last-named, they have all been legislated
against, and could be suppressed any day if the
laws were enforced—which, for some unex-
plainable reason, they never are. The solemn
policeman and detective walk, unheeding, forty
times a day past all sorts of places where the
statutes are openly being set at naught, and, as
neither of them is ever “ sacked ” for this gross
neglect of duty, the evil promises to go
on indefinitely. Also, as their superior
officers are not “ sacked ” for permitting this
neglect, the case is all the more hopeless.
As for the patent-medicine man, no one even
attempts to interfere with him, or seems to
dream that any legislation is required. His
goods are mostly cheap and utterly useless slops
costing somewhere about one penny per bottle,
and sold at several thousand per cent, profit;
his “ testimonials ” are largely bogus ; and he
is in very many cases purely and absolutely a
confidence-trick of the meanest description. In
dealing with him, Germany sets an example
which deserves to be followed. There the law
analyses every patent medicine, and publishes
the analysis for public information, and, as a
natural result, the patent - medicine man
flourishes but little in the Fatherland. Most of
the nostrums which are boomed most furiously
in Australia have, at one time or another,
brought up with a shock against this German
law and been wrecked. They almost all
panned out about the same; a lot of cold
water, some harmless colouring matter such as
is used by confectioners, and a quantity of any
cheap and bitter drug that came handy, cost
about one penny, value nil. Some such method
as this is urgently wanted in Australia. This
country is still, despite all its financial troubles,
about the most 'affluent on earth in proportion
to population. The richest country is, almost
without exception, the one which swallows
most drugs, therefore Australia helps to enrich
the whole world by devouring vast quantities
of imported “ medicines,” and paying 20 to (K*
times cost-price for the same, to the eternal
ruin of its stomach and its liver. Will no
legislator attempt the introduction of the bene-
ficent German law into Australia, for the pre-
servation of the national “ innards ” and, in-
directly, of the national soul which is intimately
connected therewith ?
Pudney to the Rescue.
A person named Pudney has come forward
with a serious proposal for restoring prosperity
to Victoria. Pudney (who can’t think what
will become of the “ tens of thousands (?) of
people whose money is sunk in land and in
deposit - receipts of insolvent banks”) is of
opinion that the Government should at once
take charge of all the syndicated land in Vic-
toria and dispose of it by State raffles at boom
prices. Then all must be well. Everybody
would meet his bills, the trusted banks would
pay 30s. in the £, and the country, by some in-
comprehensible means, would become as rich,
in fact, as it used to be rich on paper. It is
really the simplest of schemes. Land of, say,
the paper-value of £50,000,000 is available for
raffling, and, in the meantime, the “ tens of
thousands ” of people who possess it arc sadly
in want of ready cash. 200,000 male adults,
or thereabouts (including the unemployed), will
take £250 worth of tickets apiece on the off-
chance of winning one or more tracts of land.
The lucky few will get land (and want to raffle
it again) while the others will find their com-
pensating pleasure in the gratifying feeling that
Fink, Bunt, Matthew Davies, James Muneo
and their humble disciples, down to the holder
of one solitary allotment in the wilder-
ness, are doing well. The only objec-
tion to Pudney’,s scheme is that it lacks
excitement and offers no opportunities for whole-
sale recreation. This difficulty could be over-
come by substituting aGovernmenttotalisator for
the raffle. Now, if the Government were to open
a “ tote” on every race run in the province and
distribute bits of land to the holders of winning
tickets, until all the land had been taken of! the
hands of its present owners, it is clear as day-
light to The Bulletin that the country would
be saved. Pudney must sit down and consider
carefully whether the tote hasn't more attrac-
tions than the raffle. It is better calculated to


put people on the soil iu large numbers. A very
good alternate scheme is that of a huge public
subscription towards the purchase of all land
now for sale, not necessarily for immediate use,
but in order that Fink, Bent, and the rest of
them might buy it back on long bills at an
alarming sacrifice. Also a bazaar, for the sale
of desert suburbs at fancy prices, sounds pro-
mising and seems Avorthy of Pudney’s notice.
While Attorney-General Barton is dissatisfied
with the present N.S.W. method of appointing
justices of the peace, he is wholly opposed to
their election by the people. He says that if a
Cabinet, “ with all its sources of information,”
fail to appoint suitable men, the people Avill
fail still more wretchedly if they try to elect
them. Such a statement is so diametrically
opposed to democratic instincts that it calls for
examination. The present Cabinet and all pre-
ceding ones have failed in their appointments
to the Commission of the Peace; but why ?
Because, paradoxical as it may appear, of the
influence of their sources of information. They
appointed Ministerial partizans, or the par-
tizans of supporters, or the partizans of political
opponents, whose antagonism they hoped
thereby to mollify. Now and then, at intervals
of jading business, they threw in a bunch of
names haphazardly, to afterwards discover that
the owners of some Avere in gaol and of others
dead. If the people elect, it will turn out that
many of their justices will be the Avrong men
for the positions; but the initial influence
towards a wrong selection, which is a Cabinet’s
breath of life, will either be absent from the
ballot-box of the people or have its viciousness
modified, if not neutralised, in the Avider exer-
cise of opinion. Mr. Barton’s argument, if
alloAved to be good for the purposes iu hand,
will be good for almost all oligarchic as against
democratic principles.
Justice Manning, of New South Wales, sen-
tencing a rough named Pullen last Aveek to ten
years’ penal servitude for the brutal slaying of
a Chinaman named Ah Bon, said “ he hoped
that those avlio do similar acts Avould realise
that justice Avould not always be tempered Avith
mercy.” Has his Honor reflected that civilisa-
tion differs from barbarism, in respect of the
punishing of offenders, primarily in the fact that
the former always professes to temper justice
Avith mercy ? Even when a capital sentence is
carried out, civilisation tempers justice Avith
mercy ; it avoids, more or less, according as the
community is more or less sensitiA r e, the eye
for an eye, the tooth for a tooth, and the other
payments in kind which brute instinct sug-
gests. The man to be executed has, in Aus-
tralia, his way to the galloAVS made smooth by
many privileges : he is fed Avell, has as much
spiritual consolation as he likes to call for, and
a little spirituous comfort when the pinch is
near. Despite his crimes, there is a soft spot
for him in the heart of the crowd, and even the
hangman gives him a parting shake of the hand.
All this is tempering justice Avith mercy, and
there is noway of realising Judge Manning’s
hope except by turning back to savagery. The
spirit of the Texan lyncher is the nearest
approach in modern civilised life to the realisa-
tion of justice untempered by mercy.
Dear Bulletin, —Re banking explosions. In
my opinion, an ordinary bank is doomed to smash
from the very day it opens its doors and solicits
business. It is only a question of time.
Why ? Because, banking being a competitive
enterprise, any new bank, in order to do
business, must necessarily outbid those already
in the field. It must offer more interest to
depositors and charge less to customers than
its rivals, but it can do this most effectually by
lending more on a given security and nominally
charging the full customary interest. The
effect of this Avill be to artificially appreciate
the price of land. For it Avould be too trans-
parent a fraud to write up the value of bricks
and mortar to any extent. People usually
expect land values to rise wherever population
is on the increase, so the bank’s optimism in
this respect does not excite suspicion. The
older banks, not to be outdone, raise their
valuations in sympathy ; so that the competi-
tive struggle for business naturally culminates
in a boom. The conspiring professional boom-
ster is only a subordinate incident —he hastens
the crisis, that is all. I knoiv a bit of bush
land, 15 miles from Melbourne, that on a
modern London valuation would not fetch £2O
an acre, which continued to be held from use at
£3OOO an acre for several months after the boom
had commenced to suppurate—goodness knoAvs
what it was appraised at on the up-grade.
Can any bank stand a depreciation of its landed
securities from £lOO down to fifteen shillings ?
If not, then what is the use of prolonging the
agony ?—W.H.M.
That peal of bells presented to the Imperial
Institute by “an aged Australian lady” will
reverberate grovel upon an unusually large
scale. In the first place, the bells are “ intended
to serve as an appropriate commemoration of
Her Majesty’s Jubilee ” —which joyful occasion
seems to die hard. Secondly, they will be
known, by permission of the Princess of Wales,
as the “ Alexandra peal ” —a point that may,
one fears, fade out of history as the ages roll
on. Thirdly, each bell Avill be inscribed Avith a
royal family name. The tenor bell, weighing
two tons, is to bear, very appropriately, the
name of the Queen, the next fattest bell will be
Albert Edavard, and so on doAvn to the
youngest of the “ Wales ” children. The title
of Duke of Clarence has been conferred on the
funereal toll hell. Fourthly, the aged Australian
lady has attached one condition to her ghastly
burst of “ loyalty,” viz., that the bells shall
be rung on the birthday and accession
day of her beloved Sovereign, and on
the birthday of Wales and wife. The
aged donor stood out for the inclusion of
this clause, and the Queen very graciously pro-
mised to let the hells be rung as desired, more
especially as she herself Avill always he safely
out of hearing Avhen her two-ton namesake is
doing its Avorst. Somehow, it is a sad tiling to
read the full official particulars of the poal of
bells portion of the Hinstitute. What is the
good of having lived a long life, and of being
possessed of much wealth in your declining
days, if your noblest ambition is to die in the
knowledge that you have hung up a costly din
to the “honour ” of people who, within their
hearts, despise all grovel that glories in being
grovel gratuitous ? Let us weep for the aged
Australian lady. We have already wept for
her several times, but let us weep again.
To be a true Victorian patriot just now, it i s
indispensable that you should have a steadfast
faith in banks, and a constant yearning to
acquaint everybody with the fact. The duty of
every man who loves his country is to point out
the special advantages enjoyed by a bank which
has been reconstructed, while at the same time
glorying in the stability of the other bank that
has stood its ground. Indeed, to do the thing
properly, you must form yourself into an enthu-
siastic public meeting for the purpose of
expressing unbounded confidence in assets, the
meeting not to disperse until you have Avaved
your hat. This is the patriotism preached by
daily newspapers and all well-informed city
gents who hold shares in anything. But it is
not a new gospel. Davies, Munro, and a num-
ber of less distinguished authorities on finance
preached it vigorously some time back. Recall-
ing their fervid addresses to mind, one finds
oneself confronted by the long-lost fact that
Davies and Munro Avere patriots of the deepest
dye. They besought society at large to have
confidence, and society preferred to be seized
By an “ unreasoning panic.” Depositors drew
their money out—or, rather, some of them drew
it out—thereby bringing about “ the very crisis
which everybody was so anxious to avoid.”
The true patriot recommends a continual pay-
ing of money in, and, as men like Davies and
Munro were especially emphatic in this respect,
The Bulletin considers that a statue to each
of those gentlemen, erected in Collins-street,
Melbourne, would not be out of place.
One of the most contemptible incidents of the
great Commercial Bank “ bonnet ” was James
Service’s letter to the Argus, in which he
“refused to give credence to the report” that
some of the other banks would “ present a
picture of the vulture pouncing on the prey ”
rather than “ that of the good Samaritan pour-
ing oil into the wounds.” It is customary in
Melbourne to talk of James Service as a
“statesman,” “ a strong man,” “a hard-headed
Scot,” or what-not. But, as the new chairman
of the Commercial, howling for everybody to
stop doing business until his patchcd-up bank
had “pounced upon the prey” again, James
Service seems a very weak support for his
adopted country. Compare Service’s whine
against the Associated Banks, ivith the recent
rash announcement that this same association
had agreed Avith the Treasurer to “restore
confidence”—and the desperate pass to Avhicli
humbug has come can be easily imagined. If
there are hanks in Victoria that think they can
afford to leave the Commercial to work out its
personal salvation, and consider themselves
strong enough to play their oavu hands—so
much the better for Victoria. One of the
saddest pictures that can be presented to The
Bulletin is that of a country told by press,
politicians, and the Avhole fraternity of financial
skiters, that its present safety and future pros-
perity are solely dependent upon the existence
of one blessed bank. It is time that the
country understood the difference between
national interests and the interests of a
poAverful (but mostly insolvent) Melbourne
mob.
“The Griffith wraith"*
Mr. A. G. Stephens, a well-known Queenslander,
journalist and political pamphleteer, has marketed
his latest effort under the title “The Griffil-
wraith a name minted by The Bulletin, and
which has passed into the current coinage of
recent times in Queensland. He dedicates his
work “to the 25,000 Q. electors who have no
votes,” and, perhaps, there is nothing in the book
so personally eloquent of tbe villainous electoral
laws of that province than his explanation of the
how and why it is that he himself lias no vote ;
I have no vote or interest myself. It is true that X was
born in Queensland ; that for’nearly 30 years I have lived
in Queensland ; that I hope to die in Queensland. But
my profession as a journalist frequently obliges me to
travel about Queensland ; and though that may sharpen
my intellect, and enlarge my experience, and increase my
capacity as an elector, it. also prevents me from using my
capacity. This is my midortunc, yet I cannot persuade
myself it is my fault.
The electorally impotent pamphleteer thereupon
speaks feelingly to the electoral impotence of
Queensland. His is a vivid tale —historical of
infamous events and analytical of disastrous pre-
sent environments. The sinuous career of
Griffith is etched in tell-tale outlines from the
time “ before the Coalition ” to his present
enthronement on the Supreme Court Bench —
from the time when he competed with Glassey for
the leadership of the Labour-party, till, in July,
’9O, the Labour leaders expressed their distrust of
him, and he began to Judasize, and right down to
his crowning treasons against his party and his
country. MTlwraith is quite as severely and quite
as truthfully shadowed throughout his mainly
consistent career of syndicate-making and reckless
land-selling. The volume is simply a succinct
history of tales which The Bulletin has often
told in detail. The land-grant-railway leprosy
and the black-labour vomit stand out as the two
unforgivable enormities of the Griffilwraith,
flanked by the lesser, though scorching, atrocities
of wholesale disfranchisement of electors and the
payment of the Naval Tribute towards a foreign
fleet, and trimmed with such contemptible little
trickeries as the party-transmigration of Nelson
(late leader of the Opposition, and now a
MTlwraithian subordinate), the removal (by judi-
cious billeting) of Hume Black, and tiie sapping
of tbe tormenting opposition of quondam Labour-
member, Lawyer Drake, by a remunerative brief
in the protracted Robb arbitration case. As to
Hume Black, MTlwraith is made to testify against
himself, thus :
In the name of common-sense, what do I care about Mr.
Black’s criticism? . . . What do I care about his
opposition? I can get rid of him if he stands in my way.
—MTi. wraith, in the Tariff' Debate, September, 18'J2.
The following scale of fees is given “ on good
authority,” as those paid in the recent Robb
arbitration case :
•S. W. Griffith (Attorney-General), 500g5., Crown brief;
daily refresher, 35gs. T. J. Byrnes (Solicitor-General),
itXlgs., Crown brief; daily refresher, 3figs. J. G. Drake,
* “TheGriffilwraith ” : Being an Independent Criticism
of the Methods and Manoeuvres of the Queensland Coalition
Government, 1890-03,” by A. G. Stephens; Edwards,
Dunlop and Co., Ltd.. Brisbane, publisheis.
lOOgs ; Crown brief, daily refresher, 18gs. When it is
remembered that Griffith drew £l3OO a year as Minister,
and Byrnes £lOOO, and that the fees were practically fixed
by themselves, the significance of these figures will he
appreciated. The contractors’ counsel included Mr. Virgil
Power and Mr. Edwin Lilley, whose briefs were marked
150 gs. and 100 gs, with refreshers of 15gs. and 12gs. daily.
These fees are in strong contrast to those paid by the
Government. The Court sat over 80 days.
The pamphleteer is not in love with the Labour-
party and, therefore, his denunciation of the
Griffilwraith and his dread of revived MTlwraith-
ism is the more unexpected and telling. He
parades the alternative now before the people of
Queensland :
They can elect a Parliament to reform I lie electoral law
by giving every man a vote and equalising representation ;
to reform the finances by taking wealth and exempting
poverty ; to reform legal procedure by making it possible
for a poor man to get justice for nothing ; or they can
elect MTlwraith to defend property, to reserve to pro-
perty the right of making laws tor property, of raising
revenue from any source but property, to’widen the gulf
between the poor and the rich, and to build up still
higher in this count ry the monopolies and class privileges
which are at the root of human wretchedness, and involve
the establishment of a standing army to keep the victims
from revolt. In the one case they make Queensland the
home of freedom ; in the other they pave the way for
tyranny, with its corollary of slavery and rebellion.
It must be remembered that the same power which
disfranchised 25,000 voters can disfranchise 25,000 more.
If Sir Thomas MTlwraith gets a majority in the Legisla-
tive Assembly, he gets the whole power of the country for
three years.
The writer’s hope of the country’s deliverance is
now fixed on—Lilley. The Bulletin has already
said that Queensland should® accept the proffered
sword of the old soldier, the,volunteered services
of the democratic veteran. According to present
lights, MTlwraith’s victory at the polls, and the
carrying out of his announced land and railway
policy, means a future Civil War, with perhaps
an interregnum of dynamite.
Lilley’s eight doctors: Henry George,
Iliginbotliam, Wentworth, John Burns, Wilson
Gray, Joseph Hume, Tom Paine—and Dr. Lang.
The full hatred of the people for M‘ll-
wraith and gang was made evident by vociferous
execrations at last week’s public meeting in Bris-
bane Centennial Hall. The chairman declared
the motion of confidence in the pit ate crew carried
“by the intelligent portion of the audience.”
The “ right-thinking person” again! Intelligence
is demonstrated not by cranial but by abdominal
developments. There were, we read, 100 “ in-
fluential gentlemen ”on the platform—9o of them
fatted.
“In this Chamber, to our credit be it said?
we are not afraid to express our opinions.” So
says Triokett, M.L.C. A cheap boast when we
remember that his N.S. Wales M.L.C.-ship is—
up to date, anyhow—a life-position, irresponsible
and unrepresentative; with no electoral ictribu-
tion at hand, and no accountability to anyone but
those whose interests his legal occupation thrives
on—the wealthy classes! Many of theMs.L.C.,
like Trickett himself, are the despised and rejected
of the electorates.
Dear Bulletin, —It is too bad to let J.
Medway Day be classed indiscriminately with
“ renegade parsons.” Day, whom I have known
for many years, is in every respect a man first and
a parson last of all. He is an original thinker,
and dares to put his thoughts into straight Saxon.
He has thrown up much “ corn and oil ” in leaving
the editorial staff of the S.A. Register, and is
simply courting social ruin to record his beliefs in
the cause of the workers in his own little fearless
weekly, The Voice. He won’t truckle to any-
thing—not even to Labour —if he doesn’t share its
convictions. —Yours, H.O.
The attack on Member O’Sullivan for
exposing N.S.W. Civil Service gormandising at
the public table is a shoddy-clad device of those
who are politically jealous of him or who’ wish the
abuses to continue. If O’Sullivan drew no public
pay, and slept in the Domain winter and summer,
his stubborn refusal to keep his mouth shut would
be set down to jealousy of the good fortune of
others. As he draws pay he is hounded down as
being guilty of an indecency in directing attention
to the gormandisers. The attack on O’Sullivan
resolves itself into this, that neither a man with
nor one without an income dare expose Civil Ser-
vice plundering, unless he confines his strictures
to office-boys and messengers.
The land grant-railway cancer has broken
out very definitely in the South. “A syndicate,”
with its eye on the rich mallee country, the future
garden of Victoria, is whispering into Premier
Patterson’s ears about four lines. And Patterson
is listening. “Whether the lines, when com-
pleted, will prove remunerative is a matter upon
which some doubt may exist,” &c., hypocritically
but transparently says the Age, organ of the
great State-railway grab. Bah ! As if the gang
spend money save on a dead certainty ! Are the
people of Victoria too helpless to resist the rape?
Land-grant railways mean dynamite in the long
run. This is the issue upon which the Age and
Pattei’son must be confronted, and now is the
time for the people to organise.
“The result of payment to members,”
says a N.S. Wales M.P., “has been to make
men’s interests conflict with their duties, and
flesh and blood are not equal to the tempta-
tion.” The lady - like lawyer who makes
the statement quoted, is understood to be
son -in - law of a Midas, M.L.C., and is
thus privileged to talk so. Nancy might,
especially now that N.S. Wales has one-man-one-
vote, as well try to shift God as to abolish pay-
ment of members —the means whereby the
common, penniless workman who enjoys the con-
fidence of his fellows is put on equal political
fighting terms with the man whose privileged
profession has for its patron the daughter of the
horse-leech. Perhaps the workmen don’t make
the best use of payment of members. But that is
purely their concern. The electors have a per-
fect right, if they like, to be represented by the
Devil, or John Davies.
J. J. Kingsbury, MTlwraith’s colleague in
the North Brisbane (Q.) election contest, is a
pietist married to the daughter of a typical Fat
Man —David Him, M.L.C. (Vic.). Kingsbury
has his fingers in several complex financial insti-
tutions, and is one of the promoters of a building
society lottery. Here are some of his political
views : Onc-man-one-vote and female suffrage are
chimeras ; the sugar-industry needs kanakas, who
are blessings to the land ; the Labour-party wants
to paralyse the banks, which are also blessings ;
“a progressive land-taxis a remarkable proposi-
tion where the Government holds 95 per cent, of
the land unsold, ami the greatest monopoly is the
otonership of the land ly the people themselves" (! see
Count eh report); “ the land-tax is a tax on pro-
duction (!), and a tax should never be put on
production, baton profit; a tax in the case referred
to would mean cessation of production.” Again
“What is the Slate but the chimera of tin
Socialists? It is nothing but the aggregation ol
insolvencies.” The man who talks like this shouk
only represent Woogaroo.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“A. Dolan”: Rarely have we been able to
print anything from the pen of a real live policeman.
Enchanted by the candour and the strictly professional
smack of your admirable poem, we put it all in :
“The Tyranny of the Past”: The arguments were
particularly used in a contracted sense only. An con-
traire, ; 11 life owes its present sum to the dead past, or
else of what value is experience? Or history? What
stultification to quote a dead man’s dictum in order to
prove that the living should pay no heed to dead men’s
dicta ! “The Dingo”: Your story about the parson
becoming the vagrant bfw’g earthly brother, on the basis
of a relationship argued out on the “Our Father” of
“The Lord’s Prayer,” is—well, steeply believable when
the parson’s name is Jones.... “ Adapted ” ; Sultans who
embrace charcoal-dusted blackamoois don’t interest Aus-
tralians like aborigines in the raw... “Swamp Oak”:
Wrong twice over. (1) Several “ eminent Australians ”
have manipu'ated “stepping-stones from sausages and
brawn.” (2) Out west, it is the wall-eyed steer, and not
tiie good, old poley cow, that has 20 calves a year. That’s
the common miracle....“ Ex-Orangeman ” (Geelong,
Vic.): You are now as green as you once were Orange, if
you expect fair play from Melbourne Age. However, the
subject isn't worth a half-column here. The Orangemen
won’t fight, and if they do, Gladstone will get them six
months apiece.... “J. S Kyan ” (Sydney, N.S.W.): Your
poem, slightly a’tered, ought to begin and end with the
last four lines—
“ Her lily hand the tiller set:
His joy can’t be described. ..
The bodies arc not found as yet....
The noble vessel jibed.”
“ A.P.” (Brisbane, Q.): Any ghost would turn out
better verse than yours “ BufFstick ” (Queensclilf,
Vic.): Good incident.... “ D.” : Weak ; may stand fortify-
ing—perhaps “E. Jackson ” (Balmain, N.S.W.): The
Makms were never guilty of such fearful atrocities ns you
perpetrate in verse about them. If your poem were read
to John in his condemned cell, he would cheat Nosey Bob
and you might be arrested for anticipating the law
“Guest” (Eden, N.S.W.): Don't care who was belle of
your hop, but feel glad that Mr. Mahony is a capable
“Terpsichore.” “ J.J.” (Melbourne): No, there is not
manhood suffrage in England. Various freehold, copy-
hold, leasehold, and occupancy qualifications are neces-
sary before a man can exercise his vote : “ lodgers” must
claim yearly, and have to pass the nod of “overseers.”
Further, there are special extra franchises inherent in
such absurdities as City of London “liverymen.” And
there is plural voting, two late attempts to break down
which—in ’9l and ’92—failed in the Commons.. “Un-
employed” (8., N.S.W.): Grief poignant, sympathy
powerful, but verse weak. Your muse might apply at the
Labour-bureau for a billet as sweeper-out “Nulla
Nulla ” (Coonamble, N.S.W.) : Will publish, at the risk of
our life, a slab of it:—
“ Others camp on the rivers and try
To make themselves at home,
Cadge tobacco from passers-by
And live on fish alone.
This is an occupation
No one will envy them,
Trying to appease starvation
On catfish, cod, and brem.”
Your rhymes indicate illimitable resources “ Gunyah”
(Tenterfield, N.S.W.): Note what we use and remind us.
“Chandelier” and “Can’t read” ancient “Gives”
(Balmain, N.S.W.): You propose mob-editorship of a mob-
journal. A few remarks;—!. As subscriptions are to be
“ each according to his circumstances,” that either means
an assessing officer to value “ the circumstances,” or
voluntary donations. If the latter, “ first catch your ”
mob. The crowd is utterly incapable of a sustained effort.
2. The men or things that attain “an immensity of
wealth ” are never independent enough to expose abuses.
All the same, the very best speculation which could be
undertaken by a man with the necessary enthusiasm,
ability, experience, and cash would be the'establishment
of an unbuyable, uubribable, Radical daily paper. 3. You
mean a school-gaol-church, and not a newspaper ; and you
think man should be a fool-ant always and never a plea-
sure-seeker. Learn to laugh at least once a year before
you set up as a reformer. 4. You also mean a labour-
bureau and not a newspaper. 5. Now you mean universal
editorship. 6. Suppose there are no profits, but losses?
“J.W.W.” (Towers): Thanks. Have already acknow-
ledged the fact “T.S.R.” (Moama): The number is
out of print “J. Cross” (Melb.); At Xmas, two or
three years ago.. “Pelican”: “Journalist” accepted.
.. “W.D.”(8.): Not new “ J.H.G.” : After all, we
can’t print “ Goulard.” It is not only necessary for a
thing to he original; it must seem original “ Polype” :
“Parson Dobb ” too straight “L.L.”: Another
generation arises, which knows not chestnuts “The
Dingo”: East End of London is “off our bate.”
“J.C.W.”: You sent them a “ holey ” half-sov. and are
aggrieved because they wouldn’t accept bad money.
How could you reasonably expect them to remember and
humour a single unit out of their innumerable clients?
Bo businesslike “C.C.L.” (Bondi): Ideas good, but
drawings not up to the mark. Handed to artist
“ Watercress ” : Hopelessly commonplace. Have not the
dailies teemed with such stories of late ? “A. Fraser ”:
Ancient “0.L.A.” (M.L.): Your local story is familiar
on every Australian station “Coro”: It is charac-
teristic of the vulgar intelligence that in the case of
specially atrocious crimes it is satisfied with much slighter
evidence of guilt than would otherwise content it
‘‘ K. 0.”: No, we didn’t imply, by the word “ductility,”
that Dibbs was "good iron.” “11 A. Bullcn”;
end address “W.L.C.”: Will read. ...“Toby
Twist ” : Too obviously inspired by Victor Daley’s
“Journalist’s Funeral.”... “Arono”; There is much
truth in the remarks of Mr. Burgoyue, of London, concern-
ing Australian wines ; still it is evident that bis criticisms
are not those of a disinterested expert, but of a man who
sees his own monopoly threatened by the S.A. Govern-
ment proposal to establish a central depot in London
“H. 8.” (Melbourne): Tub Bitllktin has already said
that the honorary bench system s rot ten to the core, and
that it is often the tool of secret societies, political
parties, personal friendships, and enmities, Why should
Australia, in face of the corruption of amateur be.akdom,
boast of its freedom from Lynch Law? Judge Lynch
mostly opens his court to kill some! o ly ; the Australian
honorary beak often rolls up by ibe score to save some-
body's skin or money or reputation. To save a guilty
person sas great an affront to Justice ns In punish an
innocent one “ Times ” '(Brisbane): It is not Tin
BuujtTiN which has changed, but MTlwraith.
“YES HER WILL BE MINE: or, A PAGE FROM A POLICE.
MAN'S POCKETBOOK.
(Tune of “ Two Lovely Black Eyes.")
Marching so proudly down my beat,
Uniform so very neat,
Haughtily I lift my feet,
When, Oh, what do I see ?
Yonder conus a man, I think
More or less the worse for drink,
Soon on him I’ll put the “ kink,"
For he will be mine.
Oh, he will be mine. Yes, he will be mine.
When he has swallowed a couple more drinks,
Then he will be mine.
Carefully pursues his way—
Drunken man ! you are my prey ;
Have another drink, I say,
And you will be mine.
Onward to a pub. he goes,
Enter quickly on his tots,
Quicker leaves with bleeding nose,
Soon he will be mine.
Oh, he will be mine. Yes, he will be mine.
When he has swallowed a couple more drinks,
Then he will be mine.
Peeling injured by that hit,
Lain would he on doorstep sit,
But I tell him he must “ git,”
Or he will be mine.
Rose up he with indignation,
Staggers, falls with exclamation,
And I take him to the station,
For he is my own.
Now he is my ow n. Now he is my own.
Destined to slumber all night in a cell,
Now he is my own.
A. DOOLAN.


11" LEADS THEM ALL.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to, and in-
eluding', 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows :
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS ar«
£35,900.000; and the.SURPLUS is £3,000,000
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
TT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENNIE, General Manager.
Principal Agency—l3l <gitt Street, Sydney, (N.S.tyf.
Branches —473 Collins Street, Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TKe Old Blead
WMsKy
w „It«HORSE
i
Edinburgh. I
of tKe
Cellar
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
19th April, 1893.
My Dear Moohabixua—
Sydney Hunt Club Amateur races at Raudwick
on 15th inst. proved far more amusing than the
professional article", and the running was full of
thrill. The conspicuous honesty of the thing—
the way the willing, winning horse is-kept striving
ahead of the field from the fall of the flag until he
bounds breathlessly past the judge—the wide
curves taken into the straight, the visible air of
going-to-do-or-die written all over every rider,
make amateur races very hilarious indeed. I
mean for everybody but the poor bookmaker, who
doesn’t know what to expect, and who was heard
carefully laying “ two to one on the field ” in an
aggrieved voice towards the last as if the ingenu-
ous nature of the proceedings had utterly disgusted
him.
There was a very grand stand (there is no mem-
bers’ stand on non-professional days) with the
Acting-Governor, the Admiral, and all their
womenfolk in the box in the middle, but the
patronising party displayed no particular sartorial
glory. Perhaps the best-dressed woman there was
Mrs. “ Jack ” Purves. Her gown was a soft silk
with » pale-green and a white stripe with a floral
pattern of violets; the bodice elaborately made
with a deep frill of cream fine lace just at the bust
line and falling over a moss-green velvet Empire
belt; small bonnet with strings completing a very
Parisienne toilet. Mrs. (Mayoress) Manning wore
black silk brocaded in fern-leaves and made with
gigot sleeves of violet silk—small bonnet en suite.
Mrs. Brough looked well in a black silk
with very full sleeves, small bonnet of
violet velvet with jet coronets; Miss Temple
wore mouse - grey braided in black; Miss
M‘Donagh, a stylish gown of brown cheviot
trimmed in empire style with brown silk, very
brown hat and feathers. Mrs. Burdekin sported
a very becoming brown hat and smart cloak of
black velvet; somebody else had a regular dream
of a wrap in fawn cloth with three well-cut capes
lined with shell-pink and edged with beaver fur.
The only thing I couldn’t understand was why
two ladies (who had obviously not descended in
the last shower) had decided to finish themselves
off with bunches of autumn leaves. The Hunt
Club was very hospitable, and provided afternoon
tea for some of its visitors—but I was amused to
see a society girl who isn’t a notorious teetotaller
standing pensively under a tree against which
rested a champagne-bottle. Somebody wickedly
said that she ought to be photographed.
In “Maritana,” at Sydney Lyceum, was again
illustrated the evil fate that (as it were) ever dogs
the footsteps of the hair of the King of Spain.
Other bewigged artists may deceive the public,
but His Majesty always looks like the bogie-
man in borrowed love-locks, and you picture the
horse his hair grew on every time he turns his
back. And another sad spectacle was the frill of
lace round the top of Don Jose’s cavalier boots,
which looked for all the world as if he was step-
ping about in bouquet-papers. Annis Montague,
in the title-rdle, looked well in the gay Gipsy
dress of the first act, and demure in the bridal
robes of white brocade; but I didn’t much care
for her crimson velvet’and pale blue-grey silk con-
fection trimmed with pearl embroideries, stage
jewels, and gold galon—it was too radiant, beside
which the plumes in her hair and the roses on her
shoulder were over-red to harmonise with the
velvet. Miss Cicely Staunton, as Lazarillo, wore a
charming confection of pale-grey satin, pink silk,
and silver lace in the last act.
Apropos , the feature of the d.c. on the first night
of “Maritana” was a society theatre-party, pre-
eminent in restlessness. They arrived late —
“You are not fashionable unless you disturb
everybody else getting to your seats,” says the
hoyd- nin “Niobe”—and they were*up and down
the circle steps at every interval, like the angels
on Jacob’s ladder. The women were rather well
turned out, so perhaps that accounted for their
locust-like flights.
Sydney Standard was filled to witness the
“ Magpie ” Dramatic Club in “ A Little Change”
and the stage - worn farce, “ Turn Him
Out,” the other Friday evening. The club had
difficulties to contend with—Miss Gillies could
not act at the last moment on account of her
mother’s illness ; but Miss Austin took her part at
short notice, and all went well. Pretty Miss
Winnie Austin as “ Ethel ” annexed the honours
of the evening. She wore two fetching frocks, and
acted the part of the fond but piqued bride
with kplornb ; in fact, had “ Ethel ” fallen on
her knCtes a little less impressively, her perform-
ance would have been quite Oriterionesque.
Mr. Charles Austin, as Nicodomus Nobbsin the
farce, sported a Lonnea-like array of coster-
monger buttons and cockney isms, and, although
Susan didn't play up to him properly, he was
responsible for most of the fun. Miss Kitty
Austin, Mr. W. Rolleston, Mr. J. Harvey, Mr.
G. Clibborn, Mr. Gordon Lamb (particularly good
as a vapid swell), and Mr. Wilkinson (who wasn’t
good at all) filled in the bill. A new idea during
the interval was to have a little concert while the
stage was being set, and although the young lady
who sang was too nervous j)o do more than gasp
through “ Kathleen Mavourneen ” she was quite a
harp in the air compared to the shrieking orchestra.
I felt quite sorry for the people in the patrons’
row, beginning With the Acting-Governor and his
wife—wearing an eau-de-nil silk opera cloak over
a black lace and satin dress. Mrs. Burdekin wore
the most dreamy dress in the theatre—a white soft
silk much-trimmed about the corsage with very
fine white lace ; a little bunch of violets nestling
among the lace and in her hair, and one or two
diamonds.
Silly women who send flowers to the star actor
sometimes reckon without the said star’s lady
friends. For instance, when a Gaiety comedian
was ill, the other day, a stricken syren sent him a
lovely bouquet, which was intercepted by the
chatmer who seemed to lay most claim to him in
the co. “If I could only get at the vixen who
sent them, I’d let her know!” the sweet thing
remarked as she pounced on the blossoms ; but, as
she didn’t catch the offender, the only revenge she
could manage was to have the flowers handed to
herself over the footlights with a flourish, the same
evening. Then she felt a lot better again.
The oddest thing about the late Gaiety co. was
the way some silly women behaved over the ladies
of that festive troop. I heard of two Bananaland
misses, stopping in the same hotel as Conyers and
Leamar, who so adored those seraphs that they
sent a_ five-guinea bouquet over the floats to them
one night. When the recipients returned, they
kissed the senders heartily on both cheeks.
There were two official grass-parties in Sydney
last week, at Government House and Admiralty
House respectively. The first was very much
like an ordinary reception, carefully weeded of
the lady who attends without gloves, or tries to
leave a pound of sausages and a bird-cage in the
care of an astonished flunkey until she comes out
•again. At Mrs. Bowden Smith’s first “At Home”
the attendance was smaller. No steam-launch
was laid on for the use of guests, and everybody
but vice-royalty proceeded in a chastened spirit
per punt or penny ferry. Tennis and tea filled
up the afternoon, and the exceedingly tasteful
hostess (whose graciousness almost amounts to
bonhommie) cut rather more of a dash than usual in
a bltek merveilleux with petticoat of “mail”
satin brocade in lavender and grey tints. There
will be two more “ At Homes ” at Admiralty
House—on Friday, 21st and 28th instants.
Sydney Suffrage League had a “sister” from
South Australia to talk to them like a father on
“ effective voting” and such dry bones, the other
evening, and the “sister” seemed weirdly diffi-
dent for a lady suffragist. She actually admitted
that she was not sure the majority of women
were better than the majority of the men ; in fact,
she believed that the “thinking wise women were
in the minority.” I don’t think so, anyhow. The
“ thinking ” and really wise woman is still plenti-
ful. I call the thinking, the genuinely sage
woman, the one who “travels on” her sex—the
one who prefers the softest seat and the prettiest
speech to standing up and talking like a political
candidate to men who are only amused at her,
after all, as we are only amused at precocious
children.
There’s plenty of candour in Australia. Just
read the following Sydney evening paper advt.
(printed while Mr. Makin shivers in the con-
demned cell for baby-murder):—
Y'j.ENTLEMAN is anxious to make the acquaintance
of a Young Lady as companion ; must be young
and good-looking. C.C.C., Park-street Post Office.
There is no “view matrimony ” subterfuge about
that gentleman, who scorns to hide his untram-
melled notions behind a housekeeper, “ who must
be young.” But perhaps he will bring in a new
style of advt.? “Young man has vacancy for
lady-help ” —“ A backward youth of 30 wants a
governess; none over 17 need apply”—“Two
(fair) gentlemen would like two stylish (dark)
nursemaids (plump, and not over 20) to take them
out for airings. ” How does the idea strike you ?
The world is tired of winking at the lady house-
keeper, blonde preferred.
And just look at this advertisement; —
T)OaRD and RESIDENCE for a young man, single
room, piano, widow, terms mod.
The most sinister aspect of these little announce-
ments is that it’s always a young man who is
offered such a galaxy of advantages. I never
heard of the same inducement being held out to a
lady boarder.
The Australian fleet held an “amongourselves”
regatta in Farm Cove last week, and society
crowded the flagship Orlando —the most un-
popular tub in the fleet with Australian belledom,
on account of her extremely belligerent fittings—
there being more fire-arms than floor space. How-
ever, only the boats danced at the regatta. The
squadron ball came off last Wednesday (19th inst.)
on Garden Island. I wonder where the most
powder vyas ? In the old magazines below, or on
the Grecian features of Potts Point ?
Billie,Barlow’s ad vice that “ you mustn’t believe
all you heah ” applies to my little notice of the
Commanders’ good-bye dance at Nithsdale. As
I was not present, I attribute the whole mistake
to a society youth, who was probably cut out of
the running by the well-known resistlessness of
men in uniform, and viewed the proceedings with
a wall-flower’s eye in consequence. As a matter
of figures, there were 86 gentlemen to 102 ladies
present, several of the latter being non-dancing
chaperones.
Bathurst Show, last week, was a well-attended
function, I am told, and the horse-section was
very lively. The human feature of judging-day
was the equestrian daughter of a local Somebody
who strode about in a short habit and large tan
boots and spurs, carrying a rattan cane. Her
stride was of the seven-leagued order, like draw-
ing-compasses breaking the record, and the hay-
seeds caught their lower jaws on their best buttons
looking after her. By the way, you can generally
tell a Bathurst girl any where by the “ coaching ”
way she carries her elbows. Verb sap.
Titheradge’s spavined amble, in “ The Times,”
looked a sad handicap, but it was nothing to the
real affliction a Sydney lady suffers from. She
gets a sort of rheumatic something or other in her
right knee, which refuses to move in consequence,
and wherever the unfortunate woman is when the
attack comes on there she has to stand stock-still
on her daisy-roots until the pain is over. Some-
times fate is kind and brings it on outside a
bonnet-shop, where the spectacle of a matron
standing as if mesmerised for hours at a stretch
gazing at the latest French modes doesn’t attract
attention, but the other day she was seized out-
side a butcher’s. There she stood, gazing with a
simulated interest at split pigs and sausages and
sheep-trotters for an hour and three-quarters by
the clock, and then the trouble below gave over,
and she fled like a streak of lightning.
A Sydney paper asserts that Maoriland’s lead-
ing light—Lady Glasgow—was “preached against
in a M.L. church ” the other Sunday, because she
had attended a race-meeting. But lam sure it
wasn’t a church. The only “recognised ” churches
are either Anglican or R.C., and both these reli-
gions are far too chummy with the top of the tree
to find fault with a titled woman even if she had
been laying the odds off a candle box. Lady G.
must have been held up as an awful example in a
dissenting chapel where there isn’t any Litany and
the shepherd is the local undertaker.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Patterson is cutting £750,000 off the Vic-
torian Estimates, and this example is now being
emulated by the N.S.W. Government, who must
eut or die.
Lilley is a white-haired, somewhat florid
sexagenarian with a mellifluous voice, a patriarchal
suavity, and a knack of couching the most stinging
homethrusts under the most harmless persiflage.
Dickson, M.L.A. (Q.), “objects to be
dictated to by a State pensioner.” The State
Eensioner in question is ex-Chief Justice Lilley.
flekson is an ex-auctioneer. The Queensland
people object to be dictated to by an ex-auctioneer.
Not even the author of the stupid con-
tingent voting system in Queensland seems to be
capable of explaining its intricacies. Many of the
returning-officers have resigned rather than face
it. White Queensland must leave the thing
severely alone. It came from the Coalition, and
that damns it right off.
Said Lilley : “He was bitterly opposed to
the land-grant railway scheme, which would not
give white men further employment, but would
give work for coolies. (Cheers.) In the hands of
a corrupt Minister—(wild cheering)—the land-
grant system would be a splendid instrument of
fraud.” Tell us, why did they cheer so wildly?
David Lindsay started out from Port
Augusta, April 12, on an exploring-prospecting-
cattledealing-land-grabbing expedition. With
him are his brother-in-law, a mining expert, three
Afghans and 50 camels. He travels westward till
beyond the W. A. border, and then strikes north
through Murchison to the alleged Golcondas
further up. The journey will last two years.
TheM‘llwraithian land-grant map, compiled
by the Lands Dept., and published in the Brisbane
dailies, is a dastardly he. It omits one-half of
the scheme and computes the stolen areas on a
false monetary basis. It allots the syndicates
alternate blocks. The act specifies alternate choice
without limitation. The game is clearly up !
MTlwraith must go.
Dear Bulletin,— Please don’t help M‘ll-
wraith and Co. to foist Hamilton again on this
God-forsaken province. These stories of what he
once was are nauseating. He is now a political
traitor to white Queensland, a sycophant to the
tyrant and usurper, MTlwraith, and a financial
“ stiff ” with a probable “ overdraft.” We have
had enough of muscle and fat. We want brains
and honesty this time.—O.
Little Cohen (beaten at the polls), talking
to the North Adelaide electors, said that he had
been asked to join the Downer Government, but
had declined. The Premier indignantly denied
the allegation and challenged proof. The loud-
voiced Israelite responded by producing a written
confirmation of his original statement in the hand-
writing of Treasurer Rounsevell (beaten at the
polls). The poor Ministry !
Squatter Tennant’s limit of expense for the
Adelaide central district of the Legislative Council
was £5OOO, while Ware, the Defence League can-
didate, spent £2OOO. The cost of the campaign to
the victorious Labour nominee (Robinson, the first
Robinson who has ever sat in the S.A. Parlia-
ment) was under £lOO. Yet the National Ass
party talk about the unfair advantage which the
eight-hours’ men have as compared with them.
Primate Smith, of Sydney (N.S.W.), pro-
poses to pay a visit this Saturday to the “ Echo
Farm ” rauohe for inebriates, Middle Harbour,
and a big crowd of shilling folks is expected to rush
the 11 o’clock special steamer that conveys his
clerical Lordship. The later overflow to the ine-
briato nest will have to be contented with catching
the North Shore ’bus to Willoughby, at 12.30 or
1.15, and tumbling over the rocks to the astonish-
ment of the chief shepherd and the penitent pot-
emptiers.
The S.A. Labour-party has returned nine
straight-out Labour members to Parliament. This,
in that land of first-wind Governments, who
generally reign with an uncertain majority of
two, means that Labour once more occupies the
seesaw’s centre-poise. Further, the advanced
Radicals may count on the loyal support of such
other members as Charley Kingston, Dr. Coek-
hurn, .Grainger and Ash—l 3 members out of 54.
Treasurer Rounsevell and “ Works ” Grayson
have been defeated, and Downer must rearrange
his portfolios.
In vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
Innos’ Boar’s Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled by the finest
vintages of , the. old world. The Boar’s Head
brand cothfu^Vines of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, muscats, hocks, and others too
numerous to specify.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING VVRRK.
Her Majesty’s “Man to Man ’’
Lyceum “Carmen.”
Criterion “ A Village Priest.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards
Theatre Royal “For the Term of rr „
Natural Life.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Mountebanks ”
Theatre Royal “ Life for Lifts”
Luou "Quicksands.”
Opera House Varieties.
■St. George’s Hall ...... The Steens.
“ Mari tana ” at Sydney Lyceum last
Saturday was vocally handicapped by the indis-
position of most of the principals. Charles Turner
had to apologise from the middle of the stage lot
the frogs in his upper register, and cut out most
of his numbers in consequence, ‘‘as I don’t wish
to torture you”—the apology being received with
rounds of applause ; and Mr. Farley (Don Jose)
just out of the doctor’s hands, sang with evident
disinclination. Miss Cicely Staunton (a fetching
young lady, with a charmingly fresh voice and a
future), as Lazarillo, acted rather too brightly for
that dismal retainer, but she possisses a most
audible and effective stage whisper, and her
singing of “Alas! those chimes,” and anon h tr
share in the “ Sainted Mother ” duet with
Miss Montague, were peaceful experiences in the
mutilated score. Annis Montague as Maritana
was in positively jubilant voice, and sang with
her old-time sweetness, expression and force, ami
acted cleverly and coquettishly. Mr. Sid Deane
as the King posed his way through a thankless
part, and raised his uncertain voice, which always
reminds one of a vocal steeplechase, whenever
occasion demanded it. Mr. Deane has a baritone
of good range and some expression. If be would
but tear himself away from the glittering stage
and go in for voice-production ! “ Maritana ” was
ably backed up by the swarmingohorus (femininely
composed of “superior” young ladies, by the
way, quite different from the comicoperachoristers,
and don’t let the stage-boxes forget it !), ami
excellent stagery. Queen Victoria’s latest taste in
opera (“Carmen ”) flirts her way to glory to-night
(Saturday).
* * * -*■
Rignold has at last announced the with-
drawal of “Man to Man,” at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney), and railway collisions, until further
notice, are “ off” after Saturday, when “ A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream ” will be staged. Rignold
will appear as Bottom; Miss Watts - Phillips.
Oberon; Hilda Spong, Titania; Ethel Buckley!
Puck, &c. Great are the reputed stage prepara-
tions.
* * * *
Nightly full tides at Sydney Criterion,
where Abbe Titheradge continues in saintliness,
and convict Brough renews a sentimental martyr-
dom. “ A Village Priest ” is both popular and
fashionable, and the days of its withdrawal art
not yet.
* * * *
Sydney Royal turns off “ Robbery Unde r
Arms,” “Hamlet,” with Dampier in the title
r61e, signalising its Friday’s performance; the
King, West; the Queen, Julia Merton; Ophelim
Rose Dampier ; the Ghost, the eternal Rainford.
On Saturday, “ His Natural Life ” will be staged
—Rev. North, Dampier; Rev. Meekin, Lester;
Rufus Dawes, Rolf ; Lieut. Frere, Plimmor ;Capt.
Vickers, Harford ; Rex, Brian England ; Sylvia,
Lily Dampier; Sarah Purfoy, Katherine Russell;
Mrs. Vickers, Julia Merton.
*• & *
Harry Rickards continues to flourish at
Sydney Tivoli, and is now well backed by that
scintillating comedian, George Wood. The
“ Rowdy-Dowdy Crew ” keep up their part of the
fun, and a “ pas de quatre,” by the sisters Ander
son, gives an idea of what takes the present fancy
in London music halls.
* * * *
The Barrington Minstrels, at Sydney
Opera House, and Billy Emerson, at the Alham-
bra, are having decidedly good times.
* * * *■
Melbourne theatres revealed nothing- new
in drama last Saturday. Two of them might have
changed their bills with advantage to their respec-
tive exchequers ; but they preferred to advertise a-
continued brilliant success, and withhold the next,
great novelty for a few nights. The Haleck luuk
been in the middle of overwhelming triumph
when the “ghost” refused to move another inch,
whereupon the theatre closed its doors again. Tim-
poor Haleck opens and shuts at uncertain inter-
vals, like a family vault, and the coffins of many-
theatrical enterprises lie mouldering on its shelves,
* # * *
Caloola is struggling through his third
week at the Royal, although it is manifestly time-
that George Darrell threw the saviour of his for-
tunes out of training. The animal presents air
appearance of going “off.” Now, if Caloola-
were to get unexpectedly beaten for the Cup
one night, the villainous Tiger Fletcher would
win all George’s money, a contingency not
provided for in the last aot. As matters stand,,
a swift and awful retribution overtakes the Tiger.
Within a week of the Cup being won by that fatal*
steed the Tiger is reduced from affluence to beg-
gary. Being the soul of honour in sporting trans-
actions, he leaves himself nothing but his oldest
suit of clothes, and then, pulling a shattered hat
over his beetled brows, he secretly waylays Edith.
Blande in the centre of a garden-party and-
demands the money necessary to fly somewlure-
with. Luckily, the detective arrives just as the
Tiger is about to “stoush” Edith, and the good old-
warrant for his arrest puts matters straight,
Greenaway [days the detective with all the-
acumen of a man who couldn’t find the missing-
mace. His forte is coming on to remark
that the Tiger shouldn’t escape him tins'
time, and he preserves such an imposing
air of sage imbecility that people promise-
to give him large sums of money on the
day he gets the Tiger convicted. Greenaway
enters these promises in a wager-book, thus—
“ Another. £1000 to nothing about lagging 'I ig
Fletcher.” He even stands to win a casual •fldO
“ the day he puts handcuffs on the Tiger,” winch'


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On I*i January , 1893, it* accumulated fund* amounted to £28,292,0X6 ss. Xc3L.,
aud its SUJtPL VS over all liabilities to' £3,457.808 ss. XcX., being the LARGEST
urpln. .s held by any purely Mutual hij'e Insurance Co. in, the world.
It does the LARCEBT Kndowmeut and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Korp,.—This is the only Compam holdlhjr an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
Illsi| i'.inw Department. The Assets,' Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under (he seal of
the State hy the Insurance Superintendent.
The: EQUITABLE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS!
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. £167 686 ;{<><;
New Business, 1891
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,156 871
Apply for “TONTINE TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens <f Actual Results.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society's penna
noll l Uuildin^)
Junction of Hunter, Fitt Si O'Connell Streets
is such a soft thing that he positively laughs.
The average Melbourne policeman could be in-
duced with three half-crowns to clap handcuffs on
anybody for insulting behaviour. But no
matter. On Saturday this huge horsey joke is to
bo replaced by “Life for Life,” another drama
from Darrell’s ingenious pen. “Life for Life ”is
a story of the Wild West coast of Maoriland,
founded on four sensation scenes.
** * *
On Saturday, also, the Bijou people will
produce “Quicksands,” for the first time in Aus-
tralia. Miss Aimee Moore, hitherto known as an
Austral Salon amateur, is down for an important
part in this matter, and her floral tributes are
expected to be numerous. Meanwhile, Maud
Williamson commands admiration for certain
scenes in “The Adventuress,” although there are
three or four reasons why the play, as a whole,
fails to draw. One reason is that no “ good acting
play,” relying upon the actors to give falseness
die ring of truth, can carry incompetent per-
ormers on its shoulders.
** * *
The latest change of programme at the
Alhambra (Opera House) seems to show a little
improvement on former efforts. The musical
Leslies do a funny turn, whilst the success of
“The Little Nipper” is both complete and pain-
ful ; also, the backgrounds look brighter, and the
legs are better grouped than at first.
* * *- *
A rumour that Nellie Stewart left England
suddenly, and is already far on her way to Aus-
tralia, requires more confirmation than can be
obtained for it. For some reason, however, the
corridorsof Melbourne Princess’are haunted by the
shadow of a suspicion that Nellie will return to
I -r long-lost country in time to give a fillip to
•' . .e Mountebanks,” which opera will be sorely
in need of some sort of stimulant shortly. Probably
Lius suspicion grew out of the rumour that Nellie’s
sieged journey was inspired by W. S. Gilbert
under startling circumstances. “ The Mounte-
banks” improves with practice, but is still a
poinewhat dispiriting entertainment brought to
an abrupt termination in a dim, religious
light. Nobody can explain what becomes of the
real genuine monks, or why the brigands, when
restored to their old selves, don’t rush in and loot
the crumbling abbey at the finish. Furthermore,
it is complained that the rogue, Ryley, has no girl
to make love to (an inhuman state of things), and
that the position of all parties, with three excep-
tions, is the same when the curtain falls as when
it ascended. Two of these exceptions are May
Pollard and Bracy who, as a reward for their
vastly-improved singing, become engaged to get
married. The third is an alchemist who explodes
during the evening. But as the audience don’t see
this person, either before or after he goes off with
a final bang, his fate excites no interest.
** * *
The Steens, w r ho have come from America,
vid Maoriland, with an undoubted reputation as
“mystifiers,” opened at St. George’s Hall on
Saturday night. Their performance is more sur-
prising than lively. A massive Martha sits blind-
folded on the stage, or rather on a chair placed
upon the stage, and displays a monotonous know-
ledge of many things which she couldn’t reason-
ably be expected to have any ideas about. She
even knew, on Saturday, that one member of the
investigating committee had paid .£65 for an 18-
carat gold watch which was only 14 carat in
quality. And as the gentleman thus enlightened
was observed to grow pensive and not to
relish the information, it may be assumed that
ho took Martha at her word. Also, she
knew the exact date of each committeeman’s
birth, and the name of his best girl, if necessary.
She could state, without being prompted, the
figures he was pointing out on a blackboard ; the
total of an addition sum he had chalked down;
the number he meant to think of next; and many
other things, which all amounted to the one
thing—that Martha and her husband are exceed-
ingly smart mystifiers. It is hard to guess
where Mr. Steen comes in most of the time ;
but he has some deep-laid bearing on the reve-
lations. Perhaps the most solemnly interesting
feature of the Steens’ show is their own
personal lack of individuality. The gentleman
might be Frank Clark, or anyone of a million
other Yankees of his particular brand, whilst
Madame Martha shrieks in the exact accents of
Abigail Prue, the masculine heroine of “ The
County Fair.” Forty years, or fifty, have passed
since Charles Dickens remarked upon the same-
ness ( f most Americans, yet their national weak-
ness for variety-shows doesn’t seem to have made
them any more various.
** * *
The Melbourne “ Pleasant Sunday After-
noon ’’ lure is not at all the beautiful thing that it
is painted; The programme of the first was as
follows Cornet solo, “The Lost Chord”—or
chords, as it happened, for the instrument was
u 7; V( > UR , an d dropped several notes ; three hymns,
Grown Him,” “Whiter than Snow,” and “On-
ward Christian Soldiers ; ” the Lord’s Prayer, by
the audience; two solo hymns and choruses;
one long-winded prayer, in which the Lord
was beseoched to make masters “condescending”
and men “ respectful ;” one chapter of the Bible,
load by a toothless Methuselah who broke down
In .t' ie middle of it, and cried aloud for “larger
l )n ! | t! ” one Methodistical exhortation to “come
and be saved,” long-winded like the aforesaid ;
several apologies for people who didn’t turn up ;
ami, as a finale, one wail over the land-boom by
a Supreme Court Judge who “ had been there.”
* # #
The “Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ’’afore-
said, was advertised “ for men only in order, as
tne. reverend an< l w dy originator admitted, “te
excite, curiosity.” Consequence—a prurient
c 1 11 , ‘ < c ifill who were disappointed at the absence of
anything in the shape of “social science,” and
ywiwted at having to sing hymns and say “Our
alher which art in Heaven,” &c. Dozens of
women gathered at the church door to see the
audience exit. How is it that women always do
gatucr to see the audience come out from meetings
tor men only ? ”
At the far end of Josh Lake’s picture-show
at Melbourne National Gallery, they dispense
afternoon tea in a painfully friendly manner.
Tabbies sit and sip their refreshment as though
the place belonged to them, and a mere casual
stranger, who has paid his shilling to enter the
show, finds himself shut out from this room by his
natural indisposition to intrude upon a select
social gathering. “Get out, miserable interloper
—can’t you see that this is holy ground !” the tea-
drinkers seem to say.
At Poverty Point.
“Little” Penley, the present London theatrical sensa-
tion, has to thank our own Johnny Wallace (of Melb.
Alhambra) for his first “show.” It’s just about 18 years
since Wallace put Penley in the Royal chorus, and kept
him there, for many months, anyhow.
A London rag (ms discovered that Marie Brooke (late of
Australian leg parts) is “an ardent Home Ruler and
already gives promise of a very earnest Radicalism.”
Which means that Marie is snorting vigorously at the
infernal family pride of her husband’s relatives.
Bishop Moorhouse, it seems, occasionally goes to see a
play which he thinks will do him good, but not to the
pantomime, because he has no children, and would hardly
be likely to go for his own amusement. It has apparently
never occurred to the Doctor that the ballet might do him
good.
Extracted from an advance puff paragraph in Melb.
Standard : “ The famous Chas. N. Steen was recently
summoned to the White House to give an entertainment.
President Garfield, who had never witnessed this class of
performance, displayed greatest interest in the experi-
ments of the great wonder-worker. It will be learned
with pleasure that the famous professor will shortly
appear at St. George’s Hall.” If Steen recently appeared
before Pres. Garfield he must be a wonder-worker.
Queen Victoria “commanded” a performance of
“ Becket,” at Windsor, last month, and was graciously
pleased to say that Irving answered to her own private
idea of what the murdered prelate looked like. V.R.
really believes that Henry 11. was her distant ancestor,
and always gazes abstractedly at the ceiling when the
name of Fair Rosamond is mentioned. As a member of
the family she considers that Fair Rosy was a “crealure.”
The Prince of Wales, it has been lately observed, is
losing his taste for burlesque, and begins to turn his
thoughts more towards the legitimate drama. We fear
that Bertie will end up by being drefful good.
On the first night Ryley appeared in the seem d act of
“The Mountebmks” attired in an elderly wig and
wrinkles. Evidently the management have been com-
pelled to concede this point; for the flowing curls and
youthful countenance continue now throughout the whole
action of the play.
Edward H. Arrowsmith—or, as he was known through-
out Australasia, “Teddy Ryan"—died of phthisis, in
Melb. Homeopathic Hospital, 26th March. Not one of
the many persons whom Teddy had helped in the days of
his success, attended his funeral—only relatives and stage-
hands of the “ supe ” and ballet crowds, who loved Teddy
for his careless generosity .and simplicity of style when
“in it.” Teddy was the low-comedy idol at Melbourne
Old Princess’s years ago.
Amongst those who threaten to do a lecturing tour in
Australia is Jerome K. Jerome.
There is a story current that Irving cut Kendal dead
lately in the Garrick Club. The cause is a woman’s
tongue. “ She ” has been “ saying things ”of Irving and
Ellen Terry, of whom she is profoundly jealous.
Mrs. Waud, daughter of Mr. Call, P.M. of Melbourne,
has been on tour in the English provinces with the
Kendals, and at latest was looking for a London engage-
ment. She is a fairly good actress.
A lady writes to the Yankee pre-s, that, although Ada
Rehan was the figure for the Chicago statue, she, the
correspondent, posed tor the “ more feminine outlines.”
The obverse and reverse of the penny. The Melbourne
morning papers on the Bijou “Adventuress.”
A new German brass band fascinates in the Melbourne
streets with Schubert, and the like.
Walter Bentley, from Aberdeen awa’ or thereaboots, is
nothing if not a patriot, and, wherever he goes, always
gets the patronage of the local Caledonian Society'.
“ Where shall I find the secretary' of the Caledonian
Society ?” enquired he the other day on entering a N.S.
Wales town. Chorus: “In Bathurst gaol.” It broke
Bentley right up.
A pretty quarrel among the Anglican saints of Upokon-
garo, Taranaki, M.L. The lay-reader'waa one Owen, who
yearned to unite church and stage, and so joined the
Dampiers when they recently played Maoriland. The
tour proved a frost and the lay-reader returned to lay-
reading, but the curate would have none of him and cast
the unclean thing out. Then the congregation arose as
one man and howled for the lay-reader, and the
curate locked up the church and went home with the
key. and the dramatic lay-reader and the flock had to
perform their orisons in a schoolroom. The bishop has
backed the lay-preacher and censured the parson.
Tommy Hudson, the minstrel entrepreneur, will manage
the Antoinette Sterling concerts, commencing in May.
Mrs. T. P. Hudson (May Habgood) will be solo-pianiste
and accompaniste.
The stupidity of human nature was abundantly evinced
in the mad enthusiasm of the Gaiety good-bye at Sydney
Lyceum. Fat money-lenders and their fleshy fraus w'ere
just as hysterical as the gallery gamins.
Despite bad times, “ Man for Man ” ran for five weeks at
Sydney Her Majesty’s ; “ Niobe ” for six at the Criterion.
Harry Lyons (who piloted the original Blondin through
Australia) has just returned from a raid upon India with
a variety co. Which somehow reminds us of Burves,
Q.C.’s, cross-examination of Harry' in the action against
jubilee-singer Loudin by a dismissed agent. Purves,
Q.C., for plaintiff, asked Lyons—he had been called as an
“expert.”—if he knew the difference between a good
agent and a bad one. “Of course,” replied Harry.
“Then define it tor the Court, sir,” said Purves, Q.C.,
with unusual amiability. “Well,” said Harry, “it’s
difficult to define. But I should say a good agent is a
man who takes a good show on to good territory by a
good route, and to gopd business.” “So that’s a good
agent, is it, sir?” said Purves, Q.C. “Will you kindly
tell the Court, now', your definition of a bad one?”
“ Well,” said Harry, diffidently, “I think a bad one would
be a man who would take a company into Lai Lai for two
nights and expect to come out solvent.” “That’ll do.
Come down!” said Purves, Q.C. “ You’re not an agent.
You’re a comedian !”
“ Glitter” is what the habitues of the Melb. Royal have
nick-named George (star) Darrell.
Tom Fitzgerald, of the circus of that ilk, goes to Paris
in May to cultivate a bulky baritone. Apropos. Recently
a variety co. was in a country town, struck on the same
night by Fitzgerald’s Circus (equivalent to being struck
by lightning in country towns), owing to a blunder of the
agent. As they had to shut up, they were at their wits’
ends for amusement, when a brilliant suggestion was
thrown out by the sentimental tenor and adopted. “ Let’s
keep,” said he; “let’s keep Mozart (the show’s pianist)
sober, and after the circus is over we’ll get Tom Fitz-
gerald to sing and have a good night of it.” The result
of the suggestion accounts for red sunsets seen in the
direction of that country town for several days following.
A leading London actress lately insisted on having her
dressing-room removed from being next to the ballet,
because of their frightful language.
Can Muzzy be entrusted to engage a prima donna?
The Wild-Cat Column.
The only way to restore confidence in Australian
banks is to have periodical valuations by independent
Government experts of the “bills receivable and other
securities ” (especially other securities). It is on the latter
only that the balance-sheets can be rigged to suit the
directors’ books.
# # *
Judged by the quoted price of the shares, a man
with £5OO cash could, at the preseat moment, acquire 75
per cent, of the interests in three Victorian com-
panies with united paid-up capital of a million sterling.
* # *
The manager of a leading Victorian bank, which
“ dummied ” extensively during the land-boom, offered
his creditors a “composition by arrangement” of 6d in
the £ last week.
• • •
A big Australian assurance co. has a mort-
gage of over £123,000 on a station property, which
property is now on offer for £BO,OOO (no buyer).
** " #
The professional “ dummy ” is in great request
just now in Melbourne. His stock-in-trade is a swell
name, clean record, and swagger residence (in wife’s
name). Charges, 2J per cent, cash per £lOO liability.
One paid dummy has accepted transfer of liabilities to
the tune of £280,000 during the past few months, and has
not a shilling of his own outside of the commission thus
earned.
* * #
Woollqongabba Stephens, late M.L.A. (Q.),
charges Lilley with intent to break the Q.N. Bank, An-
other way of saying Lilley wants to break MTlwraithism.
Synonyms !
* * *
Service cannot stand it. Both he and Von
Mueller came originally to Australia for their health.
* « «
Verdon had a superstition that luck would
depart from the E.S. & A. Ohartereo Bank, when he gave
up residence.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —Re Kingston’s remark at
Melb, Commercial Bank meeting “ that he was a Uni-
tarian, and believed in one God and one hank,” why
didn’t he give the whole of the Unitarian creed viz.: One
God, no Devil, and 20s. in the £ ? Did he think it
wouldn’t suit the times?—State Bank.
* * a
Manager T. A. Dihbs; “No bank with its
head-office in Sydney has yet suspended payment.”
* a #
Manager Boyd (Union Bank, Sydney) No
wonder banks of the E.S. and A.C. ’stamp suspend pay-
ment. But there are are plenty of banks left to do the
business the weaker ones will lose.” This is straight and
devoid of hypocritical snivel. It is the complacent talk
of a confident man with a strong bank behind him. The
Union has a reserve liability of £3,000,000.
* * *
According to the solemn statements of the Mel-
bourne press there has been a wild rush of new depositors
to both the Commercial and the E. S. and A. Chartered
Banks. At this rate there will soon he no depositors left
for the unhappy banks that have not gone through the
confidence-inspiring form of suspension.
# * *
The one objectionable result of strengthening
the capital of Victorian hanks is the maintenance of arti-
ficial value for land which represents the locked up
securities of such banks. Says Melh. Age : “ Our elastic
Banking Act, as amended to suit the convenience of the
times, admitted loans on real property. This, it may be
said, was the first step in the land-boom. Money which
could find no other outlet was utilised for making
advances on land and properties; and these securities,
though valuable in themselves, are, it may be said, now
practically un realisable.”
* * #
The English Scottish and Australian Bank
lost some Melbourne confidence on account of the churchy
appearance of the head office. A shabby, disreputable-
looking bank with dirty windows and grimy old clerks,
would be the sort to invite confidence nowadays. Too
many of the Melb. edifices seem to have been built for
bluffing purposes.
# * #
A cautious Melbourne man twelve months back
had £5OOO, which he split into three sums and banked in
three banks, all of which have since carefully smashed.
* m #
The majority of the Mercantile bank directors
were capable of nothing, and the minority capable of
anvthing.
# * #
“Leave off your damnable faces, and begin.”
The Melbourne public wants the mock murderers of the
Mercantile men to leave off their mugging, and find their
foregone conclusion.
* # #
Commercial Bank rules, under the new coddle ;
1. No shareholder to sell. 2. No depositor to draw. A
bank is a place where you lock up your money.
* * *
The affairs of yet another N.S.W. “deposit
bank”—this time a comparatively trumpery affair, pre-
sided over by a small but aggressive land-jobber who has
managed to get hold of a good many small sums fixed at
long terms—will soon arouse public attention in the con-
ventional way. When the jobbing “banker” is forced
into insolvency, a strong effort will be made to run him
into “ where he belongs ’’—quod.
* * #
The Union Bank bought 108 feet of land in
Hunter-st., Sydney, adjoining its present premises, for
£21,675, or for £20,000 within the price brought by the
property a few years ago. However, it is better now-a-
days to have your money in honest rent-paying property
—no matter how small the rent—than in the average
bank. People may light their pipes with hank deposit-
receipts, hut never with the title-deeds of freehold
property.
* * #
Dear Bulletin, —A brief consideration arising
out of the many recent hank prosecutions. What is the
average of convicted theft to the unconvicted and unsus-
pected? Is one in ten a fair proportion? It seems to me
very reasonable. There are, at present, on a low estimate,
between 20 and 30 convicted hank officials, building-
society directors, and other promiscuous sharks of one-
time good standing in Melbourne. Pursuing,, there-
fore, the line of argument laid down, it follows
that there are between 200 and 300 of the same gentry in
this city who are not in gaol at present, but who ought
to he. —Yours truly, -Toby Twist. Melh.
# * *
A member of the Davies family was a depositor
in a recently-suspended Melbourne bank and intended to
attend the meeting hut for the entreaties of the hank’s
prominent officials. “For God’s sake, don’t show your-
self in the room, or you’ll ruin the whole concern tor
good.” He saw it in that light himself and discreetly
remained away.
* # •
It is stated up South that a very prominent
politician is “into” a large financial institution to the
tune of a quarter of a million. This may account for a lot
of things.
* * *
One of the heartiest denouncers of “panic” at
the Athenseum (Melb.) meeting of Commercial depositors is
a partner in a firm that drew £BOOO out of that same hank
on the last day of its old life. He would, of course, argue
that the money was left in longer than other people’s,
anyway.
# * *
During the Commercial Bank’s suspension in
Brisbane a depositor of £5OO offered to sell out at £250,
and another of £l2OO at 17s. Cd. per pound.
• # »
The Northern syndicate gang have their lives to
fight for. Should the Democratic party win the general
election, the enormous amount of Government cash held
by a certain hank, may he withdrawn.
* # #
Dear Bulletin,—The story you toll about “ t he
only Queensland man who won over Glenloth " last Melh.
Oup) has a sequel. The same man, after fixing his
“ double ” money (Paris and Glenloth), £l5OO, in the
Commercial of Australia, struck another “double” by
opening a “current’,' account in the E.S. and
Yours, Kras Billy, Brisbane (Q.)
* * *
The immense ironstone outcrop on Block 12 of
the Broken Hill Proprietary mine, the removal of vthich
was decreed under the open-cut scheme, will have entirely
disappeared by about the middle of next month. This
portion of the hill was a prominent landmark in the early
days, and i t was upon its slope that the police erected the
breastworks during the late strike.
* # #
The howl of Bendigo and Gympie miners about
old shipments of bad gelatine and dynamite in use on
both fields, has at last been effectually heard. Hundreds
of oases of the dangerous rubbish have been towed down
Hobson’s Bay for destruction ; hundreds of other cases
have been condemned. It is declared that some of
this stuff has been here 20 years and has decomposed,
with the result that sometimes only half the charge
explodes and the fumes are even more deadly than those
of the genuine articles.
* # #
The Mareirreturns from Charters Towers (Q.)
show 21,365 ozs. of gold from 15,705 tons of stone. To
this the Victory contributed 4710 ozs. from 1340 tons.
» # »
The Austin amalgamator is doing good work on
tailings in Victoria. Its distinctive feature is that it is
built oyer a furnace, the heat of which keeps the quick-
silver lively. The inventor claims that by this machine
otherwise incapacitated miners can make a living on many
discarded tailing heaps.
* # #
A shipment of 5100 carats of emeralds is
announced by the New Emerald Proprietary Co. It is
also said that'the week’s output is 1000 carats. The
public hear everything of that mine save what they would
like to know—the product’s value.
• # •
Considering the regularity of their dividends,
the comparative permanency of the ore bodies and the
low rate of bank interest, there are to-day several Gympie
mines whose shares are a good investment. Prices are so
low that lace regular dividends represent from 30 to 100
percent, on the shares’ market value.
* * *
The brutal fact disclosed by the working of
N.S.W. gold-reefs is that they don’t pay. If the figures
were obtained, they would probably show that to win
N.S.W. reef-gold costs more than double its value.
* # #
Nowhere is ever-treaeherons gold so precarious
and patchy as in N.S.W. Take HillgrOve. It has but
one dividend-paying mine—never had any other. Who
could have imagined that the first reef found, five years
ago, in a deep gorge, miles in extent, would be the only
one worked profitably ? Yet this particular shoot is
consistently rich, and the present workings, measured
from the tablelands of the gorge, represent a depth of
nearly 2000 feet. Many other reefs have been worked,
and tens of thousands spent; indeed, the same reef out-
side the parent mine has never been profitably exploited!
Of course, “some say’’ Hillgrove will have many divi-
dend-paying mines. Sufficient for the day are the non-
dividend-paying mines thereof.
* • •
„ Acting-manager Kerr, of Sydney Permanent
Freehold L. and B. Co., Limited, finds fault with a recmt
“\V ild Cat ” par. He states that by a large majority at a
recent meeting of the Co.’s depositors it was agreed to
renew deposits for two years at 4 per cent, interest, and
at the end of that time to hold another meeting of
depositors to consider the financial position of the Co.
“At the date of the meeting of the depositors the
Co. had borrowed from the A.M.P. Society £llO,OOO,
hut had repaid that institution £52,559 145., besides
paying to depositors £129,093 13s. Bd. in principal
and interest. The £llO,OOO was not borrowed to
pay a certain section of the depositors ; but to
assist in paying (according to arrangements confirmed by
the Court) the deposits of £25 and under as they
matured, and one-third of the principal and interest of all
other deposits—which has been done. The liability now
to depositors is the same all round- 13s. 4d. in the £
The Sydney Permanent has paid to its depositors, since
the * panic of ’9l, a greater proportion of the principal
sum of the deposits than any other financial institution in
the city which had to suspend payment at that time.
That is saying a good deal.”
* * #
Somebody has taken up the old Specimen Hill
and surrounding claims on Bendigo—for the London
market, it is said. The London market will hardly care
for the ground.
» * #
The transitions of gold-mines correspond with
the changes of fortune in the life of mining men and other
gamblers. For many years the Frederick the Great mine,
of Sebastian, Bendigo district, was true to name. It was
famed for the magnitude of its cakes and dividends. Now
we read: “Tributors crushed 44 tons for 17oz. lldwts ;
cleaned copper plates for 130 z.” Its golden glory is
departed, and its name helps to belittle it.
• * *
From last report of Australian Agricultural
Company: Tempted by the discovery of precious metals
in the southern position of the estate near Stroud, the
manager authorised a little prospecting, which was con-
firmed by the directors.” This English company owns
many miles of auriferous and coal country between
Raymond Terrace and Gloucester, which only a Mining
on Private Property Act would be the means of properly
prospecting. However, only a land-tax will compel the
co. to make better use of it.
The self-satisfied gag is abroad again in
Brisbane (Q.) The Fat Man’s party (according to
Fat Mam’s candidates and Fat Man’s organs) is
the “party of order;” those who object to well-
bellied thievery are the “ party of disorder.”
Questions which the Queensland electors
might try and get answered authoritatively (1)
Is any Minister a shareholder in the Q.N. Bank ?
To what extent? (2) Has he an overdraft there?
If so. how big? (3) Has any Minister any per-
sonal interest in the Meat Freezing Works to
which the Government lately advanced .£12,000?
(4) Does any Minister advocate the construction
by Government of 1000 miles of wire-fencing?
Would this benefit him as a squatter ? (5) Has
the Government placed £1,500,000 public funds
(moreor less) in the Q.N, Bank, without interest?
Does the State pay £OO,OOO annual interest (more
or less) to the British pawnbroker on this idle
money ?
H. A. Rose, of 531 George-street, Sydney,
lias become the pioneer chemist of Australia
to adopt the European system of keeping open
all night. Sickness knows no set hours, and
the new system, although not a week in operation,
hats justified its adoption by results. Hose’s shop
has been connected telephonically with the es-
tablishments of most of the leading medicos, and
holidays may come and nights may go, but Rose
of the unsleeping eye keeps open ever.


11
/W\S
fV
FOKlilli* A AIiSTKAL ISH \
HI M MI'S.
100 different Foreign, 2,0; 100 different
Australasian, 6/-; .Stamp Alliums, 1/lti;
with Catalogue, 6/10 —all post. free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN <sc CO..
The Foreign Slant)) Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY
Backache, stitches in the side, inflation and
soreness of the bowels, are symptoms of a cl is -
ordered state of the digestive and assimilative
organs, which can be corrected by the use of
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills.
AUK YOU DEPRESSED?
Is your digestion impaired? Or does your com-
plexion exhibit an unhealthy pallor? Regulate
your system, with Wolfe’s Schnapps.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOUR.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPAS.
Equips the digestive apparatus with unwonted
tone, renews a regular habit of the body, and
overcomes a tendency to chronic biliousness.
n, “ YOST” Typewriter.
nu
- 11 **MU i |i *irs«s«tr
Invented by Mr. «. W. N. TOST.
Who made Hie “ Remington” in 1873; " CAtloitAPH ” in
1880; Wonderful “YOST” in 1888-89.
mHE “YOST” WRITING MACHINE has a Self-inking
1 Pad in place of the usual dirty and expensive
Ribbons; a “Centre Guide” for the type, preventing
irregular and uneven printing ; a “Pointer,” to indicate
the printing point on the paper; DIRECT PRINTING
from the Steel Type, giving sharp and clear work, and
better carbon copies, etc.
Particulars and Samples of Work free from
The YOST TYPEWRITER CO.,
120 Pitt*Bt., Sydney; and 144 Ellzabeth-st., Melbourne
Personal Items.
Lachlan Macquarie was the last untitled
G ivernor of New South Wales.
David Syme’s indigestion has got much
worse since the Argus came down to a penny.
A Scottish baronet, with a very old title, is
an inspector of conditional purchases at Tamworth
DT.S.W.).
Rev. Ralph Brown has been shifted from
Booth Melb. to Richmond (Vic.), and solatiumed
with a silver tea-service.
Mr. F. Y. Wolseley, brother of General
Wolseley, heads the Tory “ Empire Defence Asso-
ciation ” in Sydney.
Gov. Duff intends to remain in N.S.W.
for the full term of his appointment. But then
his land-steward may die!
G. Republican Dibbs has lost the one per-
sonal enemy lie, perhaps, ever had—John Shep-
herd, solicitor, aged 44 years.
Mrs. L , of London, after “ cleaning
out ” young P , has not, as is her wont, thrown
him over, but keeps him as a lap-dog.
Rev. Scott, the Sydney anti-Incoine-tax-
preaching parson, left Brisbane (Q.) on account of
“God having called him” to his present billet.
Salary about treble what it was !
The old Doan of Melbourne congratulated
the Argus on coming down to a penny, and the
Argus gave tin? venerable gentleman a sub-leader
in honour of bis 91th birthday. Business.
“The Devil is a woman,” says Victor
Daley. “No, men won’t have this because they
are too proud of their vices,” replies Walter
Besant. But their vices are generally women.
Spagnoletti: On Sunday I met a fine, well-
preserved, old gentleman, father of the must
dashing demi-mondaine who ever appeared in
Melbourne, and I suppose she has been dead these
20 years.
What are the odds that venerable Baroness
Burdett-Coutts doesn’t outlive her “ boy-hus-
band ? ” The Barrenness was about 64 when she
married, some 11 years ago, and her present age
is estimated at 53.
Jawbone Neild’s ideal of an upright citizen
and high-minded politician is nonagenarian Alfred
Stephen. This disease attacked J.C.N. about
four years ago and has now reached a stage of in-
tense virulence.
Robert Homburg, the Teutonic S.A.
Attorney-General, was educated for the church,
but took to the law. Premier Downer was also
educated for the church, but should have been —a
prize-fighter.
Phil. Mennell’s British Australian is
rapidly increasing in circulation. He is also now
editing Dalziel’s telegrams. Patchett Martin has
finished Lowell’s biography, and Mannington
Caffyn has a play being read by Tree.
The gentle Purves, Q.C., after being
insulted within the precincts of the court, asserts
that it will be necessary for lawyers to go armed.
Examining lawyer (with a revolver): “ Did you or
did you not see my client steal that sheep ?”
Lord Hopetoun has been far away from
Melbourne during the latest scare, otherwise he
might have gone through the harmless farce of
giving his full vice-regal support to the banks, or
something equally valuable and high sounding.
Rich Joe Clarke, told that lie was giving
his evidence like an affidavit clerk, replied, “I
wish I was one—l would be better off.” This
sounds pathetic, but it isn’t. Joseph is preeious
lucky to have a billet from which he can’t get the
“ sack.”
The Earl of Rosebery, it is cabled, says
that Sydney is “ the happiest habitation on earth.”
Now, the Earl is credited with having said that in
Sydney the people sit on 25-guinea chairs and look
at 25-shilling oleographs. Is their ignorance their
bliss ?
Frank Wright, M.L.A (N.S.W.), is not
the unforgiving man he sometimes describes him-
self. He has lately exerted himself to favourably
influence the fate of the bitterest, most pitiless
enemy of his life, the imprisoned ex-financier
Abigail.
Rov. Dr. Steel, of Sydney, has undertaken
to write on “ Religion in Australia ” for the
Chicago “ Parliament of Religion.” “ Religion in
Australia” is a very safe subject, but “Chris-
tianity in Australia” would have been rather
awkward.
W. T. Stead asserts that he sometimes
writes under the influence of a disembodied spirit
answering to the name of Julia, which grips his
hand and guides the pen, his own brain not being
responsible for what is traced, nor even cognisant
of what is coming.
Walter Griffiths, one of the candidates for
the N. Territory in S.A. Assembly, travelled over
7000 miles in addressing his constituents, includ-
ing a trip overland from Adelaide to Palmerston,
mostly on camel-back. This is probably an easy
world s record.
A well-known Brisbane ban ister, disguised
in liquor, tried to make his way into the local
Supreme Court, the other day. He had a large
loaf under one arm and a bottle under the other.
Failing to gain admittance, he sat down in the
gutter and contentedly fell asleep.
Miss Catherine Spence, for 40 years on
S.A. Register staff, and who has much boomed
the Hare voting system in S. A., is a wonderful
woman. Although 67 years old, Miss Spence
is about to tour the world, mainly to study
education systems, electoral law, insurance
matters, and the tangled silver question !
Marshal Lyle, having got his odds and
ends of Deeming’s effects from the Vic. Crown
Law Department intends to put them up to
auction. Too late. Deeming is dead, personally,
and foradvt. purposes. Even his room at Melb.
Waxworks, where he used to put Emily Mather
under the heirthstone as long as the crime was
worth the space, has been turned into a bush
scene., Deeming’s curse is the only live thing left
of him.
The solicitors for Melbourne Hospital
complain that Dr. Beaney’s lawyer-executor has
put unnecessary difficulties in the way of cashing
up bequests and “taken other steps involving un-
necessary expense.” A letter to this effect being
r ead at a meeting of the Hospital committee, J.
S. Butters, another of Beaney’s executors, observed
that they were between the devil and the deep
sea. But ho didn’t say which was the deep sea,
and which was the devil.
Heaven, as it appears per cable, sent an
aerolite to destroy the statue of John Brown. The
order was given hastily, and the aerolite made
straight for the statue of the patriot J.B,—brave
old J.B. —at Charleston. Need The Bulletin
say that the celestial intention was to knock
down the image of flunkey Brown, Queen Vic-
toria’s faithful gillie, who died of whisky? The
missile was discharged on, as nearly as possible,
the tenth anniversary of flunkey Brown’s decease.
The accomplished Charles Bright, once of
the Argus and lately of the Age, has relinquished
journalism and joined the Australian staff of the
big Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York. For
years Mr. Bright has been little before the public,
but there was a time when he shone as a secular
lecturer whose strong common sense, satirical
powers and literary ability made his name
familiar as a household word.
Some personal opinions : Griffith :
“Parkes is a mass of egotism.” Parkes ; “Griffith
seems incapable of comprehending anything.”
Lilley ; “ Parkes never sent me his ‘ poems.’ Ho
sent them to Palmer, and I told Palmer' that
Parkes had a poor opinion of his intelligence.”
MTlwraith ; “Griffith is like Dizzy—it’s all for
Sam. Imprison Griffith in a tower, with a pencil
and a piece of paper, and ho will proceed to draw
up an Act of Parliament.” Parkes : “ Dibbs is a
man with a weedy nature and a sprawling mind.”
Dibbs: “Parkes is a drivelling old idiot.” S:
“Parkes was never in earnest about anything
except insolvencies.” P.’s opinion of S. is also on
record.
Solomon Blay,
the octogenarian
Tasmanian ex-
hangman, has
turned “ serious ”
since his recent
narrow escape
from cremation
(reported in The
Bulletin). He
has purchased a
Bible which, he
informs all and
sundry in myster-
ious whispers, he
has read right
through without
being able to find
anything convinc-
ing in it about
“ the next world. ”
The old man, who
has opened for so
many hundreds
the door which
must soon be shut
upon himself, is
pathetically anx-
ious to know some-
thing of the here-
after, and the look
of haunting terror
in his eyes as he
eagerly clutches at
a listener to his
enquiries, is a
sight to remem-
ber. The hoary
ex - choker may
well want a light-
ed candle at his
bedside when his
thoughts travel
over ground cum-
bered by such
memories as his.
Recent events
recall Draper, the
swindling accoun-
tant of the Mel-
bourne Commer-
cial Bank, afore-
time. His fad was
the accumulation
of a sumptuous
library, in magni-
ficently - bound
editions. His
father was the
eminent Wes-
leyan clergyman,
drowned in the
London, with G.
V. Brookeand Dr.
Woolley.
Marriott - Watson’s last move is note-
worthy. The P.M. Gazette having been bought
by Astor, who means to put money into it and
run it as a bright Unionist organ, Watson was
offered the sub-editorship. Then this cheeky
Maorilander told them that he must have a free
hand to write as he liked, and that he was at
heart a Gladstonian, &c., &c., and still they took
him. He (M.W.) will be a big man someday,
not from power, but from the universal love and
respect he inspires.
J. J. Fitzgerald, worshipped of the Bun-
garee savages, at the Melb. Home Rule meeting,
on 11th, said he once entered the old Irish House
of Lords, College Green, and marked a chair
“J. J. Fitzgerald.” If that chair is there 20
years hence, he says, he will occupy it. Mean-
while, Fitz. is content with a dry-goods business at
Ballarat, but he is one of those fat. self-satisfied
persons who would mark out for himself a front
seat in heaven if he could only get hold of the box-
plan.
When Lord Rosebery was lionised in
Sydney, he was towed out one day by George
Reid, then Minister for Public Instruction, to the
Crown-street public school, at Surry Hills, vyhere
a grand parade of the cadets was organised in his
honour. It was a blazing hot day, and George
perspired freely while he was orating on the
beauties of the cadet system, until he was cut
short by Rosebery’s saying: “The little chaps
would be better inside.” Right about face —quick
march !
Abigail has lately been dosed with cham-
pagne, and seems rather to like it. It is not sent
into prison by his friends, but comes out of the
“ medical comforts ” on the doctor’s orders, and
is paid for by the ungrateful taxpayers. The Bul-
letin merely mentions this as an interesting fact
—it cordially upholds the system under which the
gaol-doctor has power to provide for even the
most miserable convict, sick and in the hospital,
everything which humanity and science could
furnish for the millionaire.
An excited orator attracted a large crowd
near Adelaide Stock Exchange the other day. In
loud tones, and with much gesticulation, he was
anathematising a quiet-looking gentleman who
stood by, serenely smoking his pipe. “I’ve got
two legal gentlemen engaged,” yelled the excitable
one. “ Yes ! and the Honourable Charles Cameron
Kingston is one of them ! And I will send for
Mr. Marshall Lyle 1 Yes, sir! Mr. Marshall
Life— he’ll bury you and your newspaper, ho will
that. There, sir !!” “ But,” said the quiet man,
with a puzzled air, “ who is Mr. Marshall Lyle ?”
For a moment the orator was dumb; then, in a
melodramatic shriek, he replied ; “ Who is Mr.
Marshall Lyle ?! ! ! He is the man who defended
Dcemintj !/” Such is fame.
Alfred Allen, the red-headed N.S.W.
poet-legislator, physical caricature in petto of
Parkes, in taking up sericulturist Brady and sing-
ing the praises of the silkworm and the rich and
glossy product of the mulberry tree, sends
Memory, pick in hand, to an obscure burying-
gronnd. Alfred’s father lived and legislated and
died the hierarch of “colonial ” tweed. He wore
tweed week-days, he wore it Sundays, ho wore it
merry-making and when duty called him to be
sad. He would tolerate silk in no fibre of his
garments. Once he went to Government House
to attend a levee, but, as he did not appear in the
ANOTHER INSOLVENT.
SHE : “For the health and strength you possess, my man, you owe a debt
of gratitude-”
EXHAUSTED TRAVELLER: “ Well, mum, I would pay anything I owed if I
only had work, but I suppose I’ll have to file my schedule
like the rest of ’em.”
cut and colour of the fashionable evening wear, he
was refused admittance. Now, Alfred trumpets
the cause of silk hats, silk breeches and silk stock-
ings, and prays for the time when sericulture will
be the main occupation of the people of N.S.W.
Dear Bulletin, —lie the “ ghosts of the
past ” set a-walking by ex-Premier Jennings’ re-
appearance in N.S.W. Leg. Council. Did you
ever know that Jennings once tried hard to be a
poet? He kept a store in St. Arnaud (Vic.)
years ago, and was very chummy with Surveyor
Wills, who afterwards came to grief with Richard
O’Hara Burke. Indeed, it is almost certain that
Pat Jennings good-naturedly got Wills the ap-
pointment that led to his death. Well, the late
laureate Tennyson’s “In Memoriam ” grovel on
“Albert the Good” reached Victoria soon after
it was a public certainty that Burke and Wills
had perished. At Cup-cup Station there resided
one Walters, a relative of London Times Walters.
Pat Jennings jagged out a parody on Tennyson’s
“ In Memoriam,” Pat’s imitation being intended
to embalm the heroic memory of Wills. A friend of
mine was asked to take Pat’s MS. over to Walters
with a friendly request that the literary squatter
of Cup-cup—he was then believed to contribute
articles to the distant Times would be so
good as to edit it and pronounce an opinion.
Walters groaned over it for several hours of one
night, and next morning returned it with a com-
ment which read something like this—“ Horrible
trash ! To be made fit for print, it should bo torn
up and an entirely new poem written I”—Yours,
Gi.
Dear Bulletin, — Your extracts from
“The Prince of the Red Desert ” in Frank
Leslie’s Illustrated, seem to have aroused some
interest in its author. “M‘G.” is right in recog-
nising in your “ Mr. Gustafson ” that bright little
lady, Mrs. Zadel Barnes Gustafson, though it is
not fair of “M‘G.”tocall her the “long named
temperance and social gimlet crank.” She is
much more than that. I have in my possession a
short sketch of her literary career written in 1889
by the editor of Harper’s Magazine. Therein I
find that Mrs. Gustafson, in her girlhood, was a
successful contributor to such high-class journals
as the Springfield Republican, the Howe
Journal and the N. Y. Independent. Her first
big hit was “The Voice of Christmas Past,” a
tribute to Dickens and the first written after
his death, which appeared in Harper, in
1871. Her centenary tribute to Scott, “ The
Bard of Abbotsford,” likewise published in
Harper, was another excellent piece of literary
work. The volume of verses mentioned by
“M‘G.” was published by Mrs. Gustafson in
1878 under the title of “ Meg : a Pastoral.” The
book attracted much notice in America. Whittier
wrote: “It (Meg) is as sweet and melodious as
the songs of the thrushes and song-sparrows in
spring. But thy elegy on Bryant! I can only
compare it with Milton’s Lyoidas. It is worthy
of any living poet at least.” Of her poem, “The
Flower of May,” Bryant said : “It is the most
exquisite dress that flower has ever worn in the
English language.” Edwin P. Whipple, the
great critic, also praised the book highly,
while Longfellow said: “The book places
her beyond doubt in the foremost ranks of
the younger poets.” Longfellow also thought
so highly of her Swedish sketch, “Karin,” that
he strongly advised her to dramatise it. Mrs.
Gustafson also wrote a strikingly original novel,
“Can the Old Love?” Her short stories have
appeared in most of the best American magazines.
From 1880 to 1889 Mrs. Gustafson lived chiefly in
London, where she was on intimate terms with
such notable people as the Southeys and Cole-
ridges, Charles Reade, Orion Horne, and Philip
Bourke Marston. At the end of 1889 she and her
husband, Axel Gustafson, came to Melbourne,
where Axel, a very tall, striking-looking man
who always wore a flannel suit and a big black
slouch hat, made a great hit as a temperance lec-
turer. This was not their original vocation. It was
what they saw of intemperance in the East end of
London that started them on their crusade against
the liquor habit. Husband and wife together
wrote a notable book called “ The Foundation of
Death : a Study of the Drink Question,” which
has had a phenomenal sale. While here, she wrote
an excellent paper in the Centennial Magazine
called “ Why is there a Woman Question?” Dar-
ing her residence in Melbourne she was a notice-
able figure in the street, partly from her habit of
wearing dresses cut low at the neck (and a very
pretty neck she had), and partly from the bright
colours she affected. By her advocacy of a
literary women’s club on the lines of the American
“Sorosis,” she was the innocent cause of that pre-
tentious institution known as the Austral Salon.
The Gustafsons returned to America early in 1890,
the lady taking with her a large amount of Aus-
tralian literary material. Undoubtedly her
apotheosis of Jungun was simply a “fill up,”
written for the paper, of the staff of which, by
the way, she has always been a prominent member.
—Yours, truly, Steele Grey.
Who Discovered America?
This question will, perhaps, never be answered.
True, the year 1893 should see some celebration in
honour of the 400th anniversary of the discovery
of America by Columbus, but there are those whc
believe, and for good reasons, too, that this
country was known 500 or 1000 years before Chris-
topher the Navigator was born. Chinese-
Buddhist monks are known to have settled in
Mexico in the Fifth Century of our era, and St.
Brendan, the Irishman, visited some unidentified
spot on that continent about 100 years later. We
have all proof that is needed of Leif Ericson’s
visit to Vinland (coast of New England) in the
year 1000. Ericson’s settlement flourished for
more than 100 years before being finally aban-
doned on account of internal dissensions. Madoc,
Prince of Wales, is said to have landed on ‘ a
great continent to the west’ in 1170. Take all
these into consideration, and then answer : Who
discovered Clements Tonic? And reply, Mr.
Clements. What is it good for? Every kind of
disease caused by a weakened state of the system.
Clements Tonic is a food—not a physic. It con-
tains in an elegant combination every constituent
of the coporeal structure, it forms flesh, bone and
muscle, cures neuralgia, nervousness, and all
nerve and brain diseases. Indigestion, sour
stomach, and all dyspeptic troubles. An infallible
remedy for Liver complaint and all Kidney
diseases. Its efficacy is proved, every paper
teems with evidences of its virtues, similar to that
of Mrs. Sarah J. Linsley, Macquarie-street,
Plattsburg, New South Wales, who writes on
February 4, 1893 ;—Having suffered for some time
from general debility with extreme weakness, I
tried various remedies without receiving any
benefit. My nerves were quite unstrung, in fact
I was incapable of performing my household
duties with any degree of pleasure. Hearing of
the wonderful curative powers of Clements Tonic
from a lady friend of mine I was induced to try it,
I did so, and am happy to say with the most
beneficial results. 1 am only too happy to re-
commend it at all times.—Wishing you every
success, I remain, yours sincerely, Mrs. Sarah J.
Linsley, Macquarie-street, Plattsburg, N.S.W
By the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, the bloom of
health may be restored to the system which has
become enfeebled with disease. The best vitalizer
and blood-purifier is Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. Sold
by all druggists.
THE RESULTS OF IMPAIRED
Digestion are poverty of the blood, biliousness,
constipation and debility. These are remedied by
the regulator of the organs, Wolfe’s Schnapps,


PHOTOGRAPHY.
i
(Portrait Photographers)
■R-oyal Arcade, Sydney.
UK ■
Messrs. Charlemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
K'Hns rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
without doubt establish itself very soon as
°f the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
1 holography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
<£49,460 wortl > for d£l.
Sec Amusement
Cc’uain.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &o.
22 it 24 4'l«ri'iice-s(rcet,
SYDNEY.
I
-
BBSSbus
m
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Digs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing-,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various;
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydsey.
ì
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ulster is “ the curse of Cromwell.”
MTlwraith’s policy—Grab. Lilley’s—
Crab.
MTlwraith is hereby requested to consider
the Lilley.
Lilley will kill MTlwraith, and probably
cripple himself in the process.
It is only the third party in the Legislature
which really represents the people.
The big dailies are only watchdogs that
bark the louder the more they are fed.
The brilliant S.A. Labour successes are a
hopeful augury for the Queensland battle,
Ex-Parson Rutledge, afraid of the Towers
miners, is going to run Drake for Enoggera.
The N.S.W. Single-taxers think of inviting
Henry George to pay a second visit to Australia.
Queensland offered a land-tax by the Pure
Merino crowd ? Ha ! ha! ha! This is tew mutch !
There are, in Maoriland, 1400 State
schools, all completely free. Compulsory attend-
ance is the law.
It is facetiously stated that the Dibbs
Government is in extremis , having called in the
doctor (M‘Laurin).
The expense of running 13 Labour candi*
dates at S.A. elections was met by a levy of six*
pence on every unionist.
The Argus takes the Age’s wind again,
and opposes the syndicate now being hatched to
grab the Victorian railways.
The new Queensland Liberal-Democratic
party had better get out of the light, and let people
see the real issues to be fought.
Two questions for every MTlwrathian
candidate: “What is the amount of your over-
draft ?” And, “ What bank?”
No less than five members of Melbourne
Trades’ Hall applied for the vacant secretaryship
cf the local Employers’ Association !
Carnegie styles Capital and Labour as
“twin brothers.” Yes; but Capital, though the
last twin born, takes all the joint inheritance.
MTlwraith : our dictionary gives the mean-
ing of wraith as “ the apparition of a person
about to die.” Ominous ! Next election MTI.
him.
Of the ex-Coalitionist Ministry, Unmack,
Tozer and Cowley stand a first-rate show of being
“left.” Griffith cleared out on circuit during the
fight.
J. L. Parsons, ex-clergyman and famous
as the “eccentric ” member of last S.A. Assembly,
was prevailed upon not to stand for Parliament
again.
J. L. Dow, who will have to formally go
through the Victorian Insolvency Court after all,
borrowed .£097, on a promissory-note, from G. N.
Taylor’s bank.
J. L. Dow’s liabilities, £25,683; deficiency,
£24,535 ! —truly a typically Parliamentary bank-
ruptcy. David Syme is amongst the mourners—
£lo3, money lent.
MTlwraith, wTien he walked on to the
platform at Brisbane Centennial Hall, on 11th
inst,, was greeted with “ Where’s your pal,
Slippery Sam ?’’
Hardacre, designer of the eloquent land*
grab map, graduated from the Co-operative
Butchering Co., Brisbane (Q. ). He contests Leich-
hardt against Paul.
Amusing to see the N.S.W. National
Ass now claiming in the press that the
squashed vote for “ Thrift ” was considered quite
a subsidiary question.
MTlwraith has persuaded Presbyterian
meonister M‘S-waine to call down the blessing
of God on his land-grab-c«m-coolie candidature
m North Brisbane (Q.).
In Queensland now the intelligent and
reputable MTlwraithian candidate “escapes
quietly through the rear,” while “ tho rabble pan-
demoniumise in front.”
How quickly the shadow of an approaching
N.S.W. election caused ex-M.P. Reginald Black,
again coming out for Mudgee, to shed the snake-
skin of the “ Thrift ” vote !
The result of North Brisbane election
depends wholly upon the completeness or other-
wise with which the voting-rolls have been doc-
tored during the last two years.
After all, the Argus doesn’t deserve so
touch credit for its crusade against the boomers.
It didn’t drop Davies and Co. until they had
obviously ceased to be big capitalists,
A nice little land-grab scheme is being
‘carefully hatched in S.A. Already several poli-
ticians have been corrupted, but throe certain sup-
porters will not be in the new S.A. Assembly.
The sneaking Brisbane Telegraph is the
latest apostate from the ex-fetished MTlwraith.
Irom MTlwraith to Lilley is as far as from Cape
*ork to the Great Australian Bight.
Billy Smith—who writes his name William
cunyth—the former M.P. fgr Gympie (Q.) is but-
toning for MTlwraith and land-grab. The
Gympie miners will this time dishonour that Bill.
Brisbane Courier correspondent: “Every
capitalist isn’t a Gould, neither every labourer a
Burns.” So ! But every capitalist wants to be a
Gould, and every labourer a Burns. That’s just
it.
Salomons, Q.C., in N.S.W. Council not
only voted against the “ thrift ” clause, but
actually spoke twice strongly and logically against
it. You can never account for the actions of an
advocate.
W. P. Crick insidiously acquaints re-
proachful friends with the early Parliamentary
career of “ Randy Churchill.” He means no
more by it than “ Come and look at Crick ten
years hence.”
It is just possible that a proposal for the
alteration of N.S.W. Legislative Council, limiting
the tenure of nominees to 10 years, will be shortly
introduced. The term ought not to be longer than
five years at most.
There were over 70 members of N.S.W.
Council present when the final “thrift ” vote dis-
cussion came, but 30 of them faded away ere the
vote was taken. They fain would have said “Yea”
and dared not say “Nay.”
The National Ass politely alludes to the
N.S.W. Labour-party as “the scum which arises
when the pot boils.” That is a good phrase, but
the fact remains that you can’t keep the “ scum ”
from rising when the pot does boil.
Most of the “ cronk ” ex-members for the
Brisbane suburban constituencies didn’t dare to
face the electors straight out. Their sneaky meet-
ings were held under cover of the hours when
outraged Democracy listened to Lilley.
For five years MTlwraith hasn’t dared to
face his constituency in public. When at last he
was compelled to, the Centennial Hall, holding a
thousand people, was filled by ticket from the
rear while half Brisbane surged outside in the
streets. When the doors were flung open the
democracy flooded the plutocracy out, and pande-
monium resulted. Five years’ pent-up indignation
broke loose.
n i j p ,
5! i
iii|S
Siili
ill 11
THIS DEGENERATE AGE.
PAREES (in his Rochdale, N.S, W., lecture) : “In the time of my father there was no gas.”
All the Sydney dailies, excepting only tho
Star, directly or indirectly oppose payment of
members. And, as the Star is a nigger-labour
and land-grant-railway organ, it is probably only
gammoning on tho question first-named.
Fish Creek, near the Q. border, produces
for the general elections a candidate whose front
political plank is the exclusion from Parliament of
all single men and widowers. Celibacy is, he con-
tends,' incompatible with good citizenship.
“In Australia, the paid Labour organiser
would never get himself into a scrape as a sup-
porter of established institutions, even when these
are menaced by dynamite.”—Sydney E. News
(fattened by the pence of the trades-unionists).
In S.A., for the land which has been sold,
<£9,500,000 has been paid to tho Government. It
is now valued at <£32,000,000, apart from improve-
ments. To tap this unearned increment, the
Labour-party propose to double the land-tax.
O’Sullivan, M.P., relates that, when he
first entered N.S.W. Assembly some years ago, ho
met a fellow-member, breathless with excitement,
in one of thelobbies, who seized hhn and exclaimed,
“ Oh, dash ! A blanky job on, and I aint in it!”
Bad as the Age is, the Argus is worse.
Radicals should not let their resentment against
Syme’s Judas Iscariot policy delude them into
supporting the Conservative Pilate. Let them
rather support neither, but start a journal of their
own.
The Age talks of the Orange difficulty :
“ We may see tho loyal portion of a population
engaged in a contest with the rebel contingent,
which isbackedup by the Queen’s troops.” D.Syme
ought to ice his head now, and give us a definition
of loyalty.
Premier Patterson : “The unemployed
have formed themselves into a league, and, there-
fore, they are not entitled to as much considera-
tion’as men who are seeking work and work only.”
Union is stench in the nostrils of J. B. Patterson.
His motto—“ No grovel, no job.”
THE SICK HEADACHES
Which invariably accompany biliousness dis-
appear when tho sufferer administers Wolfe’s
Schnapps. Buy whole bottles.
With a capable leader, the Labour repre-
sentatives in the new S.A. Assembly can safely
hold the balance of power. Following the N.S.W.
example, all the S.A, representatives are pledged
not to accept any office without the consent of
their colleagues in the House and in the Labour-
party.
As Salomons, Q.C. (N.S.W.), says: “If a
man of property is deemed worthy of more voting
power than the man without, then property
should be taxed in proportion to value, and the
voting power should increase pari passu with the
taxation.” You cannot define a franchise based
on such shifting grounds.
English labour leader: “We swear we
will use force of arms if need be to protect our
homes and our right to live.” Balfour at Belfast:
“Circumstances may arise to justify Irish Union-
ists in taking up arms to resist Home Rule.” One
of these speakers has been committed to take his
trial for sedition. Guess which ?
When John Jannery Davies first entered
N.S.W. Legislative Council, the members sent
him to Coventry in a way ; at least, a lot of
them couldn’t very plainly see his extended hand.
Now, all that is changed. Jannery smiles on
everybody and everybody on him. Even Dangar
ostentatiously pump-handles him.
Ex-Justice Manning, the double-event
State pensioner, argued in N.S.W. Council that
those who had no property were as ten to one of
those who had “a stake in the country,” never-
theless the voice of the latter should have most
weight in the interests of the country’s welfare.
But he slunk away and didn’t vote for “thrift.”
“ They saw before them, for the first
time, a powerful and compact body of men able
to turn the scale between the two great main
bodies in the House—a body who had declared
themselves political Ishmaelites. . . . Their
battle-cry must be abolition of Payment of
Members.”— N.S.W. National Ass annual report.
Sydney (N.S.W.) Echo
Tho breath of life to any reputable newspaper is the
fairness of its reports of what is said and done in public.
It is painful to see a bantling scolding its grand-
mother for wearing dyed stockings, from the
remnants of which the bantling makes its own
socks.
MTI wraith’s platform supporters : Post-
master-General Wilson, Colonial Secretary Tozer,
Agent-General Forrest, Theo. Unmack, J. T.
Annear, W. Smyth, Drs. Thompson, Taylor,
and Rendle, and Rev. M'Swaine. Those shame-
less persons, Wilson, Tozer, Unmade, Annear,
and Smyth were of the old anti-MTlwraithian
Griffithite order.
Labour-chief Glassey is the only candidate
announced so far for Bundamba, which is
judiciously jammed back into the third set of
Queensland elections—nominations May 4, elec-
tion May 6—which means that MTlwraith is
reserving heavy powder to try and overwhelm
Glassey in his own district. However, Glassey
will oppose MTlwraith himself in North Brisbane.
A member of N.S.W. Ministry says Dibbs
could be at once disposed of but for the blunder
which made Saul Samuel a Civil servant, and
entitled, therefore, to a pension if retired. At
present the House is in no temper to accept an
active and a retired Agent-General, both under
pay. If Samuel could be shifted, like Garrick of
Queensland, Dibbs would go “aloft ” inside of a
month.
Lots of folks think that N.S.W. Govern-
ment made a bargain of this sort with the Coun-
cil : Give us the equal vote and we won’t insist on
the Income-tax. Be that as it may, the Income-
tax was a clever card to play, and has, either
sensibly or insensibly, forced the Council’s hand.
A vote or two is, after all, only a tiling of pros-
pective value, but lOd. in the £ has a very
present worth.
THE AGREEABLE FLAVOUR
And the invigorating effects of Wolfe’s Schnapps
have deservedly rendered it a most popular pre-
paration. Avoid imitations.
i
CHARLEY LILLEY.
In the breach once more, and, in his ears,
Ring, loud and long, a hopeful people’s cheers ;
He’s nobler far who holds no foe in awe.
Fighting for Justice than retailing Law.
E. D.


Bullet-proof cloth, it is olahnod,
has been proved a success. It was
tested on a pig, and the pig 13 g OUJ S
about alive to-day.
fMk
Mosnlan’s Bay has got “Separation ” at last, and here
you havo the .first meet ing of its Council.
Field Naturalists’ Excursion.—
,“ About 20 members of the Field Natur-
alists’ Society visited Mosman’s Bay on
'Saturday afternoon, for the purpose of
collecting marine objects, which resulted
m the gathering of a very interesting
number of specimens. They succeeded in
catching several bucketsful of that rare
mollusc, the Litorina lit&rea, known to
the unlearned as the common periwinkle.
Still, tlio more prudent of the
rank-and-file will continue to
roly upon the old and well-tried
methods of preserving life in the
.hour of danger. _
/ OUR BANKING SYSTEM.
Excited Depositor : “ Well, I’ve come for my money,
and I mean to have it!”
Manager ; “ Yes, sir; here is your tin whistle.” '
Excited Depositor; “My what?”
Manager ; “ Your tin whistle. We are going to
reconstruct this institution, and, in the meantime, you are
to whistle for your money !”
Norite ! X
Qov»<u*pi*mt
hiijt /»B»r*i*i f«»i
TOIITK*
P|s MIS **>»=-
“V
.V
%
X
V
*6
IPORTTirrt
SWjSß®®
i
yRAfW LfAjj
n
,W»Kt
“ Those growers who forwarded wines,
beer, and ale from this district to the
Chicago World’s Fair have been officially
notified that the whole of the exhibits per
the Alameda perished, in consequence of
the excessively cold weather. A request
for duplicate exhibits has been preferred.”
It is to be hoped that the next lot will
be duly provided with clothing suited to
,the rigorous climate of “ Shecawgo.”
ì
This sort of thing is called “ reconstruction ” now-a-days. and
sometimes income-tax."
SCIENTIFIC, POLITICAL AND FINANCIAL.


''Tha Eehuoa branch of^
'Bank wag re-onenpil ® Commercial
jnew account**%eiD[r *°a parpQSe oi
ference shares ” behps Senttp P •«“* “^ e '
«•„ v *-*ne of the brat applicants
l°L!i It, e th C fe ßbat i a was a Chinese, who
tUe.J np the form for three shares.
I* Weo.
/ uou.i'Vfry' p o
beo6/e
'' Wtr r% s
CKour_
Txr^ii|oocl.
2..C.
dll'll
’itiv'eate-ne.^
CC'uririaess ( V
i\e cou*-t\
~10 xvw ftcv s taw. cl—
is tloV
cl.
“A PLEASANT SUNDAY AFTER.
NOON ASSOCIATION.”
too promoter of the movement, tUe Rev. AV.'
1 Morley, intimated there would no objection if
I the audience signified ite approval of the musical
selections in a subdued tone.
Co.'V'- 1 ipovor \°™l
c 'r'x v j' *\a\c_ loVe. —?'
"Yes, &»cur, lout" jpour \\r owAj
i vw cx. 51A.1? <iuec\.
'torve—L.
i
W A "ft N I N Gil
“It is essential that yon thoroughly appre-
ciate what the only alternative is should the
reconstruction scheme not be adopted in its
' entirety. This alternative Is liquidation,
under-,whioh the assets of tbcPbank would
inevitably be so realised as to result in loss to
depositors as well as to shareholders. ''
Chairman SekvAce-J fn%-
one. case. yovc -uro'U.li.'vCt'
{ftt" youtr mont|’ ojot some years,
a-rvA m il\e. case- yo-u- 'Tn.ercVy Ktv-v/c^.
"fb le«./e yo u.r 'money. ijn |or some years,
•' I twvcV. 3<Avt\U.W AvvvvTV
1 S
u ft* r /*
* //
—TO etb -^ ?
nor
o|P THE UN EM PLOY'S 0.
Qfp.'Se. differ [■nxora.lUhrgj'xt:
amt" -for -utck ni. of-iVe. \s£f rltnen,r’ poor
“Wien on *U{e> soil
-Uvtv«.s
Iba-cL."
WvX
**> to]?|3 €.b_ Can ‘■wo'tVyirv cf 'be,
>:r w
res love conf x dence. I>y annountme ,
TKc Qo tfern mcnT \a,c( ur‘ t lts r
Cordia-i co-obevcctid i-x."
m fiOMUEmiAL Bm
W AUSTRALIA
'j assets
fydOo As r
,4\\ * q ° Lo
IUA. 'Ou'r
\W oc Kßh^^'
ixjaert
(evA^ertce)
u Tlii«, si fn cCtu.ro. is
la e C «,v- S e »I— < s Tcro C t-a. mTo a 4. a.
is rfenwnj -Joi--th.e. umgV
rt O-Sotv, Ifve- a t~kcr out is
or
a.ctot-dmcj'
how' foxx.
f
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


EOSE ; S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Itefreshing.
TH E BEST D.U IN K FOR AL L.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold ft I Storekeepers, etc.
Grnkr.u, Aok.nts;
JULES RENARD <sc CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Restores digestion, imparts vigour, and is ox-
oellent for tho wasted, nervous and dyspeptic
invalid. Buy whole bottles.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
O O D SPEC.
SAFE, PROFITABLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from CIO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
Write or call for marked plans avid all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd,
(Estab. 1885), :t«<» PBI-sl , Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEOROE’S TERRACE. PERTH, W.A,
Society
The serpent of jealousy entered the
domestic Eden of a Yankee resident in Brisbane
(Q.), in the shape of a good-looking Australian, of
limited means, ihe Yank wrought himself up to
his conception of the necessities of the situation,
and wrote a fierce letter to the odious interloper,
informing the latter that he (the writer) did not
believe in brutal fisticuffs, but inclined to the
American method of wiping out all such insults
with a revolver. Would the invader of iiis shrine
come over to the States and face the usual ordeal ?
In conclusion :
As I understand that your pecuniary position is such
that you are unable to afford the cost of a trip over I
enclose you my cheque for £2OO, to pay your expenses
across. I will take care that you do not require passaoe-
money back again. °
Did Don Juan accept the challenge? Whoof!
He cashed the cheque and eloped with the
Yankees wife by that night’s mail-train to
bydney. . . "he other version of the finish of
this story is that the Yankee painted the town
red, and told his own particular Tottie, con-
fidentially , Luck ! I got rid of that she-cat
cheap, after all. Let’s make for Shicawgo, pet.”
* * «
History repeats itself. In N.S.W., the
other day, a “ lady ” had the telephone laid on to
her apartments. She made liberal use of it
ringing up not only the Johnnies in their offices,
but some very dignified personages—heads of va«t
commercial concerns, and so on-to ask when they
were “coming round again” ? This lasted a
couple of days, and then her deposit was returned,
and she was incontinently cut off.
A Port Doug-
las (N.Q.) man,
asked for a flood-
relief subscription
said hesitatingly :
“ I can only give
five bob, if that’s
any use to you ? ”
“ Certainly, sir;
every mite tells.”
He filled out a
cheque for.£l, and
said: “Gimme 15s.
change.” Change
counted out with
a thank-you. The
rest is anticipated
by every reader.
We are all finan-
ciers in Australia
now.
• 9
At a fashion-
able concert in
Brisbane, the
other evening, the
Governor was ex-
pected, and the
male acccompan-
ist was asked to
play “ God Save
the Queen.” He
professed his
ignorance—happy
man ! —of the air,
and it had to be
written out for
him; but, as it
happened, the Go-
vernor didn’t turn
up.
• *
The library of
a late N.S.W.
squatter’s son in
St. Kilda (Melb.)
is, indeed, a study.
The walls are
richly(blue) paper-
ed with kind in-
vitations to him
from the Chief
Justice of Vic-
toria. Importu-
nate creditors are
invariably shown
into this library
and allowed to
soak in their own
gravy.
“ A Pleasant Sunday Afternoon ” Associa-
tion is holding meetings in a Melbourne church,
and the Success of the new movement seems
assured. The piece de resistance of these gather-
ings is usually an address by a distinguished lay-
man,and the rest of the entertainment consists of
cheerful conversation and music.
# # 9
This “ Pleasant Sunday Afternoon Associa-
tion” causes a rush of boyhood memories to the
E resent writer’s brain. His thoughts are carried
ack—never mind how many years—to the night of
a certain lecture on Martin Luther, given by a
country vicar in bis own little tabernacle. There
were dissolving-views to illustrate the life and
adventures of Martin, and, before turning on the
first view, the lecturer reminded his dear friends
that any open demonstration of approval would be
out of place in the presence of an altar and a
pulpit. Therefore, the audience sat and wrestled
with its enthusiasm as each new view flashed
upon the sheet. ’Twas a somewhat ghostly
entertainment. A buxom girl in one of the
front seats went so far as to have a fit (and the
bachelor churchwarden had to carry her out
through the darkness) because she couldn’t other-
wise relieve her feelings at the sight of Luther’s
portrait. However, after a while, the reverend
lecturer came to a couple of landscape views which
had been graciously lent to him (so he said) by
Her Majesty the Queen. And as these were the
property of that royal lady, he thought, he
thought, that the congregation might indulge in
“just a little applause.” Well, it seems that the
Melbourne Pleasant Sunday Afternoon Associa-
tion had included “sacred music on the organ,
followed by vocal and instrumental selections of a
similar character,” in its first programme. “As
there was evidently a feeling of restraint on the
part of the audience, the promoter of the move-
ment, the Rev. W. Morley, intimated there would
be no objection if the audience signified its
approval of the musical selections in a subdued
tone.” Just a little applause. The spectacle of a
crowd of Christians, troubled by doubts as to the
limits of a pleasant afternoon in a church until the
parson told them they might clap their hands in
moderation when they felt so disposed, must have
been affecting.—
Judge Hodges welcomes the “ Pleasant
Sunday Afternoon Association ” in Melbourne, for
the reason that it will tend to divert the thoughts
of members from the almighty dollar. “ When
you come here, ” said the seraphic Hodges to the
Pleasant Afternooners, “you will be taken away
from considering whether by buying this piece of
land at one figure and selling it at another you
will make money, even though it be to take it out
of your brother’s pocket and put it into your
own.” Bah! What Melbourne man dreams of
trafficking in land nowadays ?
• # «
Sydney News of 13th instant treats
Detective Sawtell, in charge of the prosecution in
the Burton-street murder case, to a complimentary
recognition of the excellence of his memory and a
warm approval of his manner of handling accused.
Tin fortunately for the paper, Sawtell requested to
be allowed back into the witness-box next day to
correct a statement on which his memory had
played him false. But the point is : Should any
paper be allowed to stamp with public approval
the testimony of a witness while such a case is
sub jiuliccl That which the News calls a good
memory is part and parcel of the case against
prisoner, and the published assumption that it is
good or excellent is an indefensible pre-judgment
What we may expect. Suggested by
passing events :
TIT ADAM THREADNEEDLE begs to inform her
_ customers that her establishment is closed for a
little while, but will re-open on re-construotion of
firm—when ladies’ own material will again be re-
ceived for making-up. The material now on the
premises, and dresses left for alteration, will not be
available until “ the day dawns.”
IyrESSRS. NINE, CARAT & CO. have to inform
- L ’ J - their patrons that, owing to circumstances
beyond their control, their shop is closed until further
notice—pending re-construction of business. Due
notice of re-op ning will be given by a champagne
luncheon to a portion of the Press. All kinds of
jewellery will then again he received by this (now)
well-known firm. The magnificent articles at present
left in the firm’s hands for alteration, etc., etc., will
not be available—until “ the clouds roll by.”
A/TESSRS. ASSIIAIR, WIG & CO., of Humbug
- LYJ - Chambers, inform their clients that they have
decided to close their offices, pending re-arrangement
of gowns—and re-construotion of (phantom) cases.
Due notice will be given of their return from
Woolloomoiloo, when they will again accept the
usual fees with briefs. All fees and cases on the list
now' in hand will have to stand over until “ M.L.A.
bankruptcies cease.”
* * *
“Cultchaw” is “off.” An Age leader-
writer speaks of “the one-horse England of the
Tudors.”
Soon after the
Ophir left Albany
(W.A.) on her last
outward trip a tall,
“ distinguished - look-
ing” man, with colos-
sal cuffs, was noticed
lying on a saloon
couch. When the
dinner-gong sounded,
he tipped a waiter to
get him a seat at Lord
Villiers’ table, but as
Lord V.’s party had
arranged for a private
feeding-board, the
thing could not be
managed. Then the
man of cuffs ordered
the best things going
and made himself
quite popular. Later,
when applied to for
his ticket, he owned
up that he had none,
and that he was, in
fact, a—er stowa-
way ! He was sent
forward, but next
morning turned up
in one of the saloon
berths furiously ring-
ing for “ hot water.”
Then he was put into
captivity, but the
saloon passengers
took pity upon him
and subscribe d
enough to pay his
third-cabin fare to
London. Moral; If
you stow away at
all, stow away “ first-
class.”
During the adjournment of a N.S.W.
Supreme Court case, a few days back, the pair of
litigants met outside and took bread and cheese
together : bread and cheese and kisses, for they
explained themselves fully to one another and
shook hands. Then it transpired that the
solicitors had warned each not to speak to the
other, under the direst penalties. When the court
reopened and the litigants announced that they
had agreed, the attorneys’ table literally tilted
with psychic consternation. The costs, so far,
totalled £BOO, but, as one solicitor said, only for
the criminal negligence which left them to lunch
together, without evm a lawyer’s clerk to “sool
them on,” there would have been three times as
much legal dividend.
• # #
The father of a fashionable bride, married
in Brisbane the other day, instead of giving an
“at home.” made up a large theatre-party to
Brisbane Opera House. The piece for the night
was Jerome's “New Lamps for Old, or Is Marriage
a Failure?” Some people have plenty of nerve.
* # «
The late co-respondent in a recent N.S.W.
divorce-case, who has just got two years’ hard for
embezzlement, just after ho had married the
divorced wife, lost his former position through the
father of the injured husband. It was arranged
between the husband’s lawyer and the co-respon-
dent that, provided the case was undefended and
kept as quiet as possible, the former should not
seek to injure him as regarded his official appoint-
ment ; but both reckoned without the father, who
took the matter up and interviewed the potentate
controlling the destiny of the guilty third party,
and had him dismissed. However, the offender
had enough influence to get him a decent Govern-
ment appointment, in which, however, ho “ went
wrong. ’
Financial disquietude spreads in Mel
bourne. The unemployed are now said to be
seriously concerned as to the safety of the Yarra
bank.
* * #
The latest Melbourne leper was a washer-
woman by profession. Let giddy girlhood re-
member this fact as she nestles her velvet cheek
against Edwin’s starched bosom in the conserva-
tory between dances.
# # *
Bank failures, &c., have, thank Heaven,
very palpably weakened the pious Scotch influence)
in Victorian legislation. Premier Patterson
intends to run Sunday trains from Melbourne to
Ferntree Gully, a purely holiday retreat, where
the foot of man seldom treads unless he has
brought some sandwiches and a bottle of beer in a
basket. There are three churches and three hotels
at the Gully, so Sunday trains will be run on the
diplomatic assumption that pilgrims want to go tc
church.
# * *
Melbourne police carted a leper round to
all the hospitals one day last week for examina-
tion. The poor Chow, a hawker, has been
leprous, according to his own confession, for three
years. This news conveys its own punishment to
such women as deal with the heathen.
ì
A GRASPING GANG.
MLUCAHY : “Well, and how did yes, finish up?”
MULDOON : “Why, at the end of the year, there was a deficiency of
twinty pounds, and I sez, ‘Give it to a hospital, and the mane
skunks wouldn’t,”
Pathetic example of destitute virtue.
From Sydney E. News :
T ADY, under 30, wishes to meet elderly Clout who
can assist her ;no other need apply. Mrs. C. 0.,
Gen. P.O.
# * #
Joseph-Clarke was addressed as “ Man ! ”
in Melb. Supreme Court last week. A profane
barrister named Duffy presumed to bully the
owner of broad acres in these terms —“ Did you
not say iu the Criminal Court that you did not
know what the money was given for ? Did you,
■man? Your habit of teetotalism (cruel Duffy !)
does not appear to have done you much good, un-
less you afe humbugging me?” —
It was good to hear Purves, Q.C., drawing
a comparison between W. E. Gladstone ana
Joseph Clarke. “ Even Mr. Gladstone,” said the
fervid advocate, “ had not escaped the black-
mailer, but he had the high moral courage to
resist and repel the attack. Whereas Mr. Clarke
had weakly yielded for a time.” The inference is
that for the future Joseph intends to go in
for high moral courage, and do the same as
Gladstone.
# # 9
The racy portions of the Parker-Clarke
case are carefully “leaded ” in the Arguh reports,
while the uninteresting maunderings of writing-
experts, etc., are dismissed with a line. “J. M.
A GODLY COMPROMISE.
They meet on Sunday afternoon
And smile and talk, nor deem it wrong
To let a sacred organ tune
Be followed by a sacred song ;
And after each improving air
There cometh not an awful pause—
The gentleman who takes the chair
Does not object to soft applause.
For then the kindly parson claps
His snowy hands in gentle glee ;
The elder with his brolly taps
His hairless head respectfullee ;
And little mourners may be heard
Prom brothers seated near the door,
Which sounds as though a humming bird
Were trying to express “encore” 1
The shrilly whistle from above,
The stamping of unholy feet,
Are vetoed in the home of love,
Where city men on Sunday meet.
Delighted with a singer’s voice,
And glad to make their pleasure known,
With one accord they all rejoice,
But strictly in an undertone.
O, Pleasant Sunday afternoon 1
To sober, earnest sons of men,
Thou art a blessing and a boon,
E’en greater than the Pickwick Pen.
DEFRAUDING THE TRAMS.
Spiritualist and Unbeliever—the only two passengers left in the tram.
SPIRITUALIST (turning suddenly and solemnly speaking into space) : “Yes,
Tom! they’re all very well at home.”
UNBELIEVER: “ What’s the matter, Mrs. Meejum?”
SPIRITUALIST : “Oh, it’s only poor Tom. He’s sitting by my side.’’
UNBELIEVER (cheerfully): “Well, he’s having a cheap ride, anyway.”
And when ye stand before the King,
Dear workers in a worthy cause,
And hear the herald angels sing—
Don’t, don’t forget the soft applause.
WHAT MIGHTY PRAISE!
i
Are the angry Heavens falling
Slowly down on Duffy’s horsehair?
Could he shout such words appalling,
Like a hold blaspheming corsair,
And escape the retribution
Due to cne who thinks thus lightly
Of the blessed Constitution
That he speaks so impolitely ?
Duffy's past all absolution-
lie must die in destitution.
Trot out the Papal ban !
A cry breaks in the startled air—
" He plainly called a millionaire
A man, a common man!"
And since the world began
To shape its social plan
No millionaire did mortal dare
To stigmatise as “man.”
None showed this disrespect
To one of the elect;
We do declare it grieves us sair
To find that Duffy can,
For reasons dark, call Joseph Clarke
A man, ye gods ! a man !


PAUSODONOPTIC SPECTACLES
A.nci Eyeglasses.
fpiIESE arc the most comfortable and most soothing'
1 glasses made, and the best preservatives for the sight.
Send for onr Treatise: “Spectacles, their nse, when
required, and how to purchase.” SENT EREE.
Frost & Shiphem,
THE SPECTACLE MAKERS,
462, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY*
NOT ONLY KIDNEY COMPLAINTS
Are rendered powerless for harm, but rheumatism,
constipation, liver derangement and dyspepsia are
overcome by Wolfe’s Schnapps.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Has been blessed with an increase of reputation,
which affords the best guarantee of its excellence.
Buy whole bottles.
PEMELL’S
A.H.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
i
1 BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 3.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received ly Saturday, 3rd June,
1893.
When Dailey made his
proposal, at a meeting of N.S.W. Cabinet,
to offer a contingent for service in the Sou-
dan, the only members present besides him-
self were Francis Augustus Wright and
J tines Squire Farnell. Dibbs knew nothing
about it until he saw a paragraph, stating
what had been done, in a daily paper, when
lie was corning up in the train from Emu
Plains ; and Stuart was in Maoriland.
Name...
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
a dear night s
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & GO,
(LIMITED),
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL & LECH LETTER, CARL ECKE, ’
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Maker.*.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’s HAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
D.” -ism is evidently extending to locally-written
matter.
# * #
A prisoner who recently gave himself up
to the police in Australia, after having hidden
under their very noses for some months, recog-
nised, in court, a policeman to whom, while he
was cached , he was introduced, under an alias. He
emphasised the second meeting with a notable
wink. When the officer afterwards upbraided
him with not having let Inin earn the reward that
had been offered for the missing offender's appre-
hension, the caged bird replied. “I knew a trick
worth two of that!” The inference was that he
thought his voluntary surrender would bo recog-
nised in the Judge’s sentence.
* • »
At time of writing, three men are cast for
gallows-carrion in N.S. Wales, with one or two
other promising chances in sight. Not that
“ Nosey Bob ” cares so very much about a rush
of work, because he’s a Civil servant on the
regular establishment, and gets his wages (£170
annually) anyhow, work or rest; but still, per-
haps, iu these retrenching days, he likes now and
then to justify his appointment, as it were. If
things turn out as per prospects, somebody will
be able to buy from Howard enough hemp to
make a lucky kellick-line for black-bream fishing.
• * #
An obese ex-publican, in his military
capacity, was drilling some Victorian “ hired
assassins” on a recent hot, thirsty day, when the
canteen cruse of oil had somewhat failed. The
men had their bayonets fixed, and their mouths
were dry. “ Char-r-ge !” shouted Captain Bung.
“ Charge” they did, until the corpulent and slow-
moving beer-man officer’s “ immediate roar ” was
tickled by a bayonet-prod. “ Turn round about!”
yelled he, forgetting, in his perspiring agony, the
orthodox word of command. But the men’s
blood was up, and they “charged ” him right up
to a 12-foot wall. As he fell, he cried, “ For
’Eaven’s sake, stop ! an’ I’il stand a barrel.”
“Halt!” shouted his immediate persecutor,
“ the captain’s a prisoner of war, and he’s going
to stand a barrel.” The men stood. So did the
captain—a big barrel.
# # #
A Brisbane lady has a curious old neck-
lace, obtained years ago from a Solomon Island
chief. It is composed of sixty human eye-teeth,
mostly white men’s, it is said, and represents
thirty individuals. The trophies were extracted
just before the owners were converted into “long
Pig- 1 ’
• * *
Spagnoletti: On Sunday I went to church.
The parson said, “ The noblest crown is the—aw
—sweat round the brow of the—ahr—working-
man.” Fudge. Labour is dishonourable, work is
disgraceful. The noblest man in that church was
the scented gentleman, who laid down his
ivory-handled umbrella, and put his kid-gloves on
the book - ledge. A working - man would be
regarded there as a noxious insect.
• * •
The malformed decisions given by Mr.
Delohery, S.M., at Sydney ) police court last
week in the case of journalist Gilbert Smith
is an illustration of the fact that a paid law-
dispenser is frequently a mere police magistrate,
and not a public justice. Delohery dismissed, as
not having been proved, the charge of drunken-
ness—presumably on an admission made by the
lockup-keeper, who was satisfied with Smith’s
sobriety when the charge was entered up—but
he fined Smith twice over, once for assault
and once for damaging a uniform—Smith’s
defence was the somewhat extraordinary alle-
gation that the officer had assaulted him and
had bitten a rent in his own jumper!—the evidence
in eaelj case amounting merely to oath against
oath, no third party having been present. In
such a case, where at least the judgment of the
accusing officer had been held to have been in
error, in respect of a first charge of drunkenness,
justice would have accorded the accused the
benefit of the doubt, but the police-magistrate
sided with the policeman. Under the circum-
stances, he should have sided with neither.
« « #
Apropos, many people remember old
Sergeant , of the ancient Sydney Central
Police Court. He was charge-sergeant, and when
a “drunk” came up before that aesthetic beak,
Crane (joke unavoidable), something like this took
place. Sergeant : “ Call John Smith ! ” (“ JOHN
SMITH!” “John Smith!” “John Smith ! ”
in the courtyard). Smith toes the mark. “ John
Smith, you’re charged with righteous behay vour in
Sussex-street. How do yon plade ? ” Prisoner
(who thinks’it best to mollify the authorities) :
“Well, yer Honor, I don't quite remember
anything at all about it. But if the policeman
says so, 1 suppose it’s all rig ” Sergeant:
“That’s not the question. Are ye guilty or not
guilty?” Prisoner : “ Well, if the policeman says
so ” Sergeant: “ He plades guilty, your
worship.” Beak: “ Feened feeve shillings, or the
reesing of the caht. Call the next case, sergeant.”
Thus it is in New South Wales. The policeman
having found the prisoner guilty, nothing further
remains but to pass sentence.
« * #
Lady Florence Dixie has just broken
out in a fresh place. Her new ecstasy is
over those women’s “doss-houses,” which don’t
yet exist, and meantime she advises her
hard-up London sisters to use masculine garb
‘in order to get into the men’s doss-houses” —
there to pass the night with a herd of male animals
of,the lowest type. And this is what this cham-
pion of her sex calls “ getting decent lodgings !”
• « •
A S.M. Herald correspondent : —
I believe there is about £10,000 a jftear voted for the
poor blacks of N.S.W. Now, I will show how this money
is expended. On a visit last month (o theMurrumhidgee,
I went to see the poor blacks at Warangesda. I was told
the races would he on, and I would see them all there.
What was my surpris - lo see buggies and pairs rolling up,
not containing blacks, but half-castes, quadroons, and
octoroons—a great number. You could not see a trace of
black blood in some. Then they were dressed up equal
to any on the course, both men and women, watches in
their pockets, gold rings on their lingers, and they ran as
many horses at the races as the white population. Now,
is that charity ? lam informed that there are not more
than 20 full-blooded blacks on the mission.
“ Our poor countrymen ” have evidently been
eating too much “ pflour.”
# * #
According to her evidence, the Brisbane
(Q.) penlady who does the social column for the
Illustkated News, gets <£3 a mouth, and for a
similar column in Brisbane Telegraph £5 a
month. In addition to these, for writing puff
pars for drapery houses, she receives “ conces-
sions.” Literature is looking up !
* # #
It is a pathetic sight to see a Melbourne
millionaire endeavouring to gain an entrance to
the Richmond tramcar and expostulating amid
hiccups with the inexorable conductor, whose
Spartan respect to duty (when there are witnesses
about) will not allow him to pick up a Bacchana-
lian even of seven figures.
* * *
A self-denial week, in aid of Melb.
Women’s Hospital, has been started. It is stated
on good authority that a certain well-advertised
capitalist has so interested himself in the cause
that he intends to become a teetotaller for that
period, and devote the money so saved to the
institution. If tin's is true, the hospital’s debt
will be about paid off and funds enough will be
left over to build a new wing.
* # *
Better that ninety-nine just persons should
find great difficulty in obtaining organised charit-
able relief than that one impostor should be
assisted with a shilling. This is what the doctrine
of Professor Morris, of the Melbourne C. 0.5.,
really amounts to.
* # #
The Sunday League of the Y.M.C A.
(Vic.) exults in the successful establishment of
several brandies among the Chinese.” The wily
Chow is nowadays open to support every move-
ment that conies along. He grins a warm
approval of Local Option, and will always sign a
petition against the closing of a pub. He has no
sooner joined the Sunday League than he sticks
his weird, peculiar signature to a request for a
BALLAST FOR THE SHEPHERD.
WIFE : “The afternoon tea’s coming up, John dear, and there’s no cake left to offer the
new curate!”
JOHN DEAR: “ Make him eat one of those new scones you made for breakfast and give the
new doctor a show.”
special train on Lord's Day. Also, he believes in
brass bands and other adjuncts of the “Con-
tinental Sunday,” if necessary. In short, John is
agreeable to the suppression or creation of any-
thing under the sun. As a member of branch
societies he promises to loom large in the near
future, and no Christian work will be complete
without him.
# * •
Melbourne theatre managers don’t seem to
think Madden good enough to be advertised for a
Grand Acting-Vice Regal Night, somehow. Yet
the word “Acting” would sound appropriate to
the occasion.
# * *
Cable man : Lady Gormanston, the new
Governess of Tasmania, is “ a charming hostess.”
All the same, she is sending the Viscount ahead to
get broken in to the Hobart sandwiches.
# * *
Attorney S. Lyons, for the defence in a
Melb. case against a Cliinese fan-tan bank, said
that, on the previous evening, he had seen gentle-
men in a well-known club playing poker for a
.£6OO stake. “ Why,” he asked, with a lawyer’s
baby ingenuousness, “are these persons not prose-
cuted for gambling ?” Why? Probably because
those persons are too busy prosecuting the Chows.
# # »
Melbourne Standard contains an excited
half-column to the effect that a policeman dis-
covered one “ dosser ” shaving another in a public
park ; the police arrested the amateur barber for
insulting behaviour, and the Bench gave him
three months’ hard. We know many barbers
whoseshavingmay be regarded ascriminal, but since
these are permitted to fMirette their gory callings
unmolested, we must accept the Melb. case as an
assertion of the principle that no unemployed has
any right to be shaved out of gaol.
# # *
Several Pottspointers have dropped the
expression “ un-British,” and substitute for it the
English absurdity, “uncricketerlike.”
# * *
Among the meanest of N.S.W. retrench-
ments is the unhorsing of the Parramatta post-
men. This was not the work of the Parliamentary
retrenchers, nor of the Ministers, but of the higher
departmental officers. These postmen now have
to carry huge swags of mail-matter intolerable
distances.
# • *
On board the coasting steamer which carried
a Northern lady to Sydney the other day, a pig
escaped from its pen and managed to secrete itself
in the fair one’s cabin. During the night it made
its presence known, and at daylight the lady, with
a thundercloud on her brow, climbed the stairs to
the captain. Before, however, her fire-bell rang
out, the captain fixed her with his briny
inquired, “ Why did you snore so last night ?”
* # *
Wombat, an aboriginal, was paid off nearly
12 months’ work, by a N.S.W. squatter, with
.£10 in notes, and went off to find a pub. ’I he
squatter’s son followed and overtook him. “Say,
Wombat, that feller paper money no good me
give it silver money instead.” “ All right.” The
laid produced some 30s. in silver, and commenced
counting it out into the nigger’s palm, shilling by
shilling. When he got to 19, Wombat inter-
posed : “That fellow plentee; you gib it too
much.” (And this is seriously told of a New
England • blackfellovv —who can generally take
down the average white-man at euchre !)
# * *
Thus a Bulletin N.S.W. country corres-
pondent : —
Re the discussion anent the Diseased Meat Prevention
law : let me emphasize that, the stricter the supervision
in Sydney, the more desirous is the cattle-owner to dis-
pose of his diseased beasts in the country, and the more
is supervision needed in the case of bush butchers; but
there is none. I have, within the last three years while
living here, known of at least 10 cancered bullocks leaving
an adjoining run, and I have only just awakened to the
fact that almost for a certainty they have been slaughtered
and sold as prime beef, and that I have myself been one of
the consumers. You know country people will bear any-
thing that is customary.
* * ft
Judge Windeyer spent a portion of bis
Melbourne visit “attentively watching the
developments of the Parker-Clarke case.” Let us
say one thing for Judge Windeyer : If he sat on
the Victorian Bench, somebody would go to gaol
over the “abduction” of Mrs. Clara Parker.
Judge Windeyer would contrive, somehow, to see
that people with cash didn’t publicly spit upon,
and then publicly wipe their feet on, the law of
the country.
Melbourne papers again remind people of
the folly of keeping money about their houses and
risking burglary while those noble philanthropists,
the bankers, are willing to pay for the privilege of
guarding the public cash. The Bulletin here
rises to ask for a return showing all the money
lost in Australia, through burglaries during the
last 20 years ; likewise a similar return detailing
the amount lost in bank-bursts, &c. This with a
view of ascertaining whether the law would not
be better engaged in protecting the people from
the bankers' than from the burglars.
* * #
From Melb. Standard :
T ADY, young, good-looking, and well educated,
* J seeks a bachelor or widower, elderly. The ad-
vertiser is in difficulties owing to the bank failure.
Some people suicide under these circumstances.
Others marry.
# # #
A Divorce Gazette is the latest Loudon
publication. Its columns are devoted entirely to
divorce in general and divorce cases in particular.
The great Australian daily papers will find the
Gazette a most useful thing to have in the office,
full of evidence suitable for reprinting in their
extra Saturday editions. An attempt will be
made by the D. G. to trace the influence of meat
diet in divorce cases and otherwise throw scientific
light on the subject of respondents and co-re-
spondents.
Reginald Black tells the N.S.W. National
Association to cease advocating the “Vote for
Thrift ’’ which, he says, will damn the Ass’s
chance. Whether or not the Ass openly advocates
greasing the fat pig, matters not; it believes in
the system all the same, and has been foolish
enough to let the world know it. It is now offi-
cially announced that the Ass’s, battle-cry is to be
“ Abolition of Payment of Members.’’
To The Deaf.—A Gentleman who cured
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Apropos payment of members in N.S.W. ;
Supposing a Labour member were to neglect bis
Parliamentary duties as Want and Bruce Smith
do, what would happen? Bruce Smith won’t take
his salary (he is the only one who won’t) and
Want desires to abolish it—but takes it all the
same. As neither of them earns it, we wonder
which of th un blushes most—Want when he
draws it, or Bince Smith when he takes credit for
refusing a salary to which he isn’t morally
entitled ?
Palmer carries, asQ. Lieutenant-Governor,
more Court-rights than as Acting-Governor. In
his present capacity he takes precedence of all
visiting Governors as well us of Admirals of the
fleet. Lieut.-Governor Stephen fought this point
out lately and has thus saved the irascible Palmer
from the risk of falling into bullock-driverese.
MTI wraith precipitated Palmer’s appointment to
this life-office, on being satisfied that his friend
and enemy, Griffith, would climb to the Chief
Justiceship. Had he delayed, the Chief Justice-
ship would, in Queensland as elsewhere in Aus-
tralia, have acquired the Governorship in posse.


Reuter’S Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, ako
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
_ enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate hut by their general action please ail who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
'‘on. The smallest and easiest to take, - Forty in a phial.
i
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 17, 1893.
riIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette,
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3.
Construction of Timber Punt for Darling River,
at Bourke
Erection of Station Buildings and other works on
the Molong to Parkes and Forbes Railway
WEDNESDAY, MAY 17.
Bridge, Hodges Creek, road Goal burn to Pomeroy
Supply of Hydraulic Hoisting Gear for Naval
Station, Garden Island
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narzan River at Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Ooilarendabri
Bridge over Little River at Sergeant’s Point, road
Mongarlowo to Braidwood
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bombay Crossing,
road Braidwood to Queanbeyan
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Manufacture, Supply, &c., of Ironwork and
Erection of Iron Bridge and Construction of
Approaches thereto, at Wagga Wagga.
Materials comprised in section No. 1 of con-
tract, to be manufactured in the colony.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
2/6. '
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.R.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Boardof J'T.S.'W.j
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OCR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr: H. A. BETTS
Op the Philadelphia College op Dental
Surgery.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the moclo-
( ' rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674- GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
A
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
H
KTOaMJibl
ì
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 Jd. 2s. £>d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN A CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng;.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& 00.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS AND SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. A.lexr. Paterson,
liOl Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 6 p.m.
More Australian Testimony.
THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS.
Mr. J. B. Warbrick, or “Joe Warbrick,” as he
is familiarly known, was captain of the New
Zealand Native Football Team (better known as
“ The Maoris ”), which visited the Old Country
and gave such a good account of itself during the
season there of 1888-89. This team firmly believed
that St. Jacobs Oil is one of the secrets of success
in football, and kept itself in prime condition by a
free use of it. The team was so unanimous in its
verdict that the matter is worthy of special men-
tion. Mr. Warbrick, in conversation with one of
the representatives of the Chas. A. Yogeler Co.,
in Sydney, after their return, stated : “ I have
much pleasure in testifying to the efficacy of St.
Jacobs Oil. I have used it constantly since my
first visit to New South Wales in 1884, having
then injured my knee in our first match ; and dur-
ing our tour in Great Britain we have used noth-
ing else, and the New Zealand Native Football
Team all speak in the highest terms of its
qualities. In fact, so much did we think of it
that we hardly ever travelled without a case
of it.’’
AN ENDORSEMENT.
Mr. J. R. Scott, the successful proprietor of the
leading hotel in Gisborne, N.Z.—the Masonic
Hotel—and the able manager of the above-men-
tioned New Zealand football team on their tour
through Great Britain, endorses the above by
letter, in which he states : “I have much pleasure
in testifying to the wonderful properties of St.
Jacobs Oil. While there (Great Britain) I got for
the team’s use nearly a dozen different embroca-
tions, but none seemed to do the men the same
amount of good as St. Jacobs Oil. In fact, we
never considered our baggage complete without a
case of it.”
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an unrivalled
reputation as ACCURATE. RELIABLE, and
INEXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
prnctied purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low cost watch in the world.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
siiinss »
Statement for the Year ending 31st December, 1892.
)\SSETS
Surplus
£35,951,572 4 0
£3,114,627 1 10
IKTCJOIWC3E3.
Premiums .*«**« £6,580,649 19 4
Interest, Rents, &c. < • » • • 1.681,950 14 0
msßxmsxiMSMrrs.
Payments to Policy-holders - • * • £3,980,807 9 9
Expenses and Taxes- . « . • 1,533,334 3 1
£8,363,600 13 4
£5,301,341 11 10
THE ASSETS ARE INVESTED AS FOLLOWS
United States Bonds and other Securities
Loans on Bond and Mortgage, first lien
Loans on Stocks and Bonds
Real Estate
Cash in Banks and Trust Companies
Accrued Interest, Deferred Premiums, &c.
Insurance
Insurance Assumed and Renewed ~
Insurance in Force ~ .. ~
Annuities in Force
and. Annuities.
Increase in Annuities in Force ~ ~ ..
Increase in Payments to Policy-holders .. .. ~
Increase in Receipts ~ ~ .. ~ .. .. .
Increase in Surplus .. .. .. .. .. ~ ~
Increase in Assets ~
Increase in Insurance Assumed and Renewed ~
Increase in Insurance in Force ~ ~
(In the above Statement One Pound Sterling is taken as the equivalent to $4.87.)
Noth,—ln accordance with the intention of the Management as announced in November, 1891, to limit the
amount of new insurance actually issued and paid for in the accounts of the year 1892 to Twenty Million Pounds
sterling, the amount of insurance in force as above stated includes the amount of such voluntary limit with but a slight
increase, unavoidable in closing the December accounts.
I have carefully examined the foregoing Statement and find the same to be correct.
A. N. WATERHOUSE, Auditor.
REPORT OF THE EXAMINING COMMITTEE,
Office of Tub Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, February 9,1893.
At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of this Company, held on the 28th of December, 1892, the undersigned
were appointed a Committee to examine the Annual Statement for the year ending December 31, 1892, and to verify
the same by comparison with the assets of the Company. ’ ’ y
The Committee have carefully performed the duty assigned to them, and hereby certify that the statement is
in all particulars correct, and that the assets specified therein are in possession of the'Company.
In making this certificate the Committee bear testimony to the high character of the Investments of the Com-
pany, and express their approval of the system, order, and accuracy with which the accounts and vouchers have been
kept, and of the business in general transacted.
H. 0. Von Post. Robert Olyphant. Wm. P. Dixon.
J. C. Holden. Robert Sewell. G, Q. Haven.'
H. Walter Webb.
X X
A-ÜBtrallan Department :
Z. C. RENNIE - - General Manager.
R. L, FAITHFULL, M.D., L.R.0.P., Chief Medical Referee.
Principal Agency— l3l Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W,
BRANCH OFFICES:
New South Wales : 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ALEX. MAC KNIGHT, Manager.
Victoria ; - - - 473 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE. H. M. RENNIE, Manager,
Queensland : . - 223 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. W. H. KELYNACK, Manager.
Amusements.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
SATURDAY NEXT, April 22 “ CARMEN.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Theatre royal.
Lessee Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
FRIDAY, April 21-FIRST SHAKESPEARE FRIDAY.
“ Hamlet.”
HAMLET ALFRED DAM PIER,
THE GHOST Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
OPHELIA Miss ROSE DAMPIER.
Saturday, April 22,
“ FOR THE TERM of HIS NATURAL LIFE."
Box Office at the Theatre, where seats may be secured
six days in advance.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
m
Vi
'mmm
m
SS?r
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready , post free Is Od,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To bo had only of
PANZA, Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
CHEAP MUSIC! CHEAP MUSIC !
PAXTON Jt €«., 19 Oxford Street, LOMtOX.
Australian Branch: 251 Swanstou Street, Mki.boi'RNß.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To be had
of Music-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanston-St., Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
VIOLINS. VIOLINS- VIOLINS-
XjMNEST copies of Stradivarins, Ainati, Steiner*
" Ouarnerius, Maggini, and Conservatory, unsurpassed
for workmanship, appearance, quality of tone, sterling
value, marvellous, at the lowest ever heard prices. Band-
masters, violinists, and parents will find our prices right.
We have grosses of violins to select from, also clarionets,
flutes, piccolos, flageolets, drums, guitars, banjos, auto-
harps, mandolines, angles, concertinas, accordeons,
violoncellos, strings, Ac., Ac. Catalogues posted free.
J. ALBERT & Sons, 118 King St., Sydney.
THE GROBVENOH HOTEL,
Sydney.
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Rooms from -Is. Double Rooms from 6s.
Inclusive Tariff 10a. fid., 12s. fid. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
Amusements.
CJRITERION THEATRE.
w Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicaujt.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Sydney Grundy’s Great Play,
“ -A- Village Priest.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may he
secured six nights in advance.
*F» I V O L I theatre
*“■ (Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sots Lesser and Manager .. Mb. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
| Mr. HAIt It Y It I€KA K »» 8 |
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, (id. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LKETK.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
CC INI .A. IST TO ICvt .A. ZLnT.”
SATURDAY, April 22,
“a MIDSUMMER NIGHT’S DREAM.”
PRICES ns USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE; Hon. B. B. Morbton, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq.,
Acheson Ovkrknd, Esq., C. E.
SOLICITOR: Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS : Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,402 PRIZES valued as under.
No. 1. —Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner rtf Albert and Adelaide - streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000;
rental value, 411,500.
Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of -£lO,OOO
1 of £5,000
4 of £2,500
5 of ,£l,OOO
5 of .£5OO
10 of .£250
50 of £lOO
100 of £5O
100 of X 25
125 of iJ2O
1.000 of Jilo
1.000 of JCS
Total, .£105,000, no deduction of any kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPAR ATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49,460 worth*
Shortly after the advent of the N.B.W.
Labour-party into Parliament, Eye-glass Reid
was making a violent attack on Parkes. The
latter, who was sitting near a group of Labour
members, turned round to them and said, with
concentrated scorn : “ Look hat ’im ! Hisn’b ’e
like a hintoxicated pumpkin ? ”
Item from Pearson’s Weekly (a London
pirate organ):—“l wonder that poor people do
not take to eating rats, for they are less costly
than most kinds of meat.” Has Pearson read of
a certain French tax-gatherer who recommended
the people to eat grass ? A pirate newspaper-man
(if Pearson has a head) with a dead rat thrust
between his jaws would not make an elegant
monument.
The “disruption” jubilee of the Estab-
lished Church of Scotland approaches. In 1843,
400 ministers walked out from the General
Assembly—among them Dr. Begg, “ Walter
Bentley’s ” fathei’--because they would not longer
submit to the appointment of clergymen by lay
patrons. Thus was founded the Free Kirk —a
body that for long worshipped in barns, but is
now stronger than the sect it forsook.
Australian Star, a Sydney daily,
originally started in the “democratic” interest,
booms the National Ass with a full report of its
annual meeting, unaccompanied by one word of
protesting comment. No Socialistic movement can
ever rely upon getting half a column space in the
Stak ; but this anti-labour and vote-for-thrift
Ass gets two and a-half columns directly it brays.
Daily paper allee same white waistcoat.
Dear Bulletin, —Someone makes you say
that Agent-General Forrest (Q.) is brother of the
W. A. Premier. What are you giving us ? There’s
no need for any Forrest of the same family as
Premier John to privateer outside of Westralia.
Any John Forrest’s Forrest would be an idiot to
leave that province. Agent-General Forrest (Q.)
is a William Forrest, who used to be known as
“Black” Forrest, and is supposed to be learned
in cattle, though 1 think his chief merit lies in his
connection with the Meat Export Co. run by
MTlwraith, subsidised by the late Griffilwraith,
and now to be boomed in England at the cost of
the Queensland Treasury by Hume Black, who is
to get over .£lOOO a year for boosting it, along
with land-grab railways and other things.—
Yours, Gl.
The “old lady” of Threadneedle-street
lias the reputation of being a fairly solvent in-
stitution, but the big American Life Insurance
Company, whose financial statement for last year
appears in our advertising columns, has given her
the go-by in magnitude of assets. The capital of
the Bank of England amounts to about £20,000,000,
while the Mutual Life Insurance Company of
New York lias accumulated ,£35,951,572 and
shows a clean balance above all liabilities of
.£3,114,027. All this money is not clutched in the
list of some bloated Gould, Astor, or Vanderbilt,
but belongs to policy-holders scattered over the
globe, each of whom benefits, pro rata, by the
prosperity of the gigantic corporation. And not
the worst feature about the matter is that Uncle
Ham watches those millions like a cat watches a
mouse and sees that they pan out right, year in
and year out. It’s a real live statute the In-
surance Law of the States and has helped the
Mutual Life of New York to win its present
grand position in just fifty years. Its balance
sheet is worth studying.
The success which has attended the in*
troduction of Dr. Jaeger’s Pure Woolen Fabric B
into the colonies has, unfortunately, been the
cause of extensive imports of inferior imitation
makes. Public attention has only recently been
called in a very prominent way to this system of
trading on Dr. Jaeger’s name to palm off an in-
ferior and spurious article. People wanting to
buy Dr. Jaeger’s genuine goods have only one
safeguard against such imposition ; they must see
that each garment bought (and not only the one
they choose from) bears the Diamond-shape Trade
Mark plainly stamped on it and they should nob
be taken in by salesmen offering to sell them some
other so-called Natural Wool goods which they
represent to be just as good. Specimens of
spurious and adulterated goods can be seen by the
Public at the Company’s Australian Branches, 9
Wynyard St., Sydney, and 314 Flinders Lane,
Melbourne, and by calling at these addresses the
public can satisfy themselves as to the genuine
make before purchasing.


AUSTRALIAIN mutual
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
KP" DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
HENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.
Directors The Hon. Sir ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman J. T. Esq., Deputy-Chairman; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.
MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Accumulated Funds . Ten and a-Half Millions sterHnc The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over ONE MILLION STERLING.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Ten and a-Half Millions sterling.
Head Ofßce; O 7 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
TATTE SIS ALL’S
R osr oea: ill o xt —itosciaii, April
10,000 sit to 10,000
BIRTRJD.a.Y CUP Baud nM., May 24,
50,000 at 10 50,000
29, If 93.
1893,
[ONLY ADDRESS:
“ ' “ T ITTHItSAI I,”
-! C/o Geo. Adams (Owner), Tatter
I sail’s Hotel & OldClubPremises,
I Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
F unctions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.’
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
AUSTRALIAN YEAST
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Preserves Furs from
the Moth.
Cleanses
Domestic Pets
of Parasites.
i
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Clotli
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC PILLS. —For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Electric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
■harmless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. (id., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
CARTER & C°' s
(Non - reversible!***"
’THIS Ingeniously Constructed KIIMAKH DIMKG-
A T4BIE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a bome-atlFaction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES-25 to <>n Incas, include cover,
"balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
■533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAiR an°SKIN.
An elegan t dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin,
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
'Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Hew York
m
The Best Dressin
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
u r i ance,
and color
to an ad-
vanced
period of
/
/£.£&> I"** ,«»:*’ “*
ssseaes
SrS&»
IT"
sal
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The hase of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as [perfect a substitute for the oil
3 lied by nature, in youth and health, as
jrn chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
r . PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
Established 1876.
ASTHMA
CURE
WRITE KJR
D«
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON 1
asthmaJ
Q
9>M
i
"Anenb:
, "Melbourne
Rocke.Tompsitt»<°.
, 'SYDNEY: DllOttßrO* i
Brisbane- ETDoHßfo»*(°~
'"Adelaide Traidinjrft.
Wellincton JU SharlandVc.
wcKuTwp: Sharland >C? .sirs.
Wdiicnd Treatise and Testimonials frets'
JuanfMres^
ROWLANDS’
ODONTO
A pure and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-parasitic and slightly alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth where decay originates, removes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2 s. 9 d. per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes red or grey hair a permanent Brown or
Black, 4s. 4sk any dealer in perfumery for
Rowlands’ articles,of 20,Hatton Garden,London.
<2. 4
'<& cu /
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
\ LOXOTI S OPOPONAX
k\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
* £ . v° v
~°°ad Street
Beware ofimitations. The genuine is signed
TRADE MARK ;= MDSX DEER.
i
i
i
i
BUTTER-SCOTCH
(TJHE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN S SWEET)
6<^z/ c r S<cnx «
Lancrt. a
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
10 THE MEMBERS OF THE Aus-
tralian MUTUAL PROVIDENT
SOCIETY.
Ladies and Gentlemen, —
As the retiring Director, who is eligible for re-election,
I have the honour to respectfully seek a renewal of the
confidence you so kindly placed in me in 1887 and IS9O.
Should I be so fortunate as to be successful in my can-
didature, it will be my endeavour in the future, as it
has been in the past, to discharge the duties of a Director
to the best of my ability. Allow me to take this oppor-
tunity to place on record my obligations to late and
present colleagues on the Board for their extreme kind-
ness in electing me to the position of Deputy Chairman
during the past three years.
I am, ladies and gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Sydney, March 25, 1893.
The CALIGRAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Inter changeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison's Mimeograph will produce 1500 ccpies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street ;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
i
UIONSTER
r CASH PRIZE
CONSULTATIONS/
Care ‘Mand
ISO Pi(t-St., SYDNEY,
Or Alhnry, N.S.W.
NOW OPEN ON
Birthday Cup, Adelaida May 24. 5000 at 5 eacb
Birthday Cup, Sydney. May 27. 5000 at 5.
Brand National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 5.
Grand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully;
“ Robin Rood,” c/o. Manders’ Telegram Agency,
180 Pitt-St., SYDNEY, and Dean-St., ALBURY.
5. EACH
£
5, EACH
i
ì
Tsi.
ON Tire
ROSE H ILL C XT ZE=».
April 29, 1893.
At 5 each fgg~ r,,000 At 5 each
First .. .. 400
Second .. .. 125
Third .. .. 75
S. (d.) .. .. 150
N -S. (d.) .. 100
Other prizes see circulars.
60 Consolations' at 2 each, 100.
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 10 separate prizes
BIRTHDAY CUP, May 24 20,000 at 6 Each.
Registered Letters to “GALA,” c/o. 11. Alexander
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S W
The ONLY Genuine One at 5 each in the Colonies. Press
and Subscribers witness Drawings.
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over SO Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
33irtliciay Cup — lo,ooo at lO
Randwick, May 24, 1893.
ROSEHILL JULY HANDICAP 4,000 at IQ,
Write your address exactly to avoid mistakes.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
‘Adam Bede, 3
Post Office Chambers
SYDNEY.
Programmes Sent on
s
application.
<£49,460 worth f( r £l.
See Amusement
Column.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
At Sydney Hunt Club meeting, on Saturday,
?* aln . even t was a steeplechase for amateurs, two-and-
a-half in.l-s, over Randwiek steeplechase jumps. This
hacl for a week or two created great excitement among
the talent, and level money was offered at Tattersall’s
that not three of the amateurs would get over the course.
I the scoffers were all abroad, however, as the first four
horses were ridden in excellent style, while of the eight
starters only two fell. This is all the more surprising as
Sydney Hunt Club is but a poor affair, and amateurs have
httle chance of learning how to ride over jumps in the
hilly and heavily-fenced country around the city. The
race resulted in a win for Criterion, piloted by that good
all-round man, the well-known “Billy” Cope, attorney
and political Don Quixote, master of Sydney hounds,
r rom his riding at the shows, William (he went to the
Soudan as a trooper, by the way) did not impress the
cognoscenti with his ability to get over two-anda-half
miles of stiff country. But he did it, and in good style, save
tor a desperate “ legs-and-wings ” finish, which he rode
wnen there was no other horse anywhere near him. The
Hurdle Race was won by Siward, ridden bv Lieut Har-
ford an officer from H.M.S. Curacoa, who* fairly aston-
ished the crowd by. his ability in the saddle. As his
turn-out and his style of talking were very “English, you
know',” it was, of course, assumed that he could not ride for
sour apples, the local experience of English gentlemen
riders—Lord Bertie, to wit—being decidedly unfavourable.
Lieutenant Harford, however, piloted Siward over the
small sticks, and Clarence over the big ones, in a style
which showed him no novice at the game, and which won
high praise from the most experienced lookers-on. It
seems that this gentleman, while taking riding exercise
one morning at Randwiek, lost his bearings in the fog.
He pulled up, and asked a trainer if he—aw—could infawm
him—aw—where the gwand-stand was situated, as he was
—aw—quite lost without the gwand-stand. This story
was put about the paddock on the race-day, and the
knowing ones were in the firm expectation of seeing the
Englishman fall off at the first jump and get killed. By
the lime he had got over two or three fences, however,
they changed their tune considerably.
* # #
The other amateur race in the Sydney pro-
gramme, a Bracelet, was won by Nihilist, steered by Mr.
Caruth, an Irish gentleman, so that the “imported”
riders aid not shape so badly. There was one Australian
rider in the Steeplechase—Mr. Palmer, from Queanbeyan
way somewhere, who would puzzle a lot of Englishmen
to follow him through scrub or down the side of a range.
Why doesn’t some Agricultural Society give a prize for
the best exhibition of stock-riding—turn a bullock loose
and let the competitors show their skill in yarding him?
It would draw like fun.
* • •
The percentage of men killed in boxing is small
as compared lyith the fatal accidents at steeplechasing, or
even at racing on the flat. In fact, boxing with decent-
sized gloves is much less hurtful than the continual over-
strain of rowing, running, and bicycling. Among the
old-time N.S.W. amateur scullers, not less than three,
Jim Clark, Pat Anderson, and E. H. Barton, died of
internal cancer, which many people shrewdly suspect was
helped on by overstrain in rowing. Dave Lord died in
the prime of his health and vigour, and the writer
remembers seeing him carried in unconscious after a
desperate intercolonial eight-oar race, having rowed him-
self to an absolute collapse. In long-distance races men
often run till they drop. Such overstrain is infinitely
more harmful to a man in after-life than the worst
knocking-about he is likely to get with the gloves.
• * *
Donald Wallace has had enough of horse-racing
for the present, and is going to break up his training
establishment, not for the first time. The bulk of his
breeding stud will also come under the hammer on May
15, when buyers, even in these times, are bound to bid
freely for brood mares in foal to Carbine and Mentor.
• # #
Steeplechasing in Australia is a pretty rough
game. The other day a well-known steeplechase-rider
was describing a race of his in which an accident had
occurred : “ The bay horse went down right in front of a
field of about a dozen of us, and we all seemed to run
right over the top of horse and rider, and yet when the
fellow got up he wasn’t hurt at all—it was the most
wonderful escape I ever saw.” “Do you mean to say,”
said a listener, “ that he got off quite unhurt ?” “ Well,”
said the horseman, “I believe he did break his arm, or
something like that, but he wasn’t hurt.”
* # #
Yilgarn (W. A.) Racing Club advertises every
one of its jamtin officials, right down to the “Clerk of
Scales,” as “ Esquire ! ”
• • •
Mr. Fred. Foster, the caterer of Randwiek,
Sydney, complains of having had his hotel burgled of
£ll7l cash. Astonishing how many caterers have been
robbed lately in Australia.
* * •
The very latest thing in horse-names. At a
Victorian country race-meeting The Boss-Rooster, The
Moleskin Washer, The Tweed Coat, and Daboo the Pig
figured at the post.
* * #
It was cruelty to animals making the distance
of the Inter-University boatrace three miles. All three
crews were dead to the world at the end of the second
mile, and how they struggled home Heaven only knows.
Th? distance is quite enough for senior crews. ' Another
piece of nonsei se is the use of best boats and usually new
ones; a mile-and-a-half in clinker boats would evoke a
much better contest.
• # •
Amateur rider wins “A ladies’ bracelet ” and is
given order on “jeweller” for trophy. His wife goes to
see jeweller, finds that jeweller keep's a pop shop, which
she refuses to enter. Winner indignantly tears up order
in presence of race-committee.
# # #
At a recent Onkaparinga meeting, a Juggins
would have done well by putting £1 on every horse
which ran in each of the races. Rank outsiders popped
up so frequently that the “system” showed a profit of
£34 12s. on the day. Now, a backer might try the same
game with bookmakers through all eternity, and he
would never get a win on the day. The Hebraic idea of
an outside price for any ordinary handicap is 10 to 1, and,
as a rule, be doesn’t care to lay tens about anything unless
there are twelve horses starting.
* * #
The Australian jumping-championship matches
didn’t make the promoters’ fortune. “Jim ” Byrne won
the standing high jump with sft. 6|in., beating by 3|in.
his previous Australian record. M’Manus, of 'Coota-
inundra, won the running long jump with 22ft. ; and
White, of Cooma, covered 37ft. lOin. in the three standing
jumps.
• • #
The hop-step-and-jump deserves mention by
itself, as M’Manus did 49ft. 2Jin., beating the world’s
previous record, 48ft 4in. by Yankee Burrows.
# # *
White won the standing long jump with
12ft. BJin. ; the poorest exhibition of all being the run-
ning high jump, for which Byrne, Quinlan and Murphy
divided at sft. Sill.
• • •
A specially-imported “ dark ’un,” a dead shot,
kept in clover by two Jewish bookmakers for a month
prior to a certain big Gun Club meeting, turned up for
shooting in a state of sixes and sevens. He couldn't hit
a haystack. Hebrews lost heavily ; their cursing awful
to hear.


MEDICAL.
CELEBRATED
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
BLOOD and NERVE
MEDICAL.
REMEDIES.
A.lfalin.e Vitality Pills
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
w ENTE^
&
DECERXEE
&
&
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—awarded—
GOLD MEDA.L!
SYDNEY and PARIS.
tw CURED 100,000.
A-P
He,
r/o:. H.P. Rasmussen Esq
•km
RF’VIEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
ALFiVLIKTE LOCK PILLS
(registered)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain ?”
Indisputable Evidence
GOLD MEDAL.
CuredL Patrons
Testifying; to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
i
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
PILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A, Baly, Esq., a Commissioner ol the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmusson. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all.—Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washingtou-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfalino Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.— A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st,, Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Fills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy tor Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any*kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
and Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(I KK* THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alkaline
Remedies.” Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
Paris and Sydney ; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris ;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Disc overer & Proprietor
of TUB CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
AIiFAIiINE REMEDIES,
which have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers tor the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
'♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦A
Herr Rassmussen’s Diploma,
m
3 z
INDUSTRIES itEXPOSANTS
mtas m m sta wmmi 1 w '
Q)ccctu&- c* Of£,sCanA
JWEC LE TITHE DE ,<r' i iT ■’rllKv
M, I'HlJi Jl jffl jKsgto si
a «
xfiK^STMSrs®
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
he Genuine.
“ Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
hrated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.),
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years. ” —Sydney Sunday Times. ✓-
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to be well
established.”— S. A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.” — Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Teatimonlala.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O'Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Hekh llass-
mussen— Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your Alfalino Vitality Bills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use. —Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and moustaches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes,fposted, 35., 6s
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43^6
Alfaline Lock Fills
CUlt*]* THE KLOOH.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
ALL PACKETS SENT |i NO BSE It VEIL
“ Tb.e IXTatural Doctor.”
A valuable Herbal Work, by Herr Hassmushen, which contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Price, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSKN. Register all letters containing money.
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets seni Unobserved.
pr Beware of Imitations I
HRllll RASSMUSSBN’S ORNUINR HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY UR OBTAINED FROM HIS OAVN ESTABLISHMENTS AS
FOLLOWS
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY;
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.


Settlement of the People on the Lana!
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION of 1893.
SUBDIVISION OF THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
N'o.xxi.lbxrols. <§& Melton Farfe.,
250,000 Subscribers of 11 each. 251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments.
First Prize,
Second „
Third „
Fourth „
Fifth „
Sixth „
estimated value,
) y
»
>}
}}
>)
£30,000
12,000
7.000
3.000
2.000
1,600
Each Share has the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of £1
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth.
iMtft
lift
I’v^
I'M
'"iriwit Wr#
—Also—
-113 Prizes, est ‘Xe ed each £lO5O
9 „ „ from £SGO to 990
120 » a each 550
3 „ „ from £340 to 540
100 „ „ each 24
Total Value, £250,000.
EACH SHARE lias the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties arc drawn for separately.
An Investment of S\
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth*
NAMBROK HOUSE.
PLAN OP SUB-DIVISION OF THE NAMBBOK ESTATE
PAUISH of DENISON, near SALE, GIPPSLAND.
KL.
co g
9SI
—lx
li ur
SSI I Gv2
B R
A k
X X
<r
V
S) »
f==
s-s;
3 2
rj n ••« si! *9
991£31 851 Ml 921 022 122 222 8?2
i
y
HIE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
situated on tlio Latrobe River, Gippsland,
comprises 15,000 acres of very rich land,
which can scarcely be surpassed for agri-
cultural, fattening and dairy purposes. The
land is specially adapted for the growth of
maize, hops, root crops and ceieals, and is
practically ready for the plough. The
Nambrok sheep and cattle have been for
many years noted for the excellence and
high prices obtained. The rainfall is abun-
dant, averaging about 30 inches per annum,
and the climate salubrious, being free from
extreme boat and cold. An unlimited
supply of water can be obtained at a mode-
rate depth, under 30 feet, in any portion of
the Estate.
The Thompson River, which is close to
the northern boundary of the property, can
be easily and cheaply utilised for irrigation
purposes. The Rosedale Railway Station,
111 miles from Melbourne, is within 2i
miles of the property, and the railway line
runs directly through the property, and
the Heyfield station on the Maffra line is
about 5 miles distant.
THE
MELTON PARK ESTATE
comprises 7146 acres, close to Bacchus
Marsh, in the Parish of Yancardook,
County of Bourke, and is well known in
Victoria for its great fertility and resi-
dential attractions. It is about a, couple of
miles from the Melton Railway Station,
20 miles distant from Melbourne, where an
ever ready market exists for everything
the Estate produces.
Plans of both Estates will be forwarded
on application.
PRIZE 1. —Nambrok Estate —A superbly built mansion of 15 rooms with all necessary
domestic and outbuildings (cost £10,000), together with 2000 acres of magnificent agricultural
and grazing land, and adjoining the Heyfield and Kilmaney Park Estate—(see above Illustration
and Plan). Estimated value, house and land, £30,000.
PRIZE 2. —Melton Park Estate —An eight-roomed modern built house, with magnificent
stabling, containing 11 loose boxes, coach-house, &c., together with 700 acres of first-class land,
situated in the celebrated Bacchus Marsh District, 20 miles from Melbourne. Estimated value,
house and land, £12,000
PRIZE 3 —A comfortable house of 9 rooms, together with 500 acres of superior land, mostly
rich river flats. Estimated value, bvDOO.
PRIZE 4. —Three hundred acres of superior agricultural land, adjoining Prize 3, Estimated
value, £3OOO.
PRIZE 5 .—Two hundred acres of land similar to Prize 4, Estimated value, £2OOO.
PRIZE 6 . —One hundred and fifty acres, similar to Prize 5. Estimated value, £l6OO.
PRIZES 7 to 119 .—Each containing one hundred acres of rich agricultural land, ready for
the plough. Estimated value, £lO5O each.
PRIZES 120 to 128 .—Each containing over 50 and under 100 acres. Estimated value from
£560 to £990, according to acreage.
PRIZES 129 to 218 .—Each containing 50 acres. Estimated value, £550.
PRIZES 249 to 251.—Each containing over 30 acres and under 50 acres. Estimated value
from £340 to £540, according to acreage.
PRIZES 252 to 351.--Each one acre township allotment, valued at £24.
The Title Deeds are granted by the Crown, are in perfect order, as will be seen from the attached letter received from Messrs. Blake and Riggall.
G. M. OFFICER, Jun., Esq. 120 William Street, Melbourne, September 30 1592
Dear Sir,—We have to inform you that the title deeds to the Narnhrok Estate and the Melton Park Estate arc in order and complete, and there is no obstacle to the immediate transfer of these Estates to
Purchaser. — Yours truly, BLAKE & RIGGALL.
Clear Titles will bo transferred to successful Investors free of all cost, and all moneys will be held in trust until the Ballot has taken place. The following gentlemen have been invited hv Hw, Pm
meters, and will be present at the Ballot :-P. P. LABEKTOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major C. M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J. WHITNEY
Auckland, N.Z. The Ballot, which will take place on ox* aboxit June 30, will be duly advertised, and results intimated immediately afterwards. Should the winner of any Prize so desire the
Promoters have arranged with the late owners to act as agents for the working leasing or sale of any of the Prizes for a period of three years without any charge.
Australian Applications for Shares should
b e made by Registered Letter to—
E. X de BOMFOBB,
Co J. H.
I*l3 or o'ctsfla. CJlxa.Ktx'bioiTs,
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
State amount forwarded and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply. Do not attach Stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is made by cheque.
Should the full complement of Subscribers not be obtained, the Trustees will arrange that Prizes will be allotted pro rata according to the amount subscribed and the values set out in the a i )ov ,
schedule. Land to bo treated at an average value per acre, and prizes to be arranged on this basis. Prize No. Ito be included in this allotment. N.B.—No Shareholder is liable to any further mvmmi'l,
allotted Shares 1 .v««.nc oi
payment on
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Any Shareholder winning Property No. 1, who shall have applied for a Share or Shares prior to May 10, 1893, will, in addition
to Property No. 1, receive a Cash Bonus of £2OOO (to enable the winner to stock the said property). Any Shareholder winning Pro-
perty No. 2, who shall have applied for a Share or Shares prior to May 10, w.ll receive a Cash Bonus of £5OO. Any Shareholder
winning Property No. 3, who shall have applied for a Share or Shares prior to May 10, will receive a Cash Bonus of £l5O,
This Oifer is made to Subscribers on strictly business lines, as the promoters recognise the mutual advantage of holding a
ballot on as early a date as possible. Doing so will effect a considcrab - saving in expenses, and the promoters, therefore, are
willing to allow Shareholders to benefit by this.
Columbian Land Distribution.
v
PLEASE ALLOT 1110. Shares.
Name
:E
Address
To E. J. of. Bomford, c/o j. 11. Ast rop,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell-st, Svdney.
Please make remittance by Postal Note or P.o!o. If
by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed envelope
with stamp tor reply. Do not attach stamp if other
than N.S.W. (Cost of stamp may be added to P. 0.0.)
Register your letter.


/DEAL.'
The NEW MODEL “HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS; Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 42 styles ot Type.
LIGHT. yw* COMPACT. PORTABLE. 83? J DURABLE.
The greatest success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars on the Mimeograph or Cyclostile, on account of no Lacldng, no olding, no Clacks, and no Varnish, as by other
5 re Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
a q. Australasian Agent. Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
ì
1
i
%
i
Mr. JAMES L. TURK,
Of the Commercial Gazette Office
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Describes the Suffering and Distress
of His Daughter
How these are Exchanged for Health
and Happiness by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“I wish to state to you what your blood-
purifying Sarsaparilla did for my daughter.
Some two years ago she was attacked with
diphtheria. A physician was called. He helped
her a little, but not much. Finally, I called
another. She got over the soreness in her throat,
but a large swelling came outside of her throat,
bard and angry looking. We poulticied it for
three weeks, but it looked no better. She then
lost her voice, and her throat swelled inside
again. The doctor lanced the swelling, and it
discharged (or two or three weeks. She then re-
gained her voice, but was paralysed in the lower
limbs. I became discouraged, dismissed the
doctor, and sent my daughter to the country.
My wife, knowing the purifying qualities of your
Sarsaparilla, determined to give it a thorough
trial; and after using two bottles, the news
came to me that my daughter had begun to im-
prove. From that time on, she continued to
gain, until she became sound and well again, and
she has enjoyed good health ever since. I have
used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family many
years, and I know it to be the best blood-purifier
extant.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell Mass., U.S.A.
Has Cured others, will cure you.
£/ie Sydney <Qoffee galace” Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crkscknt,
lower Domnin, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week,
Without Board ... 15s
With Hoard 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
|os each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS. BATHS. Ac.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes' walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually-disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE HOOF,
160 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
promises.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
Mr. Justice Real.
Between CHARLES STEWART, Petitioner
and MADELINE HOLZMANN, Respondent.
WEDNESDAY, the FIFTH day of APRIL,
1893.
Upon Motion this day made unto this Court
by Counsel on behalf of the Petitioner, and upon
reading the affidavit of Samuel John Lloyd and
the affidavit of John Howard Thomas, filed herein
on the 28th day of March 1893. IT IS
ORDERED that a copy of the Petition and
Citation herein and of this order be advertised,
twice in the Courier newspaper, published at
Brisbane in the said Colony, twice in a newspaper
published at Mackay, in the said Colony, twice in
a newspaper published at Maryborough, in the
said Colony, and twice in The Bulletin news-
paper, published at Sydney, in the Colony of New
South Wales. And that compliance with this
order be deemed good and sufficient service of the
said Petition, Citation, and Order upon the above-
named respondent.
Dated this Bth day of April 1893.
M. J. O’SULLIVAN, Associate.
[L.B.] PATRICK REAL, J.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDIC-
TION.
Mr. Justice Real.
Between CHARLES STEWART, Petitioner,
and MADELINE HOLZMANN, Respondent,
VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland,
Queen, Defender of the Faith.
To MADELINE HOLZMANN, of , in
(1.5.) the Colony of Queensland.
WE COMMAND you that, within one calendar
month after the service of this on you, inclusive of
the day of such service, you do cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you in our Supreme Court
of Queensland, then and there to make answer to
a Petition wherein Charles Stewart, claiming to
have been married to you, is the Petitioner, and a
copy whereof, sealed with the seal of our said
Court, is herewith served upon you, and take
notice that, in default of your sodoing, the hearing
of the charge thereof proved in due course of law
and the pronouncing of sentence therein will be
proceeded with, your absence notwithstanding.
Witness. —The Honorable Sir CHARLES
LILLISY, Knight, the Chief Justice of Queens-
land, the fourth day of January, in the fifty-sixth
year of our Reign, and in the year of Our Lord
One thousand eight hundred and ninety-three.
For the Registrar.
(1.5.) W. C. WOODHOUSE,
First Clerk.
IN THE SUPREME COURT
QUEENSLAND.
OF
MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
Mr, Justice Real.
TO the Honorable SIR CHARLES LILLEY,
Knight, the Chief Justice of Queensland,
the Honorable GEORGE ROGERS
HARDING, Esquire, the Honorable
PATRICK REAL, Eequire, the Honor-
able POPE ALEXANDER COOPER,
Esquire, and the Honorable CHARLES
FREDERICK CHUBB, Esquire, Jus-
tices of the Supreme Court of Queensland.
The Thirtieth Day of DECEMBER, 1892.
The Petition of CHARLES STEWART, of
Gympie, in the Colony of Queensland, Miner,
Sukweth—
L —That the ceremony of marriage according to
the rites and ceremonies of the Church of Eng-
land, was on the eight day of September, One
thousand eight hundred and eighty one, per-
formed at Mackay in the said Colony by the
Reverend Albert A. Maclaren, a Clerk in Holy
Orders, between your Petitioner and one Madeline
Holzmann, then falsely calling herself Alma
Henrick, spinster,
2. —That prior to the said pretended marriage,
to wit on the eighth day of April, one thousand
eight hundred and seventy nine, the said Madeline
Holzmann (who then described herself as Madeline
Weferling, a spinster) was lawfully married to
Arud August Heinrich Holzmann at St. Paul’s
Church of England, Maryborough, in the said
colony .
3. —That on and after the said eighth day
of September, one thousand eight hundred
and eighty one, when the said ceremony of
marriage between your Petitioner and the said
Madeline Holzmann was performed as aforesaid,
the said Arud August Heinrich Holzmann was
alive, and the said marriage of him with the said
Madeline Holzmann was in force and effect and in
no wise annulled, dissolved or abrogated.
Your Petitioner therefore prays
That Your Honors will be pleased to
declare that the said marriage in fact (but
illegally celebrated) between your Peti-
tioner and the said MADELINE HOLZ-
MANN is null and void.
And your Petitioner will ever pray, &o.
CHARLES STEWART.
Witness ; WILLIAM DAVIES, J.P., a Justice
of the Peace.
BERN AYS and OSBORNE, Solicitors, Adelaide
Street, Brisbane.
Tortf*</Agenis for TOZER and CON WELL,
Solicitors for Petitioner, Gympie.
<£49,460 worthfor ill.
See Amusement
Column.
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
m
■m
m
ANNA RUPPERT'S SKIN TONIC will iits'lively re-
move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter how
long standing), aone (so prevalent in moist climates),
salt rheum, oilyness, excessive redness, etc., soon dis-
appear after its use. This SKIN TONIC is a healing
remedy’. Every bottle is guaranteed to be as represented.
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan,
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientific
and healthy ; it opens the pores of the skin, so that all
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving the net-
work of the skin clean, fresh and youthful; hardens
flabby skin—in fact, gives a new appearance. ANNA
RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively than
all other skin preparations combined. SKIN TONIC is
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Every
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands of
letters are coming in, and are loud in their praises of this
SKIN TONIC; old cases of acne, eczema, coarseness of
skin, etc., are being speciallv cured when other remedies
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. 6d.,
three bottles together (usually required), £ll2s. 6d. All
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamped
envelope. Consultation at office free. Valuable new
“Book of Beauty,” post free on receipt of 4d. stamps.
Call or address the celebrated American Complexion
Specialist,
ANNA RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia
153 Strand, Sydney,
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, etc.
IST o Cxi.re, IST o Fay.
eL ECTBO’GMVANIC SUSPENSORy
C r
M
nnHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
± cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all ftaires,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NERVOUS MEN.
mM//
Ws
pa*
BELTrtlva
a
IPSM
-Cvr
- \V/-:
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from ,£1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Bar k, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great Improve incuts over all other
hells. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 916, Q.P.0., Sydney.
DEAF
NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
bjr I’eck'l Inrlilbli Tubular Rar CuahloM.
Whl«por» heard. BucoMuful when all
remedial fail. Write (er book of proof*
A.M. HAST,
49 ti izabeth Street.
Meliourne.
[FREE.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
i
N
m.
*:
M
m
trade mark
£3 The only thorough]}
reliable Remedy for
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BUONC'llim
AID
INFLUENZA.
It can n ow be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
y. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY,
ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George at
Wholesale q£ EUin£i iiioUICIS. Limited
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods aw free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores,
USE
*BAKIH(j
POWDER
She : “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S! ”
He: “No!”
She ; “Know my cakes'?”
He; “Ah! Dem that make me love."
K
*5
(Et
•THE LOUNGE HAIR-DREFSING CHAIR.
The moat comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is n nice, light-looking chair, and >s
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
ns in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALKS BARKERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
6HO »t »K!I tlroruc Street, Sydney,


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking*, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD .
In Tins st Is. 6d«» 2s« 6d«, Bnd lOs« 9 of 3,11 Chemists. &c.
AU S T RAL|A N AGENTS-Messrs Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Paulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co, Adelaide - Kempthornf P R o« r ! Tn
Dunedin • Berkley, Taylor & Co, and Elliott Bros. & Co, Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses " " ‘' & C °’’
Johnson’s Lodger.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
It was a morning of blue and gold—blue
sky and golden sunshine. A morning that ignored
in a large and splendid manner the possibility of
the existence of any care or trouble in the world.
A summer morning in the latitude of Port Phillip,
in fact.
Mr. Alban Johnson, with his silver-mounted
umbrella under his arm, came out of his suburban
cottage and looked up at the sky. “ Another
lovely day,” he groaned, “ I must go inside again,
and ink the seams of my coat once more.”
He reappeared again in a few moments and
barefully selected a flower from the little oblong
garden-patch in ftont of his cottage. This flower
—a geranium—Ho placed in his buttonhole and
ihen, with a springy step, started on his daily
three miles’ Walk to Melbourne.
His garments wefe undeniably shabby; but they
were well-brushed, and his linen, though woefully
frayed, Was spotlessly clean; It was easy to
understand why he preferred a dull day to a fine
one. Oh a dull day his shabbiness was not
Strikingly noticeable ; on a fine day it was madfe
shockingly conspicuous by the pitiless sunlight.
The rery shadow of him made a squalid blot upon
thh pavement. His umbrella Was merely carried
for show—he couldn’t open it on account of four
Of its ribs being absent and the rest broken—and
because of an idea he had that the glitter of its
silver top, when held well in front of him, caught
the eyes of people whom he might be addressing,
and kept them from looking too critically at his
clothes. This idea was one of those pathetic
delusions peculiar to genteel poverty.
• # «
But, though he was evidently not a man of
either wealth or fashion, nobody who met him
would have suspected that he was walking into
the city because he hadn't thr-eepence wherewith
to pay the train fare. And certainly nobody
would have believed that he had left home that
morning with nothing more substantial than a cup
of cold water in his stomach. Still less likely
would anyone have been to believe that he had
left behind him a wife who was actually dying for
want of proper nourishment, not to mention a
sick friend, who was staying with him, in a
similar condition. Yet all these things were
true. And, what made the matter worse, if worse
it could be made, was that the day was the Friday
before last Christmas Day which, as you will
recollect, fell upon a Sunday, and that, therefore,
if he failed to raise some money before night he
would have no further chance of doing so till the
following Tuesday. Which would mean neither
more nor less than starvation to three people.
This thought was gnawing at his brain, even when
ho was laughing and joking with men whom lie.
met, and who, after parting from him, said to each
other, or to themselves, “ Wonderful fellow,
Johnson ! How the deuce does he manage to
keep up such a flow of good spirits in these beastly
hard times ?”
It was not for choice that ho did so, but because
he was a canvasser, and that canvassers, like
clowns, must pretend to be perpetually cheerful,
or—unless they take to some other means of
earning a living—perish. And it should also be
said, in justice, that it was not his fault that
matters had come to such a pass with him. He
was the most indefatigable and indomitable of
canvassers. He would tramp the sun-blistered
streets all day on the chance of making half-a-
crown, and do so, too, with the air of a man to
whom every five minutes is worth at least a
sovereign. But there are times when the more a
man struggles against a run of bad luck the worse
it becomes, as though Fortune was exasperated at
Ins stubbornness. Mr. Johnson was in the thick
of a time of this kind.
* # #
The day passed away, and the hour was
approaching when all the places of business would
be closed, and yet he had not earned even the
price of a loaf of bread. He was in a state Of silent
frenzy. Hunger he would laugh at, as fat as it
affected him personally, for there was a lot of
stamina in Alban Johnson, but wheri bethought
of his wife, whom he loved dearly, having to do
without food—common food, even tile food given
to prisoners in gaol—he ground his teeth and
cursed God in his heart. Whereof came nothing
good, as fell out afterwards.
He was also concerned, though naturally in d
less degree, ori account of the plight of his sick
friend who, it may bo'said at once, was not sick
at all, but who could not leave the house for
reasons known only to himself and the Johnsons.
bix o clock struck, and all chance of earning
money departed. There was no' alternative left,
but borrowing—if ho could find anyone to lend, a
very doubtful matter, indeed, as all the men he
knew who had the means, and might have had the
will, to assist him, were out of town. Those
whom he would be likely to meet at that hour, or
during 1 the rest of the evening, would have no
money to spare beyond, perhaps, paying for a
drink or two. He wanted neither them nor their
drink just then. Was there no hope left ?
Yes, there was one. All of a sudden he recol-
lected a man to whom he had once done a very
good turn when it was in his power to do good
turns to people. If he could find this man all
vvould yet be well. He had not seen him for some
time, but that, he considered, was of no conse-
quence.
He found him in a billiard-room, playing devil’s
pool and winning at a great rate. He didn’t
interrupt him, but waited for an opportunity to
draw him aside, and when it came told him exactly
how things were and asked for a small loan—
a matter of a few shillings or so.
“ I have made it a rule,” said this valuable
friend, chalking the point of his cue as he spoke,
“never to lend money. I promised my wife I
wouldn t. But you are welcome to a drink if you
like.” J
D n you and your drink !” replied John-
son, and passed out of the room.
* * #
His heart was full of bitterness over this
humiliation, and he felt desperate enough to do
anything. One thing was clear to him as he stood
with eyes of gloom gazing at the passing crowd—
and that one thing was that he would rather
drown himself in the Yarra than go home bringing
neither money nor food. Yet what was to be
done ?
He had played his last card and lost. Perhaps
it would have to be the Yarra, after all. He
smiled grimly as he thought of the jokes his
acquaintances in the city would be sure to make
when they read a paragraph in the papers stating
that only a bunch of keys was found in the
pockets of the corpse, but that a silver-mounted
umbrella with four ribs missing and the rest
broken was clutched tightly in his right hand.
Irom which it will be seen that Mr. Johnson
carried anything but a sound mind in a sound
body at that moment.
He was roused from his dismal reverie by a slap
on the shoulder. Turning round ho saw a detec-
tive whom he knew. “Come and join me in a
drink, old man,” said the detective, “ I haven’t
seen you for an ago.”
This time Mr. Johnson did not refuse to drink.
He drank brandy. And as he drank an inspira-
tion from the devil came to him. Ho set it aside
with a shudder. But it came again stronger than
ever after he had taken another drink. He
beckoned the detective to follow him into a side-
room. The officer complied With a Curious ex-
pression his keen face.
* * *
“ Look here,” said Johnson in a husky
whisper,, after carefully closing the door of the
room, “ I want to ask you a straight question, and
I want a straight answer.”
“ Fire away,” remarked the detective, settling
himself down irt ari easy chair and taking ai cigar
out of his pocket.
“ I want to know whether, if certain informa-
tion were given you, and you were told where you
could lay your hand on your man at once, you
could let the party who gave you the, information
have his share of the reward at once.”
“ To-night, do you mean ? ”
Johnson nodded—nervously polishing with the
palm of one hand the silver top of his umbrella as
though ho wanted to scour away a bloodstain
from it.
“I think it could be managed,” replied the
detective, slowly and deliberately, while he gazed
at Johnson through rings of cigar-smoke. “At
any rate,” he added, “if the party you speak of
needed the money badly I could myself—provided
always that the information was worth it—find a
few pounds for him until after the holidays.”
As he spoke he noticed that his listener was
trembling violently.
“Stay here,” he said to him quietly, “while I
go into the bar. I’ll be back in a moment.”
He wont out, and Johnson stood by the table,
apparently trying to nerve himself to some course
of action. Then he drew himself together and
walked towards the door. He met the detective,
with a bottle of brandy in his hand, in the door-
way.
“ What!” exclaims the latter in a tone of
affected consternation, “you don’t mean to say
that you were going to leave me without even
saying good-bye ? If that’s the kind of man you
are ”
Johnson muttered something about only going
out for a minute, but the detective good-naturedly
pushed him back into the room and, pouring out
of the bottle about half-a-tumblerful of its
contents, said to his companion, “Drink this up,
old man, it will steady you. What the devii
makes you so shaky ?” But the detective, though
he asked the question, knew well enough what
the matter was with Johnson. He saw that a
terrible struggle was going on in the mind of the
latter, and wisely kept silence until it was over,
being convinced from evil experience that such a
struggle could only end in one way. He passed
the time in taking from his pocket-book and
smoothing out upon the table several crisp one-
pound notes. Then he amused himself by spin-
ning a sovereign in the air and catching it as it
fell. He had a great fancy for trusting to the lust
of the eye in regard to coin, this astute officer.
* * •
The struggle ended as he anticipated that
it would. Johnson took up the bottle and filled
himself out another drink. Then lie said with
fierce abruptness : “I’m going to do the most
damnably dishonourable thing I ever did in my
life; but see, man, my wife is sick— good God !
dying—dying of hunger—and I can’t and won’t
see this happen
He stopped, inarticulate with excess of emotion.
The detective nodded approvingly. He felt
sure of his man now.
“ You are the ‘ party,’ then ?” he remarked.
“I am—God forgive me !” replied Johnson.
“Don’t worry,” observed the detective, “I
knew that from the moment when you started to
tell your story. You had better take this sovereign
now.”
Johnson took it.
* * *
About two hours later he knocked at the
door of his cottage. He was carrying a parcel in
his hand. The door was opened by his wife, a
woman still handsome in her middle-age, with
lambent brown eyes. His face was white and
hard-set.
“Look, dear,” he said, kissing her fondly, and
hot noticing that she shrank from him, “ I’ve
brought you the medicines that will do you good.
And see —I’ve got some money to-day, and I’m
going to get more next week. Why, little woman,
you will be a millionairess.”
“ Who’s that man outside?” she enquired, in a
cold, dry tone, pointing to a shadowy figure
standing in the darkest corner of the verandah.
“ Only a friend of mine,” replied her husband.
“We have a little business together—a matter of
commission, you know—nice little commission—
merry little commission—oh, yes, very merry
indeed. Step inside, Mr. Smith.”
The detective passed in and sat down in the
gaunt and naked-looking sitting-room.
Johnson lit a candle out of a packet which he
had bought before leaving town, and by its light
the detective took a swift survey of Mrs. Johnson.
She was deadly pale and kept a singularly
intense gaze fixed upon her husband.
“ You don’t seem well, Mrs. Johnson,” said the
officer, kindly.
“I shall not be ill much longer, sir,” she re-
marked, drily, without taking her eyes off her
husband.
The latter could stand the strain no longer.
“ Is Mr. in ?” ho enquired.
“He is.”
“ Well, then, Mr. Smith would like to see him.”
“ I thought this would happen sooner or later,
Alban,” said Mrs. Johnson, “and so did he.
Come I”
And she led the way to the little back-room
occupied by the Mysterious Lodger, who never
left the house,
• # •
The detective and her husband saw the
figure of a man lying on a mattress on the floor.
“ That’s the party,” exclaimed the former, “and
fast asleep! He was a knowing one,” he con-
tinued, admiringly. “ Baffled the whole detective
force for months, and was living under their noses
all the time. But be was an awful ass for all
that.”
“ Why do you say that?” asked Mrs. Johnson.
“ Because, my dear lady,” answered the detec-
tive, “ he cleared out of the bank without taking
any money with him. But, even as he is here,
he’s worth a nice little sum to both myself and
your husband. A friend of yours, I suppose,
Johnson, or you wouldn’t have concealed him so
long.”
“ Yes—a friend of mine,” replied Johnson,


Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. tW For external use try Colemank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Oootamundra, N.S.W
Quote: “I never knew a woman who
came to anything without being something of a
Tomboy.”
New Guinea kills the Germans. Fourteen
out of a contingent of twenty-eight men lately
died from fever in nine weeks. Such is the story
of two jaundiced survivors who have spent three
years in German New Guinea, and are now in
Sydney. The Germans blackbird for New Guinea
from the same islands as the Queenslanders, and
treat the Kanakas as mere slaves. At work, an
overseer, cane or rope’s-end in hand, stands behind
each slave-gang and whips up those who flag. The
Kanakas are paid at rates varying from Gs. to 10s.
per month. They get nothing until the expiration
of their three years’ engagement, and even then
they don’t receive money. They are given a so-
called equivalent in tobacco, pipes, trumpery
finery—any rubbish that shines in the sun.
PBMELL’S
WHEATENA.
The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Oolemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
i
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
J TO
HER MAJESTY
The
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales
£
turning his head away.' He dared not meet the
concentrated scorn that looked out of the eyes of
his wife.
“ I don’t think I need handcuff him,” remarked
the detective, “ he seems pretty weak on it.”
“ You will not need to take him at all,” said
the woman.
“How?” enquired the detective, taking the
candle from the hand and bending down to examine
the recumbent figure.
“By God! it’s the truth,” he exclaimed excitedly,
holding up an empty phial, “ he’s poisoned him-
self.”
“ Yes, he’s poisoned himself,” cried the woman
in a tone of triumph, though she staggered as she
spoke, “and so have I—because,” with a glance of
withering contempt at her husband, “ I loved him
all the time.”
And she fell, dying, on the body of the dead
embezzler.
CREEVE ROE.
“A gentleman is not expected to know
Latin and Greek, but he is expected to have for-
gotten them.”— Chesterfield.
Editor Bulletin, — Be your remark that
no Victorian Judge possesses a title save Casey,
C.M.G. —it is not J. J.’s fault that he has not
been “enhandled” instead of merely being en-
dowed with an ignominious tail. At Exhibition
time (’BO-81) he worked desperately hard for a
knighthood, and very nearly got it. Sir Herbert
Sandford, the British representative, succeeded so
far that Casey was booked for a K.C.M.G.-ship
when Gov. Normanby slipped in (at Che instance,
it is said, of a couple of influential Victorians) and
threw cold water on the project. It was a great
blow to Casey, who interviewed Normanby, but
got no satisfaction. In fact, it is averred that
Normanby denied he ever interfered in any way ;
nevertheless, the information supplied by the then
head of the Colonial Office to the Duke of Rich-
mond and Gordon, was that Normanby, having
failed to shed the light of his countenance upon
Casey, the latter had not become Casey M.G.—
Bertie.
At Georgetown, Gulf of Carpentaria (Q.),
the ripsnorting editor dances in his war-paint.
The Mdndio Miner, in an editorial to Press
Dingoes,” thus addresses the loathsome contem-
porary who has harped on the fact that Labour
member Tom Glassey has two sons in the Q.
Civil service:—
Dawvy O , the young man who conducts the paper
with smudgy pictures, is recently married and is, no
doubt, engaged in the manufacture of a family. We trust
that, when he brings them into the world, they will be as
sober and industrious as the Glassey family. We further
hope that he will have a boy, but, to judge by his wishy-
washy wallop in the Register, we are inclined to believe
that the young G ’s will be all shes, and possibly cross-
eyed ones at that. There is one very prominent man in
the Assembly who is always throwing up to the father the
paltry bit of pay received by the sons, yet the long-legged,
orooked-jawed gawk never produced a son; Nature blessed
him with seven red-headed daughters instead. No wonder
he howls at Glassey, who owns six creditable sons. The
only way to pay Press dingoes in their own coin is to
dodge along the pave beside them and hit them suddenly
under the jaw. ... If young Bill Glassey was let
loose, he would hit any of the smudgy-picture syndicate
under the jaw without a moment's hesitation, and the
public would pay the fine in a jiffey. Therefore, Dawvy,
the agent of the syndicator, we advise you to mind your
jaw, otherwise you may get it smashed one of these fine
days. Further, this paper will always be glad to hear
how you are getting on in the family line, and, if there
are any boys, he sure and teach them to respect that
pious, godly person, the Syndicator.
When The Bell Blew Up.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
“ That’s the boiler at The 8011, boys ! Tumble out,
Ned, neck and crop
Never mind your hat and coat, man, we’ll be
wanted on the job.
Barney’s driving, Benson’s stoking—God help all
the hands on top !
Bring along the brandy, some one. Don’t stand
like an image, Bob,
Grab those white shirts—they’ll be wanted. Rugs
and candles, that’s all right.
Bet your lives, boys, we’ll have lots of doctor’s
work to do to-night !
“Didn’t she thunder? Scott! I thought the
universe had gone to smash.
Take the track through Peetree’s paddock, make
the smartest time you know.
“ Barney swore her plates were rotten, but poor
Bill was always rash.
“ Won’t his missus cut up dreadful ? —only
spliced a month or so! ”
Along the rise we raced together, up the hill —then
o’er the claim,
Saw the steam-clouds hanging thickly, lit up with
the glow of flame.
Boiler-house in hopeless ruins, engines wrecked
and smoke-stack gone;
Bricks and shingles widely scattered, and the
shattered boiler bare.
“Five men missing!” “Buck in fellows; get
your freest action on ;
Keep the fire back from the timber—God knows
who is under there.
Sprag that knocker. How it rattles ! Braceman’s
nowhere —Coleman’s Joe.
Tell them what has happened, Ryan. They will
have to wait below.”
As we fought the fires, the women, pale and tear-
ful, gathered ’round.
“ That you, Peter ? Thanks to Heaven!
There’s my Harry ! God is good !”
“ Praise the Lord—they Ve got our lad safe ! Joe
the braceman has been found !”
Down between the tips they found him, pinned
there by a log of wood.
“ Battery boys are safe. Mack saw them hiding
under Peetree’s ricks.
They just up and cut from under when it started
rainin’ bricks.”
Only two now Bill and Barney. Still we
laboured might and main
’Mid the ruins round the boiler where the
shattered walls were stacked.
Then his wife discovered Barney, dazed and black,
but right as rain ;
Said he didn’t know what hit him—“ thought
the crack of doom had cracked ; ”
He had landed on the sand-heap, thirty yards or
so away.
“God is mighty good to sinners,” murmured
Geordie. “ Let us pray. ”
Fifty voices called on Benson, and we worked like
horses all,
Delving down amongst the timber, burnt and
knocked about, but gay.
“ Lend a hand here, every man; he’s pinned
beneath the outer wall!
All together. Now you’ve got him. Gently
does It. That’s O.K.
Scalded ! Yes, and right arm broken. Pass some
brandy, one of you.
Cheer, ye devils ! Give it lip, boys. He’s alive
and kicking, too!”
“Give him air, now. Make a track there. Let
him see his missus first.”
“Where’s his wife?” The women wondered.
She had not been seen all night.
Someone whispered she was timid, that she dared
not face the worst,
Or the crash had shocked her so much that
she’d fainted off with fright.
Homewards then we bore him gaily, and before
the gateway dear
Bill tried very hard to join in when we gave a
rousing cheer.
“Stop, for God’s sake!” By the door-step, in
the moonlight cold and grey,
Prone poor Benson’s wife was lying, robed in
white, and still and pale,
And her golden hair, all darkened, in a dreadful
puddle lay,
Whilst the broken fire-bar by her dumbly told
its woeful tale.
Carrol, kneeling down beside her, gently raised
the wounded head.
And we bent to catch his whisper, and we
answered sadly—“ Dead ! ”
Melb.
EDWARD DYSON.
At a Boston (U.S.) ladies’ college they
wanted to introduce the Roman pronunciation of
Latin instead of the Continental. “ Cicero” was
to be pronounced “ Kickero,” and “Julius Caesar”
“Yulius Kizer.” “The motto of our college,”
remarked a smart girl, “ forbids the innovation.”
The motto was “ Jubet Vicissim.”—Ex.
Editor Bulletin, —We bushies have no
show in some of the plums of the National Pudding.
I am reading a list of books and documents for
the Chicago Exhibition. Am I too late to for-
ward my—
1. “Whalers of N.S. Wales” : by Scott Wrinkler, Esq.,
M.W.A., and President Murrain. Free-fish Ass., could he
printed for £2O.
2. “Swagmenof Riverina”: by Wrinkler Scoat, Esq.,
Grand Heredy. S. Master Gen.! would cost £5O to print.
3. “Cooks at the Sheep-stations, N.S.W.”: by Old
Scotty, Esq., Gordon-Bleu of the Billaboilg: cost of print-
ing, say, £3O.
4. “Relative Sizes of the Long Beers of N.S.W.”: by
S. Rinkler, Esq., 0.8. E. (Champion Beer Eater), cost of
publication, say, £6O.
5. “Variations of the Pannikin of Dust, N.S.W.” : by
R. Scott, Esq., Flour Inspector. Printing expenses, say,
£B5.
There is but one man in N.S.W. capable of giving
its practical Natural History the true ring of the
bush, and facts verified by experience. To him I
leave the snakes, as mine are more visionary than
real. But really I am surprised and grieved that
H. J. M‘Gooey has not been officially called upon
to write some truth and earn a cheque.— Scotty
the Wrinkler.
Slipper-Face—a Memory.
(FOR THE BULLETIN)
What remembrances those women have —of a
man—if there is just a tinge of love or romance in
the recollection. I say remembrances, because
without a spark to kindle the flame the memory is
not there.
; We are in Bandanna on the 10th of March. It
is my shout, when Tom Spinn says “ Carra da
chanclas.” I don’t vouch for the spelling, but the
sound is the Spanish for “Slipper-Face.” And
that was my nick-name at the Trinidad in Gib-
raltar. And the Trinidad was also a nick-name
for the residence of three scorpion ladies, young
ladies, senoritas, by name Julia (pronounced
Hoolya), Maraquita, and Victoria. What a name*
to call the house and the girls ! The Trinity, the
Holy Trinity. They were so-called because they
were unapproachable to us, the ravenous, heart-
eating, British subalterns.
They lived on the Ramps, above the town and
below my quarters, Tankerville.
One day a fan dropped from the window as I
passed. I picked it up and carried it round to the
door. The hag, or duenna, who opened it gave
me the name of “carra da chanclas,” saying that
my shave—mutton-chop whiskers, short mous-
tache, and charlie —was like the gold-lace markings
of a Moorish slipper.
Then in Bandanna—sleepy, boozy, pastoral,
one-sided, loblolly Bandanna —10th of March.
“ Here’s luck, Carra da Chanclas!” I always
thought Tom’s wife was foreign ; I know it now,
and I swear she is the best-looking (but one) in
Bandanna. Her mother had seen me with my
new shave—the old one revived—and told her
son-in-law to say those words to me and report. I
called, and there was Julia, a widow and a
mother-in-law. As I said, there were three. The
youngest, Victoria, had fair hair—very uncommon
with Spaniards or Scorpions—l mean Rock-Scor-
pions or Gibraltarese. I asked ; “ What have you
done with Maraquita ?” Did not some one, about
this time 6000 or 240,000,000 years ago, reply by
asking another question? This was the question,
then, for answer: “What have you done with
Victoria?” Ido not know.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.


Hotel.
•“ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pltt-strect to
Castlereagli-street),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
1
w
ss
IN THE VERY HEART OE THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
CJOttlE}, ]V[anageit,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
£cjl4
PATENT
PILLS.
m
&
ys
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flashings of
beat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
bn the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, <ko. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEEOHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved, by thousands, who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
at the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy lor Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbeciiam’s Cough
Pius a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beechaip, St Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes* Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
E PPS ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
ROM ART!
v.o.
Cromarty t
Whisky
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
ì
oaf
i
m
Sifts.
Best ©n earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing So Wine & Spirit Co., Limited.
i
i
i
Vegetable
for
ì
“pium HABIT
DRUNKenn^s
i
PROVED
By-living -witnesses to be tie
Only Remedy which can be
B -- - . taken at Home with Success.
The treatment STOPS the Desire for Liquor
In from 6 to J* hour*.
home
or Self-Treatinent, sent to
address free from observation.
Full particulars to
Colonial References in on»
BOOK,
footed frwy
Addree*—
The TYSON SANATORIUM Co.
BCOTT CHAMBERS, 96 PITT-Sf -
r
ROSES
%
%
£
c
iQS
LOT
3
THE ONLY)
RF,LIABLE
rpHIS vahiable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them •to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by tHe leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
(jsgr - Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
-THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
A-nd. Foster AXotliers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. UADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street. REDFERN.
Showrooms: 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
i
i
'S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
81s. to 15s. 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Land A Building Co., Limited,
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
Mctjuoid’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
42T As an illustration :—For a Block, 5 acres, at
>£lo per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
£l l7s. 6d., £2 10s., >£3lss., .£s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash the land for the £5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate ; or
WATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney
Sco
IB
Whisky
i^SMENZIES
DRINK
u m
SCOTTIE”
hisky.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in th*
Market.
Sole Agent;
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,.
SYDNEY.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &e.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TEEMS : 30s. per WEEK.
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
Buffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and i oint rut,
with unerring accuracy, the hi st means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship "Dread-
nought,''
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Di>.
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., & c .,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY'S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varlcocela
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargement*
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake f e tn atment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY ami PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat'd of in Dr
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars fciven as to how this
most enslaving habit can he overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his path tits with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the tiody. He supplies a Gknujn*
Electric Belt, from which the current can be ms-
TINCTLY KELT, for .£l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p m. daily
Saturdays from 10 to Pi a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED,
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street. Sydney.
"THE BULLETIN."
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper .which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
Anew Parliamentary System one - House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is 7 not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unayailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the dawns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of even- Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulai lof all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, tpid the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official —that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial communis
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Free Preaorlptlozia
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,*
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Eree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
T^TTOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
X* cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Lm
Dewar’s WHlsky.
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents; CUBCIER, ABET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, e.P.O.
Telephone 973.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated deeds
—AND—
dTTTTJ^I^rZ-
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sliow Rooms z
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
■Jtf'OW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX : ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EBUEST PAVELTC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
W ynyardl Square, SYDKTBY.
[Established over a Quarter op a Cbntdrt.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
car- Terms—los. 6d. per Pay. VT" alter Sidney flat# of Newcastle), 4 ‘ Prop, ’’
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
ZXJ
4
So
o
o
o
o
c,
C
o
o
V
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 144 Clarence**! , Sydney.
///
ALL his own fault.
Sober Party : “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s WMsky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else ! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Mill.
c
liHOWifM'
PARKE & LACY GO.
■ *
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
~ , v AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&0., &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street
SYDKTEX, 3XT.S.W.
And SAM FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
(LIMITED).
■
Rock (Breakers.
W*stlnKliouse Engiucii
1 3
WS9
'£i
§
: :J ;;
m
aha&i
- J .‘ -£■■*.
‘ " -** * % &** Y!^ T th!VK
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes.
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street om ~' Sydney.
Collhs-street, Melbourne.
i
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
safe.
<• ■
