

m &
s>
o
ri*
ft?
eft
$
&
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
A TTKF-N’S ALE THICKENS’ WHISKY
mJOY brand " USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS.
T]HE BES T IN THE MARKET AND SUPPLIED TO THE PBINCIPAL CLUBS IN SUBNET.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st.* Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
'9 W W mrnm .m mm m m ” “■ —' *9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOB— ,
Mininff and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ and. GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Use
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
PURE COCOA Bind EXTRACT of MALT.
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold land «& Building 00., Limited,
PITT AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
As an illustration ;—For a Block, 5 acres, at
<£lo per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
<£ll7s. 6d., £2 10s., £3155., <£s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year yon can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the <£so, or on three
years’ terms. Torren's Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate; or,
W ATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney.
THE AUSTRALIA HOTEL,
Castlebeagh Street, SI7DNEY.
The tariff, which includes Meals and Baths, ranges
from Twelve and Sixpence (12s. 6d.) per day upwards.
A discount to permanent residents. This Hotel is
admitted to be without a rival in Australia. The cuisine
is first-class. Four Billiard Tables. Large and well
ventilated Smoking-room. Reading-rooms and handsome
Drawing-room.
For all particulars apply to
h! EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
n-
o?
fH£
oHS
ex£
r9-^—' 6
|H I*
The
Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
Lenten Season. Leilteil SeaSOH ! Lenten Season.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh (good and dee Company, gtd.
Fish ! Fisb.! Fish !
PAWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.— as a matter
of fact, to many towns-outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Pish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
id. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.— We shall be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs—Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
Hy. Fatesou, Manager.
26 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
fALEEE’S WHISKY. ALLSOFf S ALE.
-WA-I-KEH., 24 BO3NTD STREET, SYXJKTBSY.
J. «S& G. EC
Sole Agents in. KTew South Wal.es for
OWARD.
ACessrs. Clayton axicl ShuttlewortJx.
Compound Portable Engine-, with atitomatio expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
UHCOUU
CLAY.TOMa SHUTT LEwORAn
IM PROVE D PORTABLE ENG IN E.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
ISt
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially*built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators : Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; 1 ortable Steam-power Corn Sheller
1 ust
COMPOUND UNDEHTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. &3T Full-Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implement* and. Harvesting Machinery on
j. oSc C. Howard, 2802 r*itt Street, Sydney
application
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. 681. J
[Saturday, March 4, 1893.


“ TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
By " PRIOB WARUNGr."
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
BOOKS! BOOKS ! BOOKS!
Itougki and Exchanged,
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW
DYMOCK'S BOOK ARCADE,
*2B GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel)
• Chain Belt.
P (TRADE MARK
WEAK MEN.
“Mr. Pierre’s Galvanic
Cliuin Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and only perfect body
batxekt now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to ADD WEAK
paets and restores them to
HeaUhandTigoronsSlrength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best’
Send for Pamphlet No. 2. Wash. H. Soul&Co.
Sydney, and Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents.
MAGNETIC ELAS. TEU3S 00... San Francisco, u.S.A.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition—Publishers, FITZ-
-6ERALI) PROS. Subscription (payablestrictly
in advane), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The BcIIjKTIX win •on Sale every Friday at
the Office, Geoi-ge Street, Launceston, or .from the
Runners in the street.
ows
EMBROCATION; |
v¥ :
’if" %olb ; |l*f
n WHEREX
m
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHE
PREPARATION'S
IVIALTO-
QUINIA * for
WINE.
ague;.
DEBILITY,
INFLUENZA, ~
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
Wholesale A fronts:
LAN GE & THONEMAN
M E llt o l It X E.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
fok INFANTS afd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F. 0.5., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROTAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
WMART!
v.o.
CROMIYi
Whisky:
4
OIEENLEESBMrHESS
QUICOWIOK9UN UNO VV
ARGYLLSHIRE lAj
'• hK
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. ferr e,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Bflnt Csiar MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
fiemeoxes,
Cure CANCER, Anasinia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEFs
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
f ATKINSON’S^
[white rose
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Usenone but Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Essence. |
ATKINSON'S
BPOPANAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION !~Only Pennine with shield-
. shape blue and yellowlabel and usu-
Trade Mark—a“ White Rose”—' A
w®. and address in full. Am
A i\HOO J>.
HEALTH. S J-f£HG7H a A -D vigor RESTORED
In I-our II efk.s by the mt of
t)« RICO RD’s
IS SENCEof I|FE .
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
q 2f- r ,,Ti c T: d s Ffsence of Life restores Health and
strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <fc Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
R)r Consumption use
Jr
%
&
■js
$
k
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
XTRACTIN TH EWORLD*
Manufactory :
Cootamunclra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
HON DURABLE TREATMENT.
Wm
/ ' u
V/WA-W//w9///A
]p|
Ml
mmmmfo
• ■ '/V///
•;: 3/'"'
llllllP
S
as?
J
SURGEON LANGSTON,
THE EXPERIENCED AND RENOWNED SPECIALIST
Practice ENtabli»lied 46 Years.
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff, Rova!
Engineers, registered In England and Australia
and authorised by Act of Parliament to practise
in all the branches of Medicine and Surgerv
is now permanently located at
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified men
I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon to publish
my address, so that all in need of medical skill may have
the benefit of my experience. Consultation is free to
all, but when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicine sent
My life-long experien.ce, extending over 4g
years, and practical method of treatment insure a
speedy and permanent cure in all
Special Diseases.
NEURASTHENIA or DEBILITY,
ORGANIC WEAKNESS, LACK of
ENERGY. FAILING MEMORY, PHYSICAL
DECAY,
producing some of me following effects —Debility, Dimness
of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
Face, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence
Gloominess, Despondency, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Want of Energy, Palpitation, Stunted
Development, Pains in the Back, etc., treated
with success, safely and privately
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all-forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful
Swelling's, from, whatever cause, treated by means of Mate, Time-tested Hemedies. Stiff and Swollen Joints
and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CUIIEB. Constitutional or acquired
of both Sexes treated successfully. ICuptnre instantly relieved and permanently cured. Surgeon Langston's
ELECTRIC QUADRANT,
, supports, price £2. I use
only the best remedies. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with skill in a
respectful manner; and knowing what to do, Wo Experiments are made. Home Treatment.
Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home. TUose requiring’ Immediate
Treatment can, by forwarding particulars of their case and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post.
Before confiding your case elsewhere, Consult the Old and Successful Specialist, SUIBGLEOHT
5.,4 WGSTOW. Age and experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering,
and add golden years to life. Wo mercury or poisonous drugs used. New Edition of my
latest work, “ Mens Sana in Corpore Sano,” 68 pages, sent free to men.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.8., k.
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
N.B.—The Only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
PT CONSULTATION FREE.
Wl
ALL
5/0r
53S
* *■
3 «*
Is Always fHfc {Jest
SS O JE3L X C 3
U
of Advertising
-IN-
THE BULLETIN
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An ExTKA discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
(is. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDKTBY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff,
Single Room, 4*s. - - Double Room, Bs.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED
LAST OF SIX s"
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
-2=3 33 3ST E S T E -A. T 7" E IST C.
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Sa - vs the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”.—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm. ' i la>
“ Tlie wnter has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
the strange
That they


Medical.
DhSPEER
Assisted by Pr. ELiMSHE-
M.D.; L.F.P.S., L.S.A-, L.M., f.tc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 820.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
IT'ii-vard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
", Ks W, and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
m the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
nlaints No experimenting ;no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms preducing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
nroner remedies : therefore he guarantees, lie claims to
Lethe most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W . in
is particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Mom's
10 to 12 n.m. ; 2 to 4 ami
3 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr SPEER has determined to REDUCE Ilia FEES la
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and lie
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those thousands of pool* hut honest sufferers, who,
tllotHl willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
liiS charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
U.K.-TWENTY SHILLING'S is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary, for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
UVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr, SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Mm
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
1, AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2, AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55.; or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. (id.
3, PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
O.—ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE,
Mention this paper when writing.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
w
w
E STAY at Bruton’s,
‘jNOjna'imoiJ
E STAY AT THE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
CHTLTEUN, VIC.
Jl McSWINEY’S STAR HOTEL
Is Till'; Best.
wag-ga.
Q.ive E. KTaugb-ton.
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
KW Under New Management.
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
9s. per Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager, Geo. Ily- James
(Four years’ Manager of the laie Reform Club, Sydney).
ALBURY.
THE GLOBE HOTEL
(T. K. DROWN, Proprietor)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
New Sample Room just Added. (Ml
!.»>•: ‘oil tt l , arn.T.iiftit House,
overlooking
Treasury' Gardens..
grand iro^
* .*
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
MjSLUOCKNU.
Koard and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
eluding Breakfast, 55. ; Double ditto, lbs. Special arrange-
■bents for lavjje families. A. K. BKKKR, M uineer, the
rand Hotel, Melbourne.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
VIUCE - ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
1W
%
i
L.R.C.S L.M.R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at tiro Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer ; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Bur’goyne s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled,- “Nervous and Skiu
Complaints,”
PRICE, ORE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, 1 ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy heel-
ing after Meals- Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory. Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss ot
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goy lie’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may 'be returned. The “Elective Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint or
weakness, should write to Dr. LURGOYNEfor
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
.honourably.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to ;> p.m.
Saturday —9.30 a.in. to 12 noon. .
Evenings : Monday, Wednesday and Saturday-
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
R'T Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAI’EU WHEN \\ 111 1 IMF
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe,
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
ITe has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hij
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Ilia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send Gd. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If yon do not think you understand your
case’ send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will bo found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed
Dp- Richards
34 COLLEGE STIUIUT, SYDNUY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION THEE.
Shipping.
VIA
England vi a a m erica
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction With
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers ol this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Frail'
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng
land
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAGE ffiES MAR 111 MES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government Ol
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KINO
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
1, . T o j Leave Mel-
Steamers. Commander. Leave Sydney bourne
1 (
Armanrt BohicVimont . March 27 March 31
Australien .. G. Didier . .lApril 27 May 1
And thenceforward on the 27 th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £63,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates;
Third
Class.
£3l
£36
ers lot
aocom-
English interpreters meet through passeng
I ondon on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggaga
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Medical.
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
A NNA RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC will positively re
-ft- move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter hoa
-»-.v * \ _ --
long standing), acne (so prevalent in moist climates)
salt rheum, oilyness, excessive redness, etc., soon ins
appear after its use. This SKIN TONIC is a healmj
remedy. Every bottle is guarani e dtobe as represented
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientiH'
and healthv ; it opens the pries of the skin, so that at
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving t he net
work of the skin clean, fresh and youthful ; harden
dabby skin-in fact, gives a new appearance. ANN;
RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively tha-
all other skin preparations combined. SKIN iOAIo t
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Ever
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands o
letters are coming in, and arc loud in their praises of ttu
SKIN TONIC; old cases of acnc, ecz ma, coarseness <
skin etc. are being specially cured when other remedie
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. (Id.
three bottles together (usually required), il 12s. Cd. A
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamp©
envelope. Consultation at office' free. Valuable ne'
‘‘ Book of Beauty ” post free, on receipt of Id. stamps
Call or address the celebrated American Complexio
Speck list,
address the
ANNA RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia
153 Strand, Sydney.
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, etc.
Jggf" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
Holloway s pills and ointment
There is not a country in the civilised world when
the healing virtues of these grand medicines have not beet
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at ono
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their us
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Mam
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, tV; Pm
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pou
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they a»
smirious
O
H,
F O R
M O U S T A C II EP
CapiD arine!
jogr* The Lightsino Moustache Producer. TSS
Reliable, Safe, and Simple loUse. Follow directions, am
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarino—los. Cd., Post Free. >
-4TUIKA A«TK*ar, Sole AsoiiK,
<iSO and C 32 George Street. Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.


d
CLOTHED WITH AHI
Cellular Cloth
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab'e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders l\v
Post, mention size of Neel;,
and include amount to pre-
pay earn'aye.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM It MUTCH;
Kixu Sr., SYDNEY* *
THE Belle Sagamodu.
IIIAD always detested Richardson,
although wc were ostensibly friends,
but my dislike for him culminate !
when he cut me oat ovith the Avealthy
M s. Macphcrsoli. Then I felt that
the world AA-as far too small for both
of us. All my carefully-devised
schemes of vengeance, hoAveA’er, re*
colled upon myself. Richardson laid
the luck of the devil.
We AVere both engaged in tho South Sea trade,
and R'chardson, alas! avos also engaged to the
AvidoAV. This avos to be our final A'oyage together,
fo- Richardson was about to “ settle down. ’
Of course, on our last trip avo must needs come
to utter grief : one morning avg fiund ou selves a
couple of wretched trade’s on Sagarnodu Island,
and, worse still, in the hands of the Batta-battas,
the most ferocious cannibals south of the equator.
But it so happened that a bloody Avar between
the Batta-hattas and another tribe had just been
concluded, and the Ba'tas, haAnng been aTc*
torious, had in their posses si m many prisoners.
“ Long pig,” therefore, Avas plentiful and we
were consequently icspited. We Avould keep—
and improA'e.
The selfish savages fed us avcll, and we spoilt an
indolent time, A'aried by false alarms of approach-
ing feasts. They were genial fellows in their way
and never omitted enquiring after oaar health every
morning.
One day Richardson came to me much per-
turbed. “ This is too bad,” he said. “You know
Suchamucha, the chiefs sister? Well, she has
fallen in love Avith me and insists upon my marry-
ing her.”
“ So much the better for you,” I replied ; “ they
surely Avon’t dine off a relation.”
“There’s something in that,” he remarked
meditatively; “but if it ever came to Mrs. Mac-
pherson’s ears !’’
“Pooh, hQAv could it?” I returned— “don’t
throw away such a chance. I happen to know
that all the prisoners of war are finished, and our
guardians Rive been casting greedy glances at
both of us lately. Worse than all, AA'e’re getting
fat !"
[?]
After hesitating a few days longer he succumbed
to circumstances, and the marriage Avas cele-
brated, it being stipulated on his part that both
our lives should be spared. Thus did Richardson
settle down to, Suchamucha and domestic bliss !
Id c a fortnight had elapsed a vessel hoA'e in
eight and sent a boat ashore to trade. Naturally,
everybody was on. the alert avc Avere anxious to
escape, while the natives were suspicious of our
intentions and determined to keep us for their
future gratification..
Just how the trouble commenced I don’t know.
C think the Batta-battas Avantcd to annex tho
ooat and all its conte its, so the mate opened fire.
Phis, of course, somcAvhat distracted the attention
of our gua~ds, and avc made a sudden bolt, Avith
Such unueba shrieking at our heels. As avc
pelted along an idea flashed through my brain. I
acted instaitly upon it: dropped suddenly right
<n front of Richardson Over he went headlong,
and Suchamucha, avlio Avas at least as strong as
any ordinary man, fell on top of and clutched
him. I reached the sea a mid a shower of badly-
aimed missiles and was ha iled into the boat half-
drowned.
“How about tin other fellow? 1 ’ queried the
mate, who was making things lively with a
Snider,
“He’s all safe,’ I paatcl, “married chief’s
sister—pull like blazes—war-canoes coming!”
Of course, there wore no war-caioes, but I
throw that falsehood infer the usual spa.'e tear
of tho Recording Angel. The more hint of a
savage flotilla was enough, and, in a few minutes,
we we c safe aboard tho schooner. The last I
saw of the island was a dusky crowd headed by
Suchamucha, carrying up the struggling, kicking
form of my bated rival.
The first thing 1 did when T got back to Sydney
was to see the widow a id tell her of the fate of
her afllanced-
Now% here some
people say I did
wrong, but I acted
for the best. That is,
for my best.
Did T tell Mrs Mac.
that only a matter of
life and death had led
Richardson to go
through barbaric
man iage - rites with
an amazonian crea-
ture, six feet high,
with ears nearly
touching her shoul-
ders, a nose artifici-
ally flattened out,
and a mouth with two
rows of tiled teeth
i aside ?
No, I described her
as a tawny maiden
with fawn-like eyes
and rounded limbs,
her sinuous figure
clothed mostly in a
garland of brilliant
tropical flowers
(Snchamucha never
Avore anything to
speak of). I re-christ-
cncd her Sooshomaha
and said that Rich-
ardson always called
her “Sooshoo. ” I
told the widow that
the marriage cere-
mony was performed
by the local mission-
ary—(only one mis-
sionary ever landed
on Sagarnodu and he
gave them all indigestion)—and I Avound up
with a glowing picture of Richardson reposing
in a shady groA'e with his dusky bride; she
alteir.atc’y singing her native love-songs an 1
feeding him Avith bananas and bread-fruit. Before
this time I had never known that I was a poet.
Mrs. Macpherson fainted three times during the
recital, but insisted on my going through with it,
even to repeating the most amorous parts of the
narrative. Especially, being herself of bony and
angular architecture, did she linger upon the
A'olu ptnous curves of Sooshoo’s figure ; and how
she did grind her tooth at every fresh description
of the island beauty’s charms !
My AA'ay Avas now clear before me, and I urged
my suit with pitying, yet passionate, persistence.
I soon regained my lost ground, and in a month
or two Mrs. Macpherson and I were engaged.
I Avas A'isiting tho fair Avidow one afternoon.
In the midst of a tender scene the door-boll rang.
Wo heard a male voice parleying troublously wit h
the servant., we heard male footsteps dash past
her into the hall, wc seemed to feel a vigorous
and quick stride come right to the portal of our
retreat. Then, the door avus dashed open, and in
Avalkcd —Richardson ! Tho man T thought safe
for ever at Sagarnodu ! Ho had been rescued by
another vessel.
As Avas but natural under the circumstances,
Mrs. Mac. fainted away, and the detested Richard-
son andl wore immediately locked in deadly combat,
heedless, in our rage, both of hcrinscnsiblccomlilion
and her bric-it-brac. By the time that we had
lost our “first wind” and not recovered our
second, the widow revived, and a lively scene
commenced. First, she enquired after Mrs.
Richardson, and trusted that her complexion would
not suffer in the Sydney climate. Then she
Stated, still in a coldly sarcastic tone, that she
had heard that Mrs. R. had exquisite taste in
dress, and she must find out the name of her
dressmaker. She Was going on to ask if there
were yet any little Richardsons, When hysterics
overtook her, and the servants came to the rescue.
Richardson and I were forced to depart for the
time, which Wc did with mutually defiant scowls.
By what magic he regained his sway over the
widow I know not, but when next I presented
myself at Mrs, Macpherson’s abode she was “ not
at home,” although I distinctly saw her and
Richardson sitting together at tho Window.
Soon afterwards, a stroke of good luck hap-
pened to me—some mining shares 1 held suddenly
boomed in the market, and I made a very tidy
sum by their sale. I did not now so much regret
the loss of the widow, who, apart from her money,
Was an old vinegar- cruet, but I longed for
I WAS HAULED INTO THE BOAT HALF DROWSED.
revenge. When I heard of Richardson’s renewed
engagement I left Sydney.
The coquettish widow would, fora long wh'le
not consent to name the day ; she still professed to
believe there was something in that island story,
although Richardson swore it was only the base
and cowardly fabrication of an enemy who had
fled and left him there to be eaten. At last she
was won over, and a coming fashionable marriage
began to be talkep of in the society columns of
the press. The day arrived, and so did I.
The church was crowded, and when the clergy-
man (there were three of them) demanded
whether any person knew of any just cause or
impediment, &c., a tall, burly form in woman’s
clothes arose, and, in a harsh voice, remarked:
“Me, Misscc Richcrsen.” The faiming and con-
fusion amongst the women was awful when she
threw back her veil and displayed the grinning
cannibal countenance of a Sagarnodu savage, that
looked tho more grotesque because of the civilised
gown she wore. Most of the men thought it was
a very bal joke, but when I also arose and stated
that there were reasons which led me to believe
that the lady who had spoken merely asserted her
just rights, there was a dead silence, and all the
fainting women recovered. The officiating clergy-
man requested our presence in the vestry.
At the risk of my life I had returned to Saga-
modn and succeeded in kidnapping Suchamucku.
On the trip I had instructed her how to play her
part at a given signal, ami repeal the few words
I had taught her by rote. I am really convinced
that the poor heathen had conceived a strong and
lasting affection for Richardson, although people
refuse to believe it was pity that instigated me in
what I did ; they assort that it was a mean
revenge.
# # #
But sc 3 how poor a revenge it was! The
clergyman refused to proceed with the ceremony
until counsel’s opinion had been tikcn as to the
possible legality of any marriage-rite performed
amonght savages; and two days afterwards
Richardson, unannounced, burst into my apart-
ment, took me by the hand, and called me his
friend and saviour! “Man,” said he, “ 1 know
you meant to do me an ill-turn, but you’ve done
me a good one. Only for you I should now be
tied for life to that old virago who has nothing but
a life-interest in a little property left by her late
husband, and is head over ears in debt. Why, as
soon as the news got about that the wedding was
‘ off,” there wore half-a-dozen executions issued
and she has only been staving them off by saying
that she was going to marry a rich island trader.
Lot us have a drink.”
I have left off trying to get level with Richard^
son.
BINGHI.
REMINDED OF HIS DEAD MOTHER.
[EXTRACT FROM A PRIVATE LETTER.]
It was the latter part of August, 1891. A friend
and I had come down from Ramsgate to Mimter,
to see the venerable church there, which is a
thousand years old. I entered the churchyard
and seated myself upon a nameless grave while he
went in search of somebody to unlock the doors of
the edifice and show its wonders. In a few
minutes he returned in company with an elderly
lady, to whom he introduced mo, saying she was
the custodian and guide of the place. I gazed at
her face for some moments without a word. If
my own mother, dead and gone 15 years, had
come back to speak to her only son, I should
scarcely have been more astonished. For this
woman was almost my mother’s double ; the same
size, the same face, and the same way of parting
the hair and combing it in smooth bands from the
forehead. I told her so, and we were friends
before either fairly knew the other’s name. What
a queer world it is.
She then conducted us through the ancient
fane, and spoke of the long vanished past, of the
monks and nuns who onoe sang and prayed with-
in its walls, of the quaint carvings on the hard
oak seats in the chancel, of that precious relic, the
Cranmer Bible, which reposes in a glass box
against a pillar, and of many matters besides,
drawn from the apparently exhaustless well of her
detailed and accurate information.
Finally the talk veered round to the wholesome-
ness of the vicinity, the bracing nature of its sea
breezes, and so on. Then our guide, Mrs. Sarah
Herd, said !—“ I have lived here in Minster 50
years, and seen many ups and downs. One of my
sons is now in America, where he is doing well.
He wants me to leave England and make my home
with him, but I doubt if I ever shall. lam some-
what like that old yew-tree out in the yard, deeply
rooted to this soil, and might be the worse for
pulling up. Then lam getting on in life, and ills
grow apace with age. In the spring of 1878 I had
a serious attack. At first I lspew what
to make of it. There was no disease that I recog-
nised in particular. I felt tired in body and
weary m mind. There was nnffch pain lit my
chest and back, and a kind of tigliHHss at the
sides, as though physical force were applied there
to restrain me from moving. My appetite, which
was usually good, fell away ; and whatever I ate
or drank gave me pain, and I lived almost entirely
on bread and water. I was always in pain and
couldn’t sleep so as to feel refreshed by it. After
a time I grew so weak as to be unable to go about
my work. A bitter and sickening fluid arose into
my month, and I perspired to such an extent that
the sweat sometimes rolled off my face to the
door.”
I (the writer) break in upon Mrs. Herd’s story
at this point merely to say that this tendency to
sweat without the provocation of labour or of
exercise is always a sign of a debilitated condition
of the system.
It means that the blood is impure and im-
poverished, the kidneys working badly, and that
the body lacks nourishment and is living feebly on
what was previously stored in it. In other words,
the stomach lias refused its duty and the other
organs are in sympathy with it. Now wc will let
the lady proceed, begging pardon for the inter-
ruption.
She went on to say;—“For a time I tried to
cure myself with various domestic remedies which
sometimes answer. But they failed, and I con-
sulted a physician. With all respect to the doctors,
they occasionally fail too. This one did. You
know there comes a time in all long illnesses when
we get in some way used to pain and misery, and
make no further efforts to get rid of it. In fact,
we don’t know how, and so don’t try. For about
three years I remained wretched and ailing, and
dull unhappy years they were. My sufferings
were beyond all I had ever known before, yet
there seemed nothing to do but to bear them as
patiently as I could. At this date, 1881, certain
friends of mine spoke to me of the great benefit
they had received from the use of Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, for indigestion and dyspepsia. This threw
light on my mind, although I cannot say it made
me at once a believer in Seigel’s Syrup. At
length, however, in July 1881, I began to take it.
In all I used six bottles, and found my health
fully restored. Ten years have elapsed, and I
have had no attack since. But if Ido in future I
shall know where to put my hand on the remedy.”
Our visit being virtually over, wo called fora
few moments at Mrs. Herd’s home, 2, High-street,
Minster, Kent, and then wended our way hack to
Ramsgate.
Niw York, October, 1891.
C.M.R.


llllll.„l>
•s
6
o
mil (
‘"■i
HIIIIIIM
Q
LU
CJ
iinimii
mi mi
f/1
o
nm iiiiiii
"HI
t.
o
I 111
3
O
K
lIIIIIHIIIII
niimm
' 4*
‘nil r
IllllllllillllX
-nils (iiiiill
m mi.
Pure blood is life-long delight. It is health—real good health and
strength—free from pimples, spots, sqrps and aches.
Have pure blood by taking Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally, and use
a really good modern soap—Frazer’s Sulphur Soap—externally, apcj. y°tf
ensure a clear skiu and a good complexion.
It is a mistake to suppose that a good skin or a clear complexion can be
secured by Soap alone. It cannot. A pure Soap—Frazers Sulphur Soap
is an invaluable aid to personal beauty, but the first essential is pure blood*
This must never be forgotten. If we can’t have the blood quite theq
we must get it as pure as we can,
A man wants a clear skin and a wholesome complexion, in profession or
business. Else if he be blotchy, pimply, or disfigured, other men fight shy
of dealing with him, Let the man take Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally
and use Frazer’s Sulphur Soap externally.
A woman needs a good complexion else her happiness is decreased, and
her charm to the other sex much lessened. L e t the woman take TVazer §
Sulphur Tablets internally and use Frazer’s Sulphur Soap externally.
A child for its health’s sake needs a rosy skin, free from eruptive
blemish, and a blood free from the taint of fever and infectious germs. Lei
the child take Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets internally and use Frazer’s Sulphm
Soap externally,
Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets used internally ensures good blood—pure blood
that holds disease at bay and gives health.
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap renders the skin soft, supple and smooth, neither
drying the oils of the skin, nor shrivelling the nails, nor splitting the hairs.
It is a milled soap, contains extra balm, and is free from excess of alkali or
fat. It is simple and truly the best of all Soaps, and contains Oil of
Eucalyptus,
Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets are put up in 1/6 packets (post free 1/8 );
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap, in Green Boxes, price* Qd. (Post free, lid.) Three
packets, post free, 2/6.
Frazer’s productions are sold by, or may be ordered of, all chemists and
medicine vendors at home or in any part of the world. Sole Proprietors
Frazer’s Tablets, Ltd., 11, Ludgate Square, London, E.C,
TEST THEM
FREE OF CHARGE.
Write for samples of “ Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets, naming Bulletin, and they will be
sent you gratis and post free. “Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets’’ are the pleasantest and most
efficacious of all Spring medicines. They are invaluable in the treatment of all Blood and
Skin Biseases, Eruptions, Eczema, &c. They are specially indicated for children, being
»like safe, pleasant, and efficacious. As a remedy for women’s complaints they are
unequalled. They are preventive of Chills, Colds, Rheumatism, and Constipation, and are
of great service in the treatment of these complaints. They are the best of all blood
purifiers, and ward off influenza and infectious complaints.
Frazer’s Sulphur Soap contains also a proportion of Eucalyptus, and is a valuable
emollient and antiseptic soap.
Those who desire a good skin and complexion, clear, healthy, and free from blemish,
are specially recommended to use “Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets” internally, and “Frazer's
Sulphur Soap ” externally. The last named is the purest of all soaps, and absolutely th»
best. It leaves the skin soft and smooth, and neither dries the nails nor hair. It is free
from excess of alkali or fat, and contains extra soft cream, which is especially soothing and
beneficial to the skin.
“Frazer’s Sulphur Tablets” are put up in 1/6 packets (post free, 1/8); “Frazer’s
Sulphur Soap,” in green boxes, price 9d. (Post free, lid.) Three packets, post free, 2/6.
Frazer’s productions are sold by, or may be ordered of, all Chemists and Medicine
Vendors at home or in any part of the world. Sole Proprietors, Frazer’s Tablets, Ltd.,
11, Ludgate Square, London, E. C.
56
J ,t. i
' { *
Australian Depots
MARGARET STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
293 LITTLE COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
d
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.'W.
■- r Vi ftl.- .liiir'falrtriin'l
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWIGK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. BROWN, Proprietor.
Fjunra
Vne
aSS?»f
I m^ine
mm
Before purchasing any other
SEND FOR CIRCULAR OF ask J'OUr
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
V< V
HOME
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
/\,
PREMIER BRAND •' BOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
“ PREMIER.” They stand alone tor style, quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECT TO THE WEARER—there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carriage Paid.
f®” Try Tliem.
DEPOTS—33O George Street, 14T King Street, anti 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STIIEET, SYDNEY.
rw
USES FOR
SAPOLIO
To clean tombstones.
To polish knives.
To clean dishes.
To renew oil-cloth.
To scrub floors.
To whiten marble.
To renovate paint.
To wash out sinks.
To remove rust.
To brighten metals.
To scour bath-tubs.
To scour kettles.
EVERYBODY USES IT.
Dentists to clean false teeth.
Surgeons to polish their instrument!
Confectioners to scour their pans.
Mechanics to brighten their tools.
Cooks to clean the kitchen sink.
Painters to clean off surfaces.
Engineers to clean parts of machines.
Ministers to renovate old chapels.
Sextons to clean the tombstones.
Hostlers on brasses and white horses.
Artists to clean their pulattes.
Wheelman to clean bicycles.
Housemaids to scrub marble floors.
Chemists to remove some stains.
Carvers to sharpen their knives-
Slirewd ones to scour old straw hatS
Soldiers to brighten their arms.
Renovators to clean carnets.
EVERY ONE FINDS A NEW USE.
SOLD BY GBOCEBS, CHEMISTS. AND lEONMONGEBS.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
ď
The only TUBES used hy all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. J. 3\iCa,c3'\7Villia.*ML, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE
6 Plum ’
Sim
THE
‘Plum’
minS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
JL Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price ■ azor > ! n strong leather case, 10s. (id. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ease, 21s.
( Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful ease, 30s.
tgislered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Sole
Agent* :
CRAIG & AITKIN, (iso George JSlrcct, SYDNEY.
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT
A
MADE
IN —
FIVE SIZES.
SBi m u
FULL the
STRING 1
FItESS the
BUTTON!
Wg Do the Rest!
SEUD FOB ITEW ILLTJSTEATEE CJAT-A-XOa-TTZEJ
JLISTID MONTHLY CIBCTILAE.
BAKER and ROUSE,
375 —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY— 37S
Directly Opposite SY33KTEY ARCADE.
And at 256 Collins-st., Melbourne; 69 Rundle-st, Adelaide; 46 Queen-st., Brisbane.
SAYWELL & CO.
depot
FOff
MARVEL
r ,P BAC C^
'•^ZSIORCE 5 T
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
E P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants, y
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tM' Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Illustrated Catalogues post FREE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney,
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exaetly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
LADIES.— Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fix them up equal to new,
i) 3‘9e 1 1 1
Crsbig' Sz -A-itfeen,
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary hn. *
/movements. "Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
incuts and arc highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, crc., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
“TALES of -mii CONVICT SYSTEM.


The Bulletin
701. iS'—Nt). 681.
SATURDAY, MARCH 4, 1893.
Price, 3d.
c’ - -
EATING THE LEEK (HENRY V., ACT Y., Scene I.)
“ I am in a position to say that the name of the new Governor will be submitted in advance to this Government.”— PREMIER G. REPURI ICAN [?].
FLUELLEN (J. BULL) : "Tis no matter for his swellings nor his turkey-cocks. I beseech you heartily at my desires and my requests and my petitions to
eat, look you, this leek, because, look you, you do not love it, nor your affections, and your appetites and your digestions do not agree with it ;
I would desire you to eat it.” (Den's him.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians, 1
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly 012^
Quarterly. . ' 06 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, rvith whom ive do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
i Correspondence " column all contributions submitted
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, arc specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the a dress is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we de-ire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can he obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: B. A. Thompson and Co., 8 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by-lhe Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subseriqdion
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers toill be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY. MARCH 4, 1893.
The Unfinished Policy.
The present state of things offers to the Third
Party in New South Wales politics such a
chance as it has never enjoyed since the first
few weeks of its existence. For the time being
it absolutely holds the balance of power, and
as it is impossible to prophesy how it will stand
after next general election it must either avail
itself of the opportunity or passively look on
awaiting the extinction which is inevitable
should it return to face the electors empty-
handed. Most of the important Government
measures which are now water-logged on the
business paper are measures of which the
democratic party as a whole cordially
approves, and the one disadvantage connected
with them is that neither the Government, nor
the leaders of the Opposition, nor the two
weary, dejected and demoralised parties which
make up the bulk of the Assembly, seem
capable or desirous of pushing any one of them
to a satisfactory conclusion. The opportunity of
the Labour-party is, therefore, tosendin its united
ultimatum that this year, at any rate, there will
be no unfinished business, and that it will sup-
port the Dibbs Government against its will—
for the Government has apparently no serious
desire for any support which will force it to
carry out its own democratic programme to
the bitter end—until every measure of import-
ance on the business paper is either made law
or lost in the Upper House. In other words,
it should announce definitely that the Assembly
is going to sit until every item is disposed of,
even though it should plod on its weary, mill-
horse round till the Christmas of 1893, and that
so long as the Dibbs Cabinet is prepared to
drag its exhausted followers every night to
the House of Parliament and plough along
with its mass of promised legislation, the
Labour members will give it their unani-
mous support. But if any attempt is made
to close the session and leave even one
democratic measure unfinished, the Labour vote
goes unanimously with the Opposition, and the
Dibbs Cabinet becomes deceased there and
then. The Third Party is fully strong enough
to take up such a position if, for once, and once
only, it will sink all internal differences, drop
all external sympathies, and devote itself
strictly to business. 4
# * *
Such a proceeding would be a picturesque
vengeance on the old politicians of the Assem-
bly. The Dibbs Government could not, with-
out convicting itself of unutterable hypocrisy,
quarrel with a party which came to its rescue
in the hour of need with only one resolution —
to die at its post if necessary, and to make
others do the same, for the sake of carrying out
the Government’s own programme. 'The Cabinet,
in all probability, would never have introduced
that programme if it had foreseen any such in-
convenient enthusiasm, but it could not do
otherwise than accept the situation. To all
the miscellaneous obstructionists of the House
the movement would come as a revelation. It
would be a new departure in politics. Already
this session fully four months have been spent
in obstruction, sometimes by the Opposition,
sometimes by the Government itself ; but when
it became evident that by its own tactics the
stonewall party had only doomed itself to four
or six, or if necessary, twelve months
more labour to make up for lost time
the joy of talking against futurity would
considerably fade away. The advent of a
party which is firmly resolved that every demo-
cratic measure already introduced shall have a
fair chance and an impartial hearing, even if
Reid and Parkes should die of exhaustion upon
the floor of the House, and which, if baulked in
this endeavour, will promptly wipe out the
Cabinet, would be a most awful awakening.
Even the largest and noisiest politician would
not desire to meet more than once with
such an experience. The deceased Premier
Atkinson, of Maoriland, habitually followed
this system, and did good service for the Con-
servative party thereby. There was no un-
finished business in the days of the Continuous
Ministry, unless Atkinson so desired for his
own purposes. Also, there never was any
obstruction after the first month of the session.
Obstruction only meant 24-hours’ sittings, and
sessions that lasted nine months or more out of
the twelve, and when it became known that
the old soldier meant to go on to the day of
resurrection rather than leave any of his mea-
sures incomplete, his opponents invariably
collapsed.
# * •
The present is the time above all others when
the New South Wales Labour-party should
adopt Atkinson’s tactics. The Dibbs Govern-
ment has committed itself to a number of
valuable democratic measures, and if it is
allowed to peacefully drop them overboard at
the end of the session, there is no possible
guarantee that it may ever so commit itself
again. The future is full of possibilities —
mostly bad ones. By next session a Coalition
may have arisen, and the parties to the unholy
compact may be strong enough to go in for un-
disguised Conservatism after the fashion
of 'the Grifeilwraith league and covenant
and J. B. Patterson and Co. Or the
Government may have sold itself and its
party to the National Ass ; or Reid and Bur-
dekin may be running a Cabinet of lawyers
and landlords, or any number of other mis-
fortunes may eventuate. But, for the moment,
the Ministry chooses to pose as a democratic
organisation, and the business of the demo-
cratic party is to keep it at that. The Local
Government Bill alone is worth securing at the
cost of a twelve-months’sitting, but much more
than that can be gained by a party which holds
the balance of power, and which announces its
fixed resolve to camp in the House of Parlia-
ment, if necessary, till the world grows old,
rather than let any single one of the Govern-
ment’s promises go with the unfinished business
of 1893.
Compensation to Publicans.
One of the great political contests of the imme-
diate future in Australia is that between the
liquor and the anti-liquor interests, and the
signs are that this will shortly become the
leading question of the day. It promises to be
“ a triangular duel,” the three parties engaged
being that particular section of the community
which lives by alcohol, and which conse-
quently desires to extend the use of that
fluid as much as possible ; the solemn, black-
coated, black-hatted faction which wants to
utterly abolish intoxicants, and send into
penal servitude—or thereabouts —every one
making, buying, selling, using, or being in
possession of the unclean thing ; and, lastly, the
local-option party (much of it really prohibi-
tionist at heart) which recognises it as a prin-
ciple of the Local Government policy that every
community shall have the right to restrict or
abolish the sale of liquor in its own district as
it may see fit, by decision of the majority. Of
these, the latter party is much the most power-
ful, and in all probability the local option
system will be adopted in all parts of Australia
at an early date. This system, in fact, is
already so “far recognised that the struggle
hardly concerns it in any way. The real ques-
tion at issue is that of compensation to those
publicans who are to be dispossessed of their
licenses and driven out of business by
the popular vote. It is universally assumed
that the immediate result of local option will
be a great reduction in the number of publicans’
licenses—the idea of utterly abolishing alcohol
by Act of Parliament being confined to the
shrill fanatics already mentioned ; and, there-
fore, the compensation question is practically
the only one left for discussion.
* * *
There is a strong case to be made out both for
and against compensation. That advanced on
the affirmative side, however, can be put in
much the smaller compass. The law, ever since
there was a law, has recognised the publican’s
business as a legitimate calling. It has expressly
licensed him to carry on that calling, and has
made him pay for the privilege of doing so.
Although Ids licence is only granted for one
year, and the State is therefore at full liberty
to cancel it without compensation at the end of
that period, yet it has always been understood
that it would be renewed indefinitely, subject
to the good behaviour of the holder. For
instance, there is in Sydney one publican who
has personally had his licence renewed for 50 con-
secutive years. That such an understanding exists,
the palatial hotels of Melbourne, Sydney, and
other cities are sufficient evidence ; no sane
speculator would invest large sums of money
in erecting a huge structure which would
outlive its usefulness in the space of twelve
months, and but for this implied contract
with the State the liquor business would
be conducted almost exclusively in tents and
wigwams. If the State has decided to change
its policy then it should do so at its own
expense —not by ruining a particular class and
confiscating its means of livelihood. The resolve
to reform at somebody else’s cost is a cheap
spasm of virtue at the best, and is more closely
related to burglary than to piety ; the desire,
as manifested by the extreme teetotal party, to
reform solely at its enemy’s cost, is a cheaper
virtue still, and is near akin to that patriotism
which consists in sacrificing the old man on the
altar of his country, and then inheriting his
estate as the result of his death. T his is the
case for the party which advocates compensa-
tion, and, though not absolutely convincing, it
is undeniably a strong one.
# # *
There is also much, as the Sydney Morning
Herald would remark, to be said upon theother
side. In the first place, no one, save a few
hopeless and unconsidered fanatics, anticipates
the utter abolition of public-houses ; it is only
a reduction of their number that is contem-
plated by the great majority of electors. I lie
case will be one of the survival of the fittest.
The kind of hotel which will be most promptly
suppressed is the low-grade city drinking shop,
which is one-half house of ill-fame and one-half
rendezvous for bullies, larrikins and tenth-rate
bruisers —the dirty little place which is ap-
proached by falling down a worn and dirty
step, where the counter is sticky with ancient
heel-taps, and there are defunct flies in the black
and muddy “ colonial beer,” and where a fat
and frowsy barmaid and a pimpled landlord
loom up against a cheerless vista of neglected
bottles in the background. And in the country
districts the bush “shanty” will go —the
establishment where there are cakes of
nefarious tobacco at the bottom of the
rum - cask, and the loud - mouthed robber
behind the counter lives by dispensing
thinly-disguised kerosene, blue ruin, and sudden
death. The individuals who run these establish-
ments will be abolished principally because of
their foulness, and if they are compensated by
the State they will, practically, be paid for
being foul. There are so many of their class
that the local option system might be in force
for years without extinguishing a single hotel-
keeper who was not more in need of six months
hard labour than of a vote out of the national
Treasury, and, viewed in this light, compensa-
tion looks like a premium for vice, and a reck-
less waste of public money.
# * *
Moreover, if the publican be compensated that
will not be the end, but only the beginning of
the difficulty. There are infinite possibilities
that lie beyond. \\ hen the nation decides to
recognise the liquor-seller’s claim then it may
also be called upon to recognise the claims of
the brewer and distiller, the importer of
foreign liquors, the merchant, his clerks and
commercial travellers, the licensed victualler,
the vigneron and his employes, the vigneron s
landlord—if he has one—the bottler, the cooper,
the man who prints the labels, the farmer who
suffers through the decreased demand for hops,
malt, &c., "the publican’s landlord —whose
premises are enormously diminished in value
through the withdrawal of the licence, and
many others directly or indirectly connected
with the trade. Moreover, though the poor,
down-trodden publican is invariably put for-
ward as the raison d'etre of the compensa-
tion principle, yet probably 90 per cent, of
him will get none of the compensation in any
case. He is a mere stalking-horse in the
matter, and those who wail most loudly about
his woes fully intend to collect the money out
of the Treasury themselves and leave him
penniless. The small publican, in a very large
proportion of cases, is a mere agent of the
brewer or the merchant. He is squeezed and
rack-rented by them ; when they are satisfied
he has so little left for himself that he has
hardly anything to be compensated for ; and if
the State pays him for his loss, or alleged loss,
through the closure of his house, the money will
really go to the brewer, while the ostensible
recipient is altogether ignored. And the brewer,
as it happens, is an individual who needs com-
pensation less than the publican, for if half the
existing establishments are closed, the business
at those which remain open will be so materially
increased that his loss will in reality be much
less than it appears.
It has undoubtedly been a common assump-
tion that a license is something more than a
mere permit, to ssll intoxicants for a period of
twelve months, and that the State recognised
the moral right of the publican to perpetual
renewals so long as his house was well-con-
ducted and kept in reasonably good order and
repair. On the strength of this assumption
large sums have often been paid for the purchase
of licences, they being regarded by both buyer
and seller as a permanent property. But on the
other hand the State has never done anything to
endorse this idea. It has merely issued an
annual licence, and beyond the four corners of
that document it is responsible for nobody’s
assumptions. The men who conducted “con-
sultations ” also assumed, because the law took
no notice of them for many years, that their
industry was permanent, but when it was sum-
marily abolished in Maoriland and Victoria
nobody suggested that the “ sweep ’’-promoters
should receive a State grant to make up for the
loss of their livelihood. It has been under-
stood, by old English and Australian custom,
that the landowner is a privileged individual
and practically exempt from taxation. He has
also assumed that his immunity would last
for ever, as the enormous prices paid
for city lands sufficiently demonstrate ;
nevertheless the demand for a ponderous land-
tax is steadily growing, and when that tax is
imposed those holders of city allotments, who
bought at boom prices, will occupy a position
almost as bad as the dispossessed publican. Nct
they obviously cannot be compensated. The
Dibbs Government in New South Wales has
"ranted a certain measure of Protection to cer-
tain industries, and capital has been invested in
some of them on the assumption —backed up by
the assurance of a laree Parliamentary majority
_that this Protection will be permanent. If
the Foreign-trade party again secures otiice,
however, it will promptly and wilfully dem y
these new industries and cause the h ° ls 1
the capital invested in them, ail q SS
the idea of paying compensation to
capitalists or their employes would he rec ■, le
with derision.' The position of the nuhT'
may also be very much akin to that of the ICaU
who conducts a noxious trade iu a ln ( ail
When the public awakes to a better r,
ledge of the laws of liealth and fully real°"
the material stench which that trade creates*
simply orders —by legal enactment— it s ’ /
moval, and so far from compensating
facturer, it generally fines him instead. \m Uu '
the public fully awakens to the moral stench' 6 *
the liquor business it will probably do SOl 01
thing of the same kind, and with just as un"T
reason. c 1
* * *
All the same, The Bulletin does not asse
that the dispossessed publican should be refu« i
compensation. It holds, however, that 1
should be compensated more as a matter "f
expediency than of cast-iron justice, and sole!
at the expense of those who profit direct/
by his abolition, and that it is hnpossibl
to make out any case whereby this charge
be levied upon the nation at large. The q Ues
tion at present is entirely one concerning the
reduction of the number of public-houses—their
entire abolition is a matter that is lost in the
very remote future. The reduction in the
number of public-houses and the reduction in
the national drink bill will certainly not pro-
ceed upon the same ratio. If one-half the
hotels throughout Australia are closed, the pro-
babilities are that—through the greater concen-
tration of trade, and the saving in rent and
working expenses—the profits of the other half
will be increased 100 per cent., and this result
will be arrived at even though the consumption
of drink is largely diminished. Therefore, the
simplest course is to let the liquor-traffic pay for
its own gradual diminution —or abolition—by
largely increasing licence-fees, and thereby
creating a fund, out of which hona-Jide publicans
—not brewers’ dummies —and their employes—
which latter class seems to have been entirely
overlooked —can be compensated for the loss of
their employment, they being the most con-
spicuous sufferers. And then, if the abstinence
movement gains ground, the process can be
continued until there is only one publican left,
and he is the State ; and then, presumably,
there will be a Minister for Liquor, and the
barmen’s billets in the great national pub, will
serve as a refuge and reward for ex-Premiers
and other deserving politicians. And, last of
all, this place too may perhaps be closed, with-
out compensation, for the State will be the
loser, and there will be no person on whom to
shift the liability. And after that the com-
pensation question will arise for the last time,
for the teetotal lecturer will cry with a loud
voice and want to know who is going to com-
pensate him for the loss of his occupation and
his salary, now that there is no more use for
him in the land, and there will be no answer.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Justice of Labour Representation.
Says Walter Back hot :
A great many ideas, a great many feelings have gathered
among artisans—a peculiar intellectual life has sprung up
among then). They believe that they have interests which
are misconceived or neglected ; that they know something
which others do not know ; that the thoughts of Parlia-
ment are not as their thoughts. They ought to be allowed
to try to convince Parliament; their notions ought to be
stated as those of other classes are stated ; their advocates
should be heard as other people’s advocates are heard. .
. . . As long as a great class, congregated in political
localities and known to have political thoughts and
wishes, is without notorious and palpable advocates in
Parliament, we may prove on paper that our representa-
tion is adequate, but the world will not believe it. . • ■
It is in vain to demonstrate that the working classes have
no grievances: that the middle classes have done all
possible for them, and so on, with a crowd of arguments
which I need not repeat, for the newspapers keep them
in type, and we know them by heart. But so long as the
“ gross appearance ” is that there are no evident, inces-
sant representatives to speak the wants of artisans, the
“ great reality ” will be a diffused dissatisfaction. Every-
body must say now, “ our representative system must be
imperfect, for an immense class has no members to speaK
tor it.” . . . The way to stop the complaint that
artisans have no members is to give them members-to
create a body of representatives, chosen by artisans,
believing, as Mr. Carlyle would say, “that artisamsm is
the one thing needful.”
The Danger of Elective Upper Houses.
The Bulletin has for years cautioned N.S.
Wales to resist all attempts to “ strengthen -
as Parkes truly, but unwisely for the suc-
cess of his project, put it their secon
Chamber, by giving it an elective con-
stitution with a Property basis. It is. me
elasticity of the nominee system that—either
through a flooding of the Council or a threat to
so flood it which acts as a solvent on obstruction
—makes advanced legislation possible. J Ol
remove this element of flexibility by granting
an iron-bound elective constitution of leng _'y
periods, then you subject the country »
danger of legislative deadlocks lasting dun g
the entire life of each Council. Looking ac
wards among constitutional writers, the °P n *l°
of Bagehot on this matter are interesting-
Says he:— . J
The head of the Executive can overcome resistance
the Second Chamber by choosing new members oi #
Chamber; if he do not find a majority, he carH n
majority. This is a safety-valve of the truest kin^ fcjve
enables the popular will—the vyill of which the *?;. e _to
is the exponent, the will of which it is the aPP° t i cn g
carry out within the constitution desires and con . c 1 jBtSl
which one branch of the constitution dislikesi and «> ■
It lets forth a dangerous accumulation of inhihiteup jk9
which might sweep this constitution before «
accumulations have often swept away like consticuw
Items from a Queensland solicitor’s bill
a local deposit bank ; To telegram sent, ■ >
drafting same, 4s. ; transmitting same, f- ”
perusing same, 6s. Bd. ; informing you oi ,
mission, 6s. Bd. ; total, £1 2s. Bd. One pojj
for sending a 2s. telegram 1 Another os. .
telegram cost 17s. lOd. more to trans
Three advertisements were inserted tor ’
and £1 ss. 9d. additional charged for |
them. The total charge for two days ,
was £4l 7s. Bd., while the cash paid was J
£5 15s. 4d. The bill was sent to be taxed,
£2 2s. was charged for submitting it to ,
tion. The solicitor was a director of the >


In N.S.W. Legislative Council rc betting
on elections John Davies (of Coonanbara-lmt
fame): “F. r instance, a man might bet a new
hat.” Dr. Creed: “Or a number of now hats.’*
Collapse of Davies.
' i , ie charged an extra £2 2s. for attending
imd “J besides the ordinary directors fee.
meetup) . s 0 nu p rc ssed with the
A rllown £t he offered ss. for a copy of
taknt she J for reference . The “ practi-
ce , e XC „se was that he “acted according
e gQ , The man who votes to put
tolaW> ; n Parliament to make laws for
hwyer? benefit has nobody but himself to
blame. ___ —
Tms Victorian Railway Department has been
bmously damned by both Houses for its
orient » issue of a circular letter, request-
Ja each senator to furnish the names of the
iiersons upon whom he wished to confer his
1 lnHon c ouple of free-passes at prorogation
regulation c> session closes it is usual for
tline - V receive two dead-head tickets
mel ” lX Sj know.), which ticket.
S“ JJ hilhorto disWb.ntetl as they saw
fiinossibly for a cash consideration in some
ht ’ P q This year the department proposed in
S Lnner aforesaid to get at the names and
the man but the two Houses
ST L «eto protest against this
unwarrantable interference with ancient pnvi-
" Premier Patterson, appealed to m the
Assembly, stated that he—even he had received
of the circulars, and considered it so gross
a affront that he had promptly ordered the
department to send along passes as before,
without asking any questions Wynne,
PM G told the Council that he had thrown
his circular up the chimney, and trusted his
honourable friends would wipe the memory of
this ghastly insult from then-clean, white souls
Thus ended the Railway Commissioners first
puny attempt to induce Parliament to be decent
n its dead-headism.
■
The “ special correspondent ” of a London
paper gives a brief summary of what Freetrade
has done for the agricultural interest in Eng-
land
Dealiiw with Suffolk, which is not the worst of the
shires, from 50 to 75 per cent, of the county seats are
deserted by the old families and let to brokers, manufac-
turers, and tradesmen from I-ondon, who keep the land
in cultivation at a loss simply for their pleasure. The
case is quoted of a tenant, farmer who, twenty years ago,
purchased his farm for £9OOO, and who has lately had to
nart with it for £2OOO. Another estate is mentioned
which was worth £12,000 a short time asm,
and which can now be purchased for £2OOO. In
Essex recently a two hundred-acre farm, within
carting distance of London, was sold for £S per acre.
Thousands of acres are now being cultivated by the land-
lords, through lack of tenants. An experienced and care-
ful farmer from mid Suffolk expressed the opinion to the
correspondent that two more years of such disaster would
exhaust the resources of the lauded interest, and, in fact,
“witness the end of tenant-farming.” An agriculturist
of standing in the county of Suffolk submitted to the
correspondent the average balance sheet of a farm of 2138
acres for six years (had the figures for 1802 been taken, the
result would have been much worse). The receipts are
put down at £5661, and the expenditure at £5085, leaving
only £579 for the landlord and tenant between them.
The cents have fallen all over tire country from 40 to 50
percent. A farm of 400 acres is instanced, upon which
the owner since 1880 lias spent £2OOO in farm buildings
and improvements, and up to 1880 it was let at £2 6s. 2d.
per acre. The landlord is now glad to take 16s. lid. A
third case is mentioned of a f inn, which at one time com-
manded 255. per ao.e ; it is now let at 6s. The truth is,
states the correspondent, “that in the county of Suffolk
anybody can have land by merely paying the tithes and
charges.”
The Bulletin would like to know how many
of the 52 signatories of that exceedingly
illogical and illiterate letter “to Mr. J. (J.
Neild, as Chairman of the Select Committee
on the N.S. Wales Vice Suppression Bill,” were
Womanhood Suffragists and Woman’s Rightsers
and pledged to advocate absolute equality with
man. And, gracious goodness, how many
belong to the N.S. Wales Women’s Literary
Society ? Here’s a taste
We would respectfully point out to you that the law
enacts that young girls may not be apprenticed to a trade
without consent of parent or guardian till they are 21,
that girls cannot he married without the same consent,
nor are they allowed the management of property until
they are the same age ; and we would urge that a State
which requires want of experience and development in
(jins to that age, and the necessity of protecting them
under these circumstances till they are able to decide for
tlumselves, should see that it is fitting to protect them
up to the far less develoued age of 17 from the risk of in-
curring the most terrible evil that can befall a young girl
—the loss of her honour—an evil far worse than that of
suicide, from which the State endeavours to protect both
inen ana women to any age.
Adams on Davitt.
Dear Bulletin, Francis Adams’ rancorous
attack on Davitt in a recent issue, is grossly char-
ac.enscd by the writer’s propensity for the use of
vitriolic! epithets. I know nothing of Mr. Adams
personally. But Ido know the man to whom he
aies apply the terms—liar, charlatan, cheat !
purely the writer never could have carefully and
deliberately selected them. If it can be shown
en by the act of proof it is shown
i. ■,, * knows nothing whatever about
t- . the attack has a middle-class savour, and
inirlriia f ams f reedom I enquire—ls Adams a
f \ not, the aroma of middle-
rp i at;re d of Davitt with which the whole attack
bp f coincidence. “ You are going to
camp „PP ed back to the gutter, out of which you
Pamoli Sa^ S j^ ams t° Davitt. The fact that
a somewhat similar phrase to
drew frp lS rf 0 - a coincidence ; and that phrase
Sr the burnt, ’which has a bitter
Cendant- If m dre J a !l d ’ that Parnell was the des-
laudatirm rTi Cromwell’s swashbucklers. A
Klasspd nv°i!m 16 renfi ß a de Chamberlain, the eye-
been frnm o' *d-scented, ex-radical, might also have
pathies K fcl p epeitof a ma n of middle-class sym-
pathies ; but never from a true democrat.
* * #
P.wip'd'"';. n ° t° involve a denunciation of
the lat-to.. . a ., d cfiance of Davitt; but Adams says
defendVho r - Parnell, and it is necessary to
ch arge a L any rate > from such a strong
responsible hoso wh o malign the living
dead Th Q u t 10 . c °nsequences, if any, to the
nell“wit-L charge is that Davitt turned on Par-
bed.” Ti; a v - sava F e ferocity because Parnell had
■word nf Up llston cal, now, that Parnell gave his
unstained f™° Ur J lO davitt that he would come
thestint^^u* 6 ° rd ? al of trial; and that on
in America ,°,i ! al; Davitt called upon his friends
to the Inai - Australia to continue their trust
the resell , t . heir Parliamentary leader. Well,
Davitt , un< dcfended trial proved that
as Adams .« gr ? S ? y deceived. Knowing the fact,
bulk of the T k - i UOW ’ as Davitt knew, that the
traihinc n 1 people are, by nature and
tnde towards i\ nd .unbending in their atti.
owaras th e laws of sexual morality,
Davitt endeavoured to prevent the continuance
of an impossible leadership of the cause for which
Davitt lived, worked, and suffered. The influence
of the “ordeal of battle ” is as strong now as it
was in the days of chivalry. It was shown in the
mad enthusiasm when Parnell triumphed over the>
Times. It was not less apparent in the mournful
silence whicli followed the Divorce Court verdict.
Where was the savage ferocity here? The “savage
ferocity ” came later, when Parnell’s hired ruffians,
in Kilkenny broke their sticks on Davitt’s body.
Adams cannot be ignorant of this.
* « »
There never was a rivalry between Parnell and
Davitt. Davitt had no desire for parliamentary
fame, and Parnell stood easily at the head of the
parliamentarians of his day. But there must have
been in the mind and heart of Parnell the cold
contempt which a descendant of a Cromwellian
trooper feels for the descendant of a peasant whose
soil the trooper took. The injurer never forgives.
And there must have been in Davitt’s heart a.
knowledge that from Parnell, victorious and all-
powerful in an Irish Parliament, little could be
expected for the peasant or the wage-earner. It
was only in the hour of his desperation that Par-
nell, the politician with nerves of chilled steel,
made his frantic appeal to the Labour bodies of
Ireland, for whom Davitt has given years of labour
and self-sacrifice. “Davitt left Parnell,” says
Adams. No ! Parnell caused the severance, and
upon him the onus rests.
* * *
“ Impostor !” says Adams to Davitt. This
needs no answer. If there is anything in the
world which Davitt is not, it is that. Adams has
taken the first epithet that sprung to his mind,
without examining its significance. “ Charlatan !”
says Adams. Davitt a charlatan ! One of the
truest friends of the people that ever lived ; who
has suffered and toiled more than anyone now
alive in the Irish movement, who toiled along in
obscurity, who overcame the handicap of the loss
of his rjght arm in a factory accident, and
educated himself in moments snatched from hours
of degrading toil. Charlatan ! The man who
was a staunch and tried revolutionist until con-
vinced that revolutionary success was impossible
—who suffered for his acts and opimons, not with
six months’ imprisonment in Kilmainham as a
political prisoner, but with years of immurement
and convict treatment in Portland prison, dragging
his leg-irons round with him. Had he been a Russian
and endured such treatment, Adams might have
reversed his epithets ; for it is a noted character-
istic of such English writers that they shriek for
the liberty for the Russian which they daily deny
to the Irishman. Had Davitt been of the social
rank of William O’Brien, society might have
agitated for his release, and Adams might have
withheld his epithets.
• # #
“ Cheat!” says Adams. Davitt a cheat! The
Irishman of all others trusted of the English
democracy, who, in Adams’ own words of admis-
sion, has “preached passionately to us all the
gospel of the unity of the English and the Irish
peoples.” But he did more. He preached the
solidarity of the cause of the English and Irish
proletariat; he showed the unlanded in England
that they were vitally interested in the struggle
of the unlanded of Ireland. And he is trusted
and loved to-day by the English labour democracy,
as anyone who has ever attended a great labour
meeting in London (which I have been privileged
to do) can testify. He fought and fights with his
pen and tongue for land-nationalisation. He
valued the good of his country and his class above
the maintenance of one picturesque, historical
figure. He is sick and weary of the inter-racial
struggle which is born of national prejudice ; and
he knows that, from his point of view, as opposed
to the middle-class Parnells and Redmonds, the
total separation of Ireland from England will-
in the future struggle of the poor and lowly of all
nations against economic conditions—only mean
another Government to fight. Can this man be a
cheat, or is his accuser one ?
* * *
The allusion to Davitt’s support of John Morley
in Newcastle is easily explained. John Morley
was opposed by Mark Hammond, a Conservative,
and his defeat would have meant a further blow
to the cause Davitt maintains. Does not Adams
know the sort of man Morley‘s opponent was as
well as I do ? If not, he must be blindly ignorant
of the labour movement on the Tyne.
* # *
To those who know Davitt, Adams’ words can
only excite disgust. Who can look at that face as
pictured even in the commonest oleograph without
seeing the volcanic force of the man who came up
from the masses to champion their cause—“ from
the gutter,” as Adams puts it —to the Himalaya
on which he now stands, notwithstanding his
calumniators ? Who, knowing the history of that
noble and unselfish life, could gaze without pity
upon the figure of the man, as I saw him, walking
through the snow in Fleet-street without over-
coat and with his empty sleeve looped up to his
shoulder, a slouch hat drawn over his eyes—those
wonderful, honest, coal-black eyes, which he and
John Burns resemble each other in possessing?
And who could fail to be touched by the mourn-
ful tone of his voice when he said (it was after
the Kilkenny election): “It was the first time I
was ever struck by an Irishman !” This man was
no charlatan, no impostor, no liar, and no thief.
# # *
It is not difficult to pierce through Adams’ thin
veneer of Socialism if he is judged by this article.
His admiration for Chamberlain, the apostate
from Radicalism, is enough. Why should
Chamberlain command the admiration of Adams ?
For the same sympathies which excite his loathing
of Davitt. I wonder? Chamberlain was driven into
his present position by his rivalry of Gladstone.
It is an open secret that he would have made
terms with the Irish party, but that the “ old
Parliamentary hand ” was too quick for him. He
still calls himself a “ Liberal.” W. S. Gilbert, in
his travesty of “Hamlet,” defines that unhappy
prince’s state of mind as “Idiotically sane with
lucid intervals of lunacy.” I can only describe
Chamberlain’s state of mind by paraphrasing
Gilbert. Chamberlain has had idiotically Liberal
moments, but his lucid intervals of Conservatism
are likely to be of longer duration.
* # *
I wish I were better qualified to defend this
true man, Davitt, from a cowardly assailant.
But Davitt himself will reply in good time if he
considers his assailant worthy of it. Is the moral
of this attack the deduction that to escape from
the vilification of even a Socialist one must either
be the possessor of the lands bequeathed by a
robber ancestor or the owner of a screw factory ?
“Back to the gutter from whence you came!” says
Adams to Davitt. When Adams and Davitt and
you, Mr. Editor, and I will have joined Parnell—
“ In the grave’s democracy,”
Davitt’s name will be enrolled with those of all
countries, and in all ages, who have loved the
people, fought for them, or suffered for them,
worked for them, or died for them. Davitb’s
deeds shall live long after oblivion has overtaken
every scurrilous scribbler who maligns nim.“
Yours truly,
John D. Fitzgerald.
Parliament House, Sydney. Feb.
[Francis Adams’ letter to The Bulletin was
signed by himself, and the comments therein were
printed simply as the opinions of a widely-known
and forceful writer. Nevertheless, we are very
sorry that we allowed the appearance of what is
clearly an unjust attack on Davitt. —Ed. D.]
The Victorian Mace Scandal.
A SYNOPSIS of leading evidence, as published in
Melbourne newspapers, given at the Missing Mace
Enquiry, .before the Vio. Parliamentary Board.
First Day—February 15.
The Serojeant-at-Anns of the Vie. Assembly said ; “ The
Speaker slept in the next room to mine (on the night
when, presumably, the mace was stolen). On that night
the House was locked up by the housekeeper. He locks
the House as soon as the Speaker and those staying here
have gone upstairs. I did not see Sir Matthew go up that
night—we did not all go upstairs together.
Housekeeper Pearce stated: “I don’t think that the
Speaker slept here that’ night. I forget how many slept
in the House that night.”
Second Day—February 16.
The Sergeant-at-Arms (recalled) said: “There was an
error in his evidence of the previous day. Sir M. H.
Davies had been in the habit of staying for a time after
the House rose, but he had ascertained that Sir Matthew
didn’t sleep there on the night in question.”
Housekeeper Pearce (re-called) said: “ Mr. Watson, the
doorkeeper, and Mr. Worthington were the only persons
who slept on the premises that night. (N.B.—The
Sergeant at-Arms is Mr. Upward.) A number of people
might have slept in the building that night without his
knowledge.”
John Brock, ex-M.L.A.: “ Denied that he had told
My ring, or anyone else, that the mace was at ‘Annie
Wilson’s.’ ”
Henry Hamilton, accountant, said that: “ Shortly after
the loss of the mace, Mr. Watt, one of the employes at
Parliament House, complained to him that the detectives
had been following him, and said that the}’ were a lot of
fools. Watt said that he knew where the mace
■was.”
Third Day—February 22,
Sir Matthew Davies said ; “ The rumours about his fre-
quently sleeping in the House were totally unfounded.
He had only slept there about three times altogether.”
Fife Duff Walt, doorkeeper: “ Denied having ever
made a statement that he knew where the mace was.”
Samuel My ring, cordial manufacturer at Benalla:
“ Deposed that Mr. Brock, late M.L.A., told him that the
mace had been taken in a drunken spree to the house of a ,
woman named Annie Wilson, and that he had seen it
there.”
Maurice Brodzky said: “On Saturday November 12, I
had a long conversation with a police officer on the sub-
ject. He volunteered the information that the mace had
been found, and that the police knew where it was. He
said, ‘ It is in the very same house where they were going
to lay the telephone on, which caused such a commotion.'
He mentioned several members of Parliament as being in
the habit of frequenting that house, and said that this was
why the evidence was smothered. He also said that the
information was known to every member of the force, and
was common talk. He told me that two women were in
the Speaker’s room with a member—wot Sir M. H. Davies
—and one of Hum had a long hood and took the mace out
in her arms. The police officer who gave me this infor-
mation was Detective-sergeant Lomax.
Fourth Day—February 23.
John Stevens, manager of the Mutual Store, “ stated
that he had been informed by a constable at the Licensing
Court, on December 1, that the mace had been taken to a
house of ill-fame. Ho volunteered the statement. I
asked him if it svas public property, and he replied that it
was not yet, but would shortly be.”
Alfred Lomax, sergeant of detective police, simply
denied that he had told Brodzky anything at all concern-
ing the mace. When asked by Brodzky—“ What has
become of the mace, and what is your opinion about it? ”
he (Lomax) had replied, “I don’t know. I haven’t
formed any opinion.” What Brodzky stated was abso-
lutely without any foundation at all—according to
Lomax.
Mr. Brodzky was not re-called. Many witnesses
were re-called in order to tone down their previous
evidence, but Mr. Brodzky, after being publicly
denounced as a liar, was not asked to come back
and repudiate the charge. Neither, by the way,
was Mr. Brock, who seems to have been called
early by mistake. Had Mr. Myring’s evidence
preceded that of Mr. Brock, the latter could have
airily disposed of Myring, just as Keys and Lomax
disposed of Hamilton and Brodzky. A careful
examination of the Missing Mace Enquiry dis-
closes the fact that every witness (excepting Mr.
Stephens) whose evidence tended in any way to
support newspaper information, either contra-
dicted a first statement, or was flatly accused
of perjury by some other witness. The de-
cision of the Board, it seems, will be com-
municated to the Governor in Council at as
early a date as possible. Meanwhile, the Board
must make up its mind to separate the lambs
from the liars, and to discover good and sufficient
cause for declaring that some of the lambs are not
liars, and vice-versa. In the all-important cases of
Myring and Brodzky the Board will doubtless
consider carefully whether they, or the parties
contradicting their respective statements, had the
more reason for falling into error or committing
black perjury. But before the Governor in
Council has received this almighty decision, he
will probably have heard the public’s decision on
hectoring Charles Taylor, and the make-weights
who supported him in this lamentable failure to
purge the mace-disappearance scandal.
The chairman at ex-Treasurer M‘Millan’s
meeting: “ I am here this evening because I am
an Australian.” If Mr. M‘Lellan, whoever he
is, will think hard he will discover that he was
there because the other man also was named Mac.
While in Northern India, M'Hwraith is
said to have made satisfactory arrangements with
the Indian Government for the importation to
Queensland of regular supplies of coolies. The
traffic will be supervised by an officer resident in
Brisbane, called the Protector of Indian Immi-
grants. He will be paid by the Q. Government,
but will be accountable to the Indian Government
alone. The agreement-term of service for coolies
is to be five years, during which they will be
engaged exclusively in tropical agriculture. They
may then elect to be returned to India, or to settle
permanently. If they choose to remain, they will
be under no especial industrial disabilities, but
may engage in any trade. By this back-door, the
pastoralists will ultimately get the coolie labour
they have long sighed for.
A Bulletin correspondent points out that
Professor Anderson-Stuart now gets .£lO4O salary
as Professor of Physiology, at Sydney University,
besides an allowance for house-rent; also, £lOO a
year as Government medical adviser, and .£630 as
health and immigration officer, in which latter
capacities he has a free railway-pass, and dra.ws
two guineas a day from time to time for travelling
expenses. A. few years ago he held the dual office of
Professor of Anatomy and Physiology, and it is
understood that he was relieved of the anatomical
chair on the ground that one man could not
reasonably he expected to perform both sets of
duties. In view of this, his present Pooh-bah-ish
position is interesting. Our correspondent
suggests that there should be laid before Parlia-
ment a list of the other State medical appoint-
ments with their salaries, allowances, perquisites,
and privileges.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“Eucla” : We print no more poems bidding
the masses “ Arise,” unless it is to arise and have a bath
in the morning. What vve are pining for is a poem which
will tell them intelligibly what to do when they have
“arose.”., .“The Wanderer”: Commonplace and dis-
jointed. For instance, the lady “ responds with a bright
nod.” Had she scoured up her nod, or what? “H.
Gardiner”: We loathe parodies—especially in pencil
“A.J.H.” (Balaclava): A painfully laboured yarn
“ Old Musketeer ” : You have forgotten to tell who was
killed, who killed him, and how it was done. You are
all preface and no tragedy “ M.C.F.” (Toorak):
“Love” and “Laughter” (with a capital “L”) were
done to death by the bards with artificial back-hair last
century “R. H. M‘o.” (Auckland): The U.S. President
gets £lO,OOO a year ; the Queen and royal family, directly
and indirectly, about £BOO,OOO or £900,000. What the
election of a President costs no one really knows, but we
presume the Americans think he is worth the money
“J.G.D.”: Your fallen public-house is a bad version of
Lawson’s “Shanty on the Rise.” “Queenslander”:
We’ve said it all before. Still it’s worth saying again
“Batho”: We are tired of the swollen corpse in the
loathsome Yarra. Can’t you find your rtmtins some- -
where where the water’s clean, and the slime and the
dead cats don’t get into her hair, and there aren’t
strange, squashy beasts in her pockets? “R. de S.” :
The exploded Chinaman is good “ Thargomin-
dah ” : Even the urgent demand for short, cheerful
love-stories won’t induce us to print your yarn
“ Mrs. L. R.” ; Too long. Also, we long since gave up
the servant-gal question “ A.M.” (Alexandria):
Swedish paper to hand, and the learned man of the office
is translating it....“J.C.M‘C. (Melb.): A small anecdote,
dragged out, like a racked heretic, into a story
“Bosco”: Thanks “John G. S.” (Ultimo): Your
poem would bring fire and brimstone on the office
“G. H.” (Mildura): Uninteresting. You are a poet with-
out poetry “ E. Rowlands” (Melb.): Sorry, but “Bad
Times” isn’t so fresh a subject as it was.... “T.H.A.”
(Bourke): Its only merit as bush-verse lies in the fact
that there is much “blanky” and “bloke” and
“ bloomin’ ”in it. Apart from the blanky and the other
things it is simply imbecile.... “Gum Leaf”(Gaf.): You
are much too sanguine. The shent per shent will last
your time, anyhow.... “ Thomas T.” (South Melb.) : This
paper isn’t a fitting vehicle for your ode to your dead
parents. The Age is the recognised parental-ode paper.
Write to D. Syme....“ The Giaour ” : Tale concerning
two ladies of doubtful character under consideration....
“J.J.M.” (Bundarra) : Not suitable for illustration
“ Balak ” : Good story.... “A. Geordie ”; Write again....
“ F. A. Wood ” : Would make a good music-hall song
“H.H.T.” (Wellington, M.L.): Yes, we know the inci-
dent. It happened to Methusaleh. We were there at the
time “1.0. J.” (Rockdale): Your new version of the
lonely bushman is almost sadder than the old one. Was
his name Bill, by the way? “M.S.” (Dederang):
Thanks.... “ Kez ” : These are the two best lines—
He had with him, you know, the favourite dog,
Who always slept just near the log
The balance isn’t publishable “ Far-Westerner ” : The
man who rhymes “fish” with “Smith” in this paper
must climb over our dead body to do it “ Blatta ”
(North Sydney): Not original. Jules Verne and many
inferior horror-mongers have used up the idea. ..
“Demo ” (Narrabri): Why do you want to abolish the
Parliamentary bar ? It is better for a politician to alco-
holise there than to drink publicly out of his own bottle
in the House, or to have a beer-keg under his seat
“ Robt. D.D.” (Dulwich); Wedon’tprintanybody’sunsup-
ported assertion that a western M.L.A. has committed
“deliberate murder,” and we don’t want you to spend a
day in this office explaining the matter. See the police.
“ The Comet ” ; Your “ dirge ” isn’t a thing for print.
If played slowly on a barrel-organ at midnight it would be
impressive... “ 0.5.” : One verse of you;' farewell to Don
Lane is quite enough—
Vale ! Lane,
Our loss will be Paraguay’s gain.
Farewell, once more ; your aims could never cope here
With our prosaic State ; so now a new' Utopia
You go to found elsewhere: a monogamic life,
And its connubial motto is just “One-man-one-wife.”
A patriarch existence you will lead in Entre Rios,
Where every man will have to pay the social duty he owes.
....“Scorpio”: Exceedingly laboured slush. Neither
rhyme, nor prose, nor blank verse, or any other recog-
nised institution whatever “R.” (Sydney): One ancient
gag, one Latin joke and a French pun. This is too much
“Theß.”: Decent verse, but the story of the back-
blocks handicap has been bucked to death by wild bards
long ago “ G.M.” (Wagga): Your fact, judged by its
teeth, is very aged “Carfax”: Prose inferior. Love
story profane. Poetry spoilt, because “blasted” and
“wasted” won’t rhyme “W. Carter”; Nice little
fragment, but the picture of the “barque” of life "shoot-
ing the bar ’’won’t do “The Orphan”; Declined.
We don’t want to encourage drunken old men to do such
things “ Paul Legon ” : (1) Either we have lost part of
it, or it ends abruptly at the place where the lady’s
stockings won’t keep up. (2) The “abandoned corridors”
of an inhabited villa at Potts Point are an absurdity.
(3) Same old thing; the brooding man with a life-long
secret, who, for no possible reason, suddenly gets up and
tells it all to a mixed company “ R. Fowler”: Un-
suitable. A voluptuous yarn, made up of Don Juanesque
mash, hashisch and W. E. Stead “Vacua” (Broken
Hill): Can’t imagine what you are driving at “ J.K.” :
Good jingle, but ideas vague, hazy, yearnful and un-
satisfactory... “Junius” (Norwood): “Go to h ” is
below par “ Freetrade and Protection ”: Your “ oppi-
nions ” are incomprehensible ; also, your “ appology ” is
misplaced, and the things you say you “ immagine ” are
very indistinct. Your spelling reminds us of “Mayor”
Smith, who, when Vic. Minister of Education, spelt
“recommend” with one “m” and “until” with
two “I’s” “Scotia”: Too hot to touch
“ Australian Republican ” : We have put it mildly to the
M'Millan... “T.W.W.” (Crafess): That information is
valuable—to the man who has it “J. D.” (St. George):
To hand “The Skit” (Nowra): We don’t deal in
such news ..“ Richard O.”: It doesn’t follow- that
because “accused in the public street” he is guilty;
even if guilty he is not necessarily a scoundrel
“Cas.”: Your neighbour, insolvent, farthing in the
pound, lives in twice the style you do, who’ve never been
insolvent at all. There are ranks in insolvency, as with
demimondaines, the worst of whom are “ better off ”
than decent people “ W.S.” (B. Hill): We don’t want
second-hand matter “Colo.”: Always bear in mind
that Protection nurses national sentiment “Robert
S.”: Mr. Fitzgerald’s letter, already in type, fairly
covers the ground “Queenslander” (Narrabri):
Thanks, but the controversy has been wound up
“S.L.M.”: Who was “poor Willoughby?” Did he live
in Australia, and, if so, in which province ? “ E.E.0.”:
That is nothing. In Sydney there is one paper with a
circulation “double that of any other,” and yet another
with a circulation “greater than that of all the other
Sydney papers combined.” “W. Alex.”: The Act
providing for punishment of employes for leaving hired
service without notice only relates to servants, and the
term “ servant ”is defined by the Act. In your case
the Act would not apply, the not being
a servant but more of a partner, apparently
“ J.J.0.”: The bricks-and-mortar vote may not mean
much in the country, but it means a lot in all the Aus-
tralian metropolitan constituencies, where plural voting
obtains. Perhaps 33 per cent, of the “Voice of East
Sydney” is the voice of insensate stones and of empty
rooms in clubs ..." Blue Gum ” : Why not come over and
run the paper yourself?.,.. “ Reader” (Hyde Park); The
man you speak of is qualified. His name is down in the
Medical Register “A. Warner”: We take no notice
of magazine stories written by theatrical stars, but in
reality written by ghosts. The average actor hasn’t
brains enough to write a story ; he is only a mumming
machine “Junius” (Norwood): The one bright idea
in yonr poem is that of the “ tyrants ” who “ tremble in
their blood-begotten shoes.”...."Thomas L.” (Glebe):
Much obliged...." Ergo ” (W.W.): See a good local prac-
titioner, or come to Sydney and we’ll recommend you a
doctor. ..“J.C.G.”: To hand “E. Hoa ” : You
haven’t struck it this time “Shorn Lamb”: Too
much like “My Pretty Partners.” "Grace A.”:
Thanks.


IT LEADS THEM ALL.
THE MUTUAL LIFE ■asa? OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to, and in-
cluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows
The INCOME for 1892 was .£8, 000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS are
£35,900.000 ; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity Q f this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENNIE, General Manager.
principal (Agency —131 Siti (Street, g Sydney, K S. W-
Branches— 473 Collins Street, Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street, Brisbane.
Edinburgh
The OLdßlervdL
WlusKy
of tKe
WHI
HORSE
DIRECT fBOM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW,
MATURED SCOTCH MALT.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Roval “ Light Ahead.”
Her Majesty’s *• Hoodman Blind.”
Lyceum “ Miss Esmeralda.”
Criterion “Niobe.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Brincbss’s “ The Gondoliers.”
Theatre Royal Variety Company.
“ Niobe,” which stony female of ancient
Greece is running this week at Sydney Criterion,
is, in its beginnings, practically “ Pygmalion and
Galatea” brought up to date. Like Galatea,
Niobe awakes unexpectedly and finds herself
somewhat out of keeping with her surroundings,
but after that the resemblance becomes indistinct.
Galatea came to life in her native Athens, or
thereabouts, while Niobe, who went to sleep some
time when the first Peloponnesian war was in full
blast, resurrects in the house of Peter Dunn, of
London, at a moment when all the family is out;
and Mr. Dunn, with a strange, ancient Greek lady
on hand, and his female relatives knocking at the
door, wildly passes her off as the new governess.
Regarded as a goveruets, Niobe is a wondrous
comedy, but an educational failure. She sug-
gests that Dunn s eldest and most haggard and
objectionable maiden aunt should be sold as a
slave; she wants to have another objectionable
person ostracised, and she addresses the big, con-
ventional slavey as “Helot.” Also, she implores
the gods to drop a thunderbolt or an eight-day
clock or something on the head of somebody else ;
and when the real governess turns up and wants
her Sunday frock, which Niobe is wearing on her
stately form, the classic lady gets upon the house-
roof and appeals to the deities of Olympus to
utterly blast and consume the said governess, and
keel-haul her unquiet ghost, so that nothing might
remain of her but tap
boots and ashes ; and all
the butchers’ boys in the
neighbourhood gather to
listen to the malediction,
and give a hundred and
sixteen cheers. Also,
Niobe desires to hire
a slave to murder
Cecil Ward, and she
suffers from a fixed
conviction that every-
body’s name is Hippar-
chus, or words to that
effect, and that Dunn
has power to put all
his relatives up to auc-
tion. Niobe is a bril-
liantly mirthful person-
age while she lasts, and
at the end she declines
to turn to stone again,
and marries an anti-
quarian named Tom-
kins. Her after - fate
isn’t recorded ; but pre-
sumably she becomes a
serious-minded taxpayer,
and brings up a large
family.
# # #
Mrs. Brough as
Niobe, and her husband
as Niobe’s bailee, Peter
Dunn, have the humour
of the show pretty much
to themselves. They area
wonderful pair, the statu-
esque Greek lady in a
costume of some un-
fathomable period 8.0.,
and the hot and flurried
product of the nineteenth
century; and between
them they prod uce a series
of sensations. Nobody
on the Australian stage
eyer did look quite so,
distracted and perspiring
as Mr. Brough in critical moments, and in
the present case he rises to frenzy most
of the time. The altogether too beautiful Cecil
Ward has a good part as the modern youth who
tries to explain the theory of pants to the Greek,
and fills it with the best results. The haggard
maiden relative, compounded of vinegar and front
teeth, whom Niobe wants to have most particu-
larly blasted by the gods, is held up to artistic
execration by Miss Romer ; Mr. Boucicault has a
small part as the antiquarian who finally takes the
image to his manly chest; and the rest of the
copipauy do nothing calling for special admoni-
tion or reproach. A comparatively new lady is
memorable for the fact that her evening dress is
cut lower in front than any other dress on record ;
but, despite this drawback, or perhaps partly
because of it, “Niobe ” is an assured success of the
largest kind. Mr. W. H. Wallace is manager pro
tern, and his bright smile occupies the front door
until Mr. Mayne’s return.
** * *
Mr. Howe, of Sydney Royal, has dropped
into authorship, and his good-natured partner, Mr.
Baker, has been induced to rise in a weak moment
and assist in putting it on the stage. The name of
the thing is “Light Ahead,” and the person who
assisted Mr. Howe in its composition is alleged to
be one H. Q. Hanon. Possibly this is an assumed
name, and is intended to express the writer’s
desire to be Hanonymous. There are four acts in
“Light Ahead,’’ and it is one of those strictly
conventional pieces in which everybody shakes
hands violently on the smallest provocation. The
principal character is a marine captain with a most
unusual tendency to embrace bis boatswain on deck
at all times and seasons, This isn’t charapteristic
of the ordinary captain. He is beguiled into a boat
by a wicked doctor and a lawyer, and banged on
the head with an oar, also he is shot and thrown
overboard, but the boatswain rescues him, dead
but not wounded, though with marks of violence
upon him. Then, in some unexplained fashion,
the doctor, instead of being gaoled, is allowed to
hustle the captain into a lunatic asylum; but he
escapes, and though his whereabouts is known
and orders are issued for his re-capture, he isn’t
caught, owing to the warlike attitude of the funny
man. Later on an heiress adopts the deranged
victim, and keeps him in the doctor’s house,
and that iron miscreant seemingly doesn’t dare to
throw him out. Last of all, the doctor is arrested
by all the rest of the company for burgling his own
premisesand breaking inti his own safe. The Co.,
in fact, has taken possession of the premises by
forcible breakage and entry, and the real owner,
instead of having them all run in, makes his mid-
night irruption humbly and apologetically by his
own window, and is grabbed by his own minion in
buttons.
* * *
Sundry people who deserve a much better
fate are wasted on this lamentable show. Mrs.
Molyueux is always excellent in a nicely-dressed
part, and it is only when she is called upon to
play a cheap calico heroine with broken boots that
she seems to lose heart. In the present case she
has a nicely-dressed part, Mr. Flirnmer, hitherto
known chiefly as a good young man bearing up
against misfortunes, gets a ebanee as the
principal evening-dress murderer, and ean give
points in many respects even to that celebrated and
experienced assassin, Mr. Jewett. Also Messrs.
Lesttin and Baker have much to recommend them,
but the latter gentleman is hereby urged to abjure
the pot hat and frock-coat style of architecture as
being unsuited to his variety of beauty. The
author rages around as the hero, and strikes
many graceful attitudes with his legs, and
various other people are a burden upon the soul
of a rather thin audience. The scenery, by Mr.
MR. WILLIAM LARMOUR.
(Coogee Palace Aquarium),
Vaughan, suggests that that gentleman will yet
rise to greatness, if he hasn’t got there already.
** * »
Smythe (says a Melb. paper) “ goes to
England to capture Melba.” The Bulletin begs
to enquire why the Most Travelled doesn’t seek
to capture John Burns for an Australian lecturing-
season. Burns, who has no money and has, up to
date, been too earnest to accept from the people
anything more than bare necessaries, could make
himself honestly independent for life by a turn
round the Australias, besides rebuilding his health
and giving the Australian Labour-party a mighty
impetus. And what a reception he would get
from men, women, and children ! The Bulletin
commends the idea to Smythe—and to Burns.
** * *
“ Miss Esmeralda ” will continue to fare-
well at Sydney Lyceum for an indefinite period.
Up to date business is remarkably good, especially
considering the busted state of the city, and here
and there certain suspicions of originality are
visible about Lonnen and one or two other
characters. The two big minstrel shows at the
Tivoli and the Opera House still pursue the fleet-
ing dollar with vigour and overtake that elusive
coin quite frequently, and several smaller shows of
the same order overtake coins of humbler value.
Also various deserving entertainments in aid of
the Queensland flood sufferers are on foot and
new ones are constantly arising.
* # *■ *
“ Hoodman Blind,” at Sydney Majesty’s,
seems to have girded up its loins for a long
struggle against the ravages of time. Also, the
fact that the new leading lady, Miss Lilia Wilde,
is a lasting success is becoming every day more
deeply embedded in the public consciousness.
The Bulletin’s enthusiasm over her is based
chiefly on the fact that, when she is cursed and
ejected by her husband, with an insane glare in
his eyes and blood on his shirt-front, she contrives
to look just as a lady would look in real life if she
found herself thrown on to the cold, unfeeling
door-mat at an instant’s notice. The present
writer has three times seen a lady removed by the
hair, at short notice —once on suspicion of infi-
delity, once for selling her husband’s clothes for
drink, and the other time owing to religious dif-
ferences, and each time she looked very like Miss
Wilde and very unlike most other actresses. She
was too much astonished for hysterics, and too
short of breath to bellow in the customary stage
fashion. Miss Wilde could not be more realistic
even had she been thrown out by ah inhospitable
step-father in the days of her childhood, and so
learned her part from personal experience*
“Pepita,” the least familiar of the Firm’s
stock operas, was revived at Melbourne Princess’
on Saturday night, when a moderately crowded
audience showed symptoms of fatigue towards the
finish. “ Pepita ” is a melodious narrative con-
taining no hero, no love interest, and no strikingly
original character save a black bull, which doesn’t
appear on the scene until death has closed its eye-
lids, and the dress-circle is preparing to go. A
pair of wives, two husbands and a couple of arch-
conspirators carry the plot along to the closing
scene, and the stuffed bull provides a happy
climax. The wives, as may be remembered, are
in the habit of leaving home from Saturday to
Monday under the protection of a large
military person, whilst the husbands stop behind
and wonder what is happening during the inter-
val. Ultimately it transpires that one of the
wives is making arrangements to claim the local
crown, but a second military person, who seems to
hold the kingdom in trust for a rival next-of-kin*
comes along with an army of six soldiers, or more,
and places the wrong wife under arrest, conse-
quently the direct succession remains in an unset-
tled s! ab ■ until the husband of the right wife casts
away Ins ice-cream can, and settles the matter by
slaughtering the stuffed bull aforesaid, whereupon
the populace break out into a chorus and all is
well. Regarded as a lesson in monarchial govern-
ment, “ Pepita ’* is somewhat wild and inconclu-
sive, but it commands respect on account of a
diplomatic duet between the two soldier plotters
in the second act. This duet has lost a
good deal of its early charm, inasnutch as
Bombardos (Ryley) and Pataques (Lauri) are not
as sharply contrasted as they used to be, but it
still stands good for a treble encore. Otherwise,
neither Ryley nor Lauri is a huge success,
Laumane, too, is by no means as funny as he
seems to suppose, and even the trustworthy
Howard Vernon betrays his trust a good deal on
this occasion. Violet Varley and Flora Graupner
(the latter of whom seems to have lost some of her
old voice) are small, physically and artistically, as
the untrammelled spouses, and the background
characters make very little difference either way.
With the exception of some aggressive water-
lilies, which resemble dumplings at anchor on a
silent stream, “Pepita” is an elegant spectacle,
however. On Saturday next they produce “ The
Gondoliers ” for the eighth time, or thereabouts.
** * *
The fugitive opera season at the Royal
closed with a sickly benefit on Saturday, and the
young company are now understood to be picking
up polish and searching after dramatic fire in the
provinces. On April Ist, the enterprising Darrell
will hoist his flag at this establishment. Sound
actors are plentiful and cheap in Melbourne just
now, so George has a really promising chance to
reopen the old house in a style worthy of its
traditions,
** * *
Fillis’ Circus will reluctantly quit its pre-
sent site after Monday (March 6th). Till then the
Nubian lions are warranted to show their teeth at
each performance; also a remorseless fiend is
dropping millions of circus handbills around the
suburbs, and the Melbourne landscape is dotted
oyer with bright green intimations that Fillis’
scale of charges has been reduced.
** * *
Frank Clark, who recently took a farewell
benefit, has decided to “play-up” the proceeds at
the Opera House instead of departing for
America. As a rule, the man who means to go
away intends to change his mind, so this intima-
tion carries very little shock with it. For the
nonce the Opera House will be known as the
Alhambra Palace of Varieties, veteran John
Wallace is engaged to stage-manage sundry
novelties in ballets, and prices of admission range
from the humble sixpence upwards.
** * *
The trustees of Melb. Exhibition have
decided not to permit any more baby-shows in the
building. The sages who have the “letting-out ”
of the white elephant seem to soent some im-
proper connection between baby-shows and ladies’
tugs-of-war. Presently they will draw the line at
everything, save wood-chopping tournaments and
hallelujah hug-mugging.
& it- * *
Max O.’Rell lias captivated the Maori'
landers, except in Dunedin, where his lecture
on “Sandy” raised Sodom and Gomorrah, and
produced such results that Max fled for his
life. At Wellington such houses had not been
seen for years. The famous frog-eater was
gradually making bis way north, and the tour was
to close at Auckland on 24th, but it has been
so, successful that the Most Travelled Smythe will
probably engage Max for some other country
where there will be no counter-attractions in the
shape of want-of-confidence motions, or trials of
bank directors, or quasi-charity entertainments in
which everybody gets something except the
beneficial re.
** * »
Sass and Emery’s comedy company has
been doing very good work in Adelaide, but their
reward has been only the consciousness of virtue.
“Caste” had a run of three nights, and on 22nd
Feb. “The Late Lamented” was staged. It is.
supposed that the title of. the piece refers to the
erstwhile patrons of the theatre.
** * *
Mark Twain’s summing-up of that hoary
fiction, the North-Amerioan Indian, is brought
back to memory by the miserable performances of
somebody’s aboriginal troupe from Queensland.
In the course of their show at Melbourne Ex-
hibition the “Wild Australians” managed to
cover themselves with contumely directly they
took their clothes off. The chief warrior of the
crowd proved incapable of shooting an arrow from,
a bow into a gigantic target at 15 yards, and even
raised a question as to whether he could hit a hay-
stack. The spear-flinging of the whole party was
a ghastly mockery of all pre-conceived notions
concerning native skill with native weapons.
Furthermore, one of the humbugs chosen to
prove hia wild dexterity in firing a pointed stick
along an asphalted walk, fired so crooked that
his stick landed in the foot of a bystander who
tottered off to the hospital cursing the incapacity
of “a fast-dying race.” ' y
* * *
The accompanying portrait represents Mr. William I ir-
mour, lessee and manager of Coogee Palace Aquarium
Sydney. Mr. Larmour was born at Eden, Oarrickter.. U s W
land, on March 18,1847. In his early days he took aleadim'
part in various literary and debating societies and w"t
intended for the ministry of the Irish I’resbyttri
Church. Mr. Larmour was a diligent student until In
years of age, when his father’s health was so indifferent
that he decided to relieve him from any further exuerisr-
on his behalf. Lord Annesley, requiring a head master
for one of his schools, selected Mr. Lannonr from amoiwst
many applicants for the position. After four years how-
ever, they had various differences over Mr. Gladstone’s
Irish Land Bill and the Act for the Disestablishment of
the Irish Church, Mr. Larmour being a warm advocate of
the measures, and as a consequence he resigned his position
and was immediately appointed head master of the school
in the district in which he was born. Among his punils were
the families of various leading Irishmen. Dur'ng the eb bt
years which he spent near Belfast he was, until leaving the
scholastic profession, editor of the Irish Educational
Journal, and a constant contributor to several daily
papers, as well as the Ulster representative of the Central
News Agency. When the British Association visited
Belfast Mr. Larmour was selected by the Northern Whig
the leading local paper, to summarise the papers read’
and the debates ensuing thereon, in the mathematical and
physical section. This was a recognition of his ability
as a mathematician, and lie was honoured by a special
vote of thanks from the committee of the association
for the accuracy of his reports. Mr. Larmour was also ai
this time in charge of the Income-tax office for the
county, and the town of Oarrickfergus and neighbouring
districts. In 1876 the then managing director of th?
Belfast Ropework Co. induced Mr. Larmour to become a
member of the company, and so leave scholastic for
commercial life. After spending a short time
in the works he took to the road, and for eleven
yqqrs was a prominent factor in making his concern one
of the largest and most prosperous in the world.
In the interests of his company he visited almost, even-
country in each of the five continents. His last business
journey covered a distance of over 100,000 miles. He
still retains his connection with the Belfast Ropework
Company. The cause of his remaining in Australia for
the last six years was that, being induced to enter into a
number of speculations in which he had over £12,000 at
stake, he preferred to personally watch his interests
Most of the money has now vanished like that of manv
other confiding investors, but he is still watching the
remainder. In September, 1890, he leased the Cooo-ee
Palace Aquarium, and though then a novice "in
catering for the public amusement, his business ability
and tact have made a place pay where the professional
showman hitherto failed to make both ends meet. Mr.
Larmour is well-known to the commercial community,
and his name and face are very familiar to the many
thousands who \ isit his charming resort by the sea. Mr.
Larmour gained great popularity a few weeks ago by his
unpremeditated inroad into the den of lions at Fillis’
circus. He is now promoting a brass band contest to
take place at his Aquarium on Good Friday and Saturday
for prizes amounting to £B5.
At Poverty Point.
Young Leo Byrne, of Queensland (late “ Ned’s Chum ”),
will have a part in “ Becket,” to be produced by Irving at
London Lyceum as a dress-rehearsal for America.
Christie Murray has been regularly paying young Leo
Byrne (son of “Bobby” Byrne, of Brisbane Punch) a
retaining-fee of £2 weekly when not acting, which has
been the case for some time, “Ned’s Chum” having been
a frost. Christie will, therefore, be all the richer now
that Irving has taken the clever boy in hand.
The proprietors of the last Melbourne baby-show lost
£5OO over the speculation.
Baby-shows are getting stale. How would an exhibition
of aged females go for a novelty ?
A good, upstanding lie When Paderewski, the pianist,
was performing at a concert lately, a lady, carried away
by enthusiasm, rushed upon the platform, and prostrated
herself at his feet. The eminent musician gazed at her
in an abstracted way for a moment, and then absent-
mindedly wiping his boots on her back hair, went on
playing.
11l luck follows Fred Cowen in his attempts to produce
his operas. The much-(aiked-of “Signa,” which was to
have seen the light at Genoa last month, was withdrawn,
owing to the wretchedness of the artists provided by the
impressario. Cowen is going to try Milan.
Genevieve Ward was to play Queen Eleanor in “ Becket”
at London Lyceum. It is a “singing part.” She made
her stage dehut as a singer under the stage-name of
Madame Gerrabella.
A New York critic thus describes Mrs. Bernard Beeve :
“She is a tall, gaunt woman without beauty. . . She
has no taste in dress. . . Like Helen Barry, she smiles
too broadly and too often.”
George Darrell says that his coming company at Mel-
bourne Royal will include people “as good as himself.”
If George could find any better than himself he would
engage them.
The result of Professor Richard Geismardo’s electrical
treatment exhibition at Melbourne Town Hall should be
gratifying to Gov. Hopetoun, who gave his noble patron-
age. Within the next four weeks the Professor banked
£4OOO.
About a dozen beautiful lines (not Shakespeare’s), are
often spoken by American tragedians, in “ Othello,” and
no one knows who penned them, though they arc uni-
versally admitted worthy of the play.
The accomplished Neville Barnett who, as musical
critic, has poured so much boiling oil into the wounds of
the profession and others, is, on dit, severing his connec-
tion with Sydney E. News.
George P. Carey recited Henry Lawson’s verses,
“ Shabby Genteel,” on the occasion of Snazelle’s benefit
at Melbourne Princess.
Arthur Garner (loq.): “When Tom Pavey and Jos.
Pickersgill are designated Australian dramatists, I think
it very unfair to omit Henderson Africanusand Snazelle.”
Charles Warner, replying to a critic who asserts the
frequency of unhappy marriages in the profession,
instances the Kendals, the Comptons, the four Terrys,
the Macklins, and Thornes, as proof to the contrary.
Overwhelming ! Fancy a pleader digging out half-a-
dozen names to prove such a case in any other profession.
Warner takes the exceptions for the rule, that’s all.
Now that Jeremiah Brown has finally collapsed, how
does the Cyclorama Co. stand in case of an action for the
recovery of the public gate-money ? People paid to see a
Waterloo veteran aged 101, and now ic appears that they
only saw an old frost, of 82 who had never been near
Waterloo in his life. Is I his false pretences or what ?
Melbourne shows for the benefit of the Floods Fund—at
Fillis’ Circus and the Princess’—were by no. means. great
successes.
Miss Neilson wears bare sandalled feet, as Hypatia.
Jennie Lee was always wanting to try it on, as jo, but
managers would not go better than toed stockings. Feet
are, or should be, as beautiful as hands.
Harry Paulton is building another farcical comedy in
collaboration with his son. “ Niobe ” was the work of
the old man and his offspring, but nobody knows for cer-
tain which of the pair cribbed the idea of (lie plot, and
whicli of them wrote the plain dialogue.
“ Niobe ” is the latest of those statue plays which ever
fascinate. Shukespeare’s “ Hermione ”is the first of the
Thespian living statues, and then Shirley’s, from which
Shiei took “ Evadne.” “The Marble Heart ” and “ Pyg*
nmlion and Galatea” recur to mind.
“ Poverty Point ” continued on page 22.


THE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and alt. Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £26,915,080, and its SURFLVS
oeer all liabilities to £3,115,436, heimj the LA RGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
Insurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, oi to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER 00., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 2.
Cut this out, Jill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, Ist April,
1893.
The assumption of Premier G. Republican
Dibbs that the name of the new Governor of
N.S. Wales would be submitted to him in
advance for approval has proved erroneous.
The haughty stand taken by the Colonial
Office in this matter, even after the sharp
lesson given it by MTlwraith in the Blake
affair, is a logical consequence of the ex-
Republican’s in accepting a
title while intoxicated with the glamour of
the Court.
Name
Address
Missing Word t
The person who fills in correctly the missing
ivord ivill promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received—so deduction whatever
being made. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
ivill be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
Many replies in Competition No. 1 came to
hand too late chiefly owing to mail-delays
through Queensland floods. All these have been
returned. To fully permit of answers being re
ceived from the far distant places covered by The
Bulletin’s wide circulation, the period of the
present competition has been extended by a week.
BURROUGHES
—AND —
WATTS, >- To
.BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
kw Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The Land Co. of Australia, about the largest
oncern of its kind in this continent, has resolved to
Houidate. The company’s properties are set down at
£636 000, and the mortgages on them amount to
fi £426 000 only.” Alas! the kind of property which is
. lued'at £636,000, generally realises £200,000 almost
jhese times, and, judging by past experience, the Co.
l % strike an unusual patch "of luck if its land yields
enough to pay mortgages. There are also “ other
liabilities, £145,000;” the miscellaneous assets are mostly
mortgaged ; and some uncertainty seems to prevail as to
whether the uncalled capital is not also up the spout.
But the utter rottenness of the Land Co. of Australia is
demonstrated, most of all, by the reason assigned for the
“ ,lapse. This institution was one of those which staved
nff their creditors for three years under the Companies
Arrangement Act. It has now had a year’s grace in
whiobto get its assets together, and it shuts up because
it can’t pay even the first instalment now coming due.
Up to date, so far as The Bulletin is aware, all the com-
panies which gained time under the same Act have gone
smash thesame way. The Act has enabled quite a lot of them
to fence with their creditors, and to run riot among the
deposits a while longer, but it hasn’t kept one concern
afloat, because they were almost all so rotten that even
three centuries grace, let alone three years, could hardly
have raised them to solvency.
* * *
The gifted Theodore Fink, lawyer, poet and
land-boomer, has entertained the Melb. Bankers’ Institute
with a sound moral lecture concerning the evil effects of
Foreign Loans upon a Young Democracy. One extract
from Theo. will suffice to show the extent to which he has
repented of his past life : “ Foreign loans are, with very
few exceptions, an unmitigated curse. Usually they
arrive in Victoria in the very class of commodities that
incite to waste and extravagance. As tending to involve
a small population in a young country in a degrading
form of interest, servitude, and practically involving,
as they do, the gradual transference of the
real ownership of the soil to residents in other countries,
the resulting benefits are wholly inadequate to counter-
balance these evils.” There were tears in Theodore’s
voice as he touched upon the curse of pawning city and
suburban allotments to residents in other countries. One
almost expected him to kneel and pray right there before
the Bankers! Institute—“ O, Lord! ,put back Thy
universe and give me yesterday.” It was a most affecting
address throughout, eloquent, earnest, breathing a gentle
financial piety. # #
Great anxiety is expressed in Brisbane as to the
funds of the Government Savings Bank, the greater part
of which have been divided among three banks all of
whose shares are selling considerably below par.
» * *
The shares of the Q. N. Bank, Royal Bank and
Bank of North Queensland are all paid up to £5. Late
Stock Exchange quotations for buyers are : Queens-
land National Bank, £4 13s. ; Royal, £3 18s. ; Bank of
N O £2 Is. And who is buying?
* # •
Tor how muck have Northern banks been hit by
the floods in Northern sugar-districts?
# # #
Melbourne Tram Co. shares rising rapidly by
reison of the success of the attempt to cut wages.
Blessed is the shareholder for he shall inherit the
earth.
# # •
A well-known and acute Sydney barrister,
having £12,000 on mortgage, wanted to realise the other
day. "The highest bid was £4OOO,
# * *
The Silverton Tramway (N.S.W.) Co., with a
capital of £200,000, made last year £82,155 profit, of which
£59,341 was paid in dividends. And all this, though the
strike cost them £40,000 !
* # #
One of Melbourne’s prosperous suburban drapers
recently did what was considered a smart thing by put-
ting up his shutters for a day .or two, in order to bill
them with the announcement that he had “gone bung ! ”
This was merely a device to fetch the public to his little
sale, where they fought for “ alarming sacrifices” under
the delusion that a ruthless bank was realising the wily
draper’s stock at any price. Melbourne commerce sees
nothing discreditable in a solvent’ trader shamming bank-
ruptcy, and it is now quite usual for a pushing firm to
advertise a company sale every month.
# • *
The Mt. Morgan G.M. Co. gave £lOOO towards
the flood-relief fund. This represents just about the nett
profit on one day’s work.
• * #
Gov. Jersey has insured the life of his eldest
son for £lO,OOO, and the lives of his two daughters for
£2OOO apiece, in the Australian Mutual Provident.
# # •
Marshall’s Paddington Brewery, Sydney, de-
clares no dividend this half-year, but shows a glamorous
piece of book-keeping to whet the appetite of share-
holders, who ought to adopt the late Sydney Reform
Club’s plan, and drink themselves into prosperity—at the
brewery.
# # *
The busted-bank victim learns nothing from the
lessons of the past. The late manager of the Federal—
we have nothing to say against him personally—is
winding it up in quite the early Daviesian style. It is
about time that a man who files his schedule should
appoint himself his own trustee and fix his own dividend.
# # *
The Victorian Crown Law Department has
changed its charge against the Mercantile Bank directors
from that of “issuing” a false balance-sheet to one of
“conspiring together to issue a false balance-sheet.”
This apparently trifling alteration in the charge is worth
noticing in connection with the alleged gist of Matthew
Davies’ defence. Davies, it is understood, will advance
the excuse that he, as Speaker of the House, was too
deeply immersed in Parliamentary duties to be capable of
giving his mind to the business of the Mercantile Bank,
and was not, therefore, in a position to test the correct-
ness of its balance-sheets. This interesting case will in no
way touch upon the system of one Davies institution pay-
ing in a thumping big cheque to another Davies institu-
tion just previous to the close of the half-year. It will,
or should, be the simplest of cases. The balance-sheet
was incompatible with the bank’s failure a fortnight after
issue. Therefore, the sheet was falsa, unless the failure
cropped up by accident in the meantime. Either the
directors were concerned in the issue of this balance-
sheet, or unconcerned, and if unconcerned, why so ?
Somebody did it, and if somebody be boiled down to
Manager Millidge (the auditors counting for no more
than the uninformed directors) the case collapses, inas-
much as no one man can form a conspiracy. Yet the pre-
liminary hearing is “ expected to last a fortnight.”
* * #
The O’Loghlen “indignantly repudiates” the
suggestion that the present Victorian Government
will do all in its power to shield busted bank-directors. It
js a fact that the new Crown has engaged Simpson, the
blunt and keen legal accountant, to assist in preparing
evidence for the Mercantile Bank prosecution. The
Brown of Shiels’ time would have nothing to do with
Simpson, and declined to allow his small claim for pro-
fessional services in working up the prima-fncie case.
* * #
N.S.W. Gold Extraction Co. is liquidating—
another victim of the yarn about gold being left in the
tailings. It was formed to treat 30,000 tons (from stone
which yielded many thousand ozs. gold) at Parkes, the
accumulation of the old local quartz crushing co.
Samples brought to Sydney were treated with dazzling
results, and now the whole concern—Huntingdon mill,
tailings, engine, boiler and all are on sale by tender.
Another warning against the tailings hummer.
# # #
The Metals Extraction Go., with their ammonia
process, started out to work a big miracle with Junction
North silver ore. While the works were building every-
thing glittered. The cleaning-up showed 1600 oz. from 70
tons (an unofficial report says more) ore, which assayed
40oz. Shares at once fell 50 per cent. And it is this pro-
cess which is going to redeem White Rock 1
* * *
A doleful half-yearly report from the Last Call
mine. Continuous prospecting work, nothing payable
(you might as well prospect in Collins-street or Sydney
Domain), and finances will not allow work being carried
on more than a few weeks, but whatever course is ex-
pedient in the interests, &c., will be adopted. “ All the
machinery is in good order. We smile ! Again—why not
put the little money left into Adams’ sweep ? It was bad
enough to pay £lO,OOO for half the so-called mine, but
what excuse can be given for having absolutely thrown
away another £lO,OOO in “ development? ” Of course the
money was put up for this purpose, but surely expendi-
ture should have ceased the moment the swindle was
proved.
* * #
The Peak Hill paper still harps on the gold-in-
tailings theory, and quotes Dr. Curran re the similarity of
the ores of Mount Morgan, Pambula, and Peak Hill. If
the gold is in the tailings it would be easy to prove the
fact. Many a big body worth half-an-ounoe only has been
misjudged to contain an oz. The writer has waited half
a life-time to see a large body, estimated at an oz., go 2oz.
Rumour says that an official report casting a complete
damper on the Peak Hill discovery has yet to see the light.
* * *
The keen and active canvassing for two seats on
the Golden Gully (N.S.W.) board demonstrates the
anxiety in these bad times to earn even directors’ fees.
Personation was, it is alleged, practised to some extent.
• * *
Lansell’s latest mining purchase is the old
Napoleon Reef, Bendigo, on which he is erecting
machinery. It has been renamed, “G.V.L.,” after his
son. If Lansell long continues to receive the lion’s share
of the Bendigo dividends he will again become a
millionaire.
* * »
Now that Manager Z. Lane has struck, the
Block 14 directors ought to place him on contract work.
* * *
Adelong Proprietary—lB4 tons, 376 ozs. retorted
gold. Mine bought three years ago for £6000; buyers,
Messrs. Halliday, Fisher,’ Davis, Broomfield, Want,
M‘Laughlin, Amos, and Walker. Up to lately some of
the owners despaired.
• # #
O’Sullivan, M.P. (N.S.W.), says that in his own
(Queaubeyan) and the adjoining electorate there is enough
mining land to give work to 30,000 men if it were un-
locked by (he Mining on Private Property Bill. This is
all gas, and shows that he knows nothing of the subject.
Wild statements like these only serve to discount his more
truthful utterances.
# * #
A par. in the “Wild-Cat ” column, of Feb. 25,
began thus: —“ The last of the Victoria Coffee Palace Co.
was brightened by,” &c., &c. The printer carefully
omitted the word “meeting,” which makes a difference.
The Coffee Palace hasn’t come to its latter end.
# * *
Some wonderful alluvial gold has been found
near Gundagai; much of the ground taken up and floated
two years back on the strength of Lindley’s lead has been
re-pegged. Bindley made some thousands out of his
claim and then died". His widow has leased the ground
to some Sydney men, who have put up a plant for
hydraulic sluicing.
# * •
The chairman of the Broken Hill South mine
declares that the average weekly earnings of the miners
are £4 11s. 7d. each.
* • •
Mining Standard : “ It is a crying shame that
some energetic persons should not take a hand in the
erection of a cyanide plant suitable for the treatment of
Pambula ore.” Now, although the Australian Gold Re-
covery Co., which holds theeyanide rights, has big capital
and has already spent much in N.S.W. mines,
including Pambula, it has never erected a plant itself.
# * »
What appears a recurrence of the rich patches of
gold-bearing rock found in the Faulkner and Pambula
mines is now being worked in the Mount Lewison claim,
owned by a Sydney syndicate. The last report says that
they are bagging 25-oz. ore, and, like the rest of them,
putting aside second and third-class rock. Rich gold-
finds are seldom permanent, and the bitter experience of
the Pambula must make one question uppermost—How
long will it last?
* • #
Broken Hill South looks up : bank overdraft,
£17,000, reduced to £4250, and total liabilities from
£40,000 to £10,000; cost of smelting also lowered a few
shillings. Dividends hoped for; at any rate, no call
looms.
« # *
One of the biggest permanent dividend-paying
mines of Bendigo is the New Red White and Blue, whose
last cake was 1071 ozs. from 1015 tons.
» * *
The finding of large, sharp-cornered fragments
of lode formation assaying as high as 60 per cent, metallic
tin in one of the faces of Mt. Bischoff (Tas.) indicate that
the source of the greatest alluvial tin-deposit found in
Australia may yet be discovered in the mine itself. It
has alwavs been an enigma where the deposit came from,
inasmuch as it lies above and not below the surrounding
country.
# • •
As the writer has long anticipated, the London
shareholders of the True Blue mine, Croydon, are
grievously dissatisfied with the manner in which the
management of the mine has been conducted. They
accuse the directorate of misleading conduct.
* # *
The Tasmanian G. M. Co., for many years the
biggest dividend mine of the island, and out of which
some big fortunes have been made, has now an overdraft
of nearly £50,000.
• # *
The much-vaunted Lockwood-Chapple(“hypher-
phoric”) process has been applied to the Sir Walter Scott
ore, which, we were at first told, was worth 3 to 4ozs.
per' ton; now, it is less than 2ozs., “ and the better stone is
under water.” Never a word about the inferior quality of
the gold! The “ hypherpheric ” is remarkably slow;
that which is slow, requiring power and fuel, cannot be
economical. However, the writer suspends further
judgment concerning it pending a satisfactory critical
examination by some practical mining man.
# # *
If shareholders placed any reliance on mining
managers’ reports there would be a boom in the Argen-
tine shares. The last speaks of the striking of several
silver lodes, the richest assaying 200 ozs. and 60 per cent.
lead, and the discovery of an enormous body of auriferous
quartz, yielding 12s to 245. worth of gold per ton. This is
the assay value according to the letter received. The
report adds: “At present it is impossible to profitably
dispatch to Vic. or S. A. any Argentine ores yielding less
than 150 ozs. to the ton, whereas local treatment should
secure a profit on 30 oz. ore.” Why expect the public to
believe such a yarn ? The difference between 30 and 150
ozs. represents nearly £2O a ton, to say nothing of the
cost of treatment. If melted locally, coke must be sent to
the mine, the bullion brought back, and, if lead will not
pay to carry, then the metal must be refined on the mine.
The ghastly truth is seldom told. If the Argentine mines
were near the seaboard they would be valuable, but like
many other far inland silver mines, carriage almost ki Is
them. If they could be removed to Newcastle all would
be right; but a body of quartz, however big, which assays
only 3 dwts is of little use.
» # *
Sydney D.T. : “It is believed that the problem
of treating the low-grade ores at Broken Hill has now
been solved.” Presumably it means the sulphide
problem. Who believes it? The D.T., or the man with
the particular process referred to? The solution of the
sulphide problem has been so often announced during the
last five years that nobody believes it, nor will any
sensible man take it for granted until he sees it with his
own eyes.
* # *
Smelting at Mount Oostigan has re-commenced.
The proprietor is about to build two reverberatory
furnaces to keep things going right ahead.
» # *
A director visiting the Rockdale mine, N.S.W.,
is pleased with everything. The reef averages five feet,
and is broken for ss. a ton, which will be reduced to 3s.
as soon as the tunnel intersects it. He adds that the new
ideas of the manager for saving very fine gold have been
a great success. These are the use of tepid water to keep
the silver lively—a very good, but very old, idea ; two
sprinklers over the plates, also a useful, but by no means
recent notion, and the use of an incurved splash copper
plate immediately outside the boxes, a thing most mining
men have seen.
* # *
So it is publicly admitted, at last, that the Mt.
Wells tin-field, Victoria, is a failure. It had its boom
three years ago when anything would boom with a little
lying and misrepresentation. On these things Wells
lived, moved and had its boom. Of course the machinery,
on which no expense was spared, was condemned before
the mines. They are always all right until the death.
* # #
A Melbourne boomster, who recently paid
his creditors 2d. in the £, is now, with his wife, occupy-
ing rooms at a big hotel at eight guineas a week.
• # *
Bathurst Hospital had a fixed deposit of £lOOO
i-i the suspended Anglo-Australran I. F. and L. Co. Presi-
dent Rutherford and Treasurer Webb, M.L.C., have agreed
to make up the loss.
# # •
A deposit of brown coal has been struck at
Williamstown, Melb. As the cost of freight will be very
light the Co. which has leased the land ought to make a
good thing out of it. A bit of a rush set in, but the Co.
had all the available ground pegged out beforehand.
# # #
A shareholder of the South Brisbane Gasworks
has strongly objected to sundry items—subscriptions to
the “ Patriotic ” (Tory) League and similar disbursements
—appearing in the balance-sheet.
# * •
A West Australian digger, when shifting quar-
ters, owing to the local scarcity of water, the other day,
found £l2OO worth of gold in the centre-peg hole of his
tent.
* * *
Danver Powers, F.G.S., &c., &c., discourses
learnedly on the stamper-battery, and argues plausibly in
favour of roller-mills. The world judges crushing-
machinery by results. If roller-mills are superior, why,
when preparations are made for extensive crushing, is the
stamper-mill always adopted—as on Broken Hill, and, in
fact, all over the world ? Why is Lansell, a man without
prejudices, spending £15,000 on a hundred-head stamper-
mill on Bendigo? The stampers’ defects—waste power
and indiscriminate action—are well known, but other
more serious defects are discovered when other mills are
tried.
When the flood-waters rushed down the Gympie
mines, a number of them blew up with deafening reports,
as if the town was being bombarded.
# # #
The Pennyweight Hill Sluicing Party, Vic.,
have completed their race, four and a half miles, partly
through hard rock, and have cleaned up 9Jozs. from 1000
loads. There are many obstacles: the fall is small, water
scarce, pressure low, and price of water high (£-2 per
million gals.—four million gals, per week are required,
and they have been using two). This once obtained, also
6in. pipes to give proper pressure, and the party have a
good chance ahead. They have undertaken a big job,
but they have unlimited dirt of the expected value.
# # *
One of the biggest gold-mines in the world is
Homestake of the Black Hills of U.S. It has a low-grade
free milling ore, and by the employment of a great army
of men and the most powerful machinery it has an output
of nearly £1,000,000 of gold yearly.
# # * *
Generally the newspapers of Australia have lost
a gigantic opportunity. The history of the world’s biggest
journals shows that their fame was never made by grada-
tions. In all long-established communities, newspapers
are never born great nor achieve greatness by reason of
long life ; they become great by reason of seizing a big
opportunity. The exclusive publication of the declaration
of American Independence made one ; the Bulgarian
atrocities a second; incomparablenesi in war corres-
pondence another. Like opportunities occur in Australia,
but they are generally missed, and the biggest has been the
lettingoutof the “innards' ’on the land-and-bogus-bank and
miningboom. Where, from one end of Australia to another,
was there a daily metropolitan newspaper that made it its
business to expose the fraud practised by the alleged men
of money and power in the name of boom ? Not one pre-
dicted the crash until it had arrived. The papers flourished
on advts. and tempered the wind to the shorn lamb.
Directly or indirectly they were all more or less in it. In
Australian history it will be written down as the brief age
of palpable fraud in which dense newspaper blindness was
caused by unwillingness to see.
The legislative Thugs of N.S.W. Council
have deleted from the Elections Bill the clause
compelling employers to let their hands go to the
polls in working hours when necessary.
Barton’s reason for, not prosecuting the
locked-out Sydney bootmakers for conspiracy
could, perhaps, have been boiled down to much less
than half-a-column. Thus : Once bitten, twice
shy.
Dibbs is making no threats, but he
intends, it is understood, to re-submit to the
N.S.W. Legislative Council the “ vote-for-thrift ”
clause inserted in the Electoral Bill by that body.
If it still asserts the principle, he will call a
conference of both Houses when the bill returns to
the Assembly. That failing, hi; will prorogue
Parliament for 24 hours, flood the Council, and
send the bill back to it, as it originally left the
Assembly.
In re the National Ass assertion that the
N.S.W. Labour members are mere self-seekers,
“living on the game,” let it be remembered that
the party long ago carried a resolution to accept
no offices of emolument during the existence of
the present Parliament. What is not so generally
known is that, when the ballot for the Works
Committee was coming on, the Labour members
were asked to nominate two men to run for the
places with the liberal Protectionist selections.
The request refused, two men were privately ap-
proached for the same purpose, and they also
refused. How many men in the House, outside
the Labour-party, would have thus calmly given
up about =£7oo or =£Boo yearly ?
“The Bulletin’s” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
As announced last week, the Missing Word in The
Bulletin Competition, No. 1, was “Cupidity.”
The total number of replies received in time was
1614, and the successful competitors were 45 (47
named the word, but two were informal), as
follows : —P. Barry, Oakleigb, Victoria ; Alice
Broughton, Young, New South Wales; H. J.
Burton, Albury, N.S.W. ; J. F. Bond, Penrith,
N.S.W.; 0. A. Brown, Warne, N.S.W. ;T. J.
Coy, Stanmore, Sydney; G. P. Carey, Jolimont,
Melb.; Mrs. T. Davis, Culgoa, N.S.W. ; P. A.
Dunne, Tocumwal, N.S.W.; Ellen Dalton,
Crown-street, Sydney ; M. England, Nam'mcca,
N.S.W. ; A. Ellershaw, Walleroo, South Aust. ;
D. Eroggatt, Randwick, N.S.W.; John Eieury,
Mildura, Vic. ; H. Fletcher, Picton, N.S.W. ;
H. Flood, Broken Hill, N.S.W,; S. Garnsey,
Deniliquin, N.S.W.; A. H. Garnsey, University,
Sydney; F. M. Goold, Bairnsdale, Vic.; W. Gurr,
Geelong, Vic. ; F. M. S. Holmes, Hochkirch, Vic.;
J. J. Herlihy, Wickham, N.S.W. ; Mrs. L.
Hamper, Waverley, N.S.W. ; E. Hall, Lancefield,
Vic. ;J.W. S. Isaacs, Millie, N.S.W.; J. H. Kel-
son, Mansfield, Vic.; W. Lodge, Hillston, N.S.W.;
Kate Mitchell, Sherwood, near Brisbane, Q. ;
Messrs. Murray, Wagga, N.S.W.; J. MTlveen,
Inverell, N.S.W. ; C. Murray, Oxford-street,
Sydney ; E. L. O’Keefe, Ballina ; M. E. Parker,
Melbourne, Vic. ; B. L. Pirani, Melbourne, Vic. ;
J. J. Pitt, New Angledool, N.S.W. ; G. A.
Paterson, Gladesville, N.S.W. ; C. L. Robotham,
G.P.0., Sydney; Mrs. L. Rawson, Rockhampton,
Q.; Geo. Randall, Williamstown, Vic. ;A. Robin-.
son, St. Kilda, Vic. ; W. Spencer, Woolwich,
N.S.W.; Mrs. A. C. Thompson, Yeronga, Bris-
bane, Q. ; W. E. Turnbull, Collarendabri,
N.S.W. ; P. Vett, Avisford, N.S.W. ; C. Wil-
liams, Dandaloo, N.S.W. ; B. Wheeler, Bendigo,
Vic.
■*
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within five weeks from Saturday, 25th Feb.,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition, particulars
of which will duly appear.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.


d
IOKIK.N »V AISIItA LASIA\
STAMPS.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 —all post free.
Joe-list gratis. Unused stamps
v o oepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN <Sc CO,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
“ The worship worthy of the Supreme
Bein'? is the practice of the duties of man.” —
Robespierre.
After tea, smoke GNUN Darlings.
Contractor Amos owns a hill composed
entirely of the splendid Bowral stone, of which
that unique and imposing building, the New
Equitable Life offices in Oeorge-street, Sydney, is
being constructed. He bought it some years ago
for .£3500, and has since refused for it, it is said,
twelve times that amount. The Equitable build-
ing should make a boom in Bowral stone.
THE LIVER
IN MALARIAL COMPLAINTS
Is always more or less seriously deranged, and in
disorders of this organ Wolfe’s Schnapps is a
benignant reformer. Buy whole bottles.
YOST ”Typewriter
■
em
No Ribbon.
Perfect Alignment.
TAKES THE FIRST PLACE,
and because
IT HAS NO RIBBON,
and is every way the BEST, it has (in competition) been
awarded
it2T THE GOLD MEDAL
at the Concours National, Paris, 1892. Also SPECIAL
FIRST PRIZE and COLD MEDAL, Tasmanai
Exhibition, 1891-2.
Likewise the ONLY GOLD MEDAL for Typewriters
at Kimberley International Exhibition, 1892.
The Yost Typewriter Co.,
120 Pitt-St., Svdnky, & 144 Elizabeth-st., Jlklhourn'E.
Personal Items.
M‘llwraith returns per Oceana, leaving
Colombo Ist March.
Justice Real (Q.), colloquially known as
“ Chips,” will not resign his puisne judgeship.
It’s a few Irish Governors that the country
wants. Duff is a name that lies heavy on one’s
chest.
It is stated that Grey is now so feeble that
he cannot walk out without the assistance of a
friend.
New South Wales has had, including Mr.
Duff, 14 English, five Irish and three Scotch
Governors.
The secret of John Burns’ success is the
workmen’s belief in his self-denial. They know
that John’s wife irons his shirts.
Dr. George Bennett, F.L.S., who was first
secretary to the Australian Museum, Sydney,
entered upon his 90th year, Feb. 1.
Governor Duff’(N.S.W.) is a great grand-
son of the great-great grandfather of the son-in-
law of the Prince of Wales. Think hard !
Robert Louis Stevenson, now on his way
to Sydney, advises Britain to annex Samoa.
Robert owns a little property there, it is said.
A present supposedly pauper inmate of the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Poor Asylum, some few years
ago, purchased an estate in Ireland for £11,150.
The fallen Matthew Davies lives in a little
one-storey stucco villa at Caulfield, strangely like
the one at St. Helena, pointed out as Napoleon’s.
W. A. Horn, Gov. Kintore’s friend and
financial adviser, is worth, at least, £500,000 —the
Horn of plenty. He has finally abandoned
politics.
Thomas Elder, the millionaire enthusiast
in respect to Australian exploration, is suffering
from senile decay, and it is difficult to catch him
in a lucid interval.
Squatter Glass (W.A.), who shot his two
grown-up daughters and then suicided, was a son
of the historical Victorian squatter, Hugh Glass —
“Broken ” Glass—of Flemington.
Mrs. Terry, a native of N.S.W., who
lately died at Oampbelltown, left 180 living
descendants behind her. Her sister, aged 93, still
living at Albury (N.S.W.) has 198 living descen-
dants.
The octogenarian Captain Battye, who
retires from the superintendency of Wagga police
upon the full pay of £5OO a year, and an Imperial
Army pension of £lOO, began life as a page to
Queen Adelaide.
Ex - branch - manager Bennett,
who stole £lO,OOO or so from the Lon-
don Chartered Bank, at Sydney, got
ten years, which would unquestionably
be far too much to give to any man for
a simple act of stealing, even if it
amounted to a million. But Judge
Fitzhardinge obviously didn’t inflict so
tremendous a punishment on the mere
thief, but upon the cold-blooded
Sunday-school hypocrite who lay perdu
and allowed his innocent subordinate,
Wilgoss, to be sent to rot in prison.
The statement that the brilliant
“ Mudgee ” Taylor, ex-M.P. (N.S.W.),
is qualifying to become a missionary to
the South African niggers is a canard.
Mudgee is just now managing-director
of the Echo Farm Home for Inebriates.
He has been thoroughly converted,
and preserves the most vigorous
Christian discipline in his domains.
For instance, no swearing is allowed.
If a man says “Damn !” Mudgee in-
stantly gives him two Beecham’s pills
—worth a guinea a box.
The Earl of Portarlington, who
died recently in England, was cele-
brated chiefly as having been —in his
younger days and before he became a
peer—the prize drunkard of the British
House of Commons. He represented
a pocket borough with 14 electors, and
is reputed never to have been seen
altogether sober ; but nobody took any
official notice of bis chronic muddlerr.ent
until one day when he shook hands
cordially with the Queen, and told her
that her face seemed familiar, doncher-
know, but he had quite forgotten her
name.
Lindsay Cooper, night-overseer of S.A.
Register, has been on the paper since 1836, when
he arrived as an apprentice with the founder,
Robert Thomas, and assisted to bring out the first
number in a tent at Holdfast Bay.
John Sweet, who died at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), on February 20, aged 75, came to
Sydney in ’47, and was one of the captors of bush-
ranger Wilson, on Warland’s Range, near Mur-
rurundi. He was an old Maitlander.
Dear Bulletin, —Re explorers. It is not
generally known, perhaps, that Wright, third in
command of the Burke and Wills expedition, the
man who “delayed,” is a well-known figure in
Sydney, and said to be a wealthy land-owner.
—J.F.
Treasurer G. D. Carter (Vic.) says that
after he first came to Australia and was making a
business for himself, he couldn’t afford to eat
vegetables or use butter for six months. And now
he’s the First Lord of the Treasury. Orchestra —
“When I was a lad ”
A member of the N.S.W. Legislative
Council publicly ate, at one meal recently, two
plates of soup, two plates of meat and vegetables,
one help of pudding, and two whole loa'es of
bread, with butter. He ought to have a vote for
thrift; the bread and butter were not charged for.
Premier Patterson is officially located in
Trevsmy Gardens, Melb., and tie caretaker of
the offices is “Mick” O’Meara, his brother-in
law, whom J.B. appointed years ago when he was
M’nister of Public Works. Mick was in the
“Fixrce ” when Patterson was butchering at
Castlemaine.
Ingersoll is accused of complicity in the
Panama scandals fingering the cash of the
bribe: —per cable n the Australian dailies. The
co iplfte refutation of the slander will come along
at leisure by mail, and be awarded the honour of
a small par. in a dark corner in each of the
orthodox journals.
Says the Australian Star: “The state-
ment that Col. Robert Ingersoll received £lOOO
from the Panama Canal people shows that even an
atheist may sometimes be immoral and dishonest.”
No, dear Star. It only shows that even an
atheist may sometimes be accused of being im-
moral and dishonest.
Justice Cooper, flood-bound at Toowoomba
(Q.) wired Judge Harding (Brisbane) to adjourn
the Full Court from day to day until Cooper’s
arrival. Whereupon the amiable Harding in open
court; “If his Honor had his books with him he
would find that what does not constitute a court
cannot adjourn a court.”
Maurice Brodzky, the journalist now in
the calcium glare over the mace case, turned up in
Melbourne about 18 years ago as a teacher of lan-
guages, in which he is a sort of Mezzofanti, and
exulted over rumours that he was a Russian spy,
being a Pole. He served, as a French Conscript,
in the Franco-German war.
When The Bulletin’s friend, “ Captain ”
Taylor, of land-boom and mace celebrity, applied
for admission as a barrister 22 years ago, Judge
Barry said to the “mover:” “1 cannot see the
applicant, where is he?” “ This is the applicant,”
replied the mover, “ Oh, that—er—person in the
light check suit and blue necktie ? ”
The trustees of Melbourne Public Library
ukase that henceforth no portraits of Australian
personages shall adorn the Art Gallery walls
unless the originals have become “eminent” or
“distinguished.” Shouldn’t some of those now
hanging be consigned to the dust-box ? That of
George Milner Stephen, for instance.
Mrs. Gibson, aged 60 years, the other day
completed an overlanding trip of 1085 miles, from
Mackay (Q.) to Nullamanna, near Inverell
(N.S.W.), in a one-horse buggy, and attended
only by a dog in addition to the horse. She
camped out regularly, with the exception of two
or three nights’accommodation at wayside houses.
Dr. Slade, the old-time spiritualist, who,
in Australia and elsewhere, made many thousands
out of his messages from deceased relatives, until
it was found that he had the slate with the spirit-
message on it planted under the table in advance,
is still alive. The other day an aged, penniless
lunatic was run in at Sioux city, lowa (U.S.), and
on examination lie proved to be Slade.
J. B. (Auctioneer) Patterson, now Premier
of Victoria, once said in the Assembly that “ it
was a shame for great, strong men to spend their
lives behind publichouse bars pumping up pints of
beer.” MTntyre, of Bendigo, now J.B.’s
Ministerial colleague, retorted that that wasn’t
JOHN WILSON BENNET.
(The R.S. and A.C. bank defaulter).
worse than a big healthy man standing in a pulpit
with a little hammer knocking down nothing at
all !”
Called by a Bulletin paragraph to a
sense of its shocking neglect in respect to news-
paper-boss Bonython’s name on Lindsay’s explora-
tion maps, the S.A. Geographical Society has
stopped their distribution, and has issued a
second sheet. On this there is a Carclew Range,
called after the Bonython estate in Cornwall, a
Bonython Bluff, arid a Bonython Creek. Ye
gods !
Archbishop Carr, of Melbourne, who is
now a “ bigoted teetotaller,” drank wine when he
came to Melbourne in ’B7, but the number of
pubs, in his diocese and the hugeness of the
people’s capacity for grog so appalled him that he
took the pledge from his chaplain. When the
Archbishop now entertains his clergy at dinner
there is no fluid on the table stronger than soda-
water.
J. T. Harcourfc, once M.L.A. for Rich-
mond, and for many years proprietor of Cremorne
Lunatic Asylum, Melbourne, died last week, aged
80. He was a very red-faced and pompous old
gentleman, of most benevolent instincts, a
Wesleyan by faith, and he did not at all like to be
reminded that his insane establishment was con-
ducted on the site of the once giddy Cremorne
Gardens.
That respectable ex-savage, King George
of Tonga, died on the 19th February, aged 90
years. He was a profoundly thick-heaih d, but, so
far as can be judged, a well-meaning bigot, and
head of the Free Church of Tonga. In a general
way he was a duplicate of George 111., of Britain,
more especially in his hog-like capacity for rush-
ing down a steep place into the sea with the
Scripture under his arm.
WOLFES SCHNAPPS
Answers the purpose effectually of arousing with-
out exciting the renal and vesicle organs when
sluggish. Buy whole bottles.
Avoid the harsh, irritating, griping compounds
so often sold as purgative medicine, and correct
the irregularities of the bowels by the use of
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills. They are invaluable as a
family medicine.
“General” Pierre Gustave Toutant Beau-
regard, of the old Confederate army, died last
week, aged 75. He was a small and beautiful
dude, and his real name was Toutant—which is
very like Toots—only he called himself Beau-
regard, because it sounded better. Ho was a
most accomplished engineer, and when the war
was over, he spent his old age in engineering an
enormous sweep in New Orleans.
Perhaps the shortest Australian Acting-
Governorship on record was that of the late Judge
Redmond Barry. In 1875, when Gov. Bowen
(Vic.) got 12 months’ leave, Chief Justice Stawell,
then in England, almost “ broke Ins neck ” to get
back to reign at Government House. Bowen,
however, left for England three days ere StaweH’s
arrival, and as senior puisne. Judge the Grandi-
sonian Barry was Acting-Governor for 72 hours.
Fred. Want, the well-known attorney, late
of Sydney, was leaving a theatre in Shaftesbury-
avenue, London, when a fellow made a grab at his
watch-chain and broke it. Leaving .his wife with
a friend, Want gave chase, followed his quarry
through a labyrinth of streets, ran him to earth in
the Seven Dials, gave him an unmerciful punch-
ing, and then handed him over to the police. By
anyone who knows the locality the performance
will be appreciated.
Little detective Lomax, so much to the
fore in the Victorian mace scandal enquiry, has
been ever reputed the closest, discreetest, most
Star-Chambersome, mysterious, mistake-avoiding
member of the Victorian force—in a word, just
the man to put his foot into his month at last and
fall heavily. Lomax’s best feat at Melbourne
G.P.O. was nobbling an ex-Postmaster-General
of a neighbouring province, and getting him fined
£2, with costs, for writing inside a newspaper to
save a penny.
Hogan, M.P. (N.S.W.), was, in earlier
life, a policeman. Soon after election he called at
the department of a Minister —who also had been
a “trap”—on “roads and bridges” business. He
sent in his name, but the Minister was attending
a Cabinet meeting, and Hogan cooled his heels in
the passage for two hours. At length, gaining
admission, he said : “Look here, ; what
the divil do you mane by lavin’ me all this time
stuck up agin the wall outside your dhure, like a
blessed proclamation ?”
In the R.C. portion of Morpeth (N.S.W.)
grave-yard is a gravestone inscribed : “Of your
charity pray for the soul of Patrick G ——, who
left for his home in 1890,” Paddy is still very
much alive. Years ago he feared he was about to
die, and having little faith in human nature trans-
acted all business relating to the funeral obsequies
even to ordering his coffin, which he still has in
his possession. Even now Paddy’s stentorian
voice may be heard a pitch above all the rest in
his responses at the local R.C. Church.
Millionaire Burdekin, M.P., the great
bricks-and-mortar man, of Sydney, anathematises
the ■ prospective N.S.W. income-tax —comically
enough, in the interests of the “ working classes.”
But Burdekin has many good points. He is a
most generous landlord, and, though he has hun-
dreds of tenants, never “sells off’’anybody for
rent. If a man gets too heavily into his debt,
Burdekin’s agent simply says : “Pay a week’s
rent and let us have the premises.” Nor does he
ever raise a tenant’s rent; he waits until a new
tenant comes to increase the rent to the current
rate. For which reasons no man ever born could
beat the millionaire at an election for East Syd-
ney, which contains most of the big Burdekin
estate.
Shiels’ fiery orations always seem to be
thrown off on the spur of the moment, but in
reality he wrote them out in advance —just as
G. 11. Greed writes his best oratorical efforts —and
learned them with such awful accuracy that if one
epithet were missed in the report of a three hours’
deliverance he always observed the mistake and
corrected it in the proof. Patterson also writes
out his speeches, but, unlike Shiels, he cannot
learn them, though he tries terribly bard. He
sends a copy to the papers in advance, and then
he climbs on the platform and delivers quite a
different speech, and snorts around afterwards
because the reports don’t agree. The written
oration is laboured and painfully accurate Eng-
lish, and the spoken one sounds like a Chinese
riot in Lilly Boulke-stleet, and yet Patterson
firmly believes the two are the same.
Note the significant omission from the
following extract (Legal Yeah Book of Austra-
lasia, 1892, under heading Supreme Court of
Victoria):
Chief Justice, George Higinbotham, &c.
Puisne Judges :
His Honor, Hartley Williams, &c.
His Honor, E. D. Holroyd, &c.
Their Honors, &0., &o.
One can see the very score on the proof-sheet with
which he deleted those wholly needless words —in
some cases, perhaps, pregnant with an unintended
irony—from before his name. Just now, however,
the Victorian Bench, in the matter of titles, com-
pares to great advantage with that of N.S.W.,
which boasts of three bebaubled personages.
Madden is sure to be offered the gaud. Will he
have the sense to refuse it ?
“ Charley” Taylor, President of the Mel-
bourne mace inquiry, is a large, fat person with a
bass voice. During the old red sandstone epoch
of his now jet black inonstaehios the “capting”
(amateur) was a democrat of the most aggressive
character, but, perhaps, finding this brand of
politics unacceptable to the aristocratic denizens
of Hawthorn, he veered around until he was
landed in the Assembly. He now advocates the
vote for Theft, and refers to The Bulletin as
“a highly disreputable foreign paper.” Why the
swashbuckler with the “restored ” fringe beneath
his nose should call an adjoining province a foreign
country while he howls for Imperial Federation
and swears to mangle the enemies of a small island
off the coast of France, Heaven only knows. Any-
how, The Bulletin feels proud when it hears
itself characterised as disreputable by a person
like Taylor ; to be praised by that right-thinking
blusterer would be tew mutch.
“Art is impossible under existing social
conditions, ’’—Walter Crank.
Mr. W. R. Russell, a nephew of the late
Mr. John Russell, of the once famous firm of
P. N. Russell & Co., of Sydney, and who has foi-
ls years managed the machinery department of
the big Adelaide firm of Harrold Bros., lias now
undertaken the management of the Sydney house
of Parke & Lacy.
GEORGE WILLIAM SOUTHERN.
(The man who lost his identity).
Editor Bulletin, —In your issue of the
18th February is a paragraph to the effect that
Premier Griffith subscribed .£25 to the Queens-
land Flood Relief Funl, an amount, you went on
to say, which bore an insignificant proportion to
the sum “ earned for him by Mr. Jodrell ” in con-
nection with the Robb case, in his absence at the
Federal Council in Hobart. Will you allow me
to say—(l) that Premier Griffith subscribed £lOO
to the Flood Fund immediately on his return to
Brisbane; and (2) that not one penny was earned
for him by Mr. Jodrell or anyone else'in respect
of the Robb case, inasmuch -as Premier Griffith
did not receive, and never intended to receive any
fees in connection with the arbitration case during
the time he was away from Queensland. —Your
obedient servant, Joshua T. Bell, Brisbane, 20th
Feb., 1893.
A Melbourne contributor to The Bulle-
tin lately compiled a book of Higinbothamiana,
and took it to a leading firm of booksellers in the
forlorn hope that they would accept it for publi-
cation. Let him tell his story : —“ I saw a ferret-
faced Scot who looked at the title, then at me,
and said shortly, ‘ Why Democrat?’ ‘Because,’
I explained, ‘ Higinbotham was a Democrat above
all from first to last.’ ‘ I don’t think so," returned
the bookseller. ‘Oh, don’t you?’ said I. ‘Cer-
tainly not!’ he snapped. I then explained that if
he published on political principles we could do no
business. He then took another tack. ‘Does Pro-
fessor Morris know you are doing this?’ he asked.
I explained that as all the material was drawn
from official sources, I had thought it utterly un-
necessary to consult any of the late Judge’s con-
nections. ‘Oh,’ said the bookseller, ‘before we
can even consider the MS. you will have to ask
tlie Professor’s permission ; he is such a good cus-
tomer that I would not dream of doing anything
to offend him. Besides, he is bringing out a
memoir himself.’ I then simply remarked, ‘Good-
day.’ You now know, if you didn’t know before,
that that firm publishes strictly on Tory prin-
ciples. What earthly hope can there be for Pro-
fessor Morris’ memoir now ? ”
“I am Entirely Cured.”
Mrs. J. Jones, Burwood Junction, who writes on
January 12, 1893 : —I have been a great sufferer
from general debility, extreme weakness, and
nearly entire loss of sight. I was one year and
five months in Maitland Hospital, also nine
months in Morecliff Hospital. 1 was discharged
from both of them by the visiting doctors as in-
curable. I then went to the Newcastle Hospital,
and on being examined by three doctors, they
told me my case was hopeless, and they could do
no good for me, advising me to go to Sydney. I
was not in a position to do so. I was then taken
home quite disheartened. As I had tried a bottle
of Clements Tonic before when I was suffering
from influenza, and being cured of the above com-
plaint before I bad finished the bottle, my hus-
band advised me to give Clements Tonic another
trial. I did so, and, wonderful to say, instead of
my case being incurable, by the time I had taken
seven bottles of Clements Tonic I became a new
being, and now can certify that I am entirely
cured of my complaint. I have frequently gone
down on my knees and thanked God for this
wonderful cure. I can recommend it to every-
body who is suffering, and intend to do so, as I
can either speak or write it.—Yours gratefully,
Mrs. J. J ones, Melvilie-street, Burwood Junction,
N.S.W. . 1-
Signed on behalf of my wife to certify to the
above.— John Jones.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, S3yclxxeyr.
-COO-
Messrs. Charlemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
gains rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
will without doubt establish itself very soon as
one of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
22 Jk 24 Clarcncc-sl reel,
SYDNEY.
wm
Ml
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
low'est rates. Complete Drill-
ing Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
ď
POLITICAL
POINTS
Ulcer, not Ulster.
M.L.A. —Maces Lying About —Mashing
.Lonsdale Adventuress —Making Lomax Angry.
“ Mr. Gladstone has spent his long life m
coming to the assistance of the strongest.”—
Mokkison Davidson.
A recent political retirement up North
has raised a popular belief that coccuhis indicus is
afflicted with a conscience.
The troubles of Labour are not so much
with individual employers as with syndicates and
trusts—bodiless, soulless, heartless.
Parsimony, alias “thrift,” can never in-
crease the sum of national wealth —the annua 1
“ turn-over ” either directly or indirectly.
lb is nearly certain that contractor Robb
will get nearly the whole huge amount claimed
by him from the Queensland Government.
The Robb ai’bitration case costs the
Queensland Treasury 355. per minute; and the
court sits five hours daily five days a week.
Premier Dibbs is said to have left an
electioneering agent behind him in the Murrum-
hidgee. He evidently anticipates an early disso-
lution.
Notice the “ominous silence” now pre-
served by the “democratic” Sydney Daix.y
Telegraph on payment of members and plural
voting.
“ Lord Monkswell,” lately spoken of as the
next Governor of N.S.W., “is a Radical Peer.”
Bah ! Mr. Charles Buggins is an aristocratic
nightman.
Melbourne Argus, the journalistic prop of
the Vic. Legislative Council: “ That irresponsible
and utterly wrongheaded body, the American
Congress.”
Will N.S.VV. Chief Justice Darley follow
the good example of Chief Justice Madden of
Victoria, and while acting as Governor only draw
his judicial pay?
Solicitor-General Byrne, Griffith’s trum-
peter-in-chief, intends to contest Cairns (N.Q.)
electorate. A capable labour man should be able
to beat him easily.
“ Paterfamilias ” writes in the Argus that
the Civil Service reductions must be proportionate
to families. The less children, the less money
from the taxpayer.
M‘Xlwraith and Unmack have been finally
chosen as the Coalition candidates for North
Brisbane. Tozer relies confidently on the plural
vote to carry Gympie.
ROBENT WILLIAM DUFF, M.P.
(The new Governor of N.S.W.)
-From London Paxon
Premier Griffith (Q.) draws his official
salary only as Chief Secretary, and not as
Attorney-General. He pockets the fees of the
latter. The artfulness of politics !
Rumoured that J. G. Drake, M.L.A., for-
merly of the Q. Opposition, will contest Euoggera
in the interests of the Coalition Government.
The Bulletin refuses to believe this.
The Dibbs Mi uisfcry threatens to stand
—from sheer grit, say its friends, from sheer
stupidity, shriek its enemies. But what is firmness
in your friend is obstinacy in your donkey.
S.A. labour prospects at the coming elec-
tion daily improve as the initial mistakes are cor-
rected. With ordinary luck, there will be ten
direct labour representatives elected in April.
One member of N.S. Wales Assembly,
“Colonel” Holborrow, is heard once a year and
no more. He annually asks : “ Will there be an
Easter encampment of volunteers this year ?”
The N.S.W. Labour-party’s proper course
is quite clear : to thwart the National Association
and the daily press, which support plural voting,
abolition of payment of members —and a dissolu-
tion.
The jaynil Dan O’Connor, ex-M.L.C.
(N.S.W.): “Oi have made many mistakes in me
loife, an’ if th’ Almighty allows me to five Oi will
make a good many more, plaze God.” Hopeful
ever.
“ The power of dismissing a Government
and dissolving a Parliament is not a power which
a hereditary monarch (or his representative) will
in the long run be able beneficially to exercise.” —
Bagehot.
Editor Bulletin, —The name of the titled
Charles Lilley scents not as attar of roses in the
nostrils of Queensland labour men. There is but
one step between love and hate, and that is—
apostacy.—C.R.
“ Those citizens whose means are only
sufficient for their support are exempted from
contributing towards the public expenses ; the
rest are bound to contribute proportionately to
their fortunes. ” —Robespierre.
Mr. Sargeant, M.P. (Vic.), got up in the
House, the other night, to express his utter abhor-
rence of the name Croajingolong, and to assert
his opinion that the county should be rechristened
and called after Prince George.
The S.A. public debt is £19,247,900, and
the yearly bill for interest £770,000 —whereof
public works return £025,000 annually. Only
£145,000 (or 9s. per head of population) has to be
made up out of general revenue.
Hume Black, Civil servant, £l4OO a year
brand, attends Q. Cabinet meetings and
advises as to the conduct of the elections.
The small fry, £l5O a year brand, are dismissed if
seen walking with a labour member.
Parkes, 1893 : “I supported the Jennings
Income-Tax proposals.” Parkes, 1886 (N.S.W.
Hansard, p. 3911): “The most unjust of all
taxes.” And two votes against it! O Squirm,
O Wriggle, thy name is Henry Sharkes.
Minister Copeland (N.S.W.) talks of “a
publican’s lawful avocation.” Dozens of people
blunder likewise. A publican’s vocation is to sell
liquor ; his avocation, or diversion from his lawful
calling, is usually in the direction of race-going.
Like lots of other big and stem men (in-
cluding the lion-tamer who was afraid of his wife),
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott has a soft spot. He has
obviously dreaded Crick ever since that merciless
individual slated him when last nominated for the
office.
kl No Government,” says M‘Millan, M.P.
(N.S.W.), “with the instincts of Englishmen
(M'Milhin is Scotch-Irish) would stand under the
conditions of the present Cabinet.” What’s the
matter with the instincts of Australians, or haven’t
Australians got any instincts?
Judge Harding, Q., in his valedictory
address to Judge Lilley: “He (Lilley) ivhen
ratted upon to assume the ermine did not grasp it
as a prise, but as the first step on that ladder by
the ascent of which he might serve his country
and make his name to be remembered and
honoured.”
The Workman : “ Workers, the fiscal
issue can be sunk. See how it is sunk by the
plutocracy and the press—at East Sydney, at South
Sydney, everywhere. And the workers can sink
and must sink this side issue in favour of others
. whose roots and filaments go down to the core of
the workers’ well-being. ”
Premier Patterson (Vic.) has followed his
new-carpet policy by ordering a lift up to his office
in the old Treasury. It will cost a cool thou. His
predecessor, Allan M‘Lean, who is lame and
walks with a stick, climbed the stairs daily for
two years without a murmur. Patterson evidently
thinks he has come to stay.
The Dibbs Government excuses itself
for not appointing labour members to N.S.W.
Upper House by saying that the names of all the
candidates for selection (including those_ of two
labour men) were put in a hat and the nine first
drawn were appointed. Unfortunately, the labour
names remained obstinately at the bottom.
It is related of a leading Melbourne man,
so far apparently of undoubted status and integrity,
that the other day he mentally passed in review all
his friends and acquaintances, and concluded that
they were all more or less rogues —not one of them
was worth trusting. This is pretty well how Lhe
Bulletin feels about the Australian politicians.
A Hindoo correspondent protests, in a
Sydney paper, against the proposed exclusion of
Indians from Australia. “They are,” he says,
“by no means low in intellectual or moral develop-
ment, which is evidenced by their magnificent and
extensive literature and scientific culture previous
to any European group civilised.” But then look
at their legs !
It is just this way : N.S. Wales, after 40
years’ misgovernment by the hungry gang whose
loud-resounding shrieks for office and plunder are
thrown off their empty chests, is without man-
hood suffrage, the bedrock of democracy, and
without municipal government, a privilege long
enjoyed by Victoria, Queensland, South Australia,
and Maoriland.
Says Premier Dibbs, referring to the
inmates of the Old Men’s Asylum at Parramatta:
“ Many of the men are practically duplicates in
appearance of several members of the Assembly,
and some of them have magnificent heads.” The
way Dibbs discriminates between the men who
are duplicates and the men who have magnificent
heads is significant.
It becomes plain to The Bullletin that
the idea of the N.S.W. Legislative Council, in
seeking to tack on to the Electoral Bill a clause
abolishing payment of members, is to render it
strategically impossible for the Government to
tentatively accept the measure of reform already
assented to by the Council — i.e., the reduction of
the briok-and-mortar vote to a maximum of two
votes a man.
FREQUENT POINTS OF ATTACK :
The stomach, the liver, and the bowels, Wolfe’s
Schnapps by its stimulative glow strengthens
these and so prevents hurt.
Governor Jersey, or his locum tenens , no
more dare dissolve N.S.W. Parliament without
the consent of his Ministers than he dare hang a
convicted murderer against their advice.
London Times sneers at Australian attempts
at retrenchment as only heralding new loans.
Canada and the Cape, it says, issue per cent,
loans, like Victoria and N.S.W. The Canadian
stock stands at 104, the Cape stock at 101, the
N.S.W. at 96, and the Victorian at 89, “which
figures represent the operation of laws as inex-
orable and as impersonal as those which govern
the barometer.”
It is necessary that the men ofJS.S.W.
should govern themselves by means of pure man-
hood suffrage; also that the various communities
of the country should govern themselves under a
local government system. To secure these half-
century-delayed ends, now within reach, the
people should be ready to temporarily endure even
a Government run by Messrs. Nero, Parkes, Alfred
Allen, Caligula, and John Davies.
Last year in N.S.W. the increase in lunacy,
178, was unprecedented. The largest previous
increase in one year was 128, and the average
increase for ten years past was only 91. In other
words, the people of N.S.W. have started to go
mad nearly twice as fast as they used to do.
Among all white races the Irish have the largest
lunacy record, and the Spaniards the lowest. The
Australians stand about half-way between the
two, but are steadily “progressing.”
Let not “the great N.S.W. Freetrade
party ” jibe at millionaire Burdekin in his income-
tax agony. To the great Freetrade party Burdekin
has been both father and mother. He has also
been its milch-cow, and has fed it and clothed it;
has nursed it when it was sick, and lent it clothes
and jewellery when it was going to walk abroad.
He has paid its election expenses, and for the
washing of its dirty linen, and has many a time
and oft taken the bailiffs out of its house.
The strict im-
partiality of the Vic-
torian Missing Mace
Enquiry can be esti-
mated from the re-
marks of chairman
Taylor to witness
Brodzky. Brodzky
had related the sub-
stance of a story told
to him by a detective
who, to the best of
witness’s belief was
“ a teetotaller, a re-
sponsible officer, and
one of the most in-
telligent in the force.”
“ And do you still
believe that state-
ment ?” asked Taylor,
implying that such
re fl ection s on the
“ honour ” of Parlia-
ment were necessarily
preposterous, ‘‘ I be-
lieve that the man
himself believed it,”
replied Brodzky. “ So
does every lunatic who
makes an erroneous
statement,” snorted
the chairman of the
Board. At this time
•the name of the detec-
tive had not been dis-
closed, so a party
unknown was assumed
to be a lunatic liar
in the interests of
truth and justice,
The Bulletin sup-
poses. By the way,
in the opinion of
Sergeant Lomax “it
was worth more than
a detective’s billet, or
the billet of'anybody else was worth, to meddle in
the matter ” of the missing mace.
The same old cablegram “ The Orange
men of Belfast are highly indignant at Mr. Glad-
stone’s Horne Rule Bill, and_ declare that should
it become law they will resist it until death. ’ it
is interesting to find the peaceful Irish Unionist—
the individual who howls in so mournful a key
about the insurrectionary men of Tipperary—thus
announcing that he will start a big civil war as
soon as his miserable little minorityJfor he is in a
minority even in Ulster itself!) ceases to be
uppermost.
According to the cable, “Mr. Holmes,”
whoever he may be, proposes that the Austra-
lian colonies should assign their Customs duties as
security for their public debts.” Somebody ought
to cable back to this innocent child of nature, and
urge him to go to bed. Who is Holmes? The
cable is always breaking out with a bald state-
ment to the effect that Mr. Smith, of England,
thinks Australia should do something, or Mr.
Jones, of Great Britain, is of opinion it ought not
to do something. Who are all these people
Under the heading, “ Australia’s Oppor-
tunity,” an Argus correspondent writes gleefully
of the results which may ensue from an American
anti-immigration law. The law once passed,
hundreds of thousands of Polish Jews, Italians,
and desirable beggars of all nationalities, would
flock to Australia every year, and “ in ten years
make it the most prosperous country in the world.
Therefore, the Argus man exhorts every reader
of that broad-minded journal to pray for Austra-
lia’s opportunity to spring forth like—well, like a.
maggot from the carcase of “ America’s blunder.
Henry Wrixon’s agitation for a Govern-
ment statue to the late Justice Higinbotham sets
one thinking of the time when Higinbotham was
officially deprived of ins right to rank as Acting-
Governor in posse. Wrixon was Attorney-General
in the Ministry that worked the gross job. Now,
we have a definite clue to Wrixon’s sentiments on
the vice-regal system. He considers, no doubt,
that the personal character and intellect which
unfit a man for gubernatorial functions, qualify
him for the unique honour of a statue erected by
grant from the national exchequer. Is the gilded
lawyer listening ?
The N.S. W. Ministers always defend land
alienation on the ground that every man likes to
own his own home. They mean his own house,
and land alienation makes that impossible to 99
per cent, of the'eommunity. But in their abortive
Income Tax Assessment Bill they made it cheaper
fora man to live in any house other than his own.
The owner of a £400" house they would tax .£2O
annually on the capital value, while if he let
his house for £4O, and hired another with the cash,
he would escape all direct taxation, unless his in-
come were over .£2OO, when he’d suffer to the
extent of 4d in the £ only.
Walking to business, smoke G N U N Darling.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad.,|p. 1.
The Chinese invasion continues, says a
Westralian paper. Twenty-six coolies were landed
at Fremantle from the s.s. Astralind : Mr. E.
Roberts, Yatheroo, one gardener, one cook ; Mr.
W. Strickland, Perth, one waiter ; Mr. E. Keane,
Perth, one cook and one general servant; Weld
Club, Perth, two general servants; Ah Hong,
greengrocer, &c., Fremantle, six gardeners ; See
Shing, greengrocer, &c., Fremantle, two gardeners;
See Sing Woh, greengrocer, &e., Fremantle, four
gardeners ; Ah Sue, greengrocer, &e., Fremantle,
three gardeners; Ah You & Co., greengrocers,
&c., Fremantle, four gardeners.
A great scandal has been caused in Ade-
laide by the gift of .£O5O by Government to Mrs.
T. K. Pater, widow of the late local P.M., who
had only been in the service for half-a-dozen
years, during the greater part of which time he
received £lOOO per annum, or about double the
sum made by him in private practice. His widow
has only one child, and is by no means destitute.
Retrenchment is the rule in every branch of the
Civil Service, and many a poor clerk has been
docked to make up the amount named. The gift
and the circumstances attaching to it will be
remembered against the Government at the polls.
There are seven platitudes infesting the
pages of Hansard which ought to be abolished.
(1) That “the time is not yet ripe;” (2) that
“valuable interests are at stake;” (3) that “I
have a painful (or sacred and solemn) duty to per-
form ; ” (4) that “ the Government has borrowed
this measure from the Opposition programme; ”
(5) that “ I (Parkes) have occupied a seat in this
House for 30 years;” (6) that “the occasion is
inopportune,” and (7) that “law’n’order must be
maintained.” If any member using any one of
these seven remarks could be promptly fined £lO
business would progress a lot faster in Australia.
Dear Bulletin, —An idea for the more
economical administration of elections. A man is
held to be a man (electorally considered) only
&
PUBLIC PROPERTY.
DEADBEAT (to pawnbroker) : “I want the lean of £5.”
PAWNBROKER : “What shecurity can you give, mine frout ?”
DEADBEAT : “Oh, I’ll make over to you my share in the Post Office,
and if you make it a tenner I’ll throw you in the Railways.”
within that area wherein his electorate is confined
when his voting power is based on manhood
alone. The property-owner, however, can select
his electorate. Now, in these cheap days of photo-
graphy, what is to prevent each elector having a
printed right supplied him—with his photo, affixed,
all voters to be compelled to produce these when
recording their votes, said rights to be impounded
till elections are over ? This would be a pre-
cautionary measure against duplication or personi-
fication of others.— Chas. Junor.
Young and old, short and tall, say G N tt N
Darlings the best of all.
Baker’s patent boundary-rider’s knife (W
Jas, Baker, cutler, &c., 3 Hunter-street, Sydney,
patentee) is an invention which must prove of the
utmost value to bushmen in general. It is a
strong and handy knife, fitted for a very wide
range of work. In the small sheath is a steel for
sharpening purposes, which convenience will be
much appreciated by the man who lives in lone-
some regions where the grindstone is not. In the
north-west especially one may travel many miles
without finding even a pebble, and under such
conditions the steel becomes an absolute necessity.
The price is moderate, and the knife is calculated
to outlast the owner by many years. For kan-
garoo hunters, and for skinning sheep and wild
animals, the combination of knife and steel will
be found invaluable.
At Waterloo you can buy G N U N Darlings.
A sound body and a contented mind are
necessary to perfect happiness. If you wish to
possess these, cleanse your blood with Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. It is perfectly safe to take, and is a
powerful blood-purifier.


for 800 7'5S
rrji'i^S
/j 2 year*
Lrn, //ART>
r s,, h-tyo "ly
ep
be yc^raJ-
s&&£*s£&■»
%
A*,
\
A-
V
htS
sew
% >
l^r/'
O*
y
It is expected that the Quean will bestow
a high distinction upon the new Governor
before he leaves to assume tho governor-
ship.
Nfvi) (jotferi;or - Jqhj flijd ijjftfyCnoajf)*
r iorkhmfo mo ot Id Juffe/
liyoufJftttjea lie ft
f .. frl beet) djtytifd poy a Ijaff ifo Juff er
1 J SJ. <***' '1 •¥% -
SHOET DRESS LEAGUE.
, The experiment initiated by 25 young ladies of
Nottingham, in forming a “ Short Drcss Leagne,''
the members of which pledged themselves to wear,
in wet or muddy weather, gowns ftfc least v 6iiu
from the ground, appears to be highly successful.
r hfoy)ANiy
„ * ai/pr rfonp*-?ty. &'/<*
t/edeyf !
' Tiiore was a display of masculine candour
fcdrdheaded business capacity, and chivalric
devotion to the fair sex at the meeting of the
prosdic Chicago Exhibition Commission
ye§.t?rdsy
£
V V..
, 'tyonid tell its
Story
rejected. , Mr. Dairies insisted th"*t tae
£liicf Justice’s name should not adorn the
iusUi .' • • • • of fSir
Frederick IVrley, “ done in mnti,’
to boforwarded to .the * Exhibition,
(»««<:.£««»-
__ . , tOXDOX, Fhb. 22.
Inncess Kamlam, niece ol ox-Queen
Huuipkalam, the deposed sovereign of,.
Hawaii, has sailed for America. She willf
proceed to New York to urge her protest
against annexation. Z
a he ?" Sli<i George to
» member of a deputation yeHerday morn.'
,Dg ' :*w though you wore, talking to
bSrt^ pofahiu with a hi * h «*»«*■
blowing. Pkrliamjnt has made me deaf, and
I cannot hear nowaday*.”
Tot one
Govet^
A
\ 4
\ y
> V
"c/ * V
• t '%
A p '8 93 tj St *P
h/cuf?y<\ (<ill *
CHIEFLY IN SYDNEY.


IiJiDLTUTION’ ] x
SALA.'iIK&.i
r Tiu QfSBQN.-
“ ’BeKf ( th€re'jj
cnnfition. To /
TcSlace vr«.y
Salary— '*
'BeNtIU '{-<* *
•a-seless, motion?
Qtut-e
■u.6€ le ss.°
Bent J'lhem
Knock 'it"
ofiliie
The
Mo-
ment
Mr. AkMYTAGK asked why Ida notice of
motion to reduce the salaries of Ministers
had been struck out of the notice-paper.
, 'Hic.SPKAKKU replied that the notice had
b'etni given with the intention of moving it
its oh amendment to the motion that the
House go into committee Of supply. AS
supply had, now closed the mdtkm had beeii
struck off tl)e paper, aa it was useless
Mr. Fitzgibbon
told tho Taylor Inquiry 1
Beard 1 to-day that it might have been batter
for him if he had practised at the Bar, J'
r
Scene
Country Hofei.
M.UflilVekcf»tmy
Wbrct and you a a%%.
3flrmaicl~ Vow. Nouroncler
call fo\k et j\bn o uraljl^
Member.
JIM
A minor was current that
th> mace, tired of a oa-
raer of dissipation and
disgusted at the ignominy
of being sat on by a
Parliamentary board, had surrendered itself to
and, repentant and chastened,
was anxious to return to the'dulldife of the Legislative Assembly,
_ T)cx\ Ly S ,
STRANGE CASE OF LOST 1
MEMORY.
Seu.AMV' Cilues— Polie.*-man. urjid
Q/Tv\ I f
Constable —I'you art a
former
S.<f— Vasi. fou rnA Urkeikti'
I lira 6 <£o "to d**
ag-Ainsfike present
P r -+-0"
(joV'erntne nu .
/v
/O'
V/
1.0. -
% JJ o .
/
I l\€L o
£Ji cx. cl s,tones 3UI o n.~tV<2—,
n- O'LojkUtv
C. ojWbin.at 1 o ia_ .
THE MISSING MACE.
INQUIRY AS TO ITS LOSS.
CHAIRMAN OT (to Editoi-
W — crv ifl 6 -
Sc "told fo^
ck'ho uTf \
\eUcve 3i I\iiu ?**
fOITOR„J 1 di cl .' ,*
CH fjlflMßN —* 'PoxAi !
LD/TOR To CHRIRMRN_ -U/l|ea
5 cl giv i«, cL.
"t ja cCt ~t o (cl <x\<\r
Sforf at all ( Y“o u.
t> ftti cy&. cL t\_\i / vv ?
CHrirmrn.— Von
Eeiroß.J.' T'H Say' Tqclx l .
* f y'o h. & O n h Hj- \xx
orw«& iaoJ 1
,w
fi
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


o O D SPEC.
SAFE, PROFITABLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony Is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from £XO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1885), 300 PHt-st, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A
CLOUDED VISION
Is often a precedent to severe headaches,
dicates that the sufferer is deficient in
supply. Wolfe’s Schnapps gives tone
nerves.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
After dinner, smoko G N U N Darlings.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ai
It in-
nerve
to the
1., P- 1.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (George-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 Ihe full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address-Mr. .1. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*
Freetraders smoke G N U N Darlings.
ZK/OSZE^S
LIMB JUICE CORDIAL,
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
TH E BE S T DRINK FOR AL I*
Preparcd from the finest West Indian Lime
• Fruit.
Sold l>y nM Stoi'clit'cpcrs, etc.
General Agents :
JULES RENARD & CO..
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
A branch manager of a Melbourne bank
was recently told that, owing to bad times, his
services would be forthwith dispensed with. He
wrote to the directors saying he thought that after
20 years in the bank he was entitled to some con-
sideration. A reply came : “We run a bank, not
a charitable institution.” He has now resigned
his membership of the bogus Patriotic League,
and is daily expected to become an anarchist. As
Grant Allen says : “Hunger is a great teacher of
advanced political economy to men.”
A childless lady who wished
to adopt a baby lately advertised
in a Sydney evening paper:—“ Lady
wishes to adopt baby.” The clerk
who took the advt. said, “25.,
please! we have increased oureharge
for this sort of advertisement.”
Next day 13 answers were received,
and the same clerk, as he handed
them across the counter, remarked,
“ There will be as many more to-
morrow.” These 13 answers com-
prised 12 from women and one
from a man. This was written on
good paper in a good business
hand: “Re your advertisement,
will you kindly inform me as to
your terms and give me full particu-
lars, G.P.0.” One woman, signing
herself “Mrs.,” wrote ; “ Will yon
please call at No. , -street.”
Of the 11 remaining women six
signed themselves “ Mrs.,” three
“Miss,” and two signed in a
female Christian name; and the
11 letters had one common charac-
teristic —a desire expressed or im-
plied to get rid of an infant as soon
as possible. “lam a poor woman,
expect to be confined any moment,
and would like kind lady to take
my baby. If you will kindly reply
to Another : “I would like
to know if you would be willing
to adopt mine, it being a bright
little boy ; he is a healthy child, and
I would like to get someone to take
him. Trusting you will take him
and let me know as soon as possible.
P.S. —Urgent.” In no case was the
advertiser’s character, creed or social
position made a subject for con-
sideration. So much for parental
love. Four letters were perfumed,
four execrably written—apparently
by women who worked hard and
seldom wrote. In one instance the
handwriting might be a mere
child’s —a slow, laboured school-
hand. The letter was: “ I have
been seeking for someone to adopt
my baby. She is three months
old to-day. I should like someone
to adopt her for life. She is a very
good, healthy little thing. Please
oblige by replying directly.” One
application was peculiar : “I wish
to offer a thorough respectable baby-
girl to you by respectable parents.
I should wish to see you very much.
I await a reply. Call at once.
Parents and baby to be seen for
inspection.”
David Gaunson was supposed
to attend the mace -trial on behalf
of an engineer accused of abstract-
ing the bauble. When Brodzky
related the story he obtained from
Lomax, a circumstantial narrative
which, if true, quite established the
innocence of the engineer afore-
said, Gaunson chipped in with the
enquiry, “Was Mr. Brodzky sober?”
To the illegal mind this uncalled-
for suggestion seemed not to benefit
David Gaunson’s client any more
than the chairman’s assumption
that Lomax was mad. In fact, the
effect of legal training on both
Charles Taylor and David Gaun-
son, judging from their display in
this case, tempts one to suppose
that the next enquiry into Parliamentary scandal
might as well be conducted by unbiassed bottle-
gatherers,
# # •
The missing mace inquiry has already
brought two men to serious grief. Mr.
Maurice Brodzky, of Table Talk, first of all got
into much trouble with the committee (whose
chairman was good enough to refer to The
Bulletin as “a disreputable foreign paper”) by
refusing to give the name of the person who sup-
plied him with certain information which appeared
in his paper, and, after a bloodthirsty scene, was
fined .£2O. Then, being scared at the loss of his
monish, he suddenly caved in,- and indicated
Detective Lomax as his informant. In The
Bulletin’s opinion, Brodzky ought to have stood
his ground, like the Christian and Hebrew martyrs
who got their teeth pulled out in days of old,
1 a .her than go back on his informant, and either
paid his fine or else told the committee he would
see them darned first. Anyhow, he has lost a
glorious advertisement for his paper either way.
As for the detective, he will probably lose his
billet, if the “best people” can manage it, and
what this paper now wants to know is, whether
the curse of Deeming had anything to do with the
business? Did Lomax take any part in getting
up the case against that famous criminal?
• • «
One of the most impressive features of the
enquiry into the disappearance from the Victorian
Speaker’s-room of Matthew Davies’ gorgeous
silver Parliamentary mace was the bagnio-mistress
who dashed up to the chief entrance of Parliament
House in a giddy phaeton drawn by a pair of
bounding ponies, and waddled up the wide
steps with all the confidence of an old Parlia-
mentary hand—which, perhaps, she was. The
board’s eyes glistened, and they sat far back
when this mountain of buttercup embonpoint
appeared, and they vied with each other for the
pleasure of tenderly flipping a query into her large
salmon-coloured ears. “ There is decidedly NOT
any truth in the rumours that the mace was ever
in my house in Lonsdale-street. I never saw the
article in my house. [David Gaunson, appearing
d
pH I
fotr- (oul'ofa feiiiel' J
fa, fwtfj W -
ly«?. rja\po u,»^
fur the engineer, here went off into convulsed con-
tortions.] I saw a picture of it once in the ’Ome
News, and often wished to see the real mace, but
the rumours are NOT true.” Then a poor old
deaf charwoman was called, by way of contrast;
some more people who could not possibly know
anything were seriously questioned as to their
knowledge, and the enquiry went downstairs to
vote for retrenchment.
# * *
An amusing story is being retailed in
Adelaide about a very well-known politician, an
equally well-known lady, and a pear-tree which
readies up to a window.
• * *
Dear Bulletin, —Representing a local syn-
dicate of missing-worders, I am instructed to
enquire whether this imported London game is
played on a rational system, or whether it is
merely a mad, go-as-you-please entertainment.
You see, we appointed a board of learned men to
report on “ cupidity,” and the report is distinctly
unfavourable. The board is of opinion that
George Giffen couldn’t be cnpid on behalf, or in
the interests, of his young brother. The professor
in the chair went so far as to say that your miss-
ing word might as well have been “onions,” or
“bunions,” especially the latter. —Yours, _ Mel-
bourne. [This objection has something in it ;
still the - fact remains that 47 people named the
word, to say nothing of several successful and
very many unsuccessful competitors whose con-
tributions arrived too late, and will be returned,
less postage.]
A Sydney man won £'loo at 20 to I—laid
a month ago—that the new Governor of N.S.W.
would not be a commoner.
It would evidently pay the big ocean-line
steam-companies to hire a few titled people to
travel outwards from Australia by every steamer.
» * #
The action of Sydney Hospital Committee
in appointing as president the absent title-hunting
Dr. Ren wick (who would seem from this to be
hunting titles at both ends of the world at the
same time), instead of having for its chief execu-
tive officer a man on the spot, is most reprehen-
sible, especially considering the present abject
state of-the institution’s finances. Likewise, the
committee’s action in handing over a ,£3OOO or so
contract to the firm of one of its own members
without competition looks a very fishy proceeding.
And what can be said of the smother-it-up action
which led to .£7O, paid for the shorthand-reporting
of the secret enquiry re the doctors’ squabble, being
charged as “stationery?” We hear that the
records of that disgraceful row have been destroyed
in the interests of the medical profession.
# * •
A teacher of a Southern N.S.W. State-
school flogged the son of a German ex-soldier, who
appeared next day carrying a drawn sword, with
which he attempted murder. The athletic teacher
beat down the German’s guard with a long map-
hook, took the sword, demanded and 'received an
abject apology, and now has the blade as a trophy
in his drawing-room.
Governor Jersey takes back to England 2C
of the servants he brought out.
* # *
The other day in Sydney a very young
gentleman front the Nortli was taken by a friend
into Tattersall Adams’ new bar. Ho gave one
horrified look at the representations of undressed
womanhood all around, and bolted. “Look
here !” he said, when his friend overtook him, “if
they had that sort of thing up at B i old
J > the P.M., would jolly soon put a stop
to it!”
* * *
Out of the 50 and odd divorce-suits now
being heard in Sydney (N.S.W.), there is only one
case set down for titillating the palates of the
jury. Judge Windeyer will banquet solus on the
remainder. One couple, one divorce. The deser-
tion clause of the Act—absence for three years and
upwards—is being largely availed of. The public
ear is itching for the marvellously sensational
details of M‘Donald v. McDonald.
* * *
N.S.W. has at least one sensible and prac-
tical Quarter Sessions Judge. At Orange, the
other day, a man was indicted for having declared
that his illegitimate child was legitimate. He
said that he swore falsely in order to shield the
mother, and added : “ I’m ready to marry the girl
now.” The Court was adjourned for his" imme-
diate wedding, which was ceremoniously perpe-
trated in the gaoler’s house. The bridegroom was
then discharged, an old boot, scientifically ad-
ministered, helping to crown him with luck.
* * *
New : “So they were married, and lived
happily never after.”
* * #
The prevailing depression from a feminine
point of view : “The footpaths aren’t half as dirty
as they used to be. The men don’t seem to spit
so much ; I suppose they can’t afford it.”
» # •
The death of the bright and amiable Mrs.
Alexander Cameron, of Sydney, which took place
last week after a short illness, has much grieved
a wide circle of friends. The deceased lady, who
was not yet 30 years of age, was the daughter of
Mr. Kahlo, late XJ.S. Consul for N.S.W., and had
been married but a year or two.
# * *
At Manly (N.S. W.), in the summer time,
many young ladies go out very early in the morn-
ing to have a swim in the ocean. A clerical-
looking person in a black suit and a white choker
and a broad-brimmed soft hat also goes out early,
and wanders down to the beach with a book—pre-
sumable a work of pious meditation—in his hand,
and a big umbrella under his arm. Arrived at
the beach he sits down opposite the female con-
tingent in the surf, unfurls the volume on his
knee, opens the umbrella, and apparently plunges
into an ecstasy of holy thought. It has lately
been discovered, however, that there is a hole in
the umbrella, and that the godly man glares through
it with an opera-glass at the ladies in the. water.
Therefore he is hereby advised that the next time
a certain girl—aged 16, and apparently an object
of much interest to the meditative expounder-
goes down to bathe, her uncle and guardian in-
tends following behind, and when he gets within
range proposes to bounce a big rock off the
umbrella and afterwards to kick the preacher
with much violence.
# * *
Matrimony, though a “He,” is anything
but a “ dead-heat.” "
* * •
The Cloncurry (N.Q.) mailman being taken
ill with “ fever’n-ager,” his sweetheart (an Aus-
tralian bush girl) lovingly conveyed the mails over
a dry stage of 76 miles from water to water, riding
and leading a packhorse.
* * *
Angel whisper in Sydney Domain, at
night: “Don’t bite my lip while you’re chewin’
tobacker !”
# # •
The latest sensational Melbourne insolvent
chants the familiar lay of the wife taking all. As
Harry Edwards, the entomologist, used to remark,
the female spider is generally a size bigger than
the male.
• # »
A bachelor advertises in Melbourne for
lodgings with “no boarders, creaking stairs, or
daughters.” That’s all. And here, from the Age—•
O PINSTER, 40, Roman Catholic, free cottage,
suburbs, wishes introduction to elderly, sober
man, same religion, with £lOO capital, view matri-
mony and starting poultry-rearing.
Likewise —
T ADY, 38 (widow architect), domesticated, musical,
with property valued £6500, bank overdraft
£2OOO, wishes introduction gentleman pay overdraft
or interest, view matrimony.
• # *
“Freedom of contract” resulted in the
February criminal calender, at Adelaide, being
the largest on record. The influx of “free
labour ” from Broken Hill lias flooded S. A. with
criminals not further required in the mines.
“ Free labour” is tbe scum of the earth ; there is
no good in the man who will betray his own order.
# * #
On Tuesday, Feb. 21, Captain Lockyer, of
the steamer Innamincka, completed a service of
20 years with the Adelaide S.S. Co., during which
time he has carried 171,000 passengers absolutely
without mishap.
# * #
Dr. Win. Gilbee, of Melbourne, left by
will .£lOOO for an Australian historical picture for
the Victorian National Gallery. This sum has
now increased by interest to .£l4OO. The Gallery
trustees suggest an incident from Captain Cook’s
visit, or an episode in the Burke and Wills ex-
pedition, but purpose employing a London artist
to paint the picture in London!
* # #
Potts Point, in plain Mister Duff,
Has to awabow a bolus that’s tough.
THE VACANT SPACE.
I made ten guesses every week
(With each a suite of stamps),
And thought the thought I dared not speak—
“ Suppose the boss decamps
Wi. h all the pool—for really, now,
Such swindles have occurred —
O ! Shan’t we have a row I”
Now find the missing word.
He did not seize the bag and fly
With all the stamps we sent;
But, said, “ I’ll pay ‘ Cupidity ! ’ ”
{Stupidity he meant).
The finished sentence lost all force,
Its ending was absurd ;
Next time I'll back a—— horse —
You find the missing word.
Experience and cuteness go
For something when yon “ punt,”
But here’s a game where what you know
Will keep you from the front.
Cupidity ! Boss, we pro’est!
Let payment he deferred.
O, ! I wish I hadn’t guessed—
Now find the missing word.
A DISSATISFIED SAXON.


EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“ SPECTACLES s their Use, when Required,
mid how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should he
fead by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
462, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY - .
A bakers’ dispute is approaching a crisis in
Adelaide. The men want £2 10s. a week for 48
hours work ; the masters offer £2 for GO hours
work.
APPETITE IS RESTORED,
Sleep grows tranquil, nervous symptoms and un-
natural gloominess of mind gradually disappear
after using Wolfe’s Schnapps.
P EWELL'S
Al ti RAN PLATED WHEAT MEAL.
GNUN Darlings take the cake.
A good disinfectant, (i N IT N Darlings.
“Arrah, be aisy; the GNIT N Darling’s a
daisy.
At Newtown you can buy GNUN Darlings.
MAKE IT A POINT
To always take Wolfe’s Schnapps as a stimulant
in this weather. It will allay thirst and prevent
restlessness at eventide, lluy whole bottles.
Darlings GNU N —cost 3d. only.
Smoke 6NUN Darlings. Take no other.
ON a clear night,
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & CO,
(LIMITED),
Solo Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.’
Pianos by all Good Makciv.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’sßAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
An at one time popular N.S.W. cricketer,
who got ten years for over-reaching a bank, has*
it is said, been discharged, on the ground of hope-
less ill-health, after serving about a-third of the
time - . * *
There are now upwards of 700 solicitors
upon the roll inN.S.W., and 17 more have given
notice this term. The barristers number 120.
# * *
The' 44 rises ’ in the Bank of Victoria this
year total .£440 per annum. The iMOO goes to
managers, accountants and other bosses, while the
odd £4O is distributed among a fevy hundred
clerks. Truly, economy to the rich man is to reduce
his servant’s wage.
* * *
One Sydney bookseller has sold no less
than 750 copies of “ Teas of the D’Urbervilles.”
The question of nastiness lately raised in con-
nection with the book by certain of the pious
prurients, who ever revel in discussions of this sort,
has raised the Australian sale by leaps and bounds.
# * *
“The Times” recalls an episode that
occurred in a wealthy Sydney family. The trusted
and comely Bridget, who had served her mistress
faithfully for two years, gave a week’s notice.
“Very well, Bridget! I’ll write yon a good refer-
ence.” “1 don’t want one, mum!” “But,
Bridget, you will want it.” “No, muni, if they
ask me whoy Oi left me last place Oi’ll tell ’em
bekase the back stairs and kitchen flare wasn’t
put out to wash, and if they ask me whoy Oi left
you O’U ask them whoy their last maid left them.
You may look, mum, but Oi’min very high spirits
—Oi’m to be married, loike, this day wake.” The
family, who \vere all attached to Bridget, made
her many useful presents. The promising son of
the family went to see Bridget married, and he
did see her married —to himself.
* * *
Scene, a back-blocks Sunday-school. Good
old gentleman in frock-coat examining the class
in scriptural knowledge. Small girl, who had
been accidentally overlooked : “Please, Mr. ,
you haven’t asked me any question.” Good old
gentleman : “ Oh, I quite forgot you, ray little
girl. Well, how long was Moses in the wilder-
ness?” Little girl (scornfully): “Is that all?
Why, 40 days and 40 nights, of course. That’s up
against your duck-’house, ain’t it?”
» * *
The intolerance of Melbourne’s city police-
men will become unbearable to the public in about
another two years from now. The Melbourne
worm is a long time making up his mind to turn.
* # *
Englishmen resident in the autocratically-
ruled Dutch East Indies have, for years past, had
to put up with the most outrageous insults from
the officials. Last year, at Batavia, Douglas
Archibald, the phonograph-man, had some experi-
ence of Dutch rule. Staying at the same_ hotel
was a very sickly little Englishman, a resident,
whose inability to retaliate made him the constant
target for the Dutchmen’s dinner-table insults.
Next to him always sat a burly Hollander, who
was his especial torment, and who once actually
asked him in a loud tone —“ What is the most
insulting thing I can say to an Englishman?”
This was told to the phonograph-man, who got
the sick boarder to change seats with him next day.
The table was pretty well crowded when the
BOATLESS.
SHE: “What a tremendous swell Smith-Jones has become! He
wouldn’t think of wearing a pair of black leather boots now;
they must be tanned.”
He: “His tastes have not altered much; I remember when he wore
tanned feet.”
visitor took his chair, and before the first course
was half-through, amenities commenced by the
Dutchman making a most insulting observation to
the new-comer —who in about two minutes bestowed
on him a face like a badly-designed patchwork
quilt. The phonograph-man was hurried off to
prison, where he discovered that the Dutch don’t,
as he had hopefully imagined, fine an Englishman
for a common assault. i They kept him in gaol for
a month, and then, with his luggage, he was taken
off to a British-India boat, sent out of the country,
and charged “ never to coom pack no mores.”
» * #
We have received No. 2 of the Modern
Review, which, like No. 1, is pious and dirty, and
has in it a portrait of a clergyman—a saint witli a
blubbery mouth and a sinister, leary eye, well-
adapted for looking up dark lanes late at night.
The contents consist of articles on marriage,
maternity, cancer, diseases in the British army—
which seems, by the description, to be in a very
diseased condition, hypnotic suggestion—the
Modern Review is always more or less suggestive
—woman, and a shriek headed “ Women—don’t
despair.” Also, there is a black and gruesome
tale about the horrible cruelties practised on
children in England as revealed by the Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children—a tale
which makes one wonder at the gall of that Bull
who sends more missionaries to the heathen than
any other nation on this earth. In one of the
articles appears the statement that “ the subject
of sexual relationship is largely occupying the
public mind.’’ In this respect the Modern
Review is in the same position as the public mind.
# # #
We took another casual glance at the
apology column of Sydney Evening News last
week. This was what we found :
IF Mr. and Mrs. M y, and Mrs. S r, do not
' stop Slandering' Mjself and Wife, we will take
legal proceedings. (Signed) Mr. and Mrs. WRIGHT,
No. 4 Hard’s Buildings, op. Gloucester-st.
piAUTION,— To Mr. John M s, of Ferndale-st.,
W Enmore, and Mrs. J——n, of Philip-st., Waterloo,
and others. If they do not stop Slandering our de-
ceased sister, Julia Ruth Johnston, proceedings will
be at once taken. Signed, HENRY HOWELL, Mrs.
SAVAGE, Ferndale-st., Enmore.
"M'OTICE.—If Mesdames B—n, senior, and L n,
mother and daughter; and Messrs. C. B n,
junior, and J. C n, son and friend of above-men-
tioned Mrs. B n, senior, of st., Balmain, do
not apologise within 7 days from date, in the Balmain
papers, Observer and Leader, and Evening News,
for their illegal arrest, detention, and slanderous
accuiation of, and against our son, Lester Willie
Jackson, on the night of the 14th of October last,
1892, in the presence and hearing of a number of
witnesses, further proceedings will be taken in the
matter. Signed, this 20th day of February. ALFRED
L. W. JACKSON (father), EMMA JACKSON (mother),
No. 2G Palmer-st., Balmain.
PUBLIC NOTICE.—Mr. , of Plumpton, Rooty
Hill, having reported that he discharged my son
Peter for breaking, smashing, etc., I now deny the
report. I took him away from his service. A pig was
lost, which oostCapelle Bs., and he stopped ss. out of
Peter’s wage (which was ss. per week and keep) as
part payment for loss of pig. The whip which Peter
had was his own property.—Mrs. L. STARK, Plump-
ton, Feb. 20, 1893.
MR. HENRY B N, Ferry-road, Glebe Point, un-
less you apologise through the press for language
used by you to me at my own door last evening, legal
proceedings will be at once taken to make you prove
your words. —S. C. GREEN, 31 Ferry-road, Glebe Point.
1\ ,/TRS. B N, Ferry-road, Glebe Point, unless you
AL leave off scandalising my wife and self, steps will
be taken to make you prove your words. S. C. GREEN,
31 Ferry-road, Glebe Point.
IF Mrs. Kitson, of Excelsior-st., Concord, and her
friends, do not stop slandering me after this date,
I intend to take legal proceedings. —Mrs. lIANSELL.
A woman in it every time !
Carington as Lord
Chamberlain (re-
marks The Bulle-
tin’s London corres-
pondent) is going
upon exactly opposite
lines to those adopted
at Covernment
House, Sydney, and
is most seriously edit-
ing the invitation-lists
to functions at Buck-
ingham Palace, where
all kinds of jobbery
and back-door work
have long been rife.
He is drawing up by
degrees a new list in
which the names of
people of note in the
world of art and
letters appear, to the
exclusion of many
political nonentities
—some of them “colo-
nials.”
* # *
That precious
“half a battery of
horse artillery,’’which
the late squatter
Chirnside undertook
to maintain for the
defence of Victoria,
has passed hence like
all vanities. When
Chirnside died, he
left his heir to cash
up an annual sum in
a hopeless cause.
Then Chirnside fils,
turning his thoughts
to love instead of
war, began to jib at
the half-battery, and,
although the authori-
ties gazetted him a
“ captain ” as a last
resource, he objected
so strongly to defend-
ing his country any
further, that the half-
battery is about to go
into liquidation as it
were.
At the presentation to Gov. Jersey of a
farewell address from the church at Mossvale, it
was remarked by one of the speakers, that he
(the Governor) had alw.ays (winced a true Christian
character when necessary.”
• # * *-
Melbourne and suburban cemetery trustees
complain of large reductions in receipts. This,
we presume, may be accounted for by the recent
depression in real estate values.
Astronomer Ball mentions that if the news
of Waterloo had been telegraphed at once to the
star, A Centauri, it would not have arrived yet
though electricity travels several times round the
world in a second. There are other stars which
the telegraphed news of the Norman Conquest
would not yet have reached, and others again of
which the same may be said in regard to the
Crucifixion.
'# * •
In George - street, Sydney. A woman,
paralytically drunk, holds on to a lamp-post, and
listens to a blind man reading a chapter of the
Bible. “I ain’t (hie) got a blessed (hie) bean
left,” she snivelled, searching her pockets. A
benevolent old fellow, standing by, pleased to see
she evidently felt inclined to help the blind
reader, pressed a shilling into her hand. The story
ought to close with the woman dropping the
money into the blind man’s money-box, but it
doesn’t, for she pocketed the coin and made a zig-
zag line to the nearest whisky-mill.
5 # # ‘ r *
Mrs. Clara Parker,
of “Joe” Clarke famo,
has got news from Japan
of the death of her
brother, Mr. Nicholas.
A sensation of yore was
hi s wedding to Mrs.
Johnson, widow of a rich
Wan non squatter, who
could easily have been
his mother, but who
wanted him to be much
more than a son to
her. The natural trouble
arose, whereupon he was
pensioned off, and went
yachting. One of Mrs.
Johnson’s daughters was
the celebrated boy-girl,
who (it was said, for a
wager) frequented the
Block, in a boy’s hat
with croppy hair. She
unhappily died, after a
little success as an ama-
teur Katherine, in
“Katherine and Petru-
chio,” at the Bijou, and
Lady Gay Spanker at
Prahran Town Hall.
* # *
A N.S.W. State-
school catechism (over-
heard in playground):
Loser of pocket - knife
(loq.) to small boy—the
thief—“ You’ve got my
knife.” “ No, I haven’t.”
“Yes, you have.”
“ No, I haven’t.” “Say,
so help you God.” “So
help me God , I haven’t.”
“Say, upon your soul.”
‘ ‘'Pon my soul, I h a ven’t. ”
“Say, upon your hon-
our.” Disgustedly—
“ Here ! take your old
knife. ” Honour fetched
him, when God and his
soul were unavailing.
* * *
There is trouble
over the anaesthetics used
at Adelaide Hospital.
The committee say the
ether supplied by the
contractors is bad. The
contractors retort that the
young medicos who use
it are inexperienced, and
don’t look after their in-
halers. Cheerful for the
patients, anyhow.
At a Rundle-street, Adelaide, restaurant
the other day a parson was holding forth
to an aristocratic circle on the proverbial lazi-
ness and drunkenness of the working man and
had just belched out a tirade against Unionism,
when up walked M‘Naught, the “New
organiser, with : “Sir. I don’t know wraf you
but I can tell you what you are—you re a liar !
Tableau ! ~
“How can a country prosper when it is
full of absentees?”— Toby Ryan, M.P. (N.S.W.)
Ernest Whittakqr, resident twelve months
ago at 9 Hampton-street, Balmain, is requested to
communicate with his brother in England or with
the editor of The Bulletin.
“It is easy enough to commit a murder
without being found out. The difficulty lies in
committing the particular murder you want to
commit and then avoid detection.
Retrenchment on the absentee-owned
N.W. N.S.W. stations is being carried to a very
fine point. Most of the old-time popular managers
have been superseded by a new species, bred,
apparently, to the order of the shareholders and
matured in the strong-rooms of the Loan Co.’s
offices. In consequence, a day’s ride over the
dreary nor’-western plains is rendered more
depressing than ever by the now inevitable recep-
tion at the station ahead where the traveller will
be told that “there’s good picking for the horse
on the travelling stock route near Dingo Flat
or some such place where the station stock have
loafed for months. But one big Melbourne syndi-
cate have, in retrenching, hit a snag. Their vast
runs have for years past been under the general
control of a manager enjoying a fat salary who
had encouraged much land settlement on the Co. s
leased holdings. Recently a new manager came
up with a letter from the Co. enclosing to their old
servant many regret, high testimonials, a bonus
and -the sack. Taking the lot in the spirit it was
meant the ex-general manager handed over his
charge and proceeded to settle down at one home-
stead on secured land, telling his successor, when
asked for an explanation, that he was now going
to spell on his run. An investigation by the
now alarmed Board of Directors showed
that their late manager had, in his many transac-
tions with selectors, protected his employers from
all suspicion by having his name only inserted in
all mortgages and subsequent transfers, and as an
outcome of his zeal the Co. are now expecting to
have to pay him grazing-rates, whilst the manager
calmly waits for the Co. to open its mouth wide
enough to satisfy him. This card is said to be
held by several other hopelessly- involved run-
holders when the Loan Co.’s sci’ew is put on.
The Age loftily surmises that in the event
of Gladstone’s Irish Bill passing through the
House of Commons, the “Lords will reject it,
“and insist upon an appeal to the country.' ino
House of Lords has no power to insist upon any-
thing of the sort. If Gladstone commands a fair
majority for Home Rule, he will, Ihe Bulletin
surmises, eventually wait upon Queen Victona
and request that august lady to trot out the Royal
Prerogative, as she had to do, under protest, in
the case of the Abolition of Purchase (Army) Bill,
Anyway the idea that a combmation of dukes,
earls, and bishops can overrule a Government s
policy is quite exploded. They -oar pc sum!
measure.s and fooll w.tth leg slate
Pomt, but the throwing out of a cardinal Bill from
the blessed hereditary Chambersmerelya yam
display of oogus authority It w U never pass
the Lords ’ was the lory o o
Army Bill years aga But ,t passed overtheir
noble heads, when V R.-who became very pre-
eminent in grief at the time -was instructed to
provide the most expeditious means of transit.
*3^
swy/
A NEAT PRESCRIPTION.
SHE : “Your Reverence, I have three sons, and can do nothing
with them. There’s Larry, he’s idle and shiftless ; there’s
Peter, he’s dishonest and a liar ; and there’s Tom, he’s
thievish and unprincipled.”
HIS REVERENCE : “My good woman, as to Larry, make him, as,
soon as a strike comes, a special constable; as for Peter,
he’ll make a good free-labourer : and Tom, leave him alone
and he’ll become a successful mining speculator, in good
time !”
“If Charles Oowper saw Heaven’s gate
open, he couldn’t walk in straight. Lowe.
Five doctors, in a recent Liverpool (Eng.)
police-court case, refused to be sworn. The old
Italian proverb was “Five doctors, four infidels.'
Now there are five.
“Jawbone” Neild, Freetrader, invented
a new variety of obstruction last week in N.S.W,
Assembly, when he gave notice of motion that the
Chairman of Committees (Melville) “no longei
possesses the confidence of the House.” This idea
is capable of indefinite expansion. There is nr
reason, for instance, why Wall should not move
that the House has lost faith in Torpy, or why
Tonkin shouldn’t get up a long debate on a motion
that Hogan doesn’t possess the confidence of the
Assembly, or why somebody shouldn’t move a
vote of censure on'the Refreshment Committee, or
its whisky, or the Standing Orders Committee,
or the doorkeeper, or anybody. What Neild
doesn’t know about obstruction doesn’t amount to
much.


Sussex-street revels in G- N XJ N Darlings.
In the gloaming with my GNUN
BROOME’S:MUSIC
Full Music Size and Guaranteed Correct.
%
€
d
or
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No. SONGS.
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B,
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
569. Maggie Murphy’s Home.
58K The Reason Why, in B. 586 in C.
602. Ailec i Aroon, in E flat. 603 in P.
6XB. Remember now thy Creator.
619. Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
527. Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
564. American Lanoers (pop. melodies
571. March of the Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
580. An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
584. The country wedding Barn Dance
W. H. BROOME,
15 Holboen, London, E.O. ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock-
How to Learn “ The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is-
Est. 1815] TRADE supplied. [Est. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
8
«&•«***£
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
Lancet. jjSs
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C,
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
ORIGINAL and BEST TQNIC. OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED.
Captain Fisher, Stipendiary Magistrate, writes“ I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and I am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic properties.’*
Captain Reseltoh, J.P., Chairman Port Jackson Steamship Company, writes: —“For many years I have
used MARSHALLS TONIC NERVINE, and I can therefore personally testify to its many excellent strengthening
properties. 1 may say that 1 have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of the company, and always
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative, a
thing’ which even the robust sometimes require. I gladly subscribe my name to endorse the merits of a remedy like
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.”
J. M'Farlane, Esq., M.L.A., writes “ Having been a great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number of
years, and having used a number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks’ use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed for your
Tonic has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted.”
N.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
N.B.—MARSH ALL’ S TONIC NERVINE is warranted to be absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs.
On Sale Everywhere at Bs. and 3s, 6d. a Bottle.
MARSHATjI ■ BROS., Sole Manufacturers.
,v.
ď
B.MOONTCASTLE&SPHs
OIRCCTiIM PpRTERS’ & ■ MANOFACTORER3
* or H£T£ & CAPS
đ
d
OP HEAD
ď
đ
d
ď
đ
LAi
d
ď
rfCeNfsSs
S
as-
fDR (OQKSEY& (Q 5 [eLEBRATED jORDON HATS
Wherfordering number or hot wm IbetsufTicicnl
NEWTON & LAME,
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS OF OFFICE FURNITURE,
LIBRARY and OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER PILING CABINET S. HAT STANDS.
ENCLOSED WASHSTANDS. COPYING PRESSES, fcc.
a
FALL FRONT ! PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAK,
WALNUT, &C. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS AND STOOLS.
THE LARGEST and MOST VARIED STOCK in AUSTRALIA.
BOARD-ROOMS and OFFICES FITTED UP. DESIGNS and ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
NEWTON & LAMB,
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre
(Late the GARRICK) Castlereagh Street.
Solk Lessbb and Manager _ Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT !
| Mr. lIARKV KICK Alt 1»8~
And his Neiv Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
45 REALLY GREAT ARTISTS 45
New Sliding Roof, New Fernery, New Scenery, New
Wardrobe, Everything New. Million Prices, Dress Circle
and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is.; Family Circle, 6d.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
EVERY EVENING (at 7.45) EVERY EVENING
Arthur Jones and W. Barrett’s Famous Play,
“HOODMAN B LIN D.”
(By arrangement with J. 0. Williamson, Esq.)
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE: Hon. B. B. Moketon, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J, J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq.,
Acheson Overend, Esq., C.E.
SOLICITOR ; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS; Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. 1. —Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000;
rental value, .£1,500.
Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
oooo'
o o o o
d 0
H lO (M H
tM CM Vj-i t-M *
0000
NHrJHiO
5 of <£soo
10 of .£250
50 of .£lOO
100 of .£5O
100 of £25
125 of £2O
1.000 of .£lO
1.000 of £5
Total, <£105,000, no deduction of anv kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ■ register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win worth.
đ
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d.. steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d,
Anglos, best kind, 855., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free, J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Overture at 7.45. Carriages at 10.45.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
A. 0. Torr and Horace Mills’ Burlesque,
“BCi s s 353 s m erald a.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman
CRITERION THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucioault.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS !
of
Harry and Edward Paulton’s Modern Comedy,
“ KTIOBE.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
rpHEATRE ROYAL
Lessee Mr. S. Lazar.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, Amory Sullivan.
GREAT SUCCESS! GREAT SUCCESS!
Of a New and Sensational Drama,
“ L 1 g hi t A. head,”
Interpreted by Messrs. HOWE and BAKER’S Celebrated
Combination of Dramatic Artistes, including Mrs. Moly-
nbux, Miss Edith Blande, and Miss Flora Anstead.
Original Music by Samuel White.
SPLENDID SCENERY by ROBT. VAUGHAN.
Box Office now Open.
i
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
PANZA, Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
ASK FOR
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price—One Shilling.
Business Announcement.
JOHN LAWLEH & SONS,
608 GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
3- COTTAGE FURNISHED f Ol
£l9 19s. 6d.
4- HOUSE FURNISHED for £32
17s.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £5O
10-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO
DEPARTMENTS;
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY,
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS,
FURNISHING DRAPERY
and IRONMONGERY,
GLASSWARE and CHINA,
ELECTRO PLATED GOODS,
SPECIAL LINES IN EVERY
DEPARTMENT.
Suites in all colors and materials. Prices begin at
£7 10s.
We upholster our own Suites, and can give the
best value.
Early English Suites of 9 Articles, in Tapestry
and Plush, £lO 10s.
Suites are quite a speciality with us. We generally
have between 10 and 20 to select from, uphol-
stered in all the pretty patterns and styles
imaginable.
Our Occasional Suites are exceedingly pretty, and
of good value; they have a ready sale, and our
stock is always nice and fresh.
We have exceptionally good value in Walnut
Inlaid Cabinets and Sideboards and Occasional
Tables ; also, Bedroom Furniture.
In fact, we are enabled to do the best for our cus
tomers throughout, simply because we are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues
(Free by Post.)
Communicate freely, you will be promptly
answered.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
USE
IF
V
' V
d
&
Vr
&
r 5/2
i
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He : “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.’
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. Alexr. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
HAT IT IS MADE OF.
It is simply the most wonderful remedy the
world has ever seen for the immediate relief and
cure of rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful
diseases. Its remarkable action has mystified
doctors, delighted sufferers, and dispelled the
doubts of the most incredulous. Its virtues are
praised by thousands all over the land, who have
been rescued from years of suffering and torture
with every species of disease, and granted a new
lease of health and activity. When physicians
have certified to their inability to dire rheumatism,
neuralgia, and other very painful disorders, by
giving up their patients to the stubborn claims of
protracted disease and possible death itself, the
St. Jacobs Oil, by its unpretentious merit, has
gained in every instance yet greater fame from its
almost magical influence over these diseases. This
remedy has no uncertain or miraculous history;
its decided power resides in a peculiar volatile oil,
carefully distilled from thePiNUS Svlvestrxs, and
has been used and distributed for hundreds of
years by the inhabitants of the Black Forest, a
mountainous and densely-wooded region in Baden
and Wurtemburg, Germany. The introduction of
the St. Jacobs Oil into Australia has been attended
with the same distinguished results as have ever
characterised its employment in America and
Europe ; and its adoption as the national remedy
for rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful disease’s
is assured. When it is considered that this won-
derful pain-banisher and health-restorer can be
had at all drug-stores for such a small sum, it
appears as a matter of duty to every sufferer with
rheumatism, neuralgia, or kindred complaints to
seek the relief which St. Jacobs Oil cannot fail to
give. Try it and you will be convinced. It can
be obtained from all chemists and druggists.
Medical,
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
“Economy is a great revenue.”— Oiokro;
The triple alliance, Russia, Germany»
Italy, is virtually ended, while France and Italy
approach, and the three empires, Germany,
Austria, Russia, join hands. This is as it should
and must be.
Shearing-machines are not a perfect success
in Maoriland, as they clip the sheep too closely.
In Southland, during a slight frost on a recent
night, 4000 newly-shorn-sheep perished from cold,
owing to their skins being practically bare.
Gladstone’s weakest point is that he can’t
bear interruption. Disraeli was the only man who
could drive him to absolute frenzy. He used to
go to sleep when the G.O.M. was denouncing him,
or else he would yawn wearily, and rise up with a
bored, wooden expression and lounge out of the
House like a man lost in deep thought, and then
Gladstone would bound and prance with rage, and
heave _ adjectives and maledictions after his
departing enemy.
An Argus writer suggests that Australia
mop up the itinerant paupers now being excluded
from the U.S. “I appeal to the common-sense
of any old Australian, to say whether half-a-
million of people a year, doing exactly as the
early settlers did . . , would not in ten years
make Australia the most prosperous country in
the world,” But how are the imported paupers
going td play the land-grab game “exactly as the
early settlers did ? ” Will Tyson; or Wilson; or
Chirnside grant them a thousand acres of arable
land in exchange for mere residence, or for rum,
true religion and coloured blankets ?
Ministei? Lyne (N.S.W.) points out that
the late Parkes’ Government resumed land in one
year to the value of a million and a quarter sterl-
ing, which land doesn’t now yield the State even
one '"per cent, on the cost of resumption. At
Darling Harbour, =£loo,ooo was paid for land
which now produces annually .£7OO ; and .£29,000
was paid for land at Circular Quay which, as was
known at the time, could have been purchased a
few hours previously for £14,000. The Parkes
Government gave £275,000 for an old wharf at
Circular Quay, with the queerly coincidental
result that the shares held by Ms.P. supporting
[the Ministry instantly rose 100 per cent, in value


Yachtsmen ! Smoke G N U N Darlings.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Cures
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Indigestion
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Acidity, and
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Nervous
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Headache.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA -
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Cures
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA All Disorders
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA of the
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Digestive
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Functions.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA The Best
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Aperient
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA for Ladies,
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Infants,
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA And
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA nvalids.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA All Chemists;
Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
KRUSE*S INSECTICIDE Summer Months.
KRUSE‘B INSECTICIDE Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Preserves Purs from
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Cleanses
Domestic Pets
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE of Parasites.
ENERGY, AMBITION,
Cheerfulness, Strength,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
and Perfect Health,
May be secured by all who follow the example
of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. a6j igth
St., Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A.
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
READ THIS STATEMENT:
“ Every spring for years I have had intolerabla
headaches, and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and paid. My
druggist bad known ine from childhood and
X
advised me to take, early in the spring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I commenced using it in March, and
have not had. Since then, the first Symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, and Iperform
my daily duties with a cheerfulness and energy
that surprises myself. I take pleasure in telling
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use.”— Lizzie \V.
De Veau, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
£49,460 worth for JBI.
Column.
[?]
846 Maequarie-street North, Sydney*
Ist March, 1893.
My Dear Moouablnda
The sale of “effects” at Sydney Government
House last week was said to be a most successful
auction— everything fetched almost its full value.
Another of tlie many advantages of being a
Governor —vice regal cast-off chairs and tables
have more virtue for some people than the brand-
new articles fresh from the—er—Chinaman’s.
Apropos, I haven’t heard of any unthinking bids
at the Jersey sale, so that the Loftus silver tea-
pot is still the only dismal warning to the extra-
enthusiastic bidder at a sacrifice of vice-regal
house-gods.
After all the exciting rumours of Lord This and
That, with the further certain contingency of
Lady This or That, the end is plain Mr. and Mrs.
Duff! to “ govern ” N.S. Wales in place of the
Earl and Countess of Jersey. The “ Right Hon.
R. W. Duff, P.C.,’’ is certainly quite imposing
enough for death-warrants and so on, but conver-
sationally there will be no resource save a weary
iteration of “ Yerexcellency.” I wonder how a
Society thickly peppered with brand - new,
specially-manufactured “Sirs” and “Ladies”
will like the idea of worshipping at the shrine of
His Excellency Mr. Duff? “ Thank you, Missus
Duff,” says Lady De Pigsfoot, of Botany Bay, at
Govingment ’Ouse reception. “ Oh, don’t
mention it, your ladyship,” replies plain Mrs.
Duff, with deep, but wasted sarcasm.
Are hereditary titles shying at Australian
offices and emoluments? In N.S.W. the two
leading official positions are held by Misters, with
plain “Mrs.” to lead society in consequence.
Mrs. Duff and Mrs. Bowden-Smith are the local
social arbitresses awhile, right over the heads of
Lady Blank , and Lady So-and-so —proving the
value, of “colonial” titles even “within the
colony ! ”
No more enthusiastic audience ever assembled
than tiiat which greeted Gov. and Lady Jersey at
the farewell tendered them by the Sydney Boys’
Brigade, when Premier Dibbs formally handed
over the title-deeds of a site for the erection of a
much-needed lodging-house for boys. Lady
Jersey had a splendid reception and was given the
most attention—which speaks volumes for the in-
herent chivalry of the untaught little beings who
turned the affair into an election meeting when
the gentlemen were trying to speak. Her lady-
ship (livelier dressing than plain black and white
would have better adorned the occasion—boys are
notorious worshippers of lively clothing) made a
very neat speech. One really funny incident
occurred. A man was sitting down with his hat
tn. “Take yer ’at off !” shrieked a chorus of
little champions of etiquette. The victim took it
off reluctantly, revealing a very bald head, “ Oh,
Lord, put yer ’at on again ! ” shrieked the merci-
less Brigade.
Lady Jersey’s farewell “mob” reception in
Sydney Government House Gardens on Monday
was an omnibus function, ranging from Paris
frocking to a poor old lady with bare and soiled
hands, a shabby tartan skirt and a scrunched
bonnet, who seemed to me to be like the shade of
some forgotten ancestress of Potts Point appearing
in an “as I was so you won’t be ” sort of spirit.
Lady Jersey, supported by the Governor, stood
to her guns near the inner garden gate, and wore
a mottled bluish silk, with lines of pink flowers,
and trimmed with blue silk and cream lace, bonnet
of gold, galon lace and flowers. Her eldest
daughter sported blue French foule, with epau-
lette collar of white guipure lace, and a wide white
gauze hat.
Unquestionably the most modish “all together”
was the dress worn by Mrs. Burdekin—a black-
striped silk grenadine with sleeves of striped black
and green dotted with gold beads ; Empire sash
tied in the front, of black satin designed in red and
green wheat-ears; Paris hat of green velvet
trimmed with black ribbon and feathers. Mrs.
(Mayoress) Manning wore a very imposing turn-
out of black satin brocaded in violet and made
with huge puff sleeves, of violet velvet; small
bonnet cn suite with touches of green. Miss Bur-
dett-Smith wore black spotted grenadine and
black jet; picture hat smothered with black
feathers. Mrs. Pilcher wore black designed in
grey with zouave of white lace. Pretty Miss Pil-
cher looked very up-to-date in a Russian blouse of
blue spotted in white, jam-pot hat of green velvet
trimmed with crimson roses. Mrs. G. R. Dibbs
wore black satin with a lace visite, and pink rosea
in her bonnet; Miss Dibbs, green figured
pongee with cream silk vest; Miss Williamson
wore pink and green fould very effectively cut,
topped off by a Frenchy floral hat —in fact, the
dresses were gayer than the proceedings, which
were rather sad owing to there being no music to
engender Dutch conversation, as it were. Indeed,
the only amusing thing was the farm-yard-at-
feeding-time rush for the tea-tables set out on the
verandah. A lot of people were there —and a lot
of people did not attend. You see, the Jerseys
wer e going; they had not just come. And so it
was at the banquet to Gov, Jersey.
At the citizens’ farewell dinner, the Town Hall
was tricked out v.cli palms and flags. The cross
(or disciples’) tab! u , occupied by the notabilities,
were especially festive florally. The attendance was-
very good, although one or two clubs had dined
His Excellency beforehand and the Union was to
entertain him next evening. There was a good
muster of femininity up aloft. If only the great
organ hadn’t been played all through, as if the gifted
Wbgand wanted to hide a thunderstorm, the
farewell dinner to Lord Jersey would have been
charmingly stage-managed.
Mayoress Manning entertained a party of ladies
in the Northern gallery, including Lady Jersey
who looked very tired (it was in execrable taste
to force a speech from her in such a place),
and wore a gown of bright yellow satin brocade,
with folded bodice, berthe of cream lace, and
magnificent diamonds that glittered like stars.
Lady Margaret Villiers —seen in public for the
first time with her hair “done up” wore pink
silk with big Empire sleeves; berthe of pink
chiffon, and* like her mother, carried a beautiful
posy. Mrs, Manning wore white satin, covered
with black lace —full sleeves of black velvet;
diamond ornaments. Mrs. Martin (wearing
snappy diamonds), Mrs. Dibbs, Mrs. Burdekin
and Mrs. Frank Suttor wore black. Miss Mary
Martin relieved her black gown with yellow and
sunflowers ; Mrs. (Colonel) Mackenzie contrasted
black and green. The only odd dress I saw was a
bright red gaberdine-y gown, which made the
wearer look dreadfully like a stick of sealing-wax.
When the banquet was over, Mrs. Manning held
a small farewell reception to Lady Jersey, who
must indeed have been delighted with the oppor-
tunity to squeeze another hundred fists, after
spending the best part of the afternoon in pump-
handling the madding crowd.
The (theatrically) best - liked of Australian
Governors is the braw Kinlore, who makes him-
self tremendously agreeable at a show. He doesn’t
sit bolt upright, staring at the drop for fear he
will have to bow to somebody, but sends wreathed
smiles all around, and in the Intervals chats
freely and pleasantly—he even leaves the sacred
box to do it ! Consequently, V.R. night in Ade-
laide attracts the whole Government Ouse crowd
to the play, just to be seen hobnobbing with the
Governor in a public place. Gov. Kintore, in
fact, thoroughly pervades a theatre when once he
gets there.
I don’t know whether the Huffs will “do like-
wise,” but whenever the Jerseys patronised a
Sydney theatre most of the “ best people ” stayed
away. A V.R. circle in recent times sported more
cheap silk, over-perfuming, and hair-oil than any
other ten circles on ordinary occasions. I have
often had an idea that His Ex. bought up the
whole horseshoe and distributed the tickets every-
where so as to have to avoid the possibility of
having to know anybody on these frequent
occasions.
The election of Mrs. Lawson—mother of the
talented Henry Lawson, whom I always think of
as the Australian Burns —to Sydney School of
Arts committee (an aggregate of misogynists), is
hailed by the she-suffragists as another chance for
lovely woman to publicly assert herself. But, from
my standpoint, the fewer opportunities she gets
the better for her ultimate chance, if I may speak
paradoxically. The unkindest thing men can do,
it seems to me (I’ve just heard about the doings
and undoings of theN.S.W, ladies’ Chicago lair
Committee), is to give the dear souls the reins,
and then sit back and watch the fun.
A Sydney penlady, after asserting that women’s
meetings are as well-organised and as methodically
conducted and as free from devious wanderings as
men’s, draws attention to the well-known don’t-
oare-a-rap spirit of the average woman, even upon
questions relating to her own welfare. During
the local School of Arts excitement, despite
urgent invitations per circular, only 20 women
presented themselves to vote their sister in.
Which is quite in accord with all one’s ideas of
Woman, who is never remarkable for comradeship
except there’s a man in it. She is always ready
to talk nineteen to the dozen, but really does not
in such matters care a straw who is in or out, so
long as her new curling-pins work properly, and
her baby looks quaint in a Greenaway cap. She
is built like that proverbially. If women were all
creatures of big brains and small hearts—full of
logic, but empty of love (love and logic can never
go together, for there’s no logic in love)—well, it
wouldn’t take long before the world was to be let.
To put it straight, “Woman doesn’t want to
advance her sex”—she wants to advance the other
sex, and I don’t blame her. You naturally get
up more enthusiasm over the side which treats
you best—which gives you a seat in crowded
vehicles instead of spreading out skirts and
umbrellas and glaring at you as if you had horns ;
which adores you sometimes to supporting-point
and is generally agreeable, and which admires
your new hat without trying to see whether it
isn’t last year’s bonnet masquerading in a new
feather. I say it honestly and reverently—true
women hate one another like poison. However,
the fact is not at all discreditable. It’s only
another aspect of professional jealousy.
One word of advice to people about to buy frocks.
Plaid will have a good run this season, and the
N.S. W. girl who wants to cut a dash will hunt up
the Duff tartan if she intends to lather her gown
with violent checks. But the difficulty is to find
the tartan. I have already been shown two that
were “positively the Duff,” altho’ they were as
different from each other as tartans well could be.
By the way, the trouble about the bust of the
N.S.W. Chief Justice has bowled a certain lady
out in a lovely little diplomatlsm. The bust, she
said, was not despatched to familiarise the world
with the Chief Justice (who, the lawyers all say,
hasn’t a brain to match his Roman brow), but “as
an example of an Australian lady’s handiwork.
But as the lady who perpetrated it is only recently
from ’Ome, the spirit of George Washington evi-
dently deserted the ladies’ committee in a very
tight place.
Sydney Women’s College doesn’t seem to be
quite the one thing femininely needful. It is two
years since the fuss began, and the result is eight
students. Perhaps, however, when the College
building is up there will be a bigger rush, because
it would be far more interesting to cultivate your
mind in the “’Varsity” area than in a mere
furnished house near the tram-line. For one
thing, the University grounds are an excellent
place to show off a red umbrella. And then
there are the he-students, who are too remote
from the present Women’s College.
The recent shocking neglect of a dying Sydney
servant-girl was certainly one against the employ-
ing class, but there are balancing instances. A
medico was about to administer chloroform to a
lady before performing a critical operation, the
other day, and before taking the drug she asked if
her little children were safe with the maid. A
nurse was dispatched to see, and returned with the
news that both babies were playing in the street,
and that Miss Gwendoline O’Regan had just gone
for a music-lesson !
In vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
Innes’ Boar’s Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar s Head
brand comprises wines of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, muscats, hocks, and others too
numerous to specify.
There is an offioially-unauthenticated rumour of
the madness of a Gaiety songstress —the Marquis
of Queensberry admired her very and
travelled per same boat to Australia. She is said
to be now in Colney Hatch with straws in her
hair. Which recalls the fact that the great
warbler in question was never characterised by a
strictly normal deportment—although when an
actress is the case in point you never quite know
how much is in the method. At a theatrical picnic
down Sydney harbour ehe once turned up in a
trailing black velvet robe looped high on one side,
her hair hanging loose and skewered with a big
dagger, and her eye in a hne frenzy rolling, but
everybody thought it was j ust for effect. Gaiety
girls are so addicted to that. For instance, one
pretty girl came down to the Lyceum the other
evening with a parrot perched on her shoulder.
“I can’t get it off—pretty cocky,” she said to the
manager, “it stuck on all the way down the
street.”
When you aren’t quite as facially fascinating as
Adonis, and your wife can’t give points to Venus
—put up in your hall by way of foil a pair of
villainously ugly South Sea Island gods. This
prescription, which I find practically adopted by
a very eminent personage, can be strongly recom-
mended.
A Queensland politician who (outside his pro-
vince) is a man of flattering repute, still suffers
severely from the effects of having burst through
the roof of a room occupied by three Hebes—one
of whom received him with a blow on the head
from a leaden-backed hair-brush.
The true motive of the average philanthropist
comes out beautifully in the conscientiously “ cor-
rected ” Sydney subscription-lists for the poor
washed-put Bananalanders : “Erratum: for Miss
Snooks—one guinea—read Miss Nooks — one
guinea. For Mr. Asterisk —one guinea—read the
Rev. Dr. Asterisk—one guinea.” Picture the
calculating charity that insists upon a correction
if its middle name isn’t properly spelt! Why it
isn’t charity at all—it’s simply cheap advertising.
From Messrs. W. H. Paling & Co. I have
received, in a chastened spirit, that classic and
popular melody, “I’ve chucked up my Push for
the Donah.” Every copy contains a Sydney and
a Melbourne version. In the one, the lady is met
at Chowder—in the other, down the Bay, which
is the grand difference in the poetry of the thing.
Simple minds which essay the song will want the
help of a thieves* dictionary before singing it with
due empressement.
A very smartly-dressed crowd, headed by Lord
Jersey and his eldest son, greeted Miss Maud
Fitzstubbs (Mrs. Harry Woods) on the occasion
of her benefit concert in York-street Hall, last
Saturday. The stage was decorated with potted
palms, and all the performers were brightly
dressed—Mrs. Woods turning out very charmingly
in pink and silver. The Governor was entertained
during the interval by a society-solicitor, who
gave His Excellency a list of the best Japanese
hotels (let’s hope that was all) to soften the vice-
regal path through the land of umbrellas. As for
the music—the best items on a bill of thirteen
numbers were those with which was associated the
most easy and dexterous beneficiary.
Is there any other profession that carriesits
phraseology into private life as does the theatrical
profession '! In a Sydney draper’s shop, the other
day, a well-known actress was inspecting some
neckties. As it was rather dark at the counter
she said to the shopman ; “ If you wouldn’t mind
I’d like to see them from the front ! ” It was
strange she didn’t ask the shop-walker to light the
footlights instead.
Some people are most punctilious about having
things properly stated. The other day I received
an announcement of a coming marriage which ran,
“ Blank versus Dash. At St. So and So.’s,” &c.
Versus is very lovely.
I hear of a curate who was offered and accepted
a South Australian incumbency. On getting the
post he immediately wedded the star of his soul,
but on wiring the fact to his churchwardens in a
joyous outburst of confidence received a curt
reply stating that his marriage disqualified him,
as it was absolutely necessary the parson should
be single ! Thus do the deacons work in with the
Dorcases and keep the spiritual ball a-rolling.
Clergymen seem to be ticketed like a lot of goods
in a draper’s window! For instance, a recent
Sydney church scandal elicited the fact that if a
congregation pays, say, .£250 per annum for a
soul-saver, they’ve to take what’s given to them
by the bishop,—say, a damaged parson shaky on
one or two minor theologio points, or not well-
connected, and so on. But if they pay higher
they can choose their own prophet—have a trial of
his intonation and temper and make sure of his
ideas on a material hell. How funny !
Sad to see societies so full of hope and courage
and enthusiasm turn to utter listlessness when
once the titled impetus is gone. The last awful
example is the Queen’s Fund—it used to be the
“ Women’s Fund ’’—which held its last monthly
meeting without a title present, and only a hand-
ful of members. Should this continue, the
“ Queen’s ” Fund will have to go, despite the fact
that Lady Carington is still the president. When
a society which once was ultra-fashionable and
embarrassed even under the auspices of my Lady
This and That and the Other, has to hoist a plain
Missus into the chair, it won’t be long ere the
shutters go up with a bang.
The latest storyette about one of the prettiest
Gaiety girls of them all is that she and two ador-
ing Johnnies chased a frantic pussy through the
corridors of her hotel, and at last whacked it to
death in the bath-room—the yells of the wretched
cat, mingled with the laughter of its pursuers,
sounding so horrible that one or two women
fainted on hearing it. By the way, the spectacle
of a Gaiety girl committing a furious assault on a
tabby appears to me to have quite an allegorical
aspect.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The unblushing effrontery of the crowd
which lias been lately endeavouring to work
up a public agitation for a dissolution of
N.S.W. Parliament is a thing that ought to be
pre erved in spirits and exhibited in a museum.
Parkes took the chair at the meeting which de-
manded that the Governor should dissolve the
Assembly against the advice of the Cabinet, yet
that same Parkes, in his half-ton book, expressly
declares that the Governor has no power to do
anything of the kind ! Ex-Treasurer M‘Millan
made a furious speech demanding a dissolution,
and when the Governor refused to grant it blandly
remarked that his Ex. was quite right. M‘Millan
also introduced the deputation, and then tried to
run, and had to be brought back to see his own
game out. Reid and Wise, who helped on the
movement and promised to join the deputation,
never turned up at all. The whole crowd was
utterly ashamed of the business, and the “ Rise of
the People ” dropped dead right there and hasn’l
been heard of since.
Schey’s Eight. Hours Bill lapsed for want
of a proposer and seconder in the N.S.W. Legis-
lative Council.
Under N.S.W. Treasurer See’s Income-
tax Bill, if a man receives an income of .£2OO only
he escapes taxation; if just over .£2OO, he pays
4d. in the £on the excess. But if, with 25 others,
he draws £2OO yearly by means of corporate effort,
his income is taxed up to lOd. in the £. A tax on
co-operation.


MEDICAI..
CELEBRATED
Herr RASSMVSSEN’S
BLOOD and NERVE
MEDICAL.
REMEDIES.
A.lfaline Vitality Fills
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
0
DECERNEE
Sl a J
£
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—awarded—
GOLD MEDAL!
SIDNEY and PARIS.
&S- CURED 100,000.
A.P
%
0
4
m
m
¥M
f
m
O
PRESENTEOTo
*
'Mm
H.R Rasmussen
Esq
o-
m
o
BOTANIST
OS
2
oAsaTOKEN ofCRATITUDEc Sj
From NINE OF HIS PATIENTS ™
Having Restored Them^
u
©'f>zyF\s ..
ffft < <
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
A.LFALIKTE LOCK PILLS
(REGISTERED)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials.
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain ?”
Indisputable Evidence.
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and'Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory Declaration.
ITHOS. MU DIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
1, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmnssea’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
Also witnessed by A. Balt, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.—
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me un,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.—A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the P^ace.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifiei*.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
&nd Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6,
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CUKES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
.
V
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alfaline
Remedies.” Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
Paris and Sydney; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris ;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer & Proprietor
of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
which have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by tbe Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
ECerr Rasamnsaen’s Diploma.
arm
OfTEB'J
mm
D is 1^
c#;
INDUSTR ELS
EXPOSANTS
FT
fj)
wlmm w Hi mmn
2)eccuol ooJQ&JCanA /
AVEC LE TITHE DE
7> i
JSb/ im l l
i
JF;
m
««
Joyn
sttcwiciit
h-
PROTEGE LE TRAVAIL
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials ot
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
hrated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Austealian Stae.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Teuth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Teuth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Couetee (Q.).
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to be well
established.” —S.A. Registee, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.”— Evening
Jouenal, Adelaide.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Kass-
mussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your A.lfaline Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use.—Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and moustaches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s.
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Fills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
Alfaline Lock Fills
CUKES THE BLOOH.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6,
ALL PACKETS SENT IfNOKSEKVED.
“ Tlae Doctor.”
A. valuable Herbal Work, by Herr Rassmusskn, whioli contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Price, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register all letters containing money.
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
HERR
8®" Beware of Imitations ! _SEI
RASSMUSSEN’S GENUINE HERRAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS
FOLLOWS;
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEOROE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.


I Ks
'V
: j?-
'a
(T .1
r=ggy
For Colds, Coughs, Bronchitis, Sor«
throat, Influenza, and Incipient Con*
sumption, no remedy approaches
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
It has long been the most popular and suc-
cessful anodyne expectorant in Pharmacy,
and is everywhere recommended by the
Faculty. It soothes the inflamed membrane,
breaks up irritating mucus, allays coughing,
and induces repose. As a family emergency
medicine, Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral is the
standard
In Both Hemispheres
For the relief and cure of croup, whooping-
cough, sore throat, and all the pulmonary
troubles to which the young are so liable, it
is invaluable. No household is quite secure
without Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,
U. S. A. Sold by Druggists and Medicine Vendors
Prompt to act'Suretocure
CAN THUS BE
TRUE?
A
S
K
F
0
E
A
N
D
I
N
MACKs
D O U BL E -
S.
Q '
S'
T'
o.
N.
H
A
V
I
N
G
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss,Borax. Gum, Wax. &e.
PREVENTS : The Iron from scorching or sticking.
PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES : Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Agents: T. H. MA TE & Co., Ld., ALBURY:
YES! TKY IT AMD SEE!
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Brillian-
une, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very economical for general use; it is
the best softener and beautifier of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Sizes Ss. C</., 7 5.. and 10$. fio.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a pure and
fragrant toilet powder in three tints—white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is. and Vs. 6 d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, of
20, Hatton Garden, London.
ď
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ah° SKIM.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Be w York.
d
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest,do notafter
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes*
sion. The smallest and easiest to take. - Forty in a phial.
JI Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
ď
w
<^4
. NOURISHING.
, DELICIOUS.
MILK.;
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the {
richest and purest of milk, combined <
with the nutritious and digestible (
parts of wheat and malted barley. (
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,'
A'A no milk is to be added ; it is quickly '
and readily prepared for instant use '
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In•]
A'A fants. “ The composition of Malted (
Milk resembles that of human milk.’ (
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In- j
A*A valids, surpasses all other light diets. (
Being most nutritious and easily (
assimilated, it is constantly pres- (
cribed by the Medical Profession (
in England and America. “ Very (
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Makes life more bearable physically, exerts a
cheering influence which the aged and delicate
specially require.
♦
♦
PUREST.
SAFEST.
BEST.
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS,- DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”—Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
m
V^ClondonDepotW
RyUndßoad
'WPNmM
v....
FOR ITCHING ECZEMA,
R 0 UGH NESS &: SKIN IRRITATION
SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
iH
mm
I no o* 11 London,Paris
ROADrj~> LONDON.N.W.cX:
For Toilet, Nurser^
A SANITARY, SOUUBIiU BOSK.
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes -in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN
BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
Agrees with the most
delicate persons.
HAS THE LARGEST SALE OF ANY SAUCE IN THE WORLD.
Simply Delicious with
STEAKS, CHOPS, COLD MEAT, FISH,
SOUP AND ENTREES,
Makes Cold Meat a Luxury.
THE PLAINEST VIANDS PALATABLE.
Blends admirably with all Gravies.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Tlie most delicious Sauce in the World.
Sold Retail toy all Grocers, &c.
Wholesale-TILLOCK & GO,. KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY,
Sole Proprietors— GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
w
zr
kS
&
GOODALL’S
CUSTARD
POWDER
Makes the Richest Custards
in a few minutes
WITHOUT EOOS.
The HOUSEWIFE’S BEST FRIEND.
Saves trouble, and is far more
economical than Eggs.
MAKES A VARIETY OF DAINTY DISHES.
Sold by all Grocers, -Stores, &c.
DELICIOUS
JELLIES
In a few minutes by using
fioodall’s Jelly Squares.
The Squares are complete in themselves,
and are sold in the following Flavours:-
LEMON, ORANGE, RASPBERRY.
STRAWBERRY. VANILLA, PINEAPPLE,
BLACK CURRANT and RED CURRANT.
WONDERFULLY HANDY,
EASILY MADE.
One trial will ensure their always
being kept in the house.
Sold in Boxes containing Half-Pints, Pints,
and Quarts, of all Grocers and Stores.
WHOLESALE—TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors:—
GOODALL, BACKHOUSE Sc CO., Leeds, England.
On the Flat.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Have you ever, when you went to see the races,
Taken notice of the people on the flat ?
Have you thought of more than “doubles,
“ wins,” and places ”
More than what the betting odds were quoted at.
Have vii'i mingled with the crowds and seen how
many
Were uue men who take advantage of the day
To annex an honest or dishonest penny?
Have you heard the “roll and sausage ” hawkers
say—
“ Come along an’ buy a real ol’ German ‘ Frank-
fort ; ’
Bear in mind, no common sav-e-loys is these,
Ye’re a-lookin’ at the dudes wot sell the right sort,
Any gent as tries ’ill find they are the cheese.
On the course we are the only firm wot ’as ’em j
All the others —we will lay ye ’alf a sov.
You ’ad better keep yer thripny-bits an’ pass ’em,
’Cause ye won’t know wot ye’ve been a-eatin’
.ov.”
Have you ever—just before the start of races—
Taken notice of the rush across the Flat,
When the jockeys ride around to trysting-places
Where their friends await a last selection at,
And the “baited hook” is cast for them that
swallow,
And the bookie holds the line and draws them
on ?
Have v«u joined the blind believing ones who
follow
To discover what the “ hook ” will bet upon ?
They may hear that “ Chatham ” is the horse to
get on,
And the crowd disperses quicker than it grew
As they scatter here and there to get a bet on,
And the bookies take them on at “ three to
two ?”
Have you smiled to see the sequel to such fishing
When the final struggle up the straight is done,
Have you wondered then what Chatham’s friends
are wishing
As the “Titan ” gallops home at twelve to one?
There is humour, there is pathos, at the races,
To be read upon the common people’s Flat ;
In the attitudes, the shouting, and the fac°s
Of the vendors there, you must be looking at.
What an independent style some have —and
clever —
In comparison to us who work for pay ;
You can easy understand that they could never
Have a master,, with their free, unlicensed way.
There are some who look so weary and dejected,
As these aimlessly keep moving through the
crush ;
There are others standing silent and
Scarcely noticed by the gay, excited “ push.”
Have you ever, when you went to see the races,
Taken notice of the vendors on the Flat ?
Have you thought of more than “ doubles,”
“wins” and “places,”
More than what the betting-odds wxre quoted
at ?
Melbourne.
EIFFA.
Since the Country Carried Sheep.
(FOR BULLETIN.)
We trucked the cows to Homebusb, saw the girls,
and started back,
Went West through Cunnamulla, and got on the
Eulo track,
Camped a while at Gonybibil—but, Lord ! you
wouldn’t know
It for the place where you and Mick were stock-
men long ago.
Young Merino bought the station, fenced the run
and built a “ shed,”
Sacked the stockmen, sold the cattle, and put on
sheep instead,
But he wasn’t built for Queensland; and every
blessed year
One hears of “labour troubles” when Merino
starts to shear.
There are ructions with the rouseabouts, and
shearers’ strikes galore !
The likes were never thought of in the cattle days
of vore.
And slowly, round small paddocks now, the
“sleeping lizards ” creep,
And Gonybibil’s beggared since the country carried
sheep.
Time was we had the horses up ere starlight waned
away,
The billy would be boiling by the breaking of the
day ;
And our horses—by “ Protection ’’—were aye in
decent nick,
When we rode up the’Bidgee where the clearskins
mustered thick.
They’ve built brush-yards (!) on Wild Horse
Creek, where in the morning’s hush
We’ve sat silent in the saddle, and listened for the
rush
Of the scrubbers-when we heard ’em, ’twas
“ wheel ’em if you can,”
While gidya, pine and mulga tried the nerve of
horse and man
The “mickies” that we’ve branded there! the colts
we had to ride !
In GonvbibiTs palmy days—before the old boss
died.
Could Yorkie Hawkins see his run, I guess his
ghost would weep,
For Gonybibil’s beggared since the country carried
sheep.
From sunrise until sunset through the summer
days we’d ride.
But stockyard rails were up and pegged, with
cattle safe inside,
When, ’twixt “the gloamin’ and the mirk,” we
heard the well-known note —
The peal of boisterous laughter—from the kooka-
burra’s throat.
Camped out beneath the starlit skies, the tree-tops
overhead,
A saddle for a pillow, and a blanket for a bed,
’Twas pleasant, mate, to listen to the soughing of
tli6 breeze
And learn the lilting lullabies which stirred the
mulga trees.
Our sleep was sound in those times, for the mus-
t’ring days were hard,
The morrows might be harder, with the branding
in the yard.
But did you see the station now! the men—and
mokes —they keep !
You’d own the place was beggared—since the
country carried sheep.
Warrego.
The Breaker.


TATTERSALL’S
KTewuaarket Hantiicap —Fleiuiugtou, March 4, 1893.
100,000 at 20 100,000
Australian Cup —Fleiuliigtou, March 7, 1803.
25,000 at 10 25,000
ONLY ADDRESS;
“ TATTEESIIi...
G/oGeo. Adams (O wner), Tatto*
1 sail’s Hotel fcOWClub Premia.
1 Pitt-Bt., Sydney, N.S.W,
S.EACH.
A
A
5. EACH
MON*
6®res»
p
St
Newmarket handicap.
March 4, 1893.
At 5 each iO.oeo At 5 each
First ... .. 1500
Second .. .. 500
Third .. .. 250
S. (d.) ’ .. .. 600
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
Other prizes see circulars.
State amount enclosed, and send two stamped-addressed
envelopes with application—one for receipt and the other
for result. Register your letters. Stamps will be received
it 5 per cent, exchange is added yvith full amount.
Address; GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street,
Sydney, N.S.VV. Printed circulars free.
*»* The only genuine one at 6 each in the colonies.
Q
mv
v T:
e
Is'the most perfect Emollient Milk for
THE SKXST
EYEH PRODUCE 0.
ttllfßSfe6§*i» CQPt»na B»rß*|B¥B te
«cps oe =>*- Weather. - -
Entirely removes and prevents all
roughness,' redness, sunburn;tan; a.
And preserves the THE SEIN fr'e® s gpc{| p I
1 ■---*■ exposure to the ...
' WIND, OB HABS. WATE®,
SIIN,
> More
lore efleotnally than any other preparation.
Itis delightfully Coo lino and Befrebhino if appli
the Pace dr Hands after being out in the Snv, Tennis.
playing. Yachting, &c. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Son. Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, la & 2s. 6d. Sole Makers;
M. BEEXHAM 4 SON, Chemists, Cheltenham. England .
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my rgmg(|w.|qr
nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity qf testing the trqth qf what I
fearlessly state,”
Because others have faiM |0 Q«f§ Ym i§ m
reason why yqu should continue to suffer. §ggd
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE gQT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT- WILL CURE I # '
MY, AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
it. a. hoot,
*B, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
B
RIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric,
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
mellick Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms.
Post free, 4d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Books, containing Upwards of 700
Designs, bound in One Volume, post fire, Is. 9d.
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
8326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, February 24, 1893.
r pENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8.
Bridge, Wallaga Lake, road Bermagui to Tilba
Tilba
Bridge, Moruya River, at Kiora
Bridge, Humbug Creek, road Condobolin to
Wagga Wagga
Alterations to Lift Walls, Public Works Offices,
Bridge Street
Construction of Engine House and Pump Well,
&c., Dubbo Water Supply. (Fresh tenders.)
Painting Buildings, Female Division, Hospital for
the Insane, Parramatta
Manufacture within the Colony of Ironwork for
Footway, Forbes Bridge
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22.
Bridge, Bogan River, at Stone Crossing, road
Cannonbar to Gerilambone
Wrought-iron Pipes, &c., for Crossing Bridge at
Nowra, for Nowra Water Supply
Bridge, Morton’s Creek, road Beeohwood to Ennis
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Faring’* ■ Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal-
lerawandL at Cooerwull.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge, Back'Greek, at Marsden-road, Marsden
to Lake Cowal
* WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
X49.4G0 worth for XI.
See Amusement)
Column.
—THE-
(§est filling ever gffered to the fiublic!
“ UNION ” !
FINANCIAL CONSULTATION
—oft—
The Australian Cup - 80,000 at Is each
Vfch MARCH, 1893.
The Champion Stakes 80,000 at 1 each
9th MARCH, 1893.
The Sydney Gold Cup 80,000 at 1 each
3rd APRIL, 1893.
Each 4000, as follows : *
I'irMt
Senouci _
Thinl
S. (d.) .»
N.-S. (d.) ..
l.MMI
r>oo
280
■joo
160
3 at 100 .. 300
6 at 50 .. .. 300
10 at 20 .. .. 200
40 at 10 400
40 at 5 200
Less 10 per cent.
Please state amount forwarded, and send two addressed
envelopes, with stamps enclosed (not adhered)—one to
send your ticket in, and the other for result. Stamps
will be accepted in payment for tickets, but one penny
stamp must be sent in addition for exchange on every
shillingworth.
PLEASE NOTE ! —The drawing will be under the
personal supervision of a committee of representative
commercial men of New South Wales, as a guarantee of
good faith.
We guarantee to pay 10 per cent, of nett profits to
the Trades arid Labour Councils. Read prospectus.
ADDRESS—“ TTTVrTQINr 7 ”
C/o D. E. COLTS, 8 Mercantile Chambers,
Castlereagh Street* SYDNEY.
ADAM BEDE
The Original Promoter.
Over SO Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN:
Newmarket Handicap— Plem., March 4
SYDNEY tIOLD CUE.
BIRTHDAY CUPi
10,000
at
10
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Address
** ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott*
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
KP" Programmes Sent on Application.
MONSTER
CASH
PRIZE
CONSULTATiO
CARE
landers’ Telegram Agency
Dean-st., Albury, N.S.W,
These are no bogus or bubble schemes,
but legitimate enterprises,
NOW OPEN SSt
đ
Missing* Word
Competition.
/"CONDUCTED on the same lines as those so successfully
_ carried on in England and America, with the excep-
tion that a Commission of One Penny will be deducted
from each answer sent in, and which amount will be
handed to the Treasurer of the Queensland Flood Relief
Fund, less expenses.
Send 1/-, or 13d. in stamps, register yOhr letter with the
missing word contained in it, yodr name and address,
ahd POST IT before 9th MARCH, 1893, to
The “KI-YA” and “TI-TA” INSTITUTE,
Box Park Street Post Office, SYDNEY.
The missing word has been placed in a sealed envelope,
and entrusted to the care of G. B. R. Jones, Esq., the
Well-known solicitor, Castlereagh-street, Sydney, and the
day after the competition closes, the packet will be opened
in his presence and a few members of Parliament, by Mr.
J. Macnamarra, the discoverer of “Ti-Ta.” The sentence:
It is reported that the Earl of Jersey
would have remained in Sydney if the
Premier had not started
All you have to do is to find the missing word, pur-
posely left out at the finish of above sentence.
5. EACH.
m
5. EACH
d
ď
7si
FOR HORSES CKKTXVST
on the
ROWLEY MILE at Hawkesbury, March 18.
5 each 4000 5 each
FIRST, 300 ; SECOND, 200 ; THIRD, 100; S. and N.S. to
divide equally 400. Less 10 per cent.
At the request of a large number of Subscribers, GALA
has decided to promote the above, which, as will be seen,
is For Horses Only, and is already largely subscribed to.
As the Drawing will take place as soon as filled, it is
requested that immediate application be made.
Address: “GALA,”c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
rp H E AUSTRALIA.
This Great Hotel is admitted to be without a rival In
Australia.
The maximum of comfort is secured at a very moderate
cost.
Terms, from Twelve Shillings and Sixpence (12s. 6d.)
per day, including baths and all meals.
Special arrangements made for permanent boarders.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
Miscellaneous.
JNEY/BY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
n*
The only thoroughly
tellable Remedy f w 1
COUGHS, COLDS
Bito.ytimis
AMD
tNf'LUENiJA
It can now be had of a |)
Chemist?, in 1?. and 2
bottles.
Sole Proprietor :
Ti H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street-, SYDNEY.
Jity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, 'Georsre
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers. Limited °
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Watei* Soap.
(BEST IN TllE WORLD.)
To be obtained from all Grocers and Store-
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
And NEWCASTLE.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM,
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS
Rive Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep,
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
Kill Scrub Co.’s
DE STRUCT ANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDOTEY.
t£t Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lairtana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of .T. L. Thompson, Esq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director-General
of Eorests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY
40 Miles from Sydney.
The First Section Comprising 1000 Acres,
subdivided into from
S TO 20 ACRES HORTICULTURAL BLOCKS
is now ready for Sale.
Five Years’ Terms. Torrens Tram.
Every Acre has a water right attached under the
provisions of the Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
£7 Per Acre Deposit.
Apply to the Manager, Mulgoa ■; or the Sydney Agents,
133 PITT STREET.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY.
THE TOWNSHIP.
Every Lot can now be Supplied with Water.
£25 PER LOT £25
with water rights attached under the provisions Of the
Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
Two Years' 1 Terms. Torrens Title
A Visit to the Irrigation Colony may he made in
■ONE DAY.
Sydney Agents: HARDIE and GORMAN,
133 PITT STREET.
GOLD! GOLD! Western Australian
Goldfields afford to Investors and others a certain
opportunity of recouping all recent losses. Information
can he obtained by applying to THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
MINING SYNDICATE, Salisbury Buildings, Bourke
Street West, MELBOUNRE.
ses Waiglockchel
Lily of IheVaH'J
ustuvto" 5 '
.■•I I". , „
MUMim.l"""
LOHSE’S
MftIBLOCKCHEH
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'ferfumers.
GUSTAVLOHSE, BerIin.
* 6 mALES OP THK CONVICT SYSTEM.’
Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
<£4-9,4-60 worth for
See Amusement
Column.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
it With no money flying about to show the ways
that “ stable ” winds are blowing, the big events of the
V.R.C. Autumn meeting seem likely to bring prophets to
more grief than usual. The way that a horse gallops in a
genuine betting market is, at least, a suggestion of h!s
chance in races to come, but this year there is no financial
‘ form” to go upon, and the people who “know ” ahy-
. thing are of necessity keeping it dark until almost the
last minute. St. Hippo’s ability to' smother the Austra-
lia!). cracks, would .have to remain a matter Of opinion
until Saturday in any case. If the “wonder” from
Maoriland be another Carbine, he will win the Australian
Cup and annex the Leger, not to mention other races*
but the handicapper has taken St. Hippo’s super-excel-
lence for granted, so the odds against him are longer, in j
the cold* grey light of past experience, than bookmakers
choose to offer. When the numbers go up for the Aus-
tralian CUp there will probably be Well defined first and
second favourites, and the history of the race is in favour
of one of this happy pair pulling it off. Malvolio, Glen-
loth, St. Hippo, Camoola and Redleap, now look the most
likely to become “ dead-birds ” by that time, but their
respective prices (if they all start) will probably give the
best tip. Meanwhile, Tub Bulletin will still hang on
feebly to the old idea that Malvolio, having been a good
horse once, may again run up to his splendid appearance.
The chief point against Malvolio isßedfearn’s reputation of
seldom being able to take many tricks with the same horse.
Churchill, in this stable, won the Newmarket Handicap
three years ago and was a sad failure ever afterwards.
Beverley is expected to repeat the Churchill “ surprise,”
also there are several vague reasons for thinking that the
trainer’s hopes in this direction are built on something
less shifty than Caulfield sand. The Newmarket, however,
is always a mad scramble, which might result in six
different winners in one day, if the field ran six times
down the six furlongs. Wild Rose is very well just now,
and good mares are always worth considering at this
Australian season of the year. Then Buccleuch is a cer-
tainty, although Bungebah has “only got to be in his old
form,” &c., and the name of the animals that have been
specially prepared for this race is Legion. Perhaps it
would be safest to back Legion to win and have a little on
The Field for a “shop.” Nevertheless, a red-hot first
favourite, when found, is apt to fly home alone in the
Newmarket, not so much on its merits as because two-
thirds of the others are “stiffened” to that end. At
tidae of writing the stiffening hasn’t begun* and the
divine gift of sporting prophecy is at a serious disadvan-
tage. One can merely pray that the beer-glasses at the
Plemington refreshment bars will run less than nine to
the bottle, so that drowning disappointment in drink may
not come as expensive as it did last November.
* # »
The free show at Sydney Agricultural Ground
last week, when the trotters Mystery and Rita met, drew
a big crowd. In the first heat, the owner and driver of
Mystery, a grey-headed, innocent, fatherly-looking, fresh-
coloured septuagenarian, who knew a thing or two, let his
mare break, and ere she was steadied Rita get a strong
lead. Mystery was within a sulky length of being dis-
tanced, when Rita would have been the wiffher right out.
Mystery won the second heat, but not till the last half of
the decider did the Melb. pacer show her real form. Rita
was quickest off, and Mystery hung at her quarter for the
first half, when her driver shook her up, %nd, fairly leaving
Rita as if anchored, she finished with a magnificent burst
in 2.29J —the Australian record; whereupon the fresh-
coloured, ingenuous grey-beard received quite an ovation.
Rita trotted quite up to form, and never made a mistake,
but was utterly outclassed by the slashing mare from
across the border. It is to be hoped this match will give
a fillip to sport, now at a low ebb in Sydney. A sweep-
stakes between Violetta Junior, Harry Knight’s imported
J.H. and Mystery would prove a big draw.
* # •
What price the Sydney galloway, Streak o’
Light? At the V.A.T.C. meeting on Saturday, with 7st.
101 b. up, she ran the syndicate’s Vestatia, Bst., to a head
for second place in the Oakleigh Purse, won by Omatra.
That Mr. Hoy should have shown his hand amongst the
horses, ere making more use of the mare in her own class,
is inexplicable. The Oakleigh Plate, won by Lord Hope-
toun, was run a quarter of a second faster than the Purse,
and no better gauging of Streak o’ Light’s phenomenal
performance can be given than the fact that Autonomy
could only run within four lengths of Lord Hopetoun,
1.12, whilst Streak ran within 1J lengths of Omatra, LI2J.
• * #
Mr. Corbett created a sensation at Lady
Robinson’s Beach, Sydney, on Saturday. Thrown into
the water tied up in a weighted sack, he out his way out,
and in about 30 sec. came to the surface with a lighted
cigar in his mouth.
Daring the afternoon’s sports, Fritz Von
Hammer made a most graceful dive from a height of some
70 feet. There is nothing to be gained, however, by
these foolhardy exhibitions, and as with lion-tamers it is
merely a matter of time before the high diver (and the
sack man) comes to grief.
* • •
Unless the Australian Eleven soon start away,
for very shame sake they will be compelled to take Calla-
way and leave Walter Giffen behind. Callaway scored
126, at Sydney, against the Northern N.S.W. team ; and
on Saturday, in the Zingari match, he ran up 111, notout,
in about an hour and a half, whilst his bowling average
was 5 for 34, as against Coningham’s 3 for 39. In Adelaide,
on Saturday, Walter Giffen made nil I
• * •
Mrs. Alick Bannerman will, as usual, accom-
pany her stonewalling husband to England. Some
Australian cricketers have not taken a wife with them,
but—but let that pass.
# * »
The “scientific” section of Sydney cricketers
object to Coningham and Graham’s inclusion—they are
such “ rough players.” But rough players are needed in
Sydney—men who will send the first long-hop for four.
*• • »
Graham has signed for a fifteenth share of the
proceeds in the coming Australian Eleven’s English tour,
but whether he has promised any part of his share to
other persons is unascertainable, v
* # *
Coningham says he is to get a fifteenth share of
the profits of the coining English tour. He has been laid
£5O to oto beat Turner for the bowling average. Many
good judges think that, given equal opportunities, he
will probably do this,
* * *
The discussion about “ George Giffen’s brother
Walter” has taken a fresh turn. At Adelaide Oval
recently George was “ barracked ” by the crowd ft r keep-
ing himself on bowling, and not giving somebody else a
show, but when one of the crowd cried out, “put on the
Australian eleven man—your little brother Walter,”
George stopped the game and searched both pavilions,
accompanied by a pugilistic player, with the object of
having the offenders ‘‘knocked out.” George’s anger
cooled, however, and the game was resumed.
« • *
The stewards of Adelaide Racing Club decline
to proceed against their late secretary—an ex-detective,
by the way. Some of the members are most indignant at
this.
# # •
At a recent Sydney card-party were playing
two Frenchmen and an Englishman. Poker was the
game, and some wonderful hands appeared. One round
the pool reached nearly £5O. Then—lst Frenchman:
“I have four queens.” 2nd Frenchman: “Stay, my
friend, I have four kings.” Englishman (throwing down
four aces): “Ha!" Then he took the pool,
• • #
One of the English sneak-thief papers under-
takes to pay £lOO to the next of kin of any football player
who meets his death whilst playing football, providing he
is the possessor of a current number of the literary
“ fence *’ in question. This, we suppose, is a measure to
increase the popularity of football.
• * *
Pauline, winner of the last Hobart Cup, is a
“goer” whose parentage is wrapped in the darkest
oblivion. Her win at Elwick made a pot of money for the
owner, the straight-going J. B. Curran, a Hobart
auctioneer, who picked her up in a saleyard for £5O.
Tom Pay ten s exultation over the superiority of
fast steamers over trains as a method of conveying horses
from Sydney to Melbourne is all very well until we
remember the experiences of the City of Melbourne’s
horses in the Dandenong galei


Arp you there ? Send me up a GN U N
Darling, please.
PfiM ELL’S
WH EATEN A.
The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem
Wonderful value—four G N U N Darlings, Is.
slXj Last I
Some seven years ago a strange thing happened to the lady
whose photo, appeals herewith; whereby she became
-A. MYSTERY
Which no One cah explain bV account tor So fat, not bven her
husband. How it happened was this : She lay dying of a compli-
cation of diseases ; often She would faint off, and lie unconscious
as long as 30 hours at a Stretch —frigid as a corpse and apparently
dead. The leading medical men of Melbourne were in attendance,
often at a cost of Five Guineas a day, yet she sank lower and
lower. Everything that medical science could suggest was tried ;
even morphia failed to give enough ease for two hours sleep
daily'. At last, in desperatioh, some said, “ Try Mesmerism.
Mr Harle, as a Mesmerist,
Had been Very successful bn the public platform, bnd had also
saved life by private magnetic treatment; but Mrs. Harle, being
a lady of very pronounced opinions and strong mind of her own,
never could see anything in it but a hobby of his, and so, when
prged to try it, she ridiculed the Very idea ; but they said, try
it for steep only— you will go luad for want of rest.” For a long
time she could nbt bring her mind to submit; at last, after much
prayer to God tor guidknce and help, she was willing to try.
After about half an hour’s mesmeric influence and passes, she
went off into a peaceful hypnotic state, which lasted, as was
intended, froiii eight at night till ten next morning; and she
awoke rested and refreshed. The experiment was repealed, when
\
.V»J. • ;
■:
3®:
Lo! Everyone was Startled MES - • ,
To find that, whilst to all intents and purposes she was asleep, yet in ano^ I r ”V*^doin.^a
and she commenced talking about what the servant was doing on the ground Horn, what an acquairilance was dmn a
mile a wav what waS happening in the home of a dear friend some few blocks away, and so foith. Then, she was
requested to look into her own body ; .this she did, and was surprised herself, and surprised ev «yone else by traun 0
the cause of her trouble, which proved to be mainly an internal cancer. She then told them how to cure her.
Crowds of Friends Came to See Heri
t’or She had a large and influential circle of acquaintances. She astounded all by her nY^toknow'ali
to see into their bodies as if they were made of transparent glass, to see the members of then like next
about their commercial affairs, seemed quite easy to her ; England, America, New' Zealand, etc., seemed just like ne,
door. „ .
The Sensation was Immense!
Drafting-room, Sitting-rooih, Dining-room and Bedroom were crowded with inquisitive people, andL the invalid became
a phenomenon. The doctors were nonplussed with thfeir patient - she feave directions how to soften the cancel to the
lancing state: this was done ; then, as they dare not give chloroform on accoui i tofhe i; heartM r. Hale pu the rUnder
mesmerism, whilst Drs. Teague, of Collins Street, lanced it.. She awoke without having felt anything that had hap
pened. Everyone said : “ Start and use your powers for doing good, you can
Save Lives by Thousands.”
But her health was tdo loft, first, she cured herself T in three months; time she wm again t^
Rut her health was too low. First, sne cured nersen— in mrce muiiww mucous ~
drives on the Esplanade, in her phaeton, to the astonishment of the whole district. . l Vn nd & -^ev^elreat
change of climate was needed, ana she caine to N.S. Wales; Fdr a short time she lesided ml 1 ■ ’
change of climate was needed, and she came to jm.». vvaies; roi a c Five veVrs
has known by those who were aware of her pbwers, and she got no peace till she agreed to stait pumtice Ine jeais
Mrs. Harle opened in Newcastle ; three years out of the five have been spent travelling in the Noithein distuct,
and away in the bush discovering gold mines, and she seems to be able to find gold as easy as tiace disease.
Seven Thousand People Have Consulted Her
In her mesmeric state ; some about business, but most about their health. Not one can say: “1 am worse for Jmu
treatment,” whilst all who have followed the advice and treatment, rejoice in restored health. Mis. Haile desci hes
each diseased organ, finds the cause of every trouble, and prescribes remedies and treatment. Hei ", f^' ln ® the
vision or clear sight enables her to see just What medicine, and how long it will take to cuie it, often „mn = the
medicine three months ahead, and never changing a bottle.
Warning! , . , . . ...
[f you wish to mortally offend Mrs. Harle, just class her along with the card-reading, palm-sraimmg, fortune-telling
crowd, and the task is done. No such rubbish ! Mrs. Harle is mesmerised by her husband, and when in the hypnotic
state, she sees with her mind. She cannot open her eyes, yet she hears, talks, asks and answers questions, etc. When
the mesmerism is undone, she awakes, and knows no more of what has happened, than if she had been ohlorofoimtd
or dead.
It Causes a Terrible Mental Strain,
Therefore Mr. Harle reserves the right to say when she has done enough, and may refuse any or all at such times.
The Fee is half-a-guinea for bodily examination, and a guinea for business advice. The half-guinea, includes a
complete tracing of your case, and a full statement of how 1 to cure you. Business men have voluntarily paid as high as
£5 and even £l5, for the arrangement of a business tangle. She guarantees in all cases a full value in the treatment,
and more satisfaction all round than can possibly be obtained by any other means whatever. Special medicine is
prepared for each case treated. Mrs. Harle is prepared to work with the family physician or any qualified medical
man, if her suggestions are carried out. She is prepared to treat any case that can be cured, hut insists upon only
usin' 1- her Ecleciio Botanic Remedies - she has no faith in mineral medicines. It is desirable to make appointments or
come early in the day, whilst her brain power is fresh. Outdoor visits .... .. .
bo\v(
course <
6Xer S-M; 8 . Harle’s chief reason for visiting Sydney for some six months is to introduce her Remedies to the
Public, and open a Dispensary where people may call and see her or write for the Remedies or call tor them.
SYDNEY ADDRESS-200 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY (between Market and Park-Streets).
One minute from G. P. Office. HOURSJO to 12 a.m. ;2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
Newcastle Address; HARLE’S BOTANIC HALL, Tram Terminus (City), Newcastle.
WI.-1 A 1) 1? /-maorlioo n rirl all m ornrief Sll lid IMPS.
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY
AND THE
Greatest Show in the Whole of Australia.
IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED ON BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most
the Government
workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere,
experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent of the duty recently put on by
will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
(Magnificent (Stock of jewellery.
ALL AT FREETRADE PRICES.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches-birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to-suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at Os. 6d., Bs. Gd. and 10s.
Od. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment, Wedding and Keeper Rings, a special variety.
All at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess. Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemeji’s 15 and 18 carat solid GoldjlTall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets. Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
6d. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purses (portmonnaies),Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing" Oases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entree Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style. Solid Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWARI DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at ail prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
Wat dies,
Diamonds, Jewellery, silver-plate,
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT
IHIROIM: THE IMI -A- TsT tjeacttjrees TO T ZED IE
PUBLIC.
STEWART DAWSOH & CO.’S
WORLD-FAMED
ENGLISH LEVERS.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
pq ftS.—S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
.pq | rvS. —S. D. and CO’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
cwO tv HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Clieap at
£'6 Os. Beware of imitations.
-P A | aS.-S. D. and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH lIUNT-
-1 INQ LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection.
-Pk | aS.-S. D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
I U HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
Pk | AS.—l3. D. and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
LISH HUNTING LEVER. Unequalled.
nn 1 nS.—S. D. and CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
1U Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear ; without equal.
n i A - S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
3J LU. Three-quartei>plate Keylfess ENGLISH LEVER.
Pi i -t rvS.—S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
3J i i i V and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English.
n i c S. —S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
I J WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £1 12s. (id.
nr i aS.-S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
cV<) Ivl Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable.
no | nS., £lO 10s., and £l‘2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
■L'O I'J and CO.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Piq i AS., £l2 10s., £l5 10s., to £25.—S. D. and
i o 1 v CO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals.
Oir AND Pno -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
3JO\J. KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
We hold the largest stock of these to be found on the
Australian continent, and we ask every reader to compare
ours with the prices you have been paying. Notwithstand-
ing the duty of 15 per cent, recently put on by the
Government, the following will be found from 12J to
40 per cent, lower than Waltham Watches have ever
been sold in Sydney;—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .. » .. 212 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, |-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels .. 4 4 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance 510 0
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Hunters, 10carat.. .. 710 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat .. .. .. .. 12 10 0
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver cases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets,
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition.
NOTE.—Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work maao
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descrip-
tion by the best WORKMEN.
Dawson and Cl’s Watch and Mery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET, and STRAND ARCADE. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE and AUCKLAND.
A Harvest-time Idyll!
(FOR BULLETIN.)
.
■“ Do Oi fwant a job? Well, yez—let me see
Fwhat may the worrk and the wahges be .
“ It’s binding my oats, and if you are good
I’ll give you eight shillings a day and your food.”
“It’s a bargain, old man; and fwhen will we
start?”
“Straight off; you can chuck your swag 111 the
cart.”
“Oi will. But hould on ; fwhat are yez about ;
Surely, old man, you’re going to shout ?”
i f r
To make sure of a man they were scarce about
here— _
He shouted four whiskies and then a long beer.
And then he said, begging : “Come on now, my
man .
Let us get home just as quick as we can.”
But, to the, unfortunate farmer’s surprise,
The binder sang out, in a hiccoughing voice:
“Now listen, all cookies, to this, my advice —
It’s the truth Oi’m tellin’ yea, moind—
‘Niver put in more oats thin yourself ye can
boind !’ ”
R.H.
. ~
* All unjust law is an act of violence.
Thackeray’s version of his first meeting
with Charlotte Bronte. The tiny, intense creature
had idealized Thackeray, personally unknown to
her, with a passion of idealization. “Behold, a
lion cometh up out of the North !” she quoted,
under her breath, as Thackeray entered the draw-
ing-room. Some one repeated it to him. “O
Lord !” said Thackeray ; “ and I am nothing but
a poor devil of an Englishman, ravenous for my
dinner!” At dinner, Miss Bronte was placed
opposite Thackeray, by her own request. “ And
I had,” said he, “the miserable humiliation of
seeing her ideal of me disappearing down my own
throat, as everything Went into my mouth and
nothing came out of it; until at last, as I took my
fifth potato, she leaned across, with clasped hands
and tears in her eyes, and breathed imploringly :
‘Oh, Mr. Thackeray! Don’t!”’
’ ■ , , . ,
A story of Japan. Evidently the place
that tho Borndrunk family comes from :
There is ,in the world to-day an entire race of people
who regard sobriety as a calamity, and drunkenness as
Hie acme of bliss. These people are called the Ainu, and
inhabit the northern islands of Japan. They were the
aborigines of Japan, hut were crowded northward by the
present inhabit ants until they have reached the “jump-
iiig-off place,” much as the Indians of the States have
been driven into the setting sun by the aggressive white
man. And they are jumping off, too, at an alarming
rate. They must have numbered several millions at one
saK
intelligence, and the filthiest on the face of the earth,
The Japs believe that cleanliness is cousin-german to god-
liness, and are always paddling in the water, hut the
Aiuu never bathe. At bear-feasts and funerals they make
a pretence of washing hands and face, but not a drop of
have^one'drink—eno'u {hdtOcu re °anyon e oT dipsomania-
hut it will make one drunk, and is swallowed by the Ainu
in enormous quantities. Men, women, and children
appear to he always drunk. I paid them several visits
while .coasting in the Eastern seas, and I never saw a
member of the race who could he accused of being even
reasonahn- so ei.
Robert Louis Stevenson has written 12
“humorous” lines in the Scottish dialect, all
rhyming with the painter’s name, re his portrait
from the easel of Signor Nerli at Samoa. A slab—
l wondered sair as I sat there forenenst the eyes of Nerli,
0, will he paint me the Way I want as bonny as a girlie,
Or will he paint me an ugly tyke, and be hanged to Mr.
Nerli ?
The Bulletin supplies the balance
„
Dear Bulletin,—lll a recent number
you comment adversly Upon a statement in an
English-printed article stating that spinifex was
good fodder for sheep. 1 have known spinifex to
serve as really good fodder for both sheep and
cattle. Away out far west, in S.A., I have, in
company with others, during times of drought,
frequently set fire to the spinifex that grows
thickly in sandy soil, and after a few days (par-
ticularly when there is moisture at nights, as in
the case of prolonged droughts) it grows up very
fast, and the famine-stricken sheep and cattle eat
it with zest. I don t say they will fatten to any
extent, but it keeps the stock in good heart, and
afiows them to bridge over the first rams, better
™an either salt or blue bush. Another thing :
\°« “7 the kangaroo does not use,his hind claw
whilst standing up fighting, only while on the
S round - { ,iaV . e almo « fc beell reared with the kan-
S ar oo, and i know, from personal observation,
tllat •>« do f UBe hls hmd-foot when fighting. They
f. ever h g l,t when th « ground, though in play
f. he Y roll over each other and use their claws
y. I once had a chance, such as falls to the
few . * jf c . losel .y 'vatcl.mg a kangaroo-fight.
™ st , out sh P OC } n £ and laying baits, one
of our horses broke a Way. I rode dovVn a
parallel gully to intercept the runaway, and came
suddenly upon two big old red men at it tooth and
claw. They Were so intent upon their knock-out
that they did not at first notice mo, though I pulled
U p ln y horse not thirty paces distant, and watched,
of nninvitmd reform WhpnTramoimtU
f bC) , m munvited reteiee. VV hen 1 cam up they
mid hold of one another, using their teeth and
claws viciously until exhausted and almost falling ;
then they let go and stood off for wind. Then I
could see that their grievance was to the bitter
ell( ]. Their white breasts were covered with
«*,«. <*
their wind. Jl/ach must have measured fully
seven feet from tail-tip to head. The old fellow
furthest off had a fearful flank-rip, bleeding pro-
fnsely. Time being up they started sparring just
jq- e merli dodging and using their hind claws;
then came another clinch. Here the fight was
furious, both clawing and biting until they reeled
like drunken men, spluttering hisses of bad kan-
garoo language at each other until over they both
went. As soon as fairly on the ground they both
g a One in getting up hopped a few paces to-
wards me, and my horse moving he saw me and
made out of sight. I know I could have easily
caught one of these big fellows but had not the
heart after such royal entertainment.—G.E.K.
Ye’ve limm’d ma peecture Vara weel, O cleever Mr. Nerli,
(Tho’ the whusky that I gie’d him must hae pained his
bingey sairlyX
r afteen bob the doz. 1 paid (Moors charges pretty fairly—
ni f Sw)t h f e J n f ee 2r ta £ s V“ U airly> *
1 n debit ye wi a o that, ma thirsty Mr. Nerli;
But for yair hoard I will na’ chairsre (the creature ate but
rarely;
A’ kenned full weel ma tucker here wad never mak’ him
burly).
on palusanvi and fai'ai I fed ye oft and squarely,
And l r^^ a^ ma hoose and fence - ve ’ u ne ’ er sa Y that
Fll pairt anither half-a-cro'on ta cleever airtist Nerli.


A Darling that never deceives, G N U N.
“ George, dear, what a nice cigar !” “Yes, ’ti
a G N U N Darling.’
Financial worry soothed smoke GN U N
Darlings,
Boulanger must bite his fingers in spirit-
land, over the chances now.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
Gladstone Liberals smoke nothing but G N U N
Darlings.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed
đ
&
i
si
-
Mis
Mi
1 p
o' 1 -
mm
zr
i
c*
!'."«:’ i
■ ,--!
•
m
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
In “David,” produced at London Garrick, the autho 1 '
has invented an apparently new variety of murder. The
principal character is a physician who is a specialist in in-
sanity. Like many other such specialists, he becomes in-
sane himself, and is filled with a longing to killsomebody.
Anybody will do —the maniac isn’t at all particular.
Therefore he invents a new and deadly poison, and
by means of a tubular needle he injects it through the
cork of a sealed medicine bottle into the medicine. No-
body can find any trace of the bottle having been tam-
pered with, therefore when the man who takes it dies, the
law starts out to hang the person who opened it and
administered the fatal dose. It is an ingenious fiction,
and yet fact, as usual, is ahead. More than 2000 years
ago, Parysalis and Statira, the rival queens of Persia,
used to eat out of the same dish and drink from the same
cup because each knew that the other meant to compass
her death by poison. Neither dared to taste anything
unless the other tasted it with her at the same
moment. But at last Parysatis smeared one side of a
knife with poison, then cut a piece of meat in two and ate
half. Statira took the other half and died. That murder
has never yet been outdone on any stage.
When a leading lady takes her ben. at a democratic
Cockney theatre, such as the Britannia, the populace give
practical expression to their love. In place of floral
tributes, they heave pairs of fancy garters ani similar
toilette knick-knacks. A reckless ’Arry has been known
to send a sewing-machine round to the stage-door with
his best wishes for ’ealth and ’appiness.
When a fairly strong play isn’t murdered in the per-
formance we generally find that “ the excellence of the
acting was more responsible for this success than the
play itself.” Managers and actors are the largest con-
sumers of undeserved jam in the whole world.
Henry Herman, the dramatist and story-writer, has
been telling a number of tain things to an interviewer.
For example, he says that, alter creating his characters
he leaves them to work out their own plot “ easily and
naturally,” and that “he could write to-morrow a story
in the style of any living writer of fiction were he of a
mind to obliterate his own.” Why, in the name of litera-
ture, doesn’t Herman give somebody else’s style a show
now and then ?
Herbert Campbell, of the London music-halls, we see,
lately told tin interviewer that “any ignoramus can come
on the stage and make people laugh with filth, but there
are many who, like myself, keep their performance clean.”
Herbert should have quoted a few verses of his Old-time
ditty, “ Fair on the job," as an instance of his pure art.
Col. Mapleson, the Italian operatic man, used to assert
that his chorus habitually returned to Sicily at the end'of
the season, and set up as bandits until they were wanted
again, A year or two ago, by way of endorsing his state-
ment, his daughter-in-law was captured by brigands in
Greece, the leader of the band being an ex-basso in Maple-
son’s company, and a good many of the old man’s dollars
went in paying her ransom.
Yankee newspapers are relating the case of a man
whose nervous-affection causes his senses to he always
10 seconds behind time. For example, his sense of
humour doesn’t appreciate a joke (or what passes for
such) at a theatre until the sixth of a minute lias elapsed,
when his hoarse laugh comes in with an effect that is
usually startling. But Australia abounds iu cases like
this.
Fillis’s lions always roar when being brought into the
arena, which is due to the fact that they are fed on raw
meat.
David Lee’s monopoly of the Melbourne Town Hall
organ is nonsensical. He was all o6*a jelly bag even when
VViegand was allowed to tickle it.
Irving was playing Colonel Kirke in “ A Sheep in Wolf’s
Clothing,” at the Vaudeville, when he made the awkward
mistake of coming on with his Roundhead pants not pro-
perly “ fixed.” People were beginning to turn pale or
titter (as the case might he) when the prompter acquainted
Henry with his little accident, whereupon he coolly
walked up the stage, keeping his back to the audience
and speaking his lines as he completed his toilette. When
all was well the unabashed actor returned to the front
and resumed the even tenor of his way with a serious,
“ what-were-you-laughing-at?” expression on his intel-
lectual phiz. Yet artists like Irving and Sarah Bernhardt
(who will calmly pin her hair up in the middle of a death-
scene) are commonly called nervous. f
W. S. Gilbert has expressed his scorn for the “ Theatri-
cal Exhibition” at Westminster Aquarium. Members of
the profesh, in Gilbert’s opinion (and he ought to know),
are too much glorified while they are alive, without being
worshipped, through the medium of their old boots, after
death. “I see no more reason,” he wrote, “why we
should interest ourselves in the stage properties of a great
actor than in the professional paraphernalia of a great
lawyer, or an eminent divine. A collection of the wigs
of distinguished Chief Justices, or the gaiters and shovel-
hats of famous archbishops, would i.ot draw £5.” Pro-
bably, it is in the tawdriness of stage properties that a
simple public find interest. There’s a moral in this view
of the matter, too. Many a stage-struck boy would be
saved by a close inspection of the tin rubbish which
makes a god, in his young eyes, of the rampageous boozer
who flashes it in the limelight. Fairies’ wands! Why
not have an exhibition of fairies’ wands for the benefit of
the johnnies?
The part of Lurcher, in “Dorothy,” was originally
limited to 40 lines, but Arthur Williams “ created ” it up
to present dimensions.
Lilia Wilde, now playing Nance Yeulett in “ Hoodman
Blind,” was imported by Rickards as a dramatic reciter,
and was years ago a pupil of Rignold’s in England.
Clara Cowper, a good actress, killed in Australia by
association with that ill-assorted “Silver Falls” Co., is
playing at Terry’s, London.
Here is a Bombay bill, just received by The Bulletin
from showman MaoMahon, who asks: “ What price native
compositors?”:—
ESPLANADE HOTEL.
Bombay, 26th Dec., ’92.
Arrangements have been made by which Mr. MaoMahon
will Exhibit in the Drawing
EDISON’S LATEST PHONOGRAPH.
Room at 9 p.m
The Startling Talking Machine.
Tub coming Achibmknt of Man’s Ghius.
Note :—This instrument is the Perpetual Wonder up to
date having just been brought from Mr. Edison’s
famous Laboratary. It is the only one in the
and withit are the voices of the Rights
Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE, General
SHERIDAN, JOSEPH JEFFERSON, PRESI.
DENT CLEVELAND, AND FRED. LESLIE
(JUST DECLASED.)
“ Oh for the touch of a varnished hand and the sound of
a voice that is still.”
COMET SOLO by JULES LURY, the Champion Cor-
natist of the World, Vocal and Instrumental numbers by
Emminent Artistes in Europe and America, the Grenadier
Guards’ and Second Regiment (New York) Brass Bands.
Florence Young, of the Royal Comic Opera Co., was,
during the Melbourne Exhibition of ’BB, a member of
Co wen’s Cantata Choir.
At Poverty Point.
GOD SAVE THE QUEEN.
When to the pantomime you go,
O, sit not near the stage,
And never, never seek to know
The fairy monarch’s age,
But from a distant circle seat
Observe her artless mien,
And try to think the damsel sweet
Is only seventeen.
Remember not that years have rolled
Their checkered course along
Since first that fay, in white and gold,
Bewitched you with her song.
Raise not the lorgnette to your eyes ;
Where ignorance is bliss
’Twere crassest folly to be wise—
Do, pray, remember this.
The prudent parent tightly clings
To youth’s illusions dear,
And still believes her gauzy wings
Are what they would appear,
She was a girl, for aye a slim
Young girl she will remain,
And, bless her heart! she teaches him
To be a boy again.
EDMUND FISHER
Soul Flight.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I am a man long smiled upon by fate,
I am a man whose roughest roads aye paven,
And I have heart for love and heart for hate,
And I have brains to bring my ships to haven.
And seas, and shores, and mountain-slopes, and
skies,
Have made me one with them, as boy to
brother:
Though seals inherited bind up my eyes,
And keep my ears and lips from earth, my
mother.
I hold the hand of many a man as friend,
I hold the hearts of two in warmer bondage,
And I shall hold one love beyond the end—
My love, through Heaven’s joy, or Hell’s
des pondage,
Yet here this night my soul soared forth alone,
Beyond the darkness of the earth’s conventions,
And though my arms stretched backwards to the
known,
They brought me nothing in their weakened
tensions,
The love-strong arms of her, my wife, were vain,
The sweet, small hands of children could not
hold me,
The warmest hand-clasps were a breaking chain,
No bond of man or nature could enfold me.
My hands went out in longing for some spell
Of subtle workmanship to hold and bind me,
But nothing stayed me, and my body fell
Away from spirit, and lay here behind me.
Up ! up ! All bonds were broken, and a flame
Of anguished wonder burnt my soul with
longing.
Then the short silence vanished, and became
Alive again, with life and laughter thronging.
M.L.M.
According to the blushful curate of a
Sussex parish : “It has been supposed by many
learned divines that when Adam and Eve left the
hands of their Maker they were guarded against
the inclemency of the seasons by a sort of natural
soft white down in which their limbs were clothed,
very similar to the plush of the present day.” O !
that some inspired artist would paint a picture of
our First Parents in soft white plush.
We had a curious dream last Sunday night.
We dreamed that the convict hulk, Success, had
been duly floated into a co., as per prospectus in
the Australian metropolitan press, and had, as
proposed, started for Chicago with a cargo of
wool, after being insured at very little above
ordinary current rates—all as per advt. in the
morning papers. Then we lost sight of the old
craft and forgot about her. Years rolled on, and
in 1923 we somehow found ourselves at Chicago.
Something had evidently happened to that city.
There was grass growing in the streets, and
lizards were sitting on the mossy ruins of the
Post-office, and a brown bear scraped himself
meditatively on the end of a wharf. The big
iron bridges were eaten away by rust; the huge
pork factories were deserted; and though we
walked for miles and miles through the great city,
we sighted but one human being. Ho was voci-
ferous and covered with hair, and as we approached
he shook his ten-inch nails at us and gibbered.
After that lie ran away. Then we roamed for
miles along the lake-front looking at the aban-
doned ships that rotted beside the wharves, and
at last we struck a sign of life. There was
a vessel coming in—an unspeakably ancient
bleached, cracked, sun-dried, and rotted vessel of
venerable build. There were festoons of sea-
weed hanging from her sides, and oysters and
mussels were clustered on her planks. She
had one broken mast, and a shapeless sail
made of bagging. An old, white-bearded
man on crutches stood on the quarter-deck, and a
multitude of withered patriarchs looked with
bleary eyes over the bulwarks. Also, there were
about 20 black women on board and a number of
children. None of them had anything on except
a scrap of old sail-cloth round the middle. An
unspeakable reek of fish hung over the vessel like
a cloud, and almost everybody on board was
gnawing a fish of some kind, and the deck was
hampered with fish-bones and festering heads and
tails. We climbed onboard, and then it suddenly
dawned upon us that the aged hulk was strangely
familiar—it was the same old Success which sunk
in Kerosene Bay, Sydney, in ’92. The captain took
no notice of us and wouldn’t was obvi-
ously in the last stage of senile decay. The naked
crew smiled drearily out of their toothless jaws,
and the black women and the children fled into
the forecastle. We went down below, and amid
darkness and a fearsome stench we found the
board of directors, chained up and evidently out
of its mind. The board had nothing on at all,
except its hair, which hung down to its knees; it
was unspeakably dirty and gaunt and cavernous,
and it groaned dismally. The chairman tried to
bite as we passed, and broke his last remaining
tooth in the effort. In a far corner we found a
shareholder who seemed to have a lucid interval;
he was also naked and encrusted with salt, and
he was gnawing a piece of stale dugong. In a
shrill whisper he furnished some particulars about
the voyage. It had been unusually protracted,
he said, and they had called in at sixteen
different ports for repair. The cargo of wool had
all been sold to pay for repairs. They rounded
Cape Horn when they were 16 years out, and then
the board of directors went mad and insisted on
paying a dividend every three months. The cap-
tain kidnapped a number of black women at
Tierra del Fuegoin the hope that marriage would
calm the board’s mind, but instead the directors
grew so violent that they had to be chained up in
the hold. They had been there ever since, and lived
entirely on fish and rain-water. At this point
fearful shrieks rent the dank atmosphere ; the
chairman had broken loose and scuttled the
vessel. We made for the deck and went over-
board accompanied by the oldest of the black
women —a party with one short leg and a twisted
back—and when we reached the shore the Success
had altogether vanished. After that we married
the black woman and settled down in Chicago,
and took in the wild man who was covered with
hair as a boarder. The story ends here.


At Darlinghnrdveil carl buy Q- NU N
Darlings.
Have you heard the news ? GNUN Darling
a sure cure for the “ blues.”
Ha !ha ! I’Ve struck it! What ? GN U N
Darling the best smoke to be got.
GN UN Darlings burn a snow-white ash.
Demand increasing daily—G NUN Darlings.
Nothing smokes like aGNUN Darling.
<£4-9,460 worth for
£V
See Amusement
Column i
£ -
■I
y.;,' ■' ,•■
*
Hi
■■■"' ** &’• ■ •
jgP^jjpl
:
V-:
ill
A
■
H--
■■■ '•»>-•...
1
III
m
i
ms
Hi
*?■ ?;
Jg
i .r-
' &
•5^
■•iSSS*
•v.v»
l/H
viUliWi/.
Sslll;
tf-.UU
%^W'
Sg*
IIP*'111
%• . s
d
A Tragedy in Ten Minutes.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I Art considered rather fastidious by my friends.
I presume that my enemies speak of me in
different terms. For myself, I think that lam a
trifle particular about my dress, my appearance
in the streets, and, above all, my acquaintances.
One day, when turning the corner of Barrack,
into George-street, Sydney, by the Commercial
Bank, I found myself on the outskirts of a small
crowd. Naturally, I detest crowds. Any cause
will servo to collect a crowd—a crying child, a
man with his hat off.
I was moving towards the edge of the pavement
in order to circumnavigate the obstruction, when
an excited young woman dashed across my course.
“What is it?” she breathlessly exclaimed. I
did not answer, but some other person did.
“Man in a fit, I think.”
“My goodness! It must be Johnnie,” she
cried. “Here! hold this, sir, please.” And
ere I could refuse, a large brown-paper parcel,
clumsily tied Up with thick string, was thrust
into my hands, and the excited woman elbowed
and wriggled through the crowd and disappeared.
In the first flush of indiguatioh I was nearly
putting the parcel down on the pavement and
leaving it to its fate, but that seemed cruel. Pos-
sibly the woman might have a husband or brother
afflicted with fits, and the parcel might contain
articles of value to her; so I waited.
Nearly a minute must have passed when I
experienced an awful thrill of terror.
Something moved within the parcel!
In that miserable sheet of brown paper beneath
my arm Was a living thing.
Infanticide was, so to say, fashionable just then,
and I broke into cold perspiration as the thought
flashed through me that I held a dying infant.
Nay, was actually assisting at its demise. I
believe there are men who, in such a Crisis, could
have “done the right thing at the right moment.”
I confess I did not. “Police-station,” “ Hospi-
tal,” passed rapidly before my mind, but “How
am I to clear myself of suspicion should this turn
out to be a baby ? ” I thought.
I was engaged to be married at the time, and
the mere mention of my name in connection with
such an incident would be enough to ruin me. I
looked anxiously around. Horror ! the man had
been put into a cab and the crowd was dispersing.
The young woman was not visible. I felt my
collar turn limp; I know I must_ have looked as
guilty as any murderer, supposing a murderer
does look guilty. If I had been accosted at that
moment I Would have oWned up to anything, and
at that supreme instant the aunt of the girl to
whom I was engaged approached.
I lifted my hat id a miserable manner, but she
stopped to speak to me, to shake hands. 1 shifted
the horrible parcel under my left arm, and as I
extended the right the awful thing within seemed
to plant two feet—or hands—against my Side and
push itself outward, as though seeking to escape,
or in a death-paroxysm !
I turned sick and faint, and could scarcely
stammer out an explanation that I was waiting
for a friend in the bank. She must have rtoticed
my strange manner, and I could have sworn that
rny prospective aunt-in-law muttered to herself
something about “drink” as she left. 1 could
tell it by the shake of her bonnet.
But now everyone was gone save the ordinary
passers-by, it behoved me to do something. What?
More than five minutes had passed by the P.O.
clock, and there I still stood, a hopeless, undecided
fool. I admit it, I was a fool, but the sudden
rush of circumstances had been too much for me,
and I, who, six minutes before had been almost
without a care in the world, now found myself a
self-convicted murderer (for the contents of the
parcel had ceased to kick), who would probably
tenant a police-cell before long.
I dared not leave the parcel where I was. I saw
before me a paragraph in next morning’s paper
commencing : “ A well-dressed man, of aristocratic
appearance,” &c. No, I could not venture on
leaving it anywhere just then ; I must wait until
darkness came. But meanwhile? Hours must
elapse. I had engagements. I could not carry a
dead infant about with me to a tennis-party.
As I glanced along the Post-office colonnade a
happy thought occurred. There were large
receptacles for packets along there ; I would jam
the parcel into one of those. I would even put
stamps on it and address it to my worst enemy.
Full of this determination I crossed the
road and surveyed the scene of operations. It
would do.
I turned away full of hope, and had reached the
steps leading to the stamp-buying place when a
voice accosted me: “Have been looking every-
where for you, Mister. Thanks for taking such
care of my parcel.”
It was the woman !
I muse have lost my head. I feebly sniggered
as I handed it over to her, “He! He! Was it
Johnnie ? ”
She looked me up and down contemptuously.
“Strikes me, you’re a Johnnie,” she said, and
hurried away.
Next morning, as I scanned the columns of the
paper, I saw that no less than three dead infants
had been found—none of them, however, wrapped
in brown paper.
An experienced friend has given me his opinion
on the episode. He says that the woman at first
intended to leave the child’s body with me, but,
on afterthought, decided that I might be able to
identify her. She therefore came back and re-
covered the thing, whatever it was, until a better
opportunity arose.
This may be so, but another friend suggested
that it might have been some unboiled cray-fish
giving their last feeble kick.
I, myself, prefer the latter theory. I don’t like
to think of the other life dying out in the blaze
and bustle of Geofge-stfeet, tucked underneath
my arm. Still —three dead infants in one monl-
ing ! Which do you think it was ?
DELCOMYN.
A cool Customer lately suicided at Welling-
ton (M.L.). He had lost his money at the races,
and took a bed in a cheap doss-house. Next day
at noon they banged at the door and loudly urged
him to get up. “ Let me alone,” he said ; “ I’ll be
dead in an hoilr.” When they broke in, the bed
was saturated in blood, and the old man was hold-
ing his wrist over the Wash-basin, which he had
put by the bedside, and was rapidly bleeding to
death. He had cut the radial artery.
They call Kiama the N.S. Wales Mel-
bourne. They have a “ Blow-hole” at Kiama.
Parkes, a week or two ago, said he was
averse to taking office; now he says it’s “a
matter of indifference” to him whether he does
or not. It was a matter of indifference to the fox
whether he got the grapes. “My breadless
’ome !”
Writes a correspondent:—“ Can you tell
me how it is that the N.S. W. millers and grain-
merchants only give 3s. Gd. for N.S.W. wheat
while Victorian and S mth Australian wheat can-
not be landed under 45.? N.S. Wales wheat is
quite as good, so what becomes of that other six-
pence that the N.S.W. farmer should be getting
under the so-called policy of Protection ? The
local price in my district (Braidwood) is—best
milling wheat, 3s. ; other produce, suoli as hay,
chaff, potatoes, oats, barley, bacon, &c., just
exchange for store goods, any surplus being left
to rot.- —W.C.”
Is there any chance of Australians dropping
titles while the craze exists for joining secret
societies, which dub a man Sir Knight Brown, or
Most Worshipful Brother Jones, with a drunken
alphabet after the name in each case? Every
underground boss calls himself “ Captain,” and so
does the master of every sailing ketch with only
one small boy for crew. The present state of
Australian titles recalls the story of Francis
Bacon, who plaintively asked Lord Burleigh to
bother King James I. for a knighthood, because
he was the only plain Mister at his mess at Gray’s
Inn. In the next batch of three hundred Bacon’s
name was included. In S. A., it is said there is
no distinction in being a J.P., but folk are inclined
to ask of any reputable citizen without the affix—
“ What has he done to be omitted from the list ?”
Even thus will it be in the matter of political
“honours” soon, and the sooner the better.
Latest advices explain the temporary
insanity of William Watson, the poet who was
carried off to a padded cell because he stuck up
the Duke of Edinburgh’s carriage, near Windsor
Castle. Two or three days previously, Gladstone
had granted the poor gentleman .£2OO from the
Civil List Pension Fund. This sudden rush of
affluence to the brain was more than he could
bear.
Bill Watson, bard,
When times Were hard
Was ever sane and sad,
Believed from want
B 3' golden grant
The lucky man went mad.
’Tis good to read
That bards in need
The finest songs have sung,
And know that they
Can't pay their Way
Unless their brains go bring.
These lines are sent
By one content
With poor and lowly lot:
No patron rash
Will find the cash
To send him off his dot.
His only hanks —
The Lord he thanks—
Are sweet with wild, fresh thyme ;
While lack of wealth
Preserves his health
There’s reason in his rhyme.
A New Occupation for Women.
(FOR THE BULETTIN.)
The belles of the Block are now able to plead
An excuse for the butterfly life which they lead ;
For their afternoon’s “shopping” results in far
more
Than the pricing of fabrics for gowns, as of yore,
Or the purchase of packets of pins, or of tape,
Or annexing a notion and buying a shape
For a “love of a bonnet,” indulging in tea,
Or walking the streets to be seen and to see.
Though heedlessly, none the less sur.-ly, they aid
In cleansing the streets, for their dresses are made
To trail in the mire, and provided with flounces,
Which gather the dirt and remove it by ounces.
Observe, at midday, what a larrikin crew
Assembles in King-street to bet and to chew,
To prop up verandahs, discuss the next race,
And squirt foul saliva all over the place.
Pray how would our footpaths be freed from such
messes
If our volunteer scavengers held up their dresses ?
The Domain.
CUTHBERT LEAR.
The planter niggor-impdrting interest cyni-
cally sniggers at the Brisbane floods : “ While
Brisbane was prosperous it would never allow
black labour in the North ; the floods mean that
black labour will continue.'’
Who would be au official shorthand-writer
and start reporting question and answer on a Par-
liamentary committee after being up all night
reporting Parliamentary debates? Speaker Abbott
should certainly endeavour to re arrange the
work of the N.S.W. Parliamentary repoiting-
staff. The chief and vice-chief are the only
members of the staff who got increased salary in
consideration of the committee work being foisted
on to the Hansakd men —and they are the only
members of the staff who never have a line of
committee work to do !
This is told of Brace Smith, M.P., when
manager of How r ard Smith and Sons S.S. Go. Each
chief steward of the Co.’s boats was expected to
wait upon the manager, in uniform, upon the arrival
of the vessel, to report and receive instructions.
Thus ; Enter chief steward. To him Mr. Bruce
Smiths “What ship?” “The Arrawa.tt.amac,
sir!” “ Any complaints ? ” “No, sir!” “Very
well, you may go.” One day a chief steward,
anxious to go-up town, presented himself dressed
in Ids shore clothes. Manager (who knew
perfectly well who the man Was) looked up
without apparent recognition. “What can Ido
for you, sir ?” he blandly said. “ I’m chief steward
of the Buninbarcooyong, sir.” “Ohno ! you are
not !” said the manager in a smilingly expostu-
late way. “Yes, sir, I am. I’m Brown,”
replied the steward. “ Oh, no, you’re not!” said
the manager, still smiling; “you can’t be. All
our chief stewards, you know, wear uniforms.”
The man hastily retreated, hurried to the ship,
put on his uniform, and re-entered the manager’s
office. “ What ship ?” said the manager, looking
up. “ The Buninbarcooyong, sir.” “Ah ! I see
now. So you are. I really did not know you
without your uniform. Any complaints?” “No,
sir !” “ Very well, you may go. But never come
to see me again without your uniform, for I am
sure I shall never know you. Good day !”


‘‘German
Syrup”
Martinsville, N.J., Methodist Par-
sonage. “My acquaintance with
your remedy; Boschee’s German
Syrup; was made about fourteen
years ago, when I contracted a Cold
Which resulted in a Hoarseness and
a. Cough which disabled me from
filling ray pulpit for a number oi
Sabbaths. After trying a Physician,
without obtaining relief—l cannot
say now what remedy he prescribed
—I saw the hdvertisemeut of 3*olll
remedy and obtained a bottle. I
received such quick and permanent
l|elp from it that whenever we have
had Throat or Bronchial troubles
since in our family, Boschee’s Ger-
man Syrup has been our favorite
remedy and always with favorable
results. I have never hesitated to
report my experience of its use to
others when I have found them
troubled in like manner.” Rev,
W. H. Haggarty,
of the Newark, New A Safe*
Jersey, M.K. Confer-
ence, April 25, ’9O. Remedy.
®
G. G. GREEN, Sole Man’fr, Woodbury, NJ.
Established IB7G^
ASTHMA
■mu4
I WRITE i
/ D«
/ HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON
ASTHMA
J
9AV
ď
ents
Melbourne
’lomDsiftiE'’
SYDNEY: ElllOtt BfO?
•auldinij «•(?.
Amdmi
Oi.Sharlandt<
harland » (? , -£w®
send Treatise and Testimonials
anjAddre
<o^
0> <S>
O. S. \
\ 1s
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
1
SWEET SCENTS
i LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
,\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Street
Beware of imitations. Thegenuine igsigned-
TRADE MARK;- MUSK DEER. <■
d
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
INVICORfIJDS
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRIS,
BOYS.
Tile COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
SALON,” May, ’9O : “ It, is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without 1 lie injurious ettoc s of the ordi-
na y Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist or.
having our now long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers' write Patentee, 15,
oluremont, Hastings, England.
The increase in the consumption of 6N UN
Darlings shows they are appreciated.
Shah of Persia smokes GNUN Darlings,
On the tram, smoke GNUN Darlings.
Footballers ! Smoke GN U N Darlings.
At Pynnont you can buy GNUN Darlings.
White Spotless Arms
d
Soft White Hands
Shapely hails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
haiir are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, ! or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
ire absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
Infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
, sitive. They arc speedy, economical, and unfailing.
I CUTICURA
Remedies afford■ instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
he cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms*
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless hails*
“All about the Skin, Scalp, axh Hair ” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
too Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent*
CutiCura Remedies are Bold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure,
50c.; Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, $l. Prepared by PoTtkr Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are preventedand cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap, Incomparably superior to all other skin and Complexion soaps, while rivalling
i t delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi .
rated toilet soap and the only preventive cf inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most complcxional disfigurations. Price, 25c. ■ *
the Haii°-Di>essm^.
5 U i
DWARDS
ENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
m
AFTER USE.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned 11 T T"v M T~l Ql Ql From whatever
v Remedy F fi £3 L-i LJ nCiOD cause arising.
As :i producer of Whiskers and MoustacHios ithas never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6cL, and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURE-,!) ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO, 95. HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
LEA & P
SAUCE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on evy;V; bottle of the origin?.!
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus ;
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label. vPottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ B-lti-cfc'Sell , London, <sr.. so.;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throwyhoufihe World.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN", DAVID COHEN anW> CO., SYDNEY.
Widow Welch's Pills for Female Complaints.
"IVI RS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
be careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithc.s, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receip?. The genuine are wrapped 5n BLUR
I’AI’ER, and‘Signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smitheia, ana the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“W. El)wa it us AN,o Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 67, St.* Paul’s, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 2s. !)d. each, by
most chemists.
MILWARP’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
n SdHVHS
BH
'THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
Travelling.
(FOR THE BULETTIN.)
If you’re “ somewhere east of Suez ” on an ocean
liner’s deck,
On the water not a ripple, on the sky-line not a
fleck;
The weather may be sultry, but the brandy-
, pawnee’s cool—
Going to Europe for a flutter on the strength of last
year’s wool.
You think of all the fun there’ll be in London,
Paris, Rome,
Then across to see the Yankees, and so by Chicagd
hoirie.
With a day or two in ’Frisco; and, til wind the
picnic up,
A week in Melbourne just to see St. Hippo win
the Cup—
That’S travelling.
When yoiir socks have long departed arid the
bolts Ate giving out,
And last week’s run of tucker don’t alarm you as
to gout;
When you’re toiling through the tea-tree in the hot
December sun,
And the ancient skimpy bluey seems to weigh
about a ton ;
When the shearing’s done by Maoris and rates
down to fourteen bob,
And the boss looks like you’d cheeked him if you
ask him for a job ;
When you find your match-box empty when you’re
looking for a light.
And no chance this side the station yon may strike
to-morrow night—
That's travelling;
With the sails like copper* sheathing and the rig-
ging iron-hard,
You are beating out your mittens on an upper
topsail yard,
With whiskers stuck together with the flying
frozen sleet,
And she’s running down the easting, homeward
bound with wool and wlreat —
Or a spell of watergrinding your shivering carcase
thaws,
And you’re sweating in an oilskin as you meet her
flying yaws,
While above the howling rigging and the piping
of the wind
Yon can hear the thundering greybacks coming
roaring up behind—
That's travelling.
When the race is nearly over and the long two
miles are run,
And just inside the distance you have got the others
done,
Unshortened still the sweeping stride and with a
thrill you feel
The strong pulse of the gallant heart that’s
thumping at your heel,
Behind the hoofs’ dull thunder, before the wide,
green track
The straining chesnut at your girth who’s slowly
drifting back;
On the left the flitting railings, on the right the
roaring stand,
The silence of the hard-hit ring, the shine of bright
eyes, and —
That is travelling.
WAIPOA.
Six men have lost fingers in a certain Mel-
bourne carriage-factory during the last two years
—all owing to the absence of proper guards round
the machinery.
Scene—River Darling. Two whalers fish'
ing in a bend. N.S.W. Liar; “I’ve seen the
time when you could get cod weighing their hnn-
dred-and-half to two-hundred in . this bend.”
Queensland liar: “On the Upper Paroo you
don’t have to use a line.” N.S.W. liar : “ How’s
that?” Queensland liar; “They come out of an
evening to feed on the grass, and you knock ’em
over with a stick.” Collapse of N.S.W. liar.
At the Dunstan, Maoriland, a siek and
destitute Chinese wished to enter the Benevolent
Home. His friends urgently applied to the local
policeman, who referred the application to his
inspector at Dunedin ; he handed it to the Benevo-
lent trustees, they sent it to the County Council,
the Council referred it to the original local police-
man for report, he reported favourably, they sent
it back tp the trustees recommending the China-
man’s admission, the trustees decided to admit
him. This was six weeks after the original appli-
cation. Then the local policeman went to find the
Chinaman to give him the admission order. But
the poor Chow had already been admitted—to the
cemetery.
Years ago, some Maoriland districts were
huge peach-orchards, where everyone was free to
fill himself, his boat, his cart, or his basket with
delicious fruit, in which even the horses revelled.
The groves grew thus: The French missionaries
taught the Maories before the war tfiat, whenever
they ate of any fruit, they were to step inside from
tiie path and place in the ground the stones or
pips. The Maories in their roamings took fruit
abroad with them as provender—hence the groves
of peaches, apples and cherries everywhere in the
Maori district. A few years ago a blight ran
through them and destroyed nearly all, but now
they appear to be reviving again, and the heart of
the sundowner rejoiceth.
At Young (a recent N.S.W. Assize Court),
before Justice Windeyer, a Chinaman was tried
for injuring a European by pushing him out of a
cart. The trouble originated over a woman, with
whom the Chow was living. He was found
guilty, and the Judge told the Chinese interpreter
to ask him if he had anything to say. “Yabba !”
he answered —two or three syllables, nothing
more. “What did he say?” asked the Judge.
“Him say,” said the interpreter, “if you had a
woman in a cart—a woman you lub whole lot,
allee same wifee, welly bad man jumped in your
cart, talk to her, and no go out, sit on cabbagee,
throw punkin at you, say he knock your eye out,
you no chuck him out? And if he very drunk,
not able to fall on him feet —why you fault?”
“Are you sure he said all that?” inquired the
Judge, smiling. “Yes, him say all dat.” “One
week.”
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
RRO'CIIITIS, and all affections of ifto Chest, ami
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will (hid sugar-coated Kqcalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Coi.kmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cuotamundra, N.S.’.V


Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
a
JiL
m
m
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE—
UNDERVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
107 9BOEOE STREET, SYDNEY. Bend*, im
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BT ■
“PRICE WARUNG.”
Price, Is.; .... .... per Post, is. 3d.
HOT HfEATHER
A.X W SiLFL
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3a. Bd. & 5a
6d.
BP
19
A
3s. 6cL. &; ss. 6ci.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGE
Gr. XI. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DEAF
lIAOT
•
NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck’s Invisible Tubular Kar Cushion*.
Whispers heard. Buccesaful when all
remedies fail. Write far book of proof*
49 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
[FREE.
w
&
p*
%lr
' S3*
EST on EARTK
Sole Agents—
Allt’s Brewing & Wine Ss Spirit Co., Limited.
LADIES 1
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 103. and 20s. per box
post free.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY —
* I*rice Waru-ng,’
Prom The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller j or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. 10d.
in stamps.
Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Fill-street to
Castlereagh-street),
Between King A Market St».
SYDNEY.
I
ES
IN THE YEEY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
HSWS 0OME[, Manageit,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
CS±l4
*
PATENT
PILLS.
.
F
*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorder,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
In twenty minutes. Every
iufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable 1
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEEGHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to Work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beeeham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general. Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Gough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es.'fid. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box,
Business Announcements.
EPPS ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COC O A
CROMARTI
V.O
CROMARTY >
Whisky:
OCCNir.Es brothers
V.Q.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
Sco
IE
Whisky
DRINK
“IP
pur
WHISKY-
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
‘A Golden Shinty.’
PRICE: TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
Dr. LUTHER B. TYSON’S
VEGETABLE CURE
FOR
DRUNKenness bit
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures Guaranteed. The Only Remedy which
can be taken at Home with Certainty of Success.
SANATORIUM TREATMENT
if desired, every comfort and Privacy. No padded
rooms, locked doors or restriction.
PRIVATE TREATMENT.
Our visiting physicians call at patients’ own home*
and give regular treatment. No publicity,
HOME TREATMENT.
For the convenience of patients living at a distance
we furnish Home or Self-Treatment, sent to any
address free from observation.
In all forms of treatment we place no restraint upon,
the patient,he is-permitted to keep on using liquor
but the treatment Stops the Alcoholic Crave or
Desire in from 6 to 24 hours.
BOOK giving full particulars and colonial references
posted free. Address (Secretary^' —
IX. F rankli ml,
Scott Chambers, 96 Pitt-street, Sydney.
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermlo
Injections Given.
WMrosFs
&
\
c
C^Lofl
(35
THE ONLY
RELIABLE
rpms valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
JL and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to si it 'a their eyes. Highly
recommended by the i; ading Oculists.
Manufactured Only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
fcW Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILES.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
And Foster Motliers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. UADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms: 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
d
y
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 15s. (id, per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for th«
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &0., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
drugs.
Late-House Surgeon, Great
N'thn. Hospital, Lond.
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,’
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
(Jualifioa-
. tions.
Dr.
M. PERRY,
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
Varicocele
Tumors and all
"Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in : private and hospital
practice,-for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the Cody. He supplies a Genuinb
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.rn. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS
m
£
e
4
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC BELT
m
-Cn\
\Mr>
-1
' M
\v
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and. Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days -trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened’parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address ;-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
<
f
>
V
$
0
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion. Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.


Preaorlptloxiß
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,*
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps,
Address —
s. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
"TWTOTICE.— Advertisements for Current Week
mTTwon nnot be reoeived LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Whisky.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents; CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone 973.
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Creeds
—AND—
cuTXjEirsr
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms:
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
e<
THE LAST OE SIX;
99
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
ERISTEST IE 1 .A. VJE32STO,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton o£_KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
bitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Pishing Parties, specially
suitable for P'amilies.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c„ BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. 7... Proprietress.
Look out for 11 The Last of Six.”
A
ZSJ
m
&
o
O
o
<RAck;asoCK>
-s*
o
Ci
o
o
-i
V
B. A. Hervey, Agent, 144 €lareuce-st, Sydney.
///
*
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Scbbr Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Mill.
•3M
Knowles’ Pumps.
PARKE & LACY GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS
&0., &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3NT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
(LIMITED).
Rock Breakers.
Westlnghonsc Engines.
it
))
r
a :
-r?f-
Cot'l'pjiT
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURB.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with , DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMINO Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street " , " u > ora "> Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
SHOWROOMS
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
:: \ ;■
m i
mmm
