

mm
$
o
rf*.
ss
ft?
XA
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
Krcjo WA.TK.IK'S & GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sdf
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
PERDRIAU
AND
CO.
Hi
GARDEN
HOSE, &o-
' l,v
ter
270 Cteorge-st., Sydney.
itS'" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised Vorld where
the healing virtues of thes n> g rand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxforb-ST., London. iST" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
It the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious.
P*.
2
o*
/
tHJ
f oP
iP3__,>*:sC—, □
HIM
The Oxford JEJIo-tel, BZiaa-g? S-fcreo-fc, Syc3.xs.ey.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
NEW SOUTH WALES
FRESH FOOD_& IGE CO., L™
JE'ish. I IF’islx ! Fish.!
("AWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents'ln every country town of N.S.W. —as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
£d. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note,— We shall be pleased for country'visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs—Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
$137-. Pateson, Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WEED'S WHISKY. ILLSOFf’S ALE.
JOHN WA.LKBR, 24= BO3\TD STREET, SYDKTEY.
<lF® cj®
Sole Agents ixr New South
HOWARD
Wales for Messrs. Clayton andl Slinttleworth.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
a
WITH HANDLES,
■ ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Hiding 1 .
CLAYJOMU SHUTTLE. WORTH LWCOUE
IMPROVED portable engine.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
19* =
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
(Lightness in fraught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for Ocl. each.
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. OS’ Full Catalogues of Engines. Agricultural Implements ami Harvesting Machinery on application.
j. & O- 1~I! otht - a. ■*" cl, SOOa IF* 11: % Street, Sydimey.
The Bulletin
\ r ol 13.—N0, 092. j
[Saturday, May 20, 1 1893


“ TALES or m CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
-
PRICE - ONE SHILLING-.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
ows
>-EMBROCATION
l/L-.
1/
\f '<5010
everywhere^
3/6
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Pibsse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S.j &g. , Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
V
Cromarty
Witislk
Cnmit se»j
k u* >
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’ 1
—BY—
-4 Price Warung,’
Prom The Bulletin, are now. published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to. any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
beou’s injection.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J, FERRE, ■—
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
K
p
H
O
D
W
*7
T
K
She; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’SI”
He ; “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
MANHOOD.
health , Strength and vigor restored
In Four Weeks by the use of
t) 8 Records
L | ft.
The only InfaHiUe Memedy for DESItTTT.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
.Dr. Iticords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight-
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <t Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N.S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st.,Sydney.
fOR CDNSUM FiTfON USE
/gj.f,HANE Jr Sons
c°$4
/
r s J
i/ s
m
T H E(0 N REEUCALYRTE
extract’ irfflSßSwSi
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Drapery.
,ik
9s
dU*
V%^
$apM*P
THE
JAEGER
TRADE MARK.
ATTENTION of the Public
is respectfully called to the
fact that only goods bearing
the above Trade Mark are guaranteed by Dr. Jaeger to be
genuine and in accordance with his system.
No round Trade Mark is used by this Company.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
LONDON - SYDNEY • MELBOURNE.
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. ... £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Business Announcements.
Sole Agents for Henry Heath.
•»
/Jewry vJeatHS
.TRADE MARK
te oo&
(Sole Agents for Henry Heath.
A Splendid Hat for Boating', Yachting, Lawn Tennis;
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three nhgligA shapes at the will of
the wearer. These Hats are luxuriously lined with Real
Russia Leather; the aroma of which is delightfully
refreshing to the wearer.
G. H. SMITXI & S3O3XT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGS STREET* SYDNEY;
‘Tales of the Convict System,'
BY
“PRICE WAEUNG’ 1
Price, Is.; .... .... per Post, Is. 3d 4
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
"Tla.e Brighton, of ZKTe'w Somtli Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD f ABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KIILIVEIKTSTER ° Proprietress
A. AND J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TtJBES.
Russian
Brand.
sd
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia— "T. JT. IMacWilliam, 297 GEORGE STREET,
Vft
m
m
fs
df
sd
fs
df
(s Always fH&B BSf T
Scale or Advertising
-IN-
ll
THE BULLETI
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ,,
Paragraph Advertisements
jraragrapn Advertisements ... ... ... ros. pei
An extea discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
Gs. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 „ „ .
10-s. per inch per insertion, nett.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
99
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
ZbTEST PAVEITC
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia, That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste,”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


Medical.
DhSPEER
Assisted by' Dr. ELMSLIB,
M. 1),, L.E.P.S., L.S.A., L. M.,’etcj,,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY,
p.o. Bose 020.
Established in im
this gniinent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
of N.S'.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to hirii will deceive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting : no mercury used: A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells Aim that where there is no organic disease, and
hoiking but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed \Vith the
proper reiiiedies ; therefore he guarantees. He claims to
he the ihost skilful and successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, Viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
Of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to aIL
tMlice Hours : 10 to 13 ii.m.; 3to 4 ami
1 to 8 p.lllt
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he. takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In ail coses o
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consul* Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR" PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., Ds., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. Cd.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. Od.
B.—PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 208.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. MODERATE CHARGES.
B. and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. and PERMANENT CUKE.
Mention this paper when tvriting.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
W E STAY at B ruton’s,
WAGG-A.
G-ive E. KTauglitoii
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Ladies' Tea Rooms.
•pE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Strkets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It wi I also be a great boon to Business
Men in i he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of tl.e cup that cheers without inebriating.
«X\VC' Guano Hot^
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
PI
B 6
i 11
wifcUSijfyß.
llli Si
S
MKLBOCKNB.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £1! 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. K. BEK EH, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
0 H > con A MOUSTAOH Ell
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. "¥4
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
R Moustache will result, as surely os night follows day.
Capillarine-lOs. (id., post Free.
<'K I K. «ft AITKI N, Sole Agent*.
®BO and CS2 George Street, HrickHcld Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
1.17 to 168 PALMER STREET.
Medical.
m
r
L.R.C.S. L.M.R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board*
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally Qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young _ and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer ; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous aucl Skm
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This, book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions:—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skm, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, I ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Fi3el-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Fatlents may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint >n th®ir bloody or
weakness, should write to Dr. BUB tOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Ihursday, I riday
_(j,3o a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—ff.3o a.m. to 12 noon. ,
! Motidny, Wsdntjsdfty and fotitiircifty
7 p.m. to !> p.m.
Mr. Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
I eflliiv
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hit
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY - YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. ilis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may bo cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
caB ej send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least 15,000 persons to show their written.evidence
of his success. All communications should bo
addressed :
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
E
Shipping.
7\ N G L A N D VIA
AME RI 0 A
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Capo Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limit cd\
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Frau-
r isco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £O3 and £OO.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and .£57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE ... ... £3O 18s, 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITiMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract w ith the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURKACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 16 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent
A N
nANADIAN-AUSTRALI
STEAMSHIP LINE.
in connection with
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY,
THE NEW NATIONAL SHORT ROUTE,
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE,
via HONOLULU and VANCOUVER, through CANADA
and UNITED STATES, in 32 DAYS,
under contract with the Government of Canada, and
pending negotiations with the Australian Governments.
From Sydney for Vancouver, via Brisbane and Honolulu.
Positively.sailing as follows: —
Leave
Leave, ! Date.
Steamers, I
each 4500
horse-power
Miowera ) Sydney... I May 18
5000 tons, j [Brisbane I May 20
Wnrrimoo ( Sydney .. T- —“
5000 tons, f Brisbane
June 17
June 10
Arrive
Vancouver. Vancouver.
June 10 | June 15.
July 10 i July 15.
Thenceforward MONTHLY.
Making close connection at Vancouver with the magnifi-
cent transcontinental trains of the Canadian Pacific Rail-
way, from the Pacific to the Atlantic without change of
cars. Choice of four routes across the American con-
tinent. „
THROUGH TICKETS, at lowest rates, to San Fran-
cisco and all points in Canada, United States, and Euro-
pean continent, by all Trans Atlantic Lines of Steamers.
ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS by P. and O.
and Canadian-Pacific lines, either via Vancouver or via
China and Japan at special rates. Passengers %ia China
and Japan booked through by the steamers of the
E. and A.S.S. Company and China Navigation Company,
connecting at Hongkong with the Canadian-Pacific Rail-
way Company's magnificent Empress Line of Steamships,
sailing for Vancouver, via Inland Sea of Japan, every
three weeks.
FARE—To or from Vancouver, Victoria (8.C.), Puget
Sound ports, Portland, or San Francisco; Saloon—Single,
£4O: return £6O. Fore-cabin—Single. £2O. WORLD'S
FAIR, CHICAGO.—From Sidney or Brisbane: Saloon,
return, £74.
For rates, maps, guide book, and full inforu alien, apply
to
BURNS, PHILP. and Co., Ltd.,
Managing Agents,
10 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep;
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
S2L™ Kill Scrub Co.’s
DESTBJJCTA NT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
(tST Bathurst Barr, Briar, Lantann, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Ksq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Biowne (Director General
of Forests), and other f killed scientific agricultural
experts.


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
sd
frW” POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLEK, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.' W.
*SI-
-3s
ppi
mnn
> .
Wmm?
<-v
i
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated irt
the Lest suburb cf Sydney. Terms very model ate.
T. BROWN, Proprietor.
I
aif£ s J
,&BEST
TT|d@hm
Before purchasing any other
SEND FOR CIRCULAR OF ask yOUF
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
MOM
JMofinston&fo.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
64 BOURNE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
fs
li’ is & solid handsome cake op
scouring soap which has. no equal
for all cleaning purposes except in
the laundry-To use it is to value it-
What will SAPOLIO do? Why It will clean paint, make oil-cloths
bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new appearance. It will
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour
the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly. The
wash-basin, the bath tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pin if you use SAPOLIO. One cake will prove all we say. Be a
clever housekeeper and try it,
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT ONE SAPOLIO
ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS CO.. NEW YORK.
SOLD BY GROCERS,, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
NEWTON & LAMB.
DlOia-ROOM SUITES.
A LARGE SELECTION
i:<
Walw 'h S ak & Mahogany,
From £9 upward.*.
BEJST VALUE OBTAINABLE.
dfs
BED-RCOU SUITES.
POLISH Kl) PI NR.
£6.Cs., £B, £9, £lO to £lO 10a.
AMRIIIjCAN ash.
£lB, £2l, £23, £3O, etc.
AM EUIC AN WAIiNUT.
‘ £2O, £23, £2B, £32, etc.
*I - "
/
m
u n V
[3 ■ :
ra
df
foe I
n.;
L- „
DRAWING-ROOM SUITE?.
In T.V I' 10STRY,
AM)
Tape try or Coialine & Plush.
At Lowpsl I’lices.
CABINETS, WHATNOTS,
O V Ell M A NTE f.S, etc.
sd
HALL, LIBRARY and OFFICE
FURNITURE.
Fall-front Writing Tables,
a sum; tit:m s.
BOOK-CASES, REVOLVING CHAIRS ,
KTC., ETC.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Pliotogrrapliy !
BAKER & ROUSE,
Manufacturers and Importers of
Photographic Materials Ik Optical Lantern Goods,
AMATEUR
OUTFITS
FROM
£2 sa.
FREE
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
NO TROUBLE
WHATEVER
IT fU
e\ x
. * >& !
-'■N.J'I
• - -„ y
vV- SSHSj&sg^V
Jr v.Ti
w ' . v\v
asa
Ml
««&iv'2V
.V--
as
£ :
rJ '2^’
ffijT, -
; 1
iSkU
SiW
»
PHOTO GRAPHIC?
CATALOGUES.
LANTERN
CATALOGUES.
MONTHLY
CIRCULARS.
POST FREE
ON
APPLICATION
note the ADDitEsg: 37 B 6feorge Street,
(DIRECTLY OPPOSITE SYDNEY ARCADE); and at
256 COLLINS STREET
69 RUNDLE STREET
46 QUEEN STREET
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
Brisbane,
SAY WELL & CO.
/^oEpot^x
(MARVEL)
\T O B A c c.oy
$T
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and G-eneral Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gra>s Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
£3f Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT MAKERS
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
Richards and Darke’s STEAM INDICATORS, Speed Indicators, Counters.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Illustrated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney,
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provenients. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments tor Families. ■
BAI LEY’S
HOTEL
These Hotels contain over 500 Apart-
ments and arc highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums Parks, Colonial
Institute, &“c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Motel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S=W.
Replete with every poss'ble comfort and convenience. f;
JAMES BAILEY, Managing- Director
THE
‘ Plnm’
*p<D
Z
THE
‘ Plum'
nflTIiS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
JL Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
f Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10a Od. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
R eyistcrcd and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra,
role
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, CBO George Street, STDNEST.
“tales of m con vict system.”


The Bulletin
Vo’ IC^c.B9?.
SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1893.
Price, 6d.
fs
A COAT OF MANY COLOURS.
G. ROYALIST DIBBS : “ But I tell you I never wore it that side out !”
(And immediately the cock crew.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
J?'
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt- street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... ... ... 06 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and aeknosvledge in the
1 Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 2000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in' the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers’
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:-if. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by (he Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added fur postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
TjfceTZbi 'tlle&TL.
SATURDAY, MAY 20, 1893.
G. Royalist Dibbs.
One day last week, in New South Wales
Assembly, Traill, M.L.A., made a casual and
absolutely inoffensive remark, to the effect that
Premier G. R. Dikes was, or had been, a Re-
publican. There is no visible disgrace in being
a Republican, nor is there any visible reason
why that should be dishonourable in the men-
tally-abbreviated Dikes which was honourable
in such men of brain and greatness as Kkutus
and Scipio, Cato, Rienzi, Garibaldi, Wash-
ington, Lincoln, Kossuth, and a thousand
other heroes of all ages ; nevertheless, Dikes
arose at once to furiously repudiate any asso-
ciation with this noble company. He was
wounded in his innermost K.C.M.G. at the
statement that he was of the same faith as
Bolivar and Prim, and the semi-mythical
Tell, and denounced it as a falsehood and a
“libel.” This event marks another epoch in
Dikes’ development. Once he either was an
advanced Republican or untruthfully declared
himself to be such ; then he tacitly posed as a
K.C.M.G. newly converted from the errors of
Republicanism ; and now he frantically denies
that he ever professed Republicanism in any
shape or form. And he does this regardless of
the fact that his utterances, made in the days
when he was an aggressive revolutionary who
dragged in the prospective republic at “ inop-
portune ” times and seasons, are ready to rise
up against him in all manner of places. Unless
Dikes can prove that he never was born, and
that he doesn’t exist, but is merely an optical
illusion, his recent proceedings are but a single
remove from imbecility,
« # «
The following are a few quotations from the
old original Dibbs—the one who didn’t howl
with rage when he was remotely associated
with Lincoln or similar low characters; and
the new Dibbs, who now tries to dispose of his
past record by rushing at it madly with his
head, would do well to explain them away at
his earliest convenience. At the Federal
Convention (official report):—
Out of the fullness of the heart of Republicanism came
the.’proposal to subvert the authority and dignity of the
Crown, and to establish the Republic of Australia. That
is vlhat w.e pte coining to, and it is the inevitable destiny
of the people of this great country. I am as much in
touch with the native-born population of Australia as is
any man in the country, and I feel that I express their
sentiments when 1 say that from the germs of liberty
implanted within us by our forefathers spring the aspira-
tions which will forbid us to remain bound in alliance,
except as one friendly nation with another, always with
that respect which should be paid to the people of the
fatherland.
Again he spoke (in N.S.W. Assembly) of :
The views I held in favour of one United Australia, not
as a dependency of any power on earth, but one united
Australia, with a fla" of our own, and able to take our
place among the nations of the earth.
And again :
I speak as an Australian, and as a native born in this
land, and I say that if we are to depart from our present
constitution at all, let it be that we may have a flag of
our own, let it be that the Australian colonies shall be
bound together, and that we shall have a United States
of Australia. That is the future I aspire to as a leader in
this country. . . , We have a future before us which
was well and eloquently expressed by the Premier himself
last Wednesday night. That future is to be accomplished
by the creation of the United States of Australia under
one flag.
Also this :
Australia will be, in the eyes of the world, a state as
vigorous as the United States of America were in the past.
I look forward to the day when that change of Govern-
ment will take place. There is no necessity to sever the
ties which at present exist between ourselves and the
mother country, but the necessities of our national life
will cause us to spring forth from the position of a
dependency on a great power to the position of an
independent state.
These are a few from among a very great
number of the printed utterances of the old
G. Republican Dibbs, Rut there were many
others that were never officially reported, but
which are well-remembered by a cloud of in-
convenient witnesses. At one memorable semi-
public festivity the now K.C.M.G. burst forth
into such vigorous language concerning his
yearnings for the Australian republic that his
present colleague, Attorney-General Barton,
was moved to serious remonstrance. And one
of his very last utterances before his departure
for England, fame, and grovel, was an emphatic
declaration, accompanied by a thud of his mas-
sive hand upon the nearest solid object, that he
would never, under any possible conditions,
accept a title and thereby go back on his con-
victions. Dibbs was a declared Republican in
these days—or else a hypocrite of the most per-
fect order.
« * •
Then he went “home” on his “mission,”
and on his arrival he proceeded from the docks
to London in a third-class carriage with the
stern simplicity of a Republican and a disciple
of the ploughman, Cincinnatus. His entry
to “ the world’s metropolis ” could not possibly
have been more humble unless he had held on
to the buffer of the rear carriage and run
behind. If he had had the good fortune to be
kept at that level all would have been well with
him, and he would have been a Republican to
this day. But London, like Athens of old, is
always craving for a fresh sensation, and Dibbs
chanced to strike it at a dead season when
there w r as no vestige of novelty upon the social
horizon. His experience was the reverse of
that which befell Tawhiao, the Maori King, a
tall and tattooed man who was even better fitted
than Dibbs to take the British metropolis by
storm. But when Tawhiao m ule his entry
into the capital, accompanied by a few friends,
one of whom straightway bought a bell-topper
and slept in it systematically during his stay,
the public mind was absorbed by two very
large and curious monkeys which some murky
Oriental potentate had just forwarded as a pre-
sent to the Queen. And Victoria’s time was
so much taken up by the monkeysthat sheappar-
eutly hadn’t leisure to take any special notice of
Tawhiao, wherefore that old warrior remained
in obscurity. Dibbs, on the other hand, fu rived
at a time when no new monkey or other wild
animal happened to be about, and partly for want
of a wild beast, partly through Governor Jersey's
introductions, and partly by reason of his
splendid frame and his kindly smile, London
suddenly fell upon him and made him a hero.
To some extent he resembled that character
drawn by Riper Haggard, whose “beautiful
white legs” tcok the heart of the Kukuana
nation by storm. It was all a matter of acci-
dent ; he might have slept in his bell-topper in
the fusty obscurity of a fourth-rate hotel, but
by the turn of a hair he received instead an
ovation in the lobby of the Commons, and was
welcomed into the innermost circle of the aristo-
cracy, and was made a K.C.M.G. by the Queen,
and got a big, fat, black cigar from the Heir-
Apparent. Yet, if he.and Tawhiao returned
to England to-day, the Maori warrior might be
feted all over the country, and the K.C.M.G.
might come away unnoticed and disgusted in a
third-class carriage, and his name might be
misspelled on the steamer’s. passenger-list as
G. Dobbs, without anyone noticing the dif-
ference.
* # »
Premier Dibbs went to take England by
storm in the capacity of a wild George
Washington in spectacles, and he failed in the
part because his political faith was founded on
the sand. A celebrated English novelist tells a
piteous story of a watery incipient curate who
attended a riotous banquet, in order to be an
example to the other rioters, and to show them
that the Church could do such things without
getting drunk or making a beast of itself. And
as the natural result a good young man, with a
bashed hat, a swelled head, and an unmention-
able hiccough, was dragged home in the small
hours of the morning and fell heavily against
the door, partly repentant and partly anxious
to sing a sinful chorus through the keyhole.
Dibbs, in like manner, went to England to show
that a stern Republican could move in the halls
of royalty without injury to his faith, and he
also came home with a set of bashed principles
and a “ head ” on him. He was flattered and
caressed until he went hopelessly off his moral
base. He visited Holyrood, and grew maudlin
over the ancient residence of Mary Stuart and
the alleged bloodstain of Rizzio, the deformed
Italian musician. He was taken to see the bed
at Hatfield wherein the long-defunct Queen
Elizabeth rested her majestic bones, what
time she visited her host’s ancestor, Cecil, Lord
Buhghley, and, like a true Republican, he
irreverently poked it with his stick to see if it
was flock or kapok. He was introduced to royal-
ties, and taken round to feudal castles,
and had venerable ruins pointed out to him,
until he fell into a state of holy reverence for
the country which possessed so much magnifi-
cence, and for its political system, and every-
thing else conuectefl with it. The London
papers —where they gathered their wonderful
misinformation Heaven only knows—took to
describing him as a great‘Australian merchant,
and drew amazing pictures of his stately ances-
tral halls by the pellucid Nepean, arid the great
avenue of willows attached thereto ; and
thereupon Dibbs proceeded to idolise the nation
which could make such enormous mistakes
about the humble residence at Emu Plains. If
he had been received with similar enthusiasm
in republican Paris, he would probably have
returned a more enthusiastic Republican than
ever. As it was, he was converted into a
Monarchist of an aggravated type—converted
by women’s smiles and wiles, and bricks and
mortar, and champagne, and a title, and a
colossal cigar, and by the misdescriptions of his
own house in print,
# * *
Nevertheless, he cannot undo or unsay his
own past. He may, as he now frantically
asserts, have never been a Republican ; but he
undoubtedly said he was one of the most
uncompromising type, or words to that effect.
The change in his position is marked by this
one circumstance : when he assumed the Pre-
miership, The Bulletin hailed him as the first
avowed Republican who had held such an office
in Australia, and he neither repudiated the
statement nor evinced the slightest sign of
indignation at such a misrepresentation. But
to-day, when the unchanged Democrat and
Republican, Traill, offers a similar tribute to
his character, he is aroused to the verge of
frenzy. Yet, if all the palaces of London were
to fall in a heap on the volumes of Hansard,
and his speeches were buried beneath all the
remains of all the public dinners he ate in Lon-
don, still the record would be ineradicable.
The Bulletin recognises, and always has
recognised, Dibbs’ many fine qualities—his
unfailing kindliness, his generosity, his faith-
fulness to his friends, and his forbearance to his
opponents. It owes him a debt of personal grati-
tude, for he aided materially in getting it out
of gaol at a stormy period of its career years
ago. It does not know of one living man who is,
or has cause to be, Dibbs’ personal enemy. And
it even reverences his honesty of purpose, which
has contributed materially to his latest down-
fall. A baser man would have felt no shame at
selling himself for a bauble, and therefore
would never have wasted himself in impossible
efforts to cover his own past. If Dibbs has
betrayed his country, he at least feels an
obvious yearning to hang himself, and thus get
away from his own ignominy. And a political
Judas who was built of commoner clay would
never desire to hang himself. But, all the
same, he was an avowed Republican in the
past, unless he can grind up the past in the
mills of the gods, and start his life afresh. And
as Time will not go back even to save G.
Rovaltst Dibbs from having once been a better
patriot than he is to-day, it is as well to accept
the inevitable in silence.
The Sydney Electric Lighting Grab.
The Australasian Rights Purchase Bill, now
before the New South Wales Assembly, is a
measure which seems to have been so named
chiefly as a disguise, and with a view to putting
the public off the scent. For, in the first place,
it is not Australasian but purely local, and it
doesn’t seriously propose to purchase anything,
but is rather a bald and brazen steal. The
object of the Bill is to give away gratis, as an
act either of charity or corruption, the water-
power of the Colo and Grose Rivers, near
Sydney, to a few private speculators who, so
far as appears, have never done anything to
deserve this extraordinary testimonial from the
nation. The object of these speculators is
(nominally) to generate electricity for the supply
of Sydney—or, more probably, to lie low and
exact tribute from the city Corporation by sell-
ing the concession at an enormous figure. As
the Colo and Grose furnish the only available
and sufficient water-power within a reasonable
distance for the supply of Sydney, the company
which gets—without paying for it, and as a
mere act of dishonesty or foolishness—the sole
use of these rivers doesn’t need to do any work
for the rest of its life. Some day or other, pro-
bably very soon, Sydney must be lighted by
electricity, and then the Corporation, or who-
ever undertakes the work, must buy back the
privilege which is now being treacherously
fooled away, at almost any figure which the
holders like to ask. The chance of levying
backsheesh on a metropolis doesn’t come every
day, and the company—chiefly a Melbourne
crowd, with many very excellent friends in the
Sydney legislature—may be safely trusted to
make the most of it.
« « •
Last session the N.S. W. Parliament passed
half-a-dozen very similar measures, giving away
as many valuable concessions to different bands
of private speculators. In each case opposition
was smoothed over by the assurance that the
proposed undertaking would “furnish employ-
ment to the working classes ”; but as in no
single instance did the concessionaires start any
work, the whole six Bills gave employment to
nobody. The average syndicate, in fact, never
proposes to do any work under such conditions ;
its only object is to get a certain monopoly
at the public expense, and then blackmail
somebody else, on the dog-in-the-manger
principle, who has a use for it. In each case
there was absolutely no stipulation that the
syndicate was to do anything except hang
on and wait for a chance to sell out.
A certain gang of “ buttoners ” in the Assembly
protested with much emotion that the object of
the syndicates, in starting a great public under-
taking, was largely to furnish employment, bu t
the same gang steadily opposed every proposi-
tion for making the work compulsory. The same
hypocritical game is being played in the pre-
sent-instance. The Bill, in its original shape,
simply gave to a private company, for ever,
the power to aid in lighting Sydney with
electricity if it felt that way inclined, or
to stand by and help to prevent anyone
else doing so except on its own terms. And
when the Labour members as a body opposed
the measure they were solemnly reproached, as
usual, for taking the bread out of the mouths
of the unemployed. Yet, it was only by the
most strenuous exertions that the Labour party
succeeded in inserting a proviso that the com-
pany should make even a preteuefc of doing
some “initiatory work”—which may mean
anything of pVactically nothing--under a
penalty of £5OOO, which is probably less than
one per cent, on the value of the concession.
» # •
At present the Sydney Gas Co. and the Sydney
Corporation are scrambling for the right to pro-
vide electricity for the N.S. Wales metropolis.
The claims of the former are being actively
or passively boomed by the daily press, many
of the bosses or influential members of which
are enormously-interested shareholders in the
gas monopoly, and naturally desire to pre-
vent their shares going down to zero. And,
strangely enough, many of the individuals who
approve of the Australasian Rights Bill—which
professes to confer valuable privileges on certain
individuals with an express view to the lighting
of Sydney—also approve strongly of the pro-
posal to confer an electric-lighting monopoly
on the groat Sydney gas-monopoly, which
charges and gets more for gas than is paid
in Melbourne, which has to import its
coal-supply from New South Wales. This
coincidence may mean only that “private enter-
prise ” desires to have two strings to its bow.
Or, on the other hand, it may mean that the
Colo and Grose rivers speculators are ready to
coalesce on reasonable terms with the Gas Co.
should the latter obtain the desired monopoly,
while, on the other hand, they are prepared
either to block the Corporation entirely, or to
charge it so enormous a figure as to make the
speculation practically ruinous. In any case,
the evidence is that the Colo and Grose syndi-
cate has no desire to afford work to anybody,
and only exists for the purpose of selling
out. If it really proposed to carry out its
alleged plans, it is obvious that it and its
friends would oppose all other competitors
to tlie uttermost. And, instead of doing so,
they evidently look on the gas enterprise as a
friend rather than as a rival.
# # #
And even if the great scheme did, as
alleged, afford employment for many deserving
poor—which it certainly will not do, that is
absolutely no evidence whatever in its favour.
The burning down and subsequent rebuilding of
Sydney would likewise furnish employment.
So would the digging of a hole a mile square
and the filling up of the orifice after the work 1
of excavation was finished. Employment could
also be supplied by setting the great multitude
which is out of a billet to walk from Sydney to
Bathurst and back at m much a mile. And all
these things would at least have one merit:
their cost would be ascertainable with reason-
aide accuracy. But in giving away, in per-
petuity, the best and most available water-
power within reach of Sydney, the country
makes a sacrifice which may mean anything or
everything. It may amount to fifty thousand
pounds or a score of millions j the sum depends
entirely on how electrical science developes
in the near future. And, in any case, the con-
cession is worth a large sum even in the
present, and the legislators who give away any
of tire national property without any considera-
tion, and without the slightest visible can sc,
lay themselves open to—let us put it mildly— |
serious suspicions. If anyone could obtain a
reliable return showing how many members of
Parliament, newspaper proprietors, and their
friends or relatives were directly or'indirectly
connected with either the Gas Company or the i
Colo and Grose Rivers syndicate,or how -many
of them had borrowed money from,-or dined
with, or been “ let into a good Thing ” by some-
body interested in one or other of these enter-
prises, it might possibly furnish a whole lot of
interesting reading.
PLAIN ENGLISH,
The Advertlsing Spook.
The spectre of the late Surgeon Beaney, of
Melbourne, champs its jawbones in jubilant
mirth, and snaps 'it&,,skeleton-ribs in bony glee, j
The “ Diamond Doctor’s ” ghost has got aland
of the City Council of Canterbury (Eng.); and
his keenly-thought-out advertising plans have
succeeded beyond all dreams of possible cheap-
ness. The “cenotaph” of the bebaubled little
bloater was unveiled on March Ist, in Canter-
bury Cathedral, with much shabby-genteel
pomp and ceremony, and a subsequent luncheon
for which HenniKeb Heaton, M.P., “stood
Sam,” “as representative of Canterbury and to
some extent of Australia.” How the ghosfyof
the sham author and clumsy, showy suigcoii- - j
his dead sprite, not the living, literary “ghost” ;
of his lifetime—must have grinned when it ‘
heard from Henniker that:—
As a medical author and practitioner, ins name was
second to none throughout the wide continent of Aus-
tralia, and the surgical skill which he attained in the
Crimea was still pre-eminent in the hospitals of Mel-
bourne. , . . As a member of the Victorian Legisla-
tive Council, or House of Leers (!), his name became
associated with many valuable laws for improving the
condition and the health of the town population.
And all this about the magnificent generosity
of a fat, little, vulgar, press-toadying self-
advertiser, whose still - living aiul mostly’
starving brother and sister are in receipt of
parochial relief ! The apotheosis of “Thrift!”
The consistent Fat Man polls his plural-vote
even from the tomb. On the cenotaph we
read this inscription, beneath a medallion
portrait of an idealised Beaney :
The Munificent Founder of the Beaney Institute
And Free Library in this City,
And a Generous Benefactor to its Charities.
Which solemn joke was exploded the very next
day, when the English papers contained a Mel-
bourne cable announcing that the “ Beaney
bequest ” had been appealed against, and warn-
ing the Canterbury authorities not to act under
the Trust. The advertising doctor was too
smart for his native city. He has got his
memorial finished and set up before las beloved
fellow-citizens can close fingers on his cash.
The Dean and Chapter have been bamboo/ded
into premature action, and the Beaney Insti-
tute is, as yet, but a shadowy possibility.
However, the Beaney cenotaph lias gone to
Canterbury Cathedral to stay. Even if Heaney
hasn’t been “ munificent ” be meant/ to lie. They ■
can’t well root out his advt.
■—
The “ Cost to the Country.”
The press estimate of public spirit in Victoria
must lie low indeed, when certain newspapers


can hope to discredit Crown prosecutions by
harping continually on their “ cost to the
country.”' The Age set the immoral fashion
when it first protested against the unsavoury
Premier Building Association trial on the score
of expense. Recently, the same journal threw
out “feelers” in the matter of sacrificing the
prosecution of Matthew Davies to a retrench-
ment policy. The Herald boldly insinuates
that it would have been better to dispense with
the Mercantile Bank case, considering that
a Victoria pays ” more than £3OOO for the pre-
liminary proceedings. There is no pretence of
hiding the real purpose in this flaunting of
figures, which are plainly intended to create a
miserable aversion to Crown prosecutions as
being a burden on the taxpayer. Although
the “ expense ” cry has passed unheeded,
the mere fact that it has been raised is a
sad reflection upon the present state of Vic-
toria. A cry which, by inference and innuendo,
advocates immunity from prosecution for every
alleged transgressor who can afford to run up a
heavy bill of costs, is an awful thing to be
heard in a land which is already suffering from
loss of credit. It offers no hope of a time
coming when Victoria will shake off the thrall
of the°influential “ rotters ” who bought up its
self-respect on long bills during the land-boom.
Crown prosecutions, like all State functions,
involve a disgusting waste of money, but the
same may be said of civil prosecutions, divorce-
cases and all other matters in which the
depredating lawyer runs wild. Bub when
a Grown prosecution is vindicating the right
of the Law to bring a charge of fraud,
on reasonable suspicion, against a titled
individual despite the howls of the fat
boomers at his back —when it is asserting the
fallibility of men who have assumed infallibility
on the strength of “ high official position
such prosecution is not to be deprecated on
paltry financial grounds. If the Melbourne
press wants a just cause of complaint in these
matters, let it complain of the special license
granted to the case for the defence whenever
persons of “ standing ” are brought into court.
Let it call attention to the legal trifling which
disgraces all proceedings against gone-bung
bankers, and enables them to be dragged out to
such a farcical length that the real merits of the
case are lost by the way.
“Professional Politicians.”
Dear Bulletin, —Certain New South Wales
Labour members assert that, were Parliamen-
tary payment abolished, they should endeavour,
nevertheless, to retain their seats. The am-
bition is laudable, the act is possible, but that
they should then perform their duties as con-
sistently as now is impossible. Nature would
compel them to adopt the tactics of the
commercial man, who comes late to the House
already wearied with one day’s toil (done on
his own account), and goes away early in order
to recuperate for another. At present the
Labour member comes early and goes away
late; then, he would come late and go away
early. Evidently payment of members, while
securing the regular attendance of the Labour,
or, as he is sneeringly called, “ professional,”
politician, does not, and cannot, exercise a
similar influence over the ‘ 4 commercial ” poli-
tician. The former performs, the latter neglects,
the country’s work. Noone wouldargue that the
abolition of payment of members would cause
the commercial member to attend more fre-
quently ; everyone will admit that it would
cause the “professional” politician to attend
less frequently. It might also, probably would,
open the door to corruption. Men are best
made honest by placing them beyond the reach
of want. But, letting that matter stand aside
for the present, surely the logical deduction
from what has gone before is not that a course
should be taken which would have the effect of
expelling the hitherto-regular attender or
making his attendance less frequent, but that
something should be done to eliminate the
man who takes up politics merely as a
diversion from business, and who, growling
that pay is necessary to those who do all the
Parliamentary work, does little himself while
just as unfailingly pocketing his salary. The
“ commercial ” politician must go. He can only
be got rid of by retaining payment of members
and increasing the number of “ professional ”
politicians.—Yours, G. Black, Parliament
House, Sydney, 14th May.
Be a “Gentleman One.”
The frequent trouble re two “Gentlemen One,”
cropped up on Friday in Sydney Supreme
Court, and was settled as the troubles of the
fraudulent lawyer always are settled by his
indulgent brethren of the guild. In the one
case, a solicitor had been entrusted with the
duty of collecting a life-insurance policy, and
peacefully used the funds of his bereaved client
for his own purposes. His defence was that
when he did so, he expected presently to receive
sundry large sums, which would enable him to
make good this glaring breach of trust, but the
said large sums failed to turn up. No evidence
was adduced to show whether there was any
vestige of truth in this flabby excuse ; and even
if there was, the situation was exactly the same
us that of the bank-clerk who embezzles the
cash in the expectation that he will presently
get, to cover his defalcations, various large
sums by betting on a horse, or by backing
GRXSTO to smash Murphy. Nevertheless, the
law blasts the bank-clerk with five years’ gaol
uud calls him a thief, whereas it only sus-
pended the solicitor for six months and
didn’t call him anything. At the end of six
months, therefore, the solicitor, on paying up—
Perhaps by robbing someone else —can resume
his devastating career and prosper, and be a
gentleman by Act of Parliament as before.
Ihe other case concerned a lawyer, who
seems to have bolted, or gone amissing, or be-
come absent, leaving unaccounted for £l6o—
him to pay off a mortgage. In this instance
the court struck the patient off the rolls,
so that if he wants to practise again in New
>-outh Wales he will have to do so under the
cover of some other legal person’s name, and
die law, in its bowelless thirst for vengeance,
thus puts him to the expense of a new door-
plate. Also, he was “ordered” to pay the
money, but as he is apparently gone the order
doesn’t seem a very consoling circumstance. If
he were a clerk or a butcher, or anything at
all except a lawyer, his absent-mindedness
would probably lead to his being described as
an “absconding embezzler,” for the criminal
code jumps at reckless conclusions concerning
persons who are not lawyers; and instead of
publishing an order to the empty air that he is.
to come hack from wherever he is and pay up, a
warrant would be issued for his arrest; and the
settling - up process which the court now
orders would then be described as “compounding
a felony,” The law, however, exists apparently
for the purpose of protecting legal thieves and
highwaymen. The legal thief isn’t grabbed by
a policeman like other men ; he is only invited
to “ show cause,” whereby he gets abundant
time to skip to Chili with the stolen money, no
one hindering him. He isn’t shoved into a dirty
dock, and entered in the charge-sheet; but even
his name is suppressed as long as possible, and he
is described vaguely as a “gentleman one.”
When the case is proved against him he is, at
the worst, simply abolished as a solicitor,
which his defending counsel plaintively de-
scribes as “taking away his living’’—which,
as already shown, it really does not do. More-
over, when the bank-teller gets eight years for
a deficiency in his cash, he is effectually
abolished as a banker, for no bank ever engages
him again ; yet no one suggests that the loss of
his “living” is sufficient punishment. Also,
the law practically forces the public to employ
the solicitor in many positions of trust, and
guarantees him as a “ gentleman,”'and this very
fact makes his offence all the worse. Until the
perennial “ gentleman one ” is sent to Berrima
like any other callous swindler, justice is a lie
and its administration is a corrupt thing.
Also, “re a gentleman one’’these two items
are worth comparison ;
Hobart, Friday, The
Chief Justice, to-day, refer-
ring to the case of C. E.
Fbathbrstone, solicitor,
stated thathehaddefrauded
his partner, Ellison, and
had used money placed in
his hands as a trustee,
therefore he did not deserve
to continue in a honorable
profession, and must be
struck off the rolls.
Alfred Harper, 47,
labourer, was charged be-
fore Mr. W. Johnson, S.M.,
at the Central Police Court
this afternoon with having
stolen articles of clothing
valued at £2, the property
of William Morrison. When
arrested by Constable Bil-
son he said that he was
hard up and starving, and
took the things in order to
get some food. Prosecutor
stated that yesterday after-t
noon he met the accused on
the stairs leading from his
workroom with the articles
in his possession. He was
fined £2, or 21 days.
Sydney “ Daily Telegraph ” on Private
Enterprise.
The Sydney Telegraph, in its issue of May
12, publishes a vociferous and whole-souled
article on the blessings of private enterprise
and the horrors of State or municipal inter-
ference therewith. The following extracts
show the general direction of this outburst:—-
The Council of Manly is one of the three seeking to
make this perilous departure, It proposes to ask powers
to borrow money for the provision of a ferry service in
opposition to that of the company now in operation, and
it also proposes to hand over the civic rates as security for
the loan, , . .On fours with this scheme is that pro-
moted by the Municipality of North Sydney, which is at
present considering a proposal to borrow a large sum of
money with which to go into business as a purveyor of gas
in opposition to the company now supplying the residents
with light. If anything, this is a worse case of contem-
plated blundering than the other. . . . The Corpora-
tion of Sydney in asking Parliamentary powers in the
Electric Lighting Bill, to enable them to supply the
citizens with private as well as public light, must be re-
garded, being the elder civic institution, as the chief
offender in this movement. . . . Here, again, it is
proposed to start a concern in rivalry with a company
supplying the citizens with gas, and it is furthermore pro-
posed that the corporation should be invested with a
monopoly—though the days of monopoly are over—in the
supply of the new illuminaut in our homes as well as in
our streets.
All this and much more of the same kind is in-
teresting reading, but it is hideously bad logic,
and diametrically at variance with the experi-
ence of the most advanced municipalities in the
world. Also, there are sundry points about it
which deserve some little comment. The Tele-
graph states that the Sydney Corporation is
the “chief offender,” but instead of attacking
the “chief offender” first it makes its
earliest and most vigorous assault on the
little outside municipality of Manly. The
trouble at Manly is that the local
ferry company, by largely increasing its
fares and diminishing its facilities for travel,
has made it necessary for the corporation to
start a service of its own to prevent the ruin of
the little town through sheer isolation and in-
accessibility. And the most remarkable feature
in the case is that Mr. J. R. Carey, Chairman
of the Telegraph’s board of directors (a con-
spicuous member, by the way, of the historical
syndicate which wanted to acquire the Sydney
trams), is, or has been until lately, a very large
shareholder in and a director of the same
local ferry company which Mr. Carey’s paper
is holding up with such desperate energy.
There is, of course, no earthly reason to suppose
that the Telegraph, in its literary capacity,
was acquainted with Mr. Carey’s Port Jackson
speculation, or that it would have perverted
the truth to help Mr. Carey’s interests if it
had been so acquainted, but still this accidental
booming of a big shareholder’s private business
is a most unfortunate circumstance. The paper
then proceeds to denounce municipal electric
and gas-lighting as a “monopoly ” —as if any-
thing could be a monopoly in which every indi-
vidual in the community has a share ; and such
a hideous perversion of fact and grammar
would, in view of the foregoing facts, go much
better if accompanied by an assurance that
nobody closely or remotely connected with the
Telegraph was in any way interested in
the joint-stock monopoly which now inflicts
its sickly glimmer on the city of Sydney, or in
any of the syndicates which want to monopolise
the electric-lighting of that dark metropolis.
This assurance is wanted chiefly because the
Telegraph is a victim of so many unhappy
coincidences. It professes to support payment
of Parliamentary representatives, bub it wails
at every opportunity that, though the principle
is good, the practice has been a failure and
should be abolished, and then people suddenly
recollect that Mr. Reginald Black, one of its
directors, is a shining light of the National
Ass which desires to see payment of members
/entirely wiped out. Also, the Telegraph
supports Liberalism in the abstract, and booms
everything in the way ,o.f monopoly, bigotry,
or retrogression in the concrete, and nearly
every time it does this some shareholder, or
ex-shareholder, such as ‘-‘Yours, G. Pile/' 5
writes to the paper to whoop for the same
Toryism that is whooped for in the leading
article, and then ignorant outsiders, who don’t
know what a Chinese wall separates the literary
from the commercial department of the paper,
fancy that he wrote or inspired the article. The
moral of all which is that no shareholder should
be allowed to write to his own paper. He should
always write to the other paper,
The Sydney Daily Telegraph, in a wild, weird
howl about the horrors and ruin which.must
arise if the corporation of Sydney undertakes
the lighting of the eity, remarks sorrowfully
that such schemes are “ strangely fatuous,” that
a pernicious principle will be established,”
that it will “ inevitably ” lead to “ difficulties
and possibly disaster,” and that to “private
energy ” belongs “the exclusive right of specu-
lating in gasworks,” In reply to which The
Bulletin hereby offers a few valuable
statistics on the subject. In the United
Kingdom there are, by latest available
estimates, 2,200,000 gas-consumers, of whom
exactly one-half are supplied by “private
energy,” and the other half by gas-works
owned by the various municipalities. The
municipalities supply gas at an average
rate of fivepence per 1000 feet less than does
“ private energy,” They are estimated to pay
5 per cent, higher wages, and yet they return
to the community 6J per cent, on the capital
invested. Therefore, the idea of municipal
gas-works is neither new nor fatuous nor ruin-
ous, and no “ pernicious principle ” is going to
be established ; and the Telegraph, if not a
personally -interested critic, is plainly too ignor-
ant to know what it is writing about,
Only the other day that simple-minded, whole-
souled Single-tax enthusiast, Frank Cotton---
he was “a shearer” then, and was keen on
conserving all “ natural opportunities ” for the
citizens as a whole—pranced through Sydney
at the head of a strike-procession in a som-
brero, red shirt, and moleskin pants, Mr,
Cotton posed well then as a friend of the
crowd. Now, his name appears on the list of
those who voted for giving a Melbourne gang
the sole right of using the Colo and Grose
waters for generating electricity for the lighting
of Sydney, After this, The Bulletin will
not be surprised to see the shoddy Cotton
vote for giving the Sydney Gas Co, electric-
lighting rights in opposition to the citizens as re-
presented by Sydney Corporation. The Labour-
party had better wash their hands of Mr. Cotton.
The plea that “ the syndicate ” has spent
much money in investigating this power-
generation scheme, is worthless. They didn’t in-
vent the world-wideideaof utilising water-power,
and even if they did they would have no more
equitable claim to a monopoly of the right than
they would have to. a hundred years’ lease of
any goldfield they might discover, The plea
that the syndicate may justly be ceded the
water-rights, inasmuch as these have never
been applied for by Sydney Corporation, is also
worthless—for why should Parliament despoil
the citizens of a great money-saving power and
hand them over to the thrall of a band of greedy
speculators simply because on one hand the
Sydney aldermen have been slow to perceive the
value of a locally unique “naturalopportunity ”
(listen, O Cotton, “ natural opportunity”), at
which, on the other, the gang have been quick
to snatch ? However, the job is almost perpe-
trated, Next Friday night will see the gang
hang round the lobbies in a sweat of nervous
expectancy ; and they will leave the House
either to kick themselves in semi-suicidal
chagrin or to gleefully throw up their hats and
swim in champagne. Which is it to be?
♦
Within the last week about 20 correspondents
have written in a loud tone of ink to Sydney
Telegraph demanding that payment of mem-
bers be abolished in N.S.W. in order to
“restore” purity and decorum to the local
Legislature. The loudest of them all is Epps,
of Epps’ Cokum, secretary to the National Ass,
who says, among other things—
The principle has been so bedraggled |in the mud, and
has caused such a fearful deterioration in our public life,
that it is necessary to forego the whole system to enable
us to get rid of the men who have taken advantage of it.
Take away the £3OO a year and perquisites, and
the gentlemen who “ live on the game ” will disappear in-
stanter. Then we may hope to get good men, who have
the genuine interests of the country at heart, and are
prepared to sacrifice something in its service, and the
people will regain confidence in their representatives.
The Bulletin hereby points out to Mr, Epps :
(1) That the country won’t “regain confidence 55
in the Legislature, for it can’t regain what it
never had, and no one ever had confidence in
the New South Wales Parliament. (2) That
the only party which has never been drunk or
disorderly, which has never sworn or cursed
or fought or blackened anybody’s eyes in the
House, or been arrested by the Sergeant-at-
Arms, or taken part in rolling a log-bill, or
been expelled for general hoggishness, or filed
its schedule under dishonest circumstances, or
been a “ red-hot, burning brand of shame,” or
had roads made through its land at the public
expense, and the only one which has refused to
take a billet at a big salary on the Works
Committee, and which hasn’t taken any
Government job whatever, is also the only
one which owes its existence solely to
payment of members—namely, the Labour-
party. Therefore, the only semblance of party
honesty or decorum in the miserable Legisla-
ture is owing to payment of members and to
nothing else. (3) That every member—and
there are many—who has made a beast of him-
self in public, with one solitary exception, was
in Parliament before payment was introduced,
and is the product of that gratis system which
Epps wants to see restored as the only means
of saving the country. Therefore, the disgrace
and blasphemy and fraud and general deteriora-
tion of the House is distinctly owing to non-
payment of members in former days. (4) If
£3OO a year were also taken away from Epps
he likewise would disappear, and give place to
some one who was prepared to “make
sacrifices,” &c. Epps doesn’t work gratis.
And, by-the-way. The Bulletin has reason tc
believe that several members of the Ass have
serious .thoughts of materially reducing Epps’
■salary at a very early date.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive,
cit this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Mark Last ” s “‘I have remarked that, when-
eyeraman does me an injustice, vengeance in the shape
ot ill-fortune overtakes him.” We have often heard
such remarks. They are founded on a fallacy, kook
back and you will see that your benefactors also have
been in the main unlucky and have perished miserably.
The world is an abattoirs. Your old male friends—don’t
they mostly come to you after years witli red noses and
broken boots and applications for the loan of half-a-
crown to send an urgent telegram—with tales of ill-health,
reconstructing banks, and busted building societies pre-
sided oyer by teetotal deacons and elders, family affliction
and bailiffs in the house? “A Citizen of C.” (Eng.):
Many thanks. Mike Twine”; A childish, mechanical
story,...“ Karlawoonia”; Idealised in slightly different
form by Henry Lawson in “The Glass on the Bar.” Try
again ...“Will 11.” (Q.): Theme hackneyed
‘A.M.D.”: Wo love not great slabs of ill-digested econo-
lines “ Jim C.”: English military stories are “off our
.... “KonaldD.” (Zeehan): Oft-used argument...
" Sheolite ” (Victoria): Send along an Irish story without
a dog, a pig, or a “dudeen” in it, and we’ll think over
the matter... “A Constant Reader”: “The Chinese
vagrants who round poor females soar.” Did you evei
see a Chinaman soar, or want to soar, or did you ever see
anybody soar round a poor female, for that matter?....
“Toby Twist” : The “specimen” is a tolerably blastifer-
ons youth, anyhow....“ W.E.1.”; You aren’t a poet.
The spectre is willing, but the beef isn’t robust...
“Pol.” ;We hereby print chapter I.: “Good day, Alf !”
“Hullo, is that you?” “Yes, good-bye?” “When do
you leave?” “ May 1.” “ Come inside !” “All right!”
“Have some tea?” “Thanks.” “ Have some bread and
beef?’ “Thanks.” “There’s no butter nor sugar.”
“Nevermind.” The thrill begins to die out after that,
“T.B.M.” (Neutral Bay): Uninteresting, and the
mosquito.yarn looks like a glaring steal ...“M, Hayes”
(North Shore): You have a gigantic literary stylo, which
is altogether too vast for this paper “ A.C.F.” ;
Far below your usual standard ~ “ M.R.F.” : Tho
“ Spirit of Sicesh ” wasn’t muoh of a “Confederate war-
song ’ at the best, and your parody rn it is awful
“Ahriman”; Thanks.... “ J.A.A.” ; Your theory of
occultism is simply fiat it is not occult; that man has
senses in embryo, the functions of which are, as vet,
imperfectly exercised by vicarious organs. The “ex-
periences” you cite are neither extraordinary nor in-
teresting, Can you smell the onion-fragr nee of some
notable and defined future calamity, and prophesy it
beforehand?... “J. A. W.” (Kempsey - , N.S.W.) : To'fie
evaporating pan....“W.”; Which end of the rhyme—
“ lose ” and “ news ” —do we “ choose ” or “chews” ‘1....
“Tony” : “A good idea clumsily sung.... “ W.C.”
(Corowa, N.S,W.); You’re not the only numbskull who
can’t fathom "Scotty the Wrinkler,” There are two
sorts of experts in lunacy—the doctor and the patient.
You are not a doctor.... “H.E.P.” (Balmain, N.S.W.);
Sour pap “Ardell ” (N.S.W.): Addle... .South Aus-
tralian ’’ ; Thanks. Will note..,. “ Gains ” ; Thanks.
“A.S.” (M.L.): It has been more effectively said in prose,
..“ Frank L.” (Darlinghurst): Hash-up of Anglo-Indian
“love-and-war ” novel, Australia doesn’t grow men with
such pretty names, anyway ~.“C. Manton ”; Agent-
General Samuel’s being a shareholder and director in a
bank, cannot, by any process of reasoning, he made more
questionable from an official standpoint than a Minister
of the Crown’s being a shareholder and paid director of a
daily newspaper, subsidised with Government advertise-
ments .. “Paddy” (N.Q.); The U.S.A. would declare
war with Australia if Inn Bulletin rhymed “Chicago”
with “ 5ag0,”.... “ Sliprail ” (Q.); Greatly to the credit
of the dead men in Toowong cemetery that they did not
arise and vote for Oonmack “Black Bottle”: (1)
Gladstone was born at Liverpool (Eng.) on Dec. 9, 1809.
(2) Fog is a dense, damp vapour, or a cloud of dust or
smoke, as may be ; mist is rain in very minute and (to the
vision) imperceptible drops. If you like, a mist is a wet
fog, and a fog is a dry mist., ..“S.S.S,” (Forbes, N.S.W.);
Distinctly doddering “ J.T.M.” (Wanganui, M.L.): By
a policeman’s “stripes” man is not healed ; he was a decent
officer to give the spieler “ free legs ” to repent with
“ Scraps ” : Thanks...." Jabez ” : “ Who is the Fat Man
that we prate about ?” Well, he is mostly the fellow who
lives on commissions and percentages, and has managed
to own the earth ... “ (Taimvorth): The V.B. Co,
state cheque was returned on 6th inst “Cain”: We
would like to see you. Judging by the awful ferocity of
your story, and the blood and broken bones, we take yog
to be a watery little man with wisps of colourless hair
and a faded blue eye, Most ferocious writers are like
that... “ Gideon Sloe ” (Adelaide): You suffer from in-
volved drivel and bloated circumlocution, and have an
impediment in your volumiiiousness. Also, you have no
story to tell, and you don’t tell it “ Yarrevah”; “ Bob
Harden ” is the old, old prodigal dragged out in a long
continuity of bathos. “ Jackson and Party ”is a bright
idea, also suffering from undue elongation “Joker”
(Tumut); We print a sample of your horror as a warning
that poison is laid here for poets:
Dick, you remember how they used the blackfellows.
How unmercifully they were slain ;
Dosed their flour with arcenic,
Then about grog-sellers complain,
Haven’t we seen them lying on the river-bank,
Bloated like a poisoned dog.
The night befor they were well and merry,
Enjoying their native song.
“Nemesis”: We can get along very well without
legal torture. No man is a brute—save the soi-disant
educated person who thinks he can lash “ the lower
orders ” into civilisation “ L.” : The first contract of
the bullet-proof tunic co. should be to build for the Czar
a full court-suit—“ Cygnet” (S.A.): Yes, it’s a fair
deal, and shareholders or their nominees may see the
drawing “ Croraurra ” : Touching story of sisterly
sacrifice, but so old, so very old. (2) It pays., Ouawe”
(Carterton, M.L.): A stupid yarn disfigured by too much
Union Jack and “ Rule Britannia.” “Percival G
The dignity of the hon. member for Chump’s Squash or
places like that, is too big a thing to be trodden on with
impunity —“Billie Kahn” : Your country editor is a
reminiscence of Besant’s Gilead Beck, and Max Adeler’s
Colonel Bangs, and Mark Twain, and many other country
editors “L. 0.”: You are feebly and bow-leggedly
orthodox. We can’t spare room for a poet who has noth-
ing to say except that man must be ’umble and have
faith “Nardoo” (Monteagle) :It isn’t a love-story;
only a stutter story “James G : We print as much
of your poem as can be printed without raising an insur-
rection :
Come lauson man
Were your Branes
that games as hold
As the hills and dales
that giving rashings
is their ource
But stop it at wanee
And bread something worce
fancy fore or five thousand
Able bodied men
forling on the goverment
for Suport what then
. .. “ Warwick ”: Phil. Beck shot himself on board a
steamer on his way to England “ Eno No N.S.W.
Labour-member has yet become insolvent, anyhow,.
“Diver”: The Bulletin makes no recommendation in
the matter.
♦
A Brisbane (Q.)bank now employs a male
Kanaka instead of a charwoman.
N.B. Wales Naval Artillery Volunteers
(nominal strength 200) costs the country .£3200 a
year; Naval Brigade (300 men), £lBl4. At drill,
the two forces are lumped as one battalion under
one (shall we say?) General. Yet this miserable
“naval army ” is saddled with two bands—“four-
and-twenty men and five-and-thirty pipers!”—
five (or more) surgeons, one captain, three com-
manders, 10 lieutenants, 14 sub-lieutenants, seven
midshipmen, and goodness knows-how-rnany petty
officers —
We don’t want to fight, hut by jingo ! if we do,
We’ve got the officers, and bands, but not the blessed crew.


Jpeutsch- Jlit straltech c flast
Ersoheint Jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis 3c t.
Zu haben bei alien Zeitungs-Agenten.
Abonnement 10 ?h. jahrlich direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing Offi.ce, 26 Hunter Str., Sydney.
WHEN ONE FEELS THE NECESSITY
Of using a diuretic, it is highly desirable that he
should resort to Wolfe’s Schnapps. Buy whole
bottles.
Ayer’s Pills are always ready for use. Tl e T arc
sugar-coated, easy to take, and sure to bring relief
and cure. They are effectual in all diseases
caused by disorders of the stomach and digestive
organs.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ East Lynne."
Lyceum “A Million of Money.”
Criterion “ The Late Lamented,”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ The Slaves of Sydney.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ The Vicar of Bray.”
Alexandra Variety Show.
A voice of lamentation the screech
of the ungreased wheel of pathos revolving on
the axle of maudlin sentiment —-the note of the
London Journal crying dismally in the wilder-
ness where the wild slush grows—these are the
prevailing features at Sydney Majesty’s where
“ East Lynne ” has lifted itself up and refuses to
be comforted. “ East Lynne ’’has one, and only
one, recommendation : when it is acted and
staged in the excellent fashion which prevails
at Mr. Rignold’s establishment it is always a sure
financial success. It appeals to that large and
moist section of the community which likes its
grief neat; and is.beloved of the slavey who sits
in the twilight with her hair down, and her frock
wide open at the back, and her trodden-down
shoes flapping among the cinders, reading about
the beautiful nobleman who is continued in our
next. Also, it is held in profound reverence by-
the flabby matron wholets the dinner burn and the
baby choke upside-down beneath her arm while
she sheds a greasy tear over the murder in the
haunted tower. It is morally unwholesome in a
certain greeny-yallery fashion which is peculiarly
its own ; there are reminiscences about it that are
faintly suggestive of the odour of a damp prig
accompanied by an old, unventilated gamp,
or a- saint who badly wants to be aired.
When the writer of this accidentally comes
in contact with the fusty bag in which the soiled
linen is accumulated for washing-day, he is always
reminded of “East Lynne”—probably because
the drama is also’fusty. Also, on one occasion,
when he visited an hospital and met someone
carrying an amputated leg beneath his aim, his
thoughts immediately recurred to this drama
—he doesn’t know why. The bright spots of
the piece in the present instance are principally
Miss Lilia Wilde, who looks nice, and is no more
maudlin than is absolutely necessary, in the part
of Lady Isabel; Miss Hilda Spoug, who does her
best with the indefinite and foggy personality of
Barbara Hare; and Miss Ansteail as the gaunt
Roman female, Cornelia. The male characters in
“ East Lynne” don’t amount to much. A police-
man has been introduced, in order that Mr.
Sweeney may leer comically at the cook, and
Messrs. Hazlilt, Norman, and a railway collision
are the other leading features. The last-named
plays its part intelligently, but its failure to-
abolish Lady Isabel before she comes back to
maunder over her dying child is a public calamity.
The present writer is going to re-write “ East
Lynne ” some day when he has time, and kill
Lady Isabel in the prologue, and hang Richard
Hare on a false charge, and leave Barbara Hare
out altogether, and make the villain elope with
Cornelia, who will afterwards take to drink and
be sent up by Justice Hare for seven days.
** * *
The “ Slaves of Sydney,” perpetrated on
Saturday at Sydney Royal by Dam pier and a
number of talented accomplices, is principally re-
markable as being a vast discrepancy in five
separate anachronisms and a good deal of scenery.
The general impression it leaves behind is that
somebody crammed the Newgate calendar into a
gun, and then fired it off, and that the weapon
scattered disgracefully. It also creates a vague
idea that it was composed by a person of unsound
mind, and the MS. was afterwards lost on the
tram-line, and brought home by a dog, and wiped
on the grass. The story begins by two spielers
waiting for a “mug ”at Redfern station. One of
them isn’t himself, but another fellow, and the
“mug” is a detective with an eye-glass and a lisp.
The said detective is on the trail of this same pair,
and his method of tracking them consists in letting
them steal his baggage and all his money. He has
a letter of introduction to Jawbone Neild at the
Deaf and Dumb Asylum. Later on, the principal
swindler —the one with the belltopper and the
stony smile—meets the brother of the man he is
impersonating, and the brother doesn’t even sus-
pect that he isn’t the right individual. A man
like that couldn’t be trusted to identify his
own feet. The said brother is in love with
Miss Lily Dampier, and she remarks that it is
“ very strange he should love an Australian girl.”
Seemingly, Miss Lily is under the impression
that an Australian girl is a wild animal. Her
mother, meeting the aforesaid lover, after a long
separation, rushes at him and tells him first of all
about the land-boom, which is naturally the first
thing that any woman would mention under such
circumstances. Later on, the young lady—who
owns a racehorse—bursts forth and states, quite
unaccountably, that her only hope is in the horse
and the detective, though her circumstances are
prosperous, and she doesn’t seem to want a detec-
tive any more than she does a kedge anchor.
• • •
Several acts further on the real
brother is chained up in a cellar having
been kidnapped out of the Australia
Hotel; and the bogus brother brings in
a vessel which, he says, contains 21bs. of gun-
powder and a quantity of kerosene—the two
mixed together probably—and attaches a fuse.
Just here a precocious small boy, who desires to
assist the victim, instead of fetching the police,
walks in and announces that he has come to the
rescue, whereupon the villain ties the pair together
with a rope, lights the fuse, and departs. As the
man’s hands are free, the natural course would be
for him to untie the boy, and for the boy to stamp
on the fuse, but they evidently never think of this.
Then the detective, who is outside, apparently
rushes at the wall with his head, for he comes in
bringing a lot of the premises with him, and puts
out the fuse by the simple process of shaking the
sparks round in all directions. In the last act,
a ruined bookmaker, rendered desperate by
having .£50,000 at stake, attempts to nobble the
racehorse by the chaste and elegant process of
running after it on the high-road in open daylight,
probably with the intention of belabouring it with
a poker. He is short, fat, and elderly, but never-
theless he prevents himself overtaking the animal
with the greatest difficulty. “ The Slaves of
Sydney” ends about here. Messrs. Dampier,
Leston, Plimmer and a Chinaman are the principal
cheering circumstances in the production, the rest
of the company seeming to be troubled with in-
digestible crime lying heavily on its chest—all
except the heavy father, and he is afflicted instead
with an accent which sometimes shuts up alto-
gether and at other times opens out like an
umbrella. The one really understandable feature
in the drama is the series of whacks which Mr.
Rqlfe is heard administering, with his brolly, to
Miss Julia Merton in the wings. The lady isn’t
seen after that ; presumably she is lying insensible
somewhere.
** * *
“ A Million of Money ” continues to boom
with a great boom at Sydney Lyceum. Further,
it deserves ‘its success, for it is vastly superior to
the ordinary run of melodrama; and the company
is so good, and the way the clergyman orders the
penniless hero out one moment and falls into his
arms the next, because he has inherited a big for-
tune, is so natural, and the manner in which Mr,
Howe falls down dead expresses the public senti-
ment so exactly, that its success is assured. Also,
Miss Henrietta Watson’s rendering of the siren
with the notching smile and the eyes that lead the
gilded chappie to his undoing is a sermon in
itself —a sermon on the downfall of “Joe’’ Clarke
and all his tribe. If Miss Watson were to waste
her brightest smile on “Joe’’with a mercenary
object, there could be only one result —a bloated
and ruined old man would presently be found in
the Yarra, and an accommodating coroner’s jury
would fix up a verdict that he fell in on his way
home from a temperance-meeting.
** » *
“ Walker, London,” remains in evidence
at Sydney Criterion, apparently to the public
satisfaction, but an evident tendency to throw the
half-brick of scorn at “ Tears, Idle Tears ” has led
to the withdrawal of that solid trifle, and “ In
Honour Bound ” now fills its place. Next Satur-
day “ The Late Lamented ” goes up for the first
time in Sydney.
** * »
Harry Rickards, having been duly audited
by the public and found correct, continues to re-
construct every night at Sydney Tivoli in the
presence of an enthusiastic gathering of depositors.
“ Br-room-de-do-dum,” which received a passing
allusion last week, has distinctly caught on. The
Gettysburg Cyclorama is also reported to be feel-
ing pretty well.
** * »
Fitzgerald’s big circus is cd to be
steadily approaching Sydney, and the roar of the
big lion is audible in the distance. The animal is
expected to arrive and be fastened by his mane to
the wall on Monday, 22nd May, when the season
begins at Redfern. The circus has lately increased
a great deal in size, and includes, among other
items, lady and gentlemen riders, tumblers,
gymnasts, trapezists, vaulters, jumpers, jugglers,
contortionists, convnlsionists, clowns, six white’
ponies, the “Bernhardt team,” purchased from
the only Sarah when she fled these shores, and
“Commodore,” the famous trick pony. This
latter animal is reputed to be of such surpassing
intelligence that he once started a bank, took in
the money with his tail, suspended payment, and
reconstructed with a capital of six millions.
** * *
Circumstances prevented the coming off,
or coming on, of the new opera at Melbourne
Princess’s on Saturday last, and “LaCigale,” is
running its second week to robust business. The
general effect of this always handsome show is
more brisk and festive than formerly. A jealous
prima donna in her wrath ought, of course, to
be a rather solemn circumstance, but Violet
Varley’s lack of strength in the strong parts
counts little or nothing against the evening’s
amusement, for the reason that the English plot
of “ La Cigale” is as false as a carefully-audited
balance-sheet. The little lady is very light
and winsome in the first act, and the
troubles that come upon her are felt to
be only little troubles which need not
make anybody feel worried. As for the gloomy
vision, people regard it as a mere managerial
eccentricity. It comes like a shadow, and departs
without making any difference. One would prefer
to find that the sudden darkening of the stage was
an introduction to another serpentine-dance by
Mary Weir; but when stage snowflakes begin to
fall, the non-appearance of Miss W. (who has
kindly changed her green fleshings for white) is a
matter for rejoicing. This is a cold world, but it
likes the serpentine dance to be as warm as pos-
sible. George Lauri contributes largely to the
fun, making the naturally slow part of Uncle Mat
break into a gallop at times. Rosevear, too, is an
unctuous William, and Ida Osborne gives useful
assistance in the capacity of the “industrious
Ant” whose industry is a harmless fiction.
Howard Vernon, as the Duke, is a riotous fire-
work until he hears something awkward about the
wife of his bosom, and then, like the true artist he
is, he becomes sufficiently pensive to encourage a
hope that Ilia moral character will change for the
better. The others are nice, as usual, including
six girls who come along and dance on sundry
occasions. One of them has glorious auburn
hair, and a priceless smile, and the most graceful
of —but this is madness.
* * *
“The Vicar of Bray” will positively
appear, they say, on Saturday next (20fch). But
the new leading lady that was to be has returned
to London after a week’s sojourn in this sunny
land. She was interviewed upon her arrival, and
described as a business-like young person in excel-
lent health and spirits. It would now seem that
Miss Clements was all the time “ prostrated by
bad news of a domestic nature.” A consultation
of doctors, it appears, was held upon the case,
and the faculty pronounced her quite unfit
for the mental strain of theatrical work,
whereupon the prima donna sailed “ with
much reluctance ” by the Orotava. A most
extraordinary case. The action of the doc-
tors in sending Miss Clements straight back
against her’will to the place she came from (and
where domestic affliction awaited her) so that a
change of scene might raise her fallen spirits,
reads rather unaccountable. However, it is a
distressing fact that the lady has gone. Miss
Florence Young will reign in her stead, and Mr.
Joseph Tapley’s well-authenticated tenor voice is
certain to be heard on Saturday, unless he falls
ill, or something, in the meantime.
** * *
Matters elsewhere are sad and weary.
Most of the people who might patronise the
Alhambra have their mpney “locked-up” in a
busted bank, and if the bank wasn’t busted they
couldn’t apply for cash in the face of a raving
legislator who called them “ miserable hounds ”
for wanting it. The mysterious Steins have
come to their last week at St. George’s Hall.
They are giving dark seances, but the present
condition of the public mind is unfavourable to
such things. Three theatres are closed, two or
three of the halls are closed, the Matthew Davies
case threatens to close —in short, very few things
are open and above-board just now.
At Poverty Point.
Dampier’s peculiarity which leads him to say “ liring'a
mea mya horsa!’’ reminds one of Irving’s atrocious
mannerism of elocution where he introduces a frequent
snuffle between his words: “If I had (quack, quack)
served my (quack, quack) God half so faithfully (quack,
quack) as 1 served my (quack, quack) King,” &0., &o.
Irving walks as if he were on three legs instead of two,
and glares like Eyeglass Reid —but there are moments
when he makes you thrill as though ice-cream were
melting on your spine.
Frank Clark did an awful thing at the anniversary
“ social ”of Melbourne Standard. Unaware that he was
bringing contempt upon an influential member of the
proprietary, Frank struck up—
“ Now Clara Parker won her case
’Gainst Mr. Joseph Clarke.”
A capitalist connected with “the family'’ promptly hissed
this blasphemy, and a number of trembling reporters
gave the warbler “the goose” likewise. Frank sang on,
however, until he had got off the appalling information
that plump Jo i was “a soaky man,” and to this day he
doesn’t quire understand why his “ best verse” met with
such an unsympathetic reception at the Standard office.
They say that salaries have been reduced all-round at
the most toney of Australian theatres.
Courtneidge wrote to a Manchester paper about the
institution of theatre-parties in Australia. Tne civil service
youths in Melbourne seems to be still wonderfully jolly.
They had a Princess Theatre party, the other night, with
a regular programme, stars notified to sing from the
auditorium, and what not. Soon the actors will sit on the
stage while the audience performs.
Mr. and Mrs. Essie Jenyns have sold their yacht and
are returning to Newcastle, N.S.W. In two years, say,
Essie (who now has three children) will probably he on
the boards again.
Something is the matter with Snazelle. At both
Bendigo and Warrnambool he lectured his audiences
tremendously, just because the lads did some whistling
to emphasise their demand for an encore. It “ upset his
nerves,” he said ; also, he “wasn’t used to that kind of
thing at his entertainment.” But the gods had their
revenge at Warrnambool. First of all his “Russian
pianist ” got out of order. Then something happened to
his lantern-man, and the new manipulator put half the
scenes in upside-down. One of them was a water fall, and
the picture on the screen had the water going up-hill.
Snazelle stood it awhile, hut at last, in his well-known
angel picture, where Miss Snazelle warbles “ Angels ever
bright and fair,” the limelight-man let a fly settle on the
lens, and it appeared on the screen fair on the angel's
nose. Then the man of music, song, and story almost
burst,
Melbourne returns to its apparently normal state of one
theatre.
The late Dave Wylie, Labour member for North Mel-
bourne, was a manfnever inflated, like some others, by his
position. The night after the election he took his accus-
tomed seat among the Bijou Theatre gods.
Dear Bulletin,— ln last week’s “ Poverty Point” some
mention is made of Paltie Brownie’s “ genius” being de-
veloped by Boucicault. Let ns do justice to the dead. It
was Phil. Beck whocured Pattie to a great extent of her
twang, and gave her a good deal of polishing before she
joined the B. and B. Company.—Yours, Becky Sharp.
Sterling Whyte, the actor, was told hy Divorce Justice
Windeyer last week that he must find funds to enable his
wife to work up a case against him. Sterling replied that
he had no money, and would have to suspend for recon-
struction.
At the recent Wellington (N.S.W.) Show, an amateu r
marksman repeatedly performed the “ William Tell ” feat
of shooting through an apple placed on a boy’s head, but
varied the programme by lastly ploughing through the
scalp and rutting the skull.
A “ Bouse Australia Dramatic Co.”—consisting of four
imported amateurs—sprouted at Warrnambool (Vic.), the
other day, travelled like a scare to Port Fairy, and then
died suddenly without paying much more than the bill-
poster. And yet the chief Bouser wrote the main horror
of the programme “his own very self.” The ’tater-
coimlry of Victoria has gained four valuable labourers.
Harry Lyons (now with Fitzgerald’s Circus) took a suc-
cessful leg-show to Java recejitly. The only opposition
was the phonograph, which proved a severe frost. Harry
expressed his surprise that the phonograph did not
“ take.” An old Dutch resident soon reassured him :“ I
admit the phonograph is a marvel, a wonder, a great
scientific novelty. But”—here he paused and removed
his pipe—“it has no legs.”
E. T. Smith, L.L.’s father, managed Drury Lane during
Brooke’s farewell performances ere he left, after Coppin,
for Australia. This was when Brooke had returned,
after live years in America, and his Drury Lane hit was
tremendous, obliterating Phelps and Chas. Kean, the
cracks of the day. Brooke’s Othello, Virginius and
Richelieu towered above all. But when he returned from
Australia, Dillon and Fechter, precursors of Irving, had
killed his style.
Edward Terry is a passenger by the Ophir to Sydney.
Irving’s gorgeous productions of “King Lear” and
“Becket” are said to have made no money for him.
Beerbohm Tree, too, scored a financial failure with the
much-puffed classical show “Hypatia.” High-class melo-
drama, or a- serious society play, is the only good
“ heavy ” stuff that finds much support in London nowa-
days. In two or three years will come the inevitable
nausea (after surfeit) against variety business, and then
gruesome tragedy will take its boom.
“ When a penniless and hopeless actor feels lonely and
depressed his obvious course is to marry.”
When Anson was nineteen years old, he used to play
five different parts in “ Rob Roy ” for 15s. a week.
lie “ The Vicar of Bray ” and “Ma Mie Rosette,” new
operas for W. and M. “ The Vicar ” is more or less of a skit
on the maudlin schoolboy story of “Sandford and Merton,”
a narrative unknown to Young Australia. “Ma Mie
Rosette ” is as Frenchy. as its title, but some of the
melodies in the English version were interpolated by Ivan
Caryll. There hasn’t been a genuinely successful comic
opera of French parentage produced in London for a long,
long time.
Madame Carandini (then sixteen-year-old Marie Burgess)
first appeared at a benefit concert given in Hobart’ 51
years ago to Mrs. Bnshelle, Vincent Wallace’s sister. She
first met with the Marquis Carandini di Sazano in Sydney,
and married him in 1843. She was the first Leonora wlio
ever appeared in Melbourne in a full performance of “II
Trovatore,” and throughout one season in the early fifties
she sang the tenor parts to Catherine Hayes’ soprano.
H. T. Craven, once familiar in Australia, author of
“ Milky White,” yet survives.
Elliston said the seven theatrical wonders of the world
were—a polite property-man, an honest money-taker, a
leading lady who did not backbite, a sober prompter, a
friend who pays, a walking gentleman who does not
expect a duohess to fall in love with him, and a low come-
dian who doesn’t gag.
Rumoured in professional circles that a certain sprightly
and tuneful lady, admired of a certain manager, is
at present lying low in Melbourne awaiting the return
of her singing-voice, which is said to have temporarily
left her.
Pinero has finished another comedy, “The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray.”
“ Pattie Browne is rather too much of the Sam Wil-
loughby.”— Sporting and D. Nbws.
What has become of little George Crichton Miln ? Gone
preaching again ?
“ Either you or your wife, but not both,” is the familiar
managerial reply when a couple apply far a pantomime
engagement. What a commentary on the stage I
“ Youth, youth," is ever the playgoer’s cry. The actor
is old at 30, and the actress at 25.
Financial depression is killing the trade in
imported spirits, nut as this is leading to an in-
creased consumption of the Australian Boar’s
Head Australian‘V^Jnes—all the produce of this
colony—the cloud has a silver lining. From Is. a
bottle. Look for Innes A; Co.’s name.
Amongst the “ retrenched ” Victorian
civil servants is a young truant-officer, who
happens to be a nephew of the new N.S.W.
Governor.
It is estimated that 2000 tons of quinces
are rotting to waste in the Mudgee (N.S.W.) dis-
triot just now. And hundreds of mouths in
Sydney never taste jam on their bread.
The relieving officers of the Sydney Labour
Bureau tell applicants for relief that they can get
any amount of food by going round to the hotels
and restaurants in the evening to collect th«
broken victuals.
Sydney D.T. says that a man who was
convicted at Paddington last week of stealing a
pair of trousers had been previously guilty of “an
almost similar offence.” This, we presume, must
have been stealing one leg of a pants.
A Sunday paper makes a strange blunder
concerning the death of “the brothers G ode.”
The Auburn Goode (dead) was a surveyor; the
Granville Goode (dead) was a medico, and neither
had any connexion witii 1 >r. Goode, of Orange
who “did’ - 12 months in i lie debtors’ prison at
Darlinghurst, rather than pay what he considered
an unfair verdict in a libel -case. The latter doctor
is still at Orange and in good health.
It is undoubted that the attempted dicta-
tion of the South Queensland Labour Executive
to North Queensland Labour-candidates in respect
to their views on Northern Territorial Separation
caused a bad split in the Northern Labour-party!
North Queensland has been so politically enslaved
by the all-devouring South that the Separation
movement has assumed the nature of a sacred
struggle for liberty, and it was insanity of the
most hopeless kind for a Southern Labour Execu-
tive to ignore that fact. Had the Labour-candi-
dates for Townsville, for instance, been unfettered
on purely local questions, the probability is that
that port would now be represented by two
Labour-members. As it was, Labour-man Ogden
was only one vote behind Burns, M.P. This is
significant of Labour’s real strength—even when
frittered away and split up—in North Queensland
which should now organise a Labour Executive of
its own.
The Bulletin is sorry to hear that the
suspension of the Commercial Banking Co. of
Sydney threatens to close up the Echo Farm
Home for Inebriates at Middle Harbour, which
as a typical poor-man’s effort, only lived from-
hand-to-mouth at the very best of times, and yet
was compelled to use a banking-account. Had it
been a gorgeous institution bolstered up by a fat
hierarchy, with well-paid sinecures reserved for
self-advertising philanthropists, a bank suspension
would have been a mere incident usable as a
leverage for fresh appeals ; but, being a humble
unsectarian refuge dependent on the volunteer-
labour of poor men, the off-hand certainty seems
to be that it must close at once. However, if that
be its fate, it has at least achieved the social
rescue of two or three notable dipsomaniacs, to
say nothing of a score or two of less virulent
nuisances. Any contributions, in cash or kind,
intended to help the place, should be sent
in without delay to Courtenay Smith, Trafalgar
House, 9 Princes-st., Sydney.
An impudent attempt to stuff the West
Sydney electoral roll has just been baulked by the
common-sense of Stipendiary-magistrate Delohery.
Barrister G. H. Reid (who happens also to be
leader of the Freetrade-pany) appeared in
his professional capacity to apply for the inser-
tion in the W. Sydney electoral roll of the names
of 202 shareholders in the Colonial Sugar Refining
Company, and seven shareholders in the Grafton
Store Company, Limited, on the ground, ap-
parently, that as shareholders they were Sydney
property-holders, and entitled to a brick-and-
mortar vote. Mr. Delohery quoted authorities
as guiding him in his decision that joint-stock-
company’s shares were “ personal ” and not “real”
property. Is barrister and politician Reid prepared
to advocate his case to its reductio ad absurdum ? Is
he prepared (for a fee) to stand up in court and
apply that the names of every member of a mutual
insurance society, or of every bank shareholder,
should be inserted in the electoral rolls of every
N.S.W. district in which that mutual society, or
that bank, owns or leases premises ? If not, why
not? The A.M.P. Society alone would furnish
him with 116,000 voters, with “ thrift ” claims in
eight electorates of N.S. Wales —or total extra
votes for “thrift” (according to his request) of
928,000 ! A bank, with 2000 shareholders and
50 branches in the province, would poll 100,000
votes ! This is the sort of machinery with which
the M'llwraithian crowd have eaten up the poor
unpropertied man in Bananaland.
Up to date, 63 out of 72 members of the
new Q. Assembly have been elected. The
Bulletin prefers to take the most moderate com-
putation possible of the strength of the Labour-
party in the new House, until events justify the
inclusion therein of some who- are at present but
uncertainly known. The Labour-party has now
10 straight-out champions, and, on many sym-
pathetic occasions, may rely on a polling-power of
17. For all practical purposes, MTlwraith has a.
blind following of 41—among these are counted
Joey Bell, and the three Rockham plenums,
Archer, Curtis and Harding, the two former of
whom are only friendly antagonists to MTlwraith
on one question, that of Central Separation;
while the latter, as an “ independent,’ op-
posed a Labour-man. Glassey’s defeat at
Bundamba was a blow for the workers,
and whether the Bundamba miners were
scared or cajoled into voting against Glassey,
their want of backbone is deplorable. Employer
Thomas has touted skilfully for the miners’ votes
for three years past, and he had a tremendous
following of plural votes. Keogh, grocer-Mayor
of Ipswich, and Crib and Foote, the long-time
uncrowned kings of that town, and who bold many
local farmers under their trading thumbs, com-
manded a lot of votes in Bundamba. And for ten
nights previous to election-day the great an
venomous MTlwraith, his jackal-phonograplie
Kingsbury, and Attorney-General Byrnes crusade
the electorate, held police-guarded meetings, an
pleaded and promised for Thomas and breathe
denunciations against Glassey. MTlwraith p
forth his mightiest effort—and succeeded, en -
ters Towers and its neighbour, the Kennedy di -
trict, upheld the Democratic flag in cheernig co
tradistinction to recent reverses elsewhere, oaye
has been “gridironed ” out of the Towers, win
would also have none of M’Larity, a
Scotchman who combines a teetotal-lectures ip
with life-insurance touting; while ex-pan Bo >
lawyer Rutledge dared not again face the mine •
The Kennedy repudiated “Mines and *j or .‘
Lissner, whose portfolio will now be probably gi
to Annear, or to Nick Tooth who scram 16
in at Bowers’s old electorate, the Burrmn, a
having been crowded out by Powers at Mf;
borough. The Croydon miners chose Labonr-nu
Brown, by a more than three to one majority ove
“ Bolltopper ” Morgan. This Saturday will see
the election of seven more members, and ne
week the final tally of the last two will comp
the agony for a season.


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1593, its accumulated funds amounted to £23,292,016 Sa.
and its SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457.808 ss. H-cL., being the LAKGLS /
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
>■ JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Norn-This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
nsurance Department. The Assets, Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders ha\e been certified to under the seal of
he State by the Insurance Superintendent.
! '\
Edinburgh.
TKe Old Blend
wiusHy
•'WHITfH®
Cellar
diriot prom distillers.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOVt
•LMUDU SCOTCH HALT
Thw Wild-Cat Column,
r oa f Monday was a memorable day m banking
1 The Queensland National Bank peacefully col-
, laorfin the early morning The Bank of North Queens-
*P h miHoended in the afternoon. And late at night the
n( * “„ r ',ial Banking Co. of Sydney burst and gave up the
°ho9t” Three wrecks in one day is the biggest record yet.
B a * & # *
The Queensland National smash was expected
. weeks by those “in the know.” The price
ffhe sbaies had told its own story. The Government
2 a lono- been holding the institution up by brute
but the load at last became too heavy. Still, the
force ’ uis kept alive until the elections were nearly
C aroas ■ ' ou ja it have been all up with the Kanakilgriff
<£ e b el f i n the eyes of the nation, the Q.N.B. and the
MMUvrai'th Cabinet were one and the same. Tiie terms
f Vhpcome so absolutely synonymous, that the ignorant
11 i Mn almost fancied it was the Bank which went Kanaka-
r in the South Seas, and the record of Parlia-
“ur '„ divisions seemed to read, according to the
c ® 0 !i intelligence, “Majority for the Queensland
'l 1 - 111 i r> an k 32." But last Saturday ihe slave-
Ministry got a definite majority, and that
B mp dav the hank came down with a run. Ap-
8a ntlvithad all but burst its boiler in the struggle,
P a j e .” niivsically impossible to hold on many seconds
r'Vpr hf any case. The situation of the Queensland
Mndonal is absolutely unlike that of any other bank in
iiiolralia suspended or otherwise. It was propped up
•th nearly £2,000,000 of Government deposits—money
i‘ h the State had borrowed in London at something
; ner cent, seemingly for no other purpose than that
“ niifdit 1)C lent to the bank, which appears to have had
iVipuse of it, or most of it, without paying any interest
t all! There was no demand for repayment of
bit- immense sum, so that it was practically a
avid deposit so long as the Kanaka Cabinet
i ,ipd Then almost all the Savings Bank deposils were
indeed with the Q.N. Bank, and in almost every liquida-
tlnn the court made the stereotyped order that all moneys
5. “id he paid into the same all-devouring institution.
These deposits were enough in themselves to keep a
wftsonably large bank afloat and in working order, and
thev were practically proof against panic. Yet, with all
assistance, the Q.N. Bank came down smash, and
the fact that so much Government support could not
save it implies a whole lot of things.
#** 4 '
The Queensland National, like all the rest, will
doubtless be peacefully reconstructed by the same old
crowd without anv independent examination. Meanwhile,
the Government offers, on condition that it has a repre-
sentative upon the new board, to waive its preferential
claim to its £2,000,000 or so, and go with the general
reconstruction Mill Verb. sap. Meanwhile, the sus-
pended-suspended means practically the same thing
as hanged or strangled—institution has three huge libel
actions pending against three papers which recently cast
reflections upon its solvency. It started these only a few
weeks ac-o in a burst of virtuous indignation—the indig-
nation of a pure and spotless bank arising against brutal
calumny and if the law had travelled a little faster,
the bank micht have collected the damages before it
smashed, ai d thus held up. But, as it chanced, the law
didn’t go fast enough, and thus the bluff has paid no
dividend to date.
# # •
Perhaps, after all, the fact that it was supported
by such a politically malodorous Government did the
Q N Bank no particular good.
# • ■
The Commercial Bank of Sydney, which failed
to open on Tuesday morning, was long reputed to be one
Of the strongest institutions in N.S. Wales. It was no less
than 59 years old, and had a paid-up capital of £600,000
and a reserve of £840,000. Even now many people
appear to believe in its ultimate solvency. Its recon-
struction scheme differs from that of most others,
inasmuch as, like the rest, it has “ got the drop *
on its depositors, and yet declines to take any
specially mean advantage of the circumstance.
It abstains from the bushranging practice of compelling
them to take up shares ; it doesn’t propose to grab the
deposits for fifteen years, or to issue “ inscribed stock
deposits,” and thus collar them for ever and ever, or to
confiscate the current accounts, or otherwise misconduct
itself. The current accounts will be paid—ten per cent,
within one month after reconstruction ; the balance by
quarterly instalments, with 3J per cent, interest. Fixed
depositors are to receive negotiable receipts or bonds, pay-
able at 5,6, 7, and 8 years, and all additional capital re-
quired is to be furnished by the shareholders.
» « *
Tire collapse of the Bank of North Queensland
fs, in one sense, the most remarkable yet announced. In
its way, this little Townsville institution was about the
strongest in Australia ; with the exception of the Bank of
New Zealand, it bad about the largest reserve of coin in
proportion to liabilities on record. Also, there was no
ran upon it—in fact, the deposits showed a slight increase
—and no breath of suspicion as to its soundness. But
intimation was received that many of the English and
Scotch depositors would probably not renew, and there-
upon the North Queensland peacefully burst. It
got, by its own statement, a good many months’
notice of what was coming, and had abundant time to
make preparation. In fact, it had made preparation,
and bad sufficient cash in band to meet the drain, only it
couldn’t bear to part with the beloved coin. It was
about the only bank Which lost nothing on any of the
past booms, for it started in the midst of the depression,
and had no opportunity of being crowded up with pro-
perties at inflated valuation. Apparently, the North
Queensland closed, partly out of pure cussedness, partly
because it pays better to reconstruct than to go on in the
old commonplace fashion.
« * *
On Monday night, when three more banks
had fallen in a mangled heap, the N.S.W. Govern-
ment set the new Banking Act in motion, and pro-
claimed the notes of the Union, Australasia, City, and
Bank of N.S.W. to be legal tender for a period of six
months. According to the terms of the Act this could
not be legally effected until the Governor-in-Council was
“satisfied ” that each “proclaimed ” bank had its capital
and reserves unimpaired. When the notable scheme was
formulated, The Bulletin pointed out that the Governor
seldom knew anything about banking, and the “Council”
either knew very little, or was too panic-stricken to re-
member what it knew, or might be an interested party ;
and that in any case it would lake months of independent
investigation to decide whet her a bank was solvent or not,
whereas, when the Act was wanted, there would be only
hours, or even minutes, to spare. Therefore, it would
inevitably end in the bank saying it was solvent, and
being taken at its word. So it proved in this instance.
The Government ascertained from the Statistical Depart-
ment that the four banks in question were thoroughly
sound, according to their own returns, certified by their
own directors and their own auditors. Then it went
ahead. Which is much the same as the prisoner himself
reluctantly acknowledging that he isn’t guilty, whereupon
hs is immediately acquitted. The banks may be sound —
but where is the evidence?
# # *
Nearly nine years ago, Geoffrey Eagar, of the
N.S.W. Treasury, anonymously wrote an article for the
(since defunct) Maitland Mail, under the heading,
“Should not the bank-note be specially guaranteed?”
The Oriental Bank had then recently closed, with a cur-
rent note-issue of about £40,000, and Mr. Eagar held that a
splendid opportunity had then been afforded for the other
Sydney banks to maintain the integrity of the note-
circulation by receiving Oriental notes at their nominal
value*, and dividing the lose pro rata. Hie arguments
carry biting force to-day. The enormoue volume of
banking dividends drawn from the general body of
the public should, he contended, alone have
prompted the banks to a course of seeming
generosity, but in reality of self-preservation. In the
absence of voluntary banking action, the Legislature
should interfere to protect the public from the evil
effects of a non-guaranteed paper currency. The public’s
dealings with a bank are fourfold—as shareholders, as
depositors, as discounters, and as acceptors of its notes as
equivalent to their full values in sovereigns. The three
first transactions are matters of choice and free-will; the
last results from a general condition of confiding tiustful-
ness in paper-money issued under authority of an Act of
the local Legislature. The universal acceptance of a bank-
note as the equivalent of gold, on terms of good faith,
renders it precisely that part of the general liabilities of a
bank which should be specially cared for by the Legisla-
ture. The Government should require the b inks to
deposit in the Treasury, Government debentures of the
aggregate value of the note-circulation, as shown by the
quarterly averages. The power to issue paper-monev,
contended Mr. E igar, should never have been conceded
without an accompanying obligation to place the safety
of such issues beyond doubt. If a Banking Act Amend-
ment Bill were needed in 'B4, how much more urgently
is it required to-day ?
# • •
The Dibbs Govt, issued its proclamation under
the Bank Issue Bill just 24 hours too late to save the
T. A. Dihbs bank 'from suspension. Possibly-, however,
now one comes to think over the matter calmly, it will
pay the Commercial a lot better not to have been saved.
There is so much more profit in re-construction than in
continued solvency these times.
» # •
Premier Patterson claims that his action in
closing the banks had a tranquilising effect for a time.
Had he chloroformed or clubbed the depositors it would
have been just as efficacious.
* • *
The Bank of New Zealand is the only one now
left in Sydney which carries on business without Govern-
ment assistance, and declines to have its paper bolstered up
by proclamation, and The Bulletin would as soon have
its notes as “legal tender” any day. The B.N.Z.
got into difficulties years ago, and instead of suspending,
or reconstructing, or getting relief from the State,
it simply paid up its losses out of capital, made a call on
its shareholders, and went ahead. It is no good for a
bank to be a grand specimen of “private enterprise”
unless it is prepared to rely ou its own enterprise, bo the
times good or bad.
# • #
Dear Bulletin,— Whereas I, the undersigned,
do affirm on my Colonial Sayso, that (under the provisions
of the I O U Act of 1893)1 am, as required by the said
Act, perfectly solvent, that, “as between myself and my
creditors, my assets exceed my liabilities by at least the
sum of my paid-up capital and my reserved profits.” I
hereby call upon the Governor-in-Council to declare that
my “I O U’s, payable on demand, now, or hereafter, to
be" issued, circulated, or re-issued within the province of
N.S. Wales, shall, for the period of six years from the
date hereof, be everywhere within the said province, a
good and legal tender of money to the amount therein
expressed to be payable.” *■
So soon as the Governor-in-Council does his
duty towards me, for the National Good, I shall proceed
to do mine:—(l) To buy up the province from the Fat
Man and pay him in “legal tender;” (2) to buy up all
other I 0 U’s which are not “ legal tender,” and get them
changed into gold, to be buried in my back-yard.—
Yours, Gi.
* * *
Counting in all stoppages np to Tuesday last,
about £55,000,000 of Australian money is now locked up
in suspended banks of issue—not counting the amounts
locked up in about 50 bursted land-banks, building-
societies, and investment companies, and leaving the
Mercantile out of the calculation altogether, also saying
nothing of two or three millions which will have to be
found by shareholders to pay up new capital, and not
counting the money buried in institutions which may
choose, under Government authority, to pay notes and
keep their gold in the cellar. Within a year 64 per cent,
of the working capital of Queensland has been locked up,
60 per cent, of that in Victoria, 55 per cent, in N.S.W.
and 40 per cent, in South Australia. Either there mustj.
be a State Bank of issue, or the community will presently
get down to the primitive condition of barter.
* # *
The Select Committee of N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly appointed to report upon the possibilities of a
National Bank, has concluded its labours. The report
recommends the immediate establishment of a National
Bank of issue upon a gold and fiduciary basis, with 10s.
notes in addition to those of the usual denominations.
It also suggests that the banking business of the Govern-
ment sh mid be done by this bank, and recommends the
establishment of a Government bank of deposit, which
shall hold the reserves of all other banks, float loans, and
manage the Public Debt. The working capital of this
bank should be raised by an issue of inscribed stock, and
the Post-office Savings Bank arid the Savings Bank in
Barrack-street should he amalgamated as a nucleus
for the institution. It is also suggested that the hank of
deposit might issue small loans to selectors, farmers, and
others ; and that the cash-credit and land-credit system
should be worked in conjunction with it. Ihe manage-
ment of the National Bank should be vested in three com-
missioners, removable only by a vote of both Houses of
Parliament. Judging by the evidence attached to the
report, the committee has made a comprehensive inquiry
into the matters submitted to them. The report is sup-
ported by the admissions of practical bankers, as well as
bv a numerous array of financial authorities.
m * »
Already the corpse of one Melbourne bank (the
Metropolitan) has had the ghastly impudence to get out
of its grave and ask to be reconstructed. The corpse of
the Met. is shockingly decomposed, too. A former
official, who has had something to do with the liquida-
tion, is casually referred to as a debtor to the extent of
£24,000 ! A shareholder also complained, at last week’s
“ reconstruction ” meeting, that he had only just become
aware that certain of the directors represented a liability
of £BO,OOO. Even Melbourne, apparently, perceives a
certain amount of irregularity—“ technical ” irregularity,
we presume—in the past management, wherefore a mag-
nanimous announcement that “if the reconstruction
scheme were carried, the directors were all prepared to
resign.” But why not galvanise the putrid carcases of
the'Mercantile, the Real Estate and Staples’ banks?
Then there is Mat. Larkin’s building society- that needs
reconstruction. Where is the sense of allowing Matthias
to languish in gaol when he might be taking the chair at
an enthusiastic meeting of shareholders?
• • •
Those much-mentioned shipments of gold from
London for the Bank of Victoria, <fcc., will be useful in
“ reconstruction,” we presume.
# # •
James Balfour, one of Matthew Davies’bail in
the Mercantile Bank case, figured as a leading mouther of
the Freehold Investment directorate. It Was to him that
Gyles Turner wrote an interesting letter assuring him that
7 ( e (Turner) had not sanctioned the suggestion of bringing
a criminal charge against anybody. Which fact is worth
remembering as a link in a chain of circumstances.
# # *
After all, it would have looked much more like
business if a prosecution had been instituted in re the
affairs of tht Freehold Investment Co., that savoury
concern whose liquidators (with the exception of Henry
Gyles Turner) asked the advice of the court concerning
criminal proceedings, but subsequently “ look a weight
off the mind " of the court by not pressing for an answer
to the question.
* # *
Gyles Turner, trying to explain wbafc he called
an A.li.C. principle of banking in connection with the
Mercantile-Commercial Hank transactions, tied himself
into a hopeless knot, and finally asked for time to consider
what it was he wanted to make out. Whether he after-
wards got his mind out of the tangle, or no, did not trans-
pire. He was left to ruminate over his A.B.C. principle,
and not tackled again on the subject.
# # #
“Gone over to the majority.” Banking ex-
pression,
• # •
The bank failures, more than any one other
single circumstance, scared stupid Bananalanders into
voting against the Labour candidates. Yet Maonland,
the only Australasian province that has tried the alleged
dangerous experiment of Labour legislation, is also the
only Australasian province whose banks are absolutely
solvent and cheerfully willing to pay all their debts on
demand.
« • •
At the A.J.S. re-construction meeting in
London, one depositor moved that they should demand
an audit, instead of trusting blindly to the same crowd
which swore to the solvency of the institution right up to
the collapse. He was promptly squashed. Confidence
had to be maintained, and an audit is generally darned
bad for confidence.
# » •
The 44th annual report of the gigantic Austra-
lian Mutual Provident Society, presented to its members
last week, disclosed that, during ’92, 12,585 fresh pro-
posals were accepted and completed, assuring £3,791,221.
The new premiums amounted to £144,776 4s. During the
year 678 members died, and claims under 793 life-policies
were paid to a total of £429,470, of which amount no less
than £95,800 represented bonus additions. Besides these,
255 endowment assurances matured, the payments to
which amounted to £119,175 18s., of which £38,625 18s.
represented bonus additions. The sum of £796,411 18s.
lid. has been added to the “ accumulated fund,” which
now stands at £11,328,448 Ss. lid. In recognition of all-
round depreciation in property-values, a sura of £61,500
has been taken out of the ’92 surplus and placed to the
“special reserve” in connection with mortgage securities;
this " special reserve ” now amounts to £76,500 ; also
the value of “ office premises" has been written down by
nearly £20,000. The actuary’s report gives a cash surplus
(after these and other deductions) of funds over liabilities,
amounting to £662,272 Bs. lid., out of which £504,261 ss.
lid. are allotted for distribution among members, thus
providing reversionary bonuses amounting to about
£1,030,000. Three British actuaries are to be asked to
furnish an independent expert opinion upon the
position of the Society amid the altered conditions
of Australasia. The total annual revenue as at December
31, ’92, stood at £1,960,123 ss. Id. ; amount assured,
£38,888,283 under 116,205 policies. The mortality experi-
ence was 793 as against the aotuarially-expeoted number
1419.
* *
The Colonial Mutual is, we believe, the only
Australian assurance office which has absolutely abolished
the “ suicide clause.” and which allows any client to cut
his throat as soon after he gets his policy as he may feel
inclined, without the slightest question. The other
offices should go and do likewise ; there is nothing to be
lost by it—in fact, it is more likely to he a source of
profit. The man who insures with a view to a profitable
suicide generally finds that his courage has evaporated by
the time he gets through the preliminary business and
gets his policy, and then the office is at least a premium
to the good.
• * #
Davies and Munro, while they ran Victoria,
engineered through the Legislature the law of repudiation
for building societies, and such financial fry. Here was
the beginning of the trouble, a shock which precipitated
all the other disasters. But they thought they were iron
kettles, amid the earthen pots.
9 * •
How the Law can be worked, in collusion with
Capital. Take the bogus winding-up applications, re the
Melbourne hanks. It is the watch winding-up, to go
again, and, of course, an entire evasion of what is in-
tended.
# # *
How about the Friendly Societies’ sick funds,
now looked up in the banks?
• * *
M‘Donaid, the recalcitrant magistrate of Mer-
cantile Bank prosecutions celebrity, has long been
familiar in a similar role, as a shareholder at the Meib.
Metropolitan Gns Co.’s meetings, where he made himself
as “ obnoxious ” as Alfred England used to he, at the
meetings of the Hobson’s Bay Railway Co.
* * *
Melbourne commercial morality was beautifully
expressed by bank-director Muntz, of the defunct Mer-
cantile. Muntz, in the witness-box, said that an abso-
lutely candid statement of affairs at a hank meeting
would he “very foolish truth.” Mr. Muntz considers that
the statements made by the Mercantile directors at their
last historic meeting “were in keeping with hundreds of
similar statements made at such meetings every day.”
The accursed Melbourne gag—“ They all do it, and
where’s the harm?”
* * *4
Matthew Davies explains that he was always
careful to have balance-sheets prepared showing his own
private financial position. For instance, in September,
1891, his wealth, per balance-sheet, amounted to £418,514
18s. 9d. Six months later, owing to an unaccountable
depreciation in Daviesfan values, or something, his super-
fluity of assets had dropped down to £78,000 ; and again,
another few months later, his credit had resolved itself
into a debit. That is to say. Davies left off being rich ns
soon as the Mercantile Bank ceased to keep his “ten-
tacles” alive, and his stacks of shaves had become as
worthless on paper as they always were worthless in
fact. Heaven knows how much Davies was “worth” in
1887—from ten to fifty millions, probably.
• • *
Which of the Melbourne reconstructing banks
has the largest overdraft debits against its directors ? An
interesting query. But, after all, the extent of such
overdrafts is a small matter as compared with the nature
of the securities given for them. The real question is—
who have got gigantic overdrafts on rotten securities?
# * *
In the case of more titan one bank-reconstruction
is merely putting off for a few years the smash that were
far better (for the country at large) faced and done with
right away. The smashes will surely come, administering
more shocks to Australian credit, hut the men chiefly in-
terested in staving off the evil day stand an excellent
chance of becoming dead meanwhile. Tub Bulletin
expects to s°e. in the coming years, some ghostly
mockeries in the v vof large marble monuments, erected
to the memories of Melbourne men who haven’t been
found out.
9 * *
In Melbourne they now speak of Toorak as
“Broken Hill.” “Stony Rises” would fit even.mors
closely.
# # *
“ Some miserable hounds ” (the depositors)
“ wanted to save their paltry pence.” Thus Mr. Entitling,
put up to move the Bank of Victoria reconstruction. A
crisp mot, crystallising the ideas of quite a lot of people.
9*9
The bourgeoisie of Brisbane (Q.) were terrified
into voting for M'llwraith and Kingsbury by the indus-
triously-circulated scare that, were Lilley and Glassey
returned, the Q.N. Bank would suspend payment!
M'llwraith and the sewing-machine saint were returned,
and M'flgrab has a servile majority ; yet, the Q.N. Bank
has suspended.
9*9
Mr. Grice, chairman of the National Bank,
remarks pathetically that, some months ago, he wrote to
his sister in England these memorable words: “When
the National Bank suspends payment, God help Mel-
bourne.” Yet the National has suspended, and the
Deity hasn’t helped Melbourne. Probably it didn’t
think the security good enough.
9**
Most of the big Austral-Spanish hotel-keeping
community of Melbourne are badly hit by the stoppage of
the Colonial Bank.
The Employers’ Union Idemmty Co., formed to
relieve employers of their responsibility under_ the Em-
ployers’ Liability Act, agreed to voluntarily ’ wind-up in
April last, it being expected that the assets would realise
a substantial dividend to the shareholders. The suspen-
sion of sundry banks, however, leaves only_£9so avail-
able ; that sum being deposited in live institutions.
Dividends will now probably be delayed for five years or
so.
* * #
Legal-accountant Simpson was last week re-
called to reiterate his statement that the Mercantile Bank
was hopelessly insolvent when the final balance-sheet
appeared. And again were wily Theodore Fink and
rowdy-dowdy Gaunson observed to regard Simpson as one
of those awkward circumstances that there's no getting
over.
• # #
A Broken Hill man, who was on the Barrier
during the boom < f 'BB, has a room panered—walls and
ceiling—with scrip in mines long since defunct, of every
imaginable colour and design. The room is a real
curiosity. Here is a tip for a new variety of the collect-
ing mania—scrip-collecting. One could gather in Broken
Hill in one day enough “crook” scrip to paper Sydney
Centennial Hall.
# « *
Junction North (Broken Hill) has accepted an
offer from a syndicate to take 2000 tons of garnet sand-
stone, at £2 2s. per ton, at the shaft’s mouth. Manager
Beaumont, of t.he Pinnacles Amalgamated, a graduate of
Ballarat School of Mines, and one of the few non-
Yankee managers on the Barrier, is the high-priest of the
syndicate, which, it is said, intends to leach the ore on
the spot by the hyposulphite process, the plant erected
for that purpose being afterwards handed over to the
Junction North. The shareholders in the mine have
nothing to lose and everything to gain by the scheme.
* * *
The sulphide-dump at Block 10, Broken Hill,
where all the sulphide ore for which the co. has no imme-
diate use is tipped, hut which had to be removed in
opening up the mine and in order to get at the oxidised
ores, according to the latest estimate of the manager
consisted of 41,659 tons, containing 43£ tons of silver,
9441 of lead and 11,202 of zinc. The whole of the sulphide
on hand and in sight in the mine is calculated at
1,573,659 tons, containing 1195 ions of silver, 300,201 of
lead, and 409,522 of zinc, the silver and lead being valued,
at present rates, at £8,000,000. What the solution of the
sulphide problem means to this mine - now that the
oxidised ores are practically exhausted may be gauged by
the above figures.
« # #
The Victory No. 2 shaft. Charters Towers, has
an output of 600 tons fortnightly-averaging about 4oz.
The co. has an immense reserve of concentrates—between
2000 and 3000 tons, valued at not less than £l5 per ton.
These will probably be treated by the Macarthur-Forrest
process.
* * *
After studying the last half-yearly report of the
Mills United Co., Charters Towers, the mine manager’s
report is very dull reading : “ No. 7 level, east, 12in. stone
in face ; No. 7, west, a small vein ; No. 6,15 in.” —and so
on. To keep up the present output of nearly 4000 tons
monthly, something more than this is needful. Four
thousand tons means, in a reef stt. (and no Towers reef
averages sft.) wide, a block of ground 100 ft. x 100 ft.
* # *
Of Charters Towers mines, the Mills United is
the best advertised. The syndicate owning the Northern
Miner (Thady O’Kane’s old paper) hold a very large
interest in the United, and the chief mission of the paper
is by no means to depreciate the mine. „
# * # vjr
The market-value of the Brilliant Block mine,
Charters Towers, stands at £120,000 ; Clark’s Worcester,
£20,000; Brilliant Freeholds, £60,000 —and not one of
them has yet paid a dividend. The last-named has to
sink a further 500 feet ere reaching the estimated depth
of the Brilliant formation. The Brilliant Block has lots
of stone, but, so far, not payable ; better stone, however,
is now being raised from the underlie, and the fate of the
mine really rests on this part. Mr. Plant is the largest
shareholder, with 30,000 shares, and he is believed to have
done well out of the property in English transactions.
* * #
“William Eyre, landowner,” has filed his
schedule. The insolvent is also sole proprietor of the
Freehold, Investment, and Deposit Bank, 338 George-
Street, Sydney, which offers by advt. in the country
papers 7,8, and 9 per cent, for fixed deposits, the “ funds
invested only on the security of freehold lands in New
South Wales,” and “ this bank does not accept deposits
for a less period than six months;” also, “depositors who
mail their remittances will receive an acknowledgment by
return.” The question now is—how many fixed depositors
are there, and will they get their money ?
# • *
Always think hard when a mine advertises that
“ a well-known citizen tested, for curiosity’s sake, a piece
of stone from the lowest levels of your mine.” These
assays always go from 4to 30ozs. Good mines don’t need
such booming. The mine managers on a big field never
give shareholders this sort of stuff. The “fancy business”
always comes from the office.
* * *
Towers mining men worth over £lOO,OOO apiece
—Pfieffer, Mills, Plant, Buckland, Mosmau, and Craven,
probably in the foregoing order.
• • •
-E. M. Young preceded F. 6. Smith as manager
of the Melb. National Bank. Young now gets £7OOO a
year, as manager of a Pastoral Co., in London.
* * *
Shakespeare on boomers, bankers, depositors,
suspensions, and reconstructions: —
I cannot blame them all; what is’t to them ?
’Tis thine they give away, and not their own.
Pirates may make cheap pennyworths of their pillagt
And purchase friends and give to courtezans,
Still revelling like lords till all be gone ;
While, as the silly owner of the goods,
Weeps o’er them and wrings his hapless hands,
And shakes his head and trembling stands aloof,
While all is shared and all is borne away.
Ready to starve and dare not touch his own.
—2 Pt. Henry VI., Act i.. Sc. ii.
• • •
There are but two classes of people in Melbourne
at present—those who robbed banks, and those whom
banks robbed.
» * •
The miners at Orange drew all their money out
of the banks during the scare and took it round to
“Ha ry” Newman, M.P. Newman calmly deposited it
with the Union to, his wife’s credit and there it lies
awaiting a restoration of public confidence.
* * *
The Australian papers characterise the man
who robbed Adelaide Blind, Deaf and Dumb Asylum of its
cash-box, the meanest man on the continent. Thie man who
values his good name never robs a charity unless he can
do it by suspending payment.
# » #
Towers miners and Towers mine-owners have,
up to now, worked wonderfully well together; disputes
have been few and easily arranged. Some of the deep
shows are fearfully hot, and more haste might be made to
connect by adjacent mines, such as the Brilliant P.C. and
the St. George.
* * #
Never was there so little prospecting on Charters
Towers as at present. Surely all the good country la not
within a few hundred yards of the railway station ?
# # *
A.J.S. Bank clerks were amongst the chief
hecklers at the reconstruction meeting.


I
mu
lOiCi:i<.\ .1 A ISI'KA I. ASI AN
SIAM US.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; (Stamp Alliums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 0/10--nil post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN <sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
A SUGGESTION TO INVALIDS.
No better advice can be Riven to invalids than
to use. without loss of time, that agreeable and
mind-cheering cordial, Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Messrs. Colemahe and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eu oalypte Lozenges.
Adults will llnd sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price, For external use try Colkmanb and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Oootamundra, N.S.W
6i
THE
YOST”
TYPEWRITER.
UNSOLICITED TESTIMONY FROM A 0.P.&
[Copv.J
Police Office, Katoomba,
19th October, 1892
Mr. Kelburne E. Edge,
126 Pitt Street, Sydney. „ T ,i
Dear Sir,—l am vei l' glad to see that the ~ j
Typewriting Machine Company have at last establish ,
themselves in New South Wales. Now that you MR
come, I feel sure that von have COME TO STAY.
I have used the “YOST” for over a year, and 1 a"
more than satisfied wit h it. I firmly believe that it i? t
best machine on the market.
There is one thing I would advise intending punnasei
to do—that is to study the alignment of OLD MACHIWR •
If that is done, they will see the superiority ot
*« yoST.*’
The beauty of the work of the “ YOST has been coin
men ted on by members of tbe Dench of Magistrates.
I beg to remain, faithfully yours,
J. ILLINGWORTH.
Acting-Clerk of Petty Sessions.
The YOST TYPEWKITEE CO.,
126 Pitt-st., Sydney ; and 144 Elizabeth-st., MbuioubSS.
Personal Items.
A reporter was lately dismissed from a
Sydney paper for calling an archdeacon ari arch-
bishop.
, A knighthood will hardly satisfy Chief
Justice Madden, after his term of vice-vice
regal glory.
The squat, podgy figure of Patrick Murphy*
Esq., of Premier Permanent fame, is seen about
Melbourne again.
Bishop Goe, with £4O a week, besides a
large private fortune, orders a day of humiliation,
for the lack of employment.
Sleath, the imprisoned Broken Hillslrike-
leader : “A little gaol experience .helps much to
ihake a man earnest in his politics.”
The “boy Jones,” found in Queen Vic
toria’s bedroom at Windsor Castile many years
ago, is still living and practising as a bill-sticker
in Victoria.
Samson Haynes weighs about 13st. 101b.*
and stands, say, sft. Tin. Sydney E. News,
Samson’s own paper, speaks of “ Crick’s wiry
antagonist.”
At Moree, N.S.W., Parkes was welcomed
with “Parkes, Australia’s Gladstone.” Look at
it upside-down : “ Welcome* Gladstone* Eng-
land’s Parkes ! ”
At a recent Sydney teetotal meeting seVeri
erstwhile shining lights Were scored off the books,
the self-denying regenerators of life beihg all un-
happily in gaol.
Bayley’s find, the rich reef at Goolgardie,
Westralia, is being worked by Sylvester Brown,
the brother of “Rolf Boldrewbod*” and the
novelist’s two sons.
The late Dr. Turner, of Grafton and
Armidale, was the only Australian Bishop who
'had the courage—or the bad taste —to wear a
Yankee coach-driver’s beard.
The early speeches of John M'Elhone are,
in Parkes’ opinion, the worst in taste and style
delivered in N.S.W. Parliament since the intro-
duction of responsible government.
An English baronet now fossicks for a
living around the deserted claims at Two-mile Flat,
Gulgong (N.S.W.). The old man at one time
kept a private school.
Two Queensland inspectors of schools now
get their annual reports written for them by
journalists. The late Carl Feilberg wrote the
annual report of one inspector for years.
The Victorian judicial salaries were raised
£5OO, because Fellows would not take a judge-
ship without this increase—he who used to write
his judgments on the back of his wife’s millinery-
bills.
P. P. Labertouche, late Secretary of
Victorian Railways, is now in Sydney. “ Labby,”
a man of aristocratic tendencies, one day found
himself amidst a lot of Radicals who chaffed him
on his conservative instincts. “ Well,” said P.P.,
“I have one thing in common with your idol,
Peter Lalor, which no d one of you has. I’ve
lost my left arm !’*
Rutledge, Queens-
land ex-parson politician,
claims to be descended
from one of the signers
of the American Declara-
tion of Independence.
However, such odious
political weathercocks as
the Queensland Rutledge
are never likely to sign
the Anstraliafi Declara-
tion of Independence.
Premier Patterson’s
attempts to justify his
bank meddling are glar-
ingly ridiculous. He
said, at a mayoral feed
last week, that he quite
approved of certain banks
ignoring Ins proclama-
tion, and thought that a
general arrangement to
repudiate the “panicholi-
day” ideamight havebeen
made. For a man to
perform an Act of State
which he thinks (after-
wards) might have been
promptly spat upon with
advantage to the com-
munity, is not much of
an achievement for a
reputedly “ strong ” per-
son. And again, how can
Patterson raise the cool
front to suggest that all
theMelbournebanks were
in a position to follow
the lead of the two big
ones 1 The Colonial didn’t
open at all after the holi-
days, and the Victoria
has since suspended.
Moreover, Patterson
knew that the Victoria
was about to suspend
payment when he made
the apologetic speech re-
ferred to.
N.S.W. Agent-General Saul Samuel has
had the speeches delivered by him in Legislative
Council and Assembly r -printed, and takes
pleasure in giving copies away to London ac-
quaintances.
H. B. Higgins, the Melbourne barrister, is
president of the new local Shorthand-writers’Asso-
.•t \ti,'n. H.B. is a capital orator to practise on.
He hai an impediment in his ] r acli, and so can’t
„t troin the reporters.
A member of N.S.W. Legislative Council
hoasts that until nominated to that official posi-
tion he had for five or six years travelled back-
wards and forwards between bis home and Sydney
on a workman’s railway ticket.
According to the press “send-off” from
British Guiana of Viscount Gormanston, the new
Tasmanian Governor, that potentate was not a
favourite in his last “place.” Autocratic, not
“lavislily hospitable,” and so on. More onion
sandwiches for Hobart sassiely ?
The Bank of Victoria would never have
closed its doors had “ Money ” Miller lived_ till
now. There was real confidence in Henry Miller.
Wheri he said he knew a thing td be all right the
public asked fob nothing better,
They say, that maiiy of Melbourne's
“ biggest ’’ financial people wrote to, or called
upon, M'Donald, J.P., imploring, eritreating,
commanding him not to send MattheW Davies and
Millidge up td the Criminal Court.
A Macleay-streeb (Sydney) magnate, who
dnee served at his own bar, has taken to carrying
about vvitii hint! a vial df acid and a siriall file;
-With the acid he tests the sovereigns and with the
file the silver coins that come his Way.
J. H. Brdoke, Minister for Lands in the
People’s Ministry of Richard Heales (Vic.),
18G0-1, has, for 25 years, resided at Yokohama,
Japan. FoUr membei'S of that Government still
live : Verddn, Brooke, Johnston and Loader.
Matthew Davies told the Police-cDurt last
week that at the end of ’9l he was worth £418,542,
that three months later his estate Was Worth
£78,381, and on 30th June, ’92, his all was but
£1903. All on paper. Paper—paper—paper.
Judge Wilkinson is about to retire front
the N.S.W. District Court Bench, and will, it is
averred in some quarters, be succeeded by an
influential and well-connected gentleman who
doesn’t pay his Chinaman for cabbagee-sUpplied;
It is the artful habit of Premier Dibbs to
regularly despatch Choice boUquets to the wives of
his staunch political supporters. The envious
spouses of the local Opposition are doing their
utmost to pervert their Freetrade husbands.
Archbishop Reynolds (R.C.), of Adelaide,
who is reported to be dying, was in early life a
working cooper; A wealthy lady in Dublin, his
native city, saw in the young man the makings qf
a good priest, and defrayed the expenses of his
education.
N.S.W. Speaker Abbott believes every-
thing, without exception or qualification, which
appears in the Bible. Arid he is ready to argue
on any point that may be raised. _ He seems to
regret, however, when the opposition is strong*
that he cannot give a ruling from the Chair.
A certain Australian sport* who endea-
voured to emulate Abington Baird, in his largesse
to thumpers during the defunct boxing-boom, has
suspended payment, and great is the grief of the
local pngs. The worst is that his wife’s cash as
well as his own has been squandered in feeding up
these gentry.
A certain Melbourne Q.C. was once cross-
examining a demi-mondaine. , “Now, my good
Woman, where do you live?” “I ain’t a good
woman, and you know well enough where I live.”
“ Oh, yes, I know; but I want you to inform
these twelve innocent gentlemen, so that they may
know, too.”
The Argus felt sure, the morning after
the committal of Davies and Millidge, “that
nothing whatever will occur to deprive the defen-
dants of that fair consideration and those large
allowances that their position demands.” Are we
to understand, then, that the Law makes large
allowances in special cases?
“ There is an ihipression,” it is cabled,
“ that \V. J. Clarke will be raised to the peerage.”
MAGISTERIAL DIGNITY.
The Jowlahmine J.P. is anxious to sell his old bicycle. A Chinaman’s
is the only offer and John insists on lessons thrown in. His Worship complies.
Which impression is purely founded, no doubt, on
the facts that W. J. Clarke has heaps of money
left him by his Vandomonian butcher-father, that
he lias always kept strictly sober, and that he has
a distinguished brother named Joe.
N.S.W. Supremo Court Judge Foster has,
since his return to Sydney, been particularly enthu-
siastic over the virtues of the French Court of Cas-
sation, or what is here called the Supreme Court;
and while extolling the learning and purity of the
administration of this court, he reflectively ob-
serves that the President, or highest judge,
receives but <£lloo a year.
Shortly before the prosecution of a certain
leading Victorian teetotal luminary, a meeting of
the members of the temperance lodge which boro
his name was called to decide whether ho
shouldn’t be asked to resign—-this with a view to
changing the name of the lodge. It was decided
that he should resign, but meanwhile he sent in
his resignation, and the lodge’s name was imme-
diately changed. Moral: Never name any
institution after any man who isn’t dead.
A Cano Colony visitor to N.S.W. Parlia-
ment asked to have Crick and Haynes pointed out
to him. The friend indicated a pair of legislators
who at the time sat sleepily blinking at Chairman
Melville, “ They’re quiet now,” said the friend.
“I see,” said the visitor; and then that foreign
expert in character-reading observed —“Their
mouths would tell you that they are vicious black-
guards.” It was at Bruce Smith and “Toby”
Barton his critical gaze had been directed-.
If rough,
oil Duff
Is stuff
Enough
All dirty job's to hamper-,
And
The lots
Of sols
At Potts,
Then Duff may prove a damper.
A London correspondent of The Bul-
letin :
Henniker Heaton, M.P., is a curious person, and his
money is quite popular in Canterbury. I suppose Jig is
quite as popular and well-known among the Sydney folk.
Please tell ns about him. Did he own big sheep and
cattle Stations in Australia?
This ignorance about the great and representative
Australian WoUnds Australia in a sore place. Just
as the only agricultural experience of A recently-
appointed N.S.W. Inspector of Agriculture was
that he had once sown a big crop of wild Oats, so
Henniker’s only transactions with sheep Were that
he successfully cast slieep’s-eyes at the shepherdess
of a wealthy newspaper. He never traded in
cattle, but be probably owned, or knew, a stray
gOat oh two in his humbler days.
Curious rind in-
structive to note the
sympathetic attitude
of the police at the
Mel b. unemployed
meetings. No wonder
Conservatism objects
to policemen voting.
That brainy scioil
of Israel, Mr. Isaac
Alfred Isaacs, Solici-
tor-General (Vic.), on
entering his,office the
other day, found a
communication ad-
dressed to him and
marked “ urgent.”
On opening it, he was
confronted by the en-
quiry : “Are you pre-
pared to meet Jesus ?”
No official reply
has yet been for*
Warded.
The German Ul-
tramontanes cannot
intervene with effect,
because the Pope is
the ally of France, for
the timebeing. Other-
wise they would
plump for the Kaiser,
Here is Republican
France giving some
sort of undertaking
about the Pope’s
temporal power,
whih Germany, with
its Italian alliance,
has to resist.
Duncan Gillies lies very low these times.
Duncan expresses no opinions about banks ; he
makes no endeavour to “ restore confidence ” ; you
don’t hear of the stout little gentleman rallying
found Victoria in its hour of need, or putting his
shoulder to the wheel. An awful silence has
fallen upon Duncan in his political capacity, and
The Bulletin suspects that he has either slipped
off to the Chicago Exhibition or got married.
Perhaps both. Gone to the one World’s Fair
with his fair one.
Prof. Morris, of Melbourne University*
says he has always longed to see a revolution*
When in Paris, a few years ago, a popular out-
break was expected and people were advised to keep
indoors on a certain Sunday. The Professor went
out, and seeing a crowd of men assembled at a
street-corner in vehement conversation, he felt
that the proudest moment of his life had arrived
—he was to see the very birth of a French revolu-
tion, He straightway joined the crowd and—
found the men were chaffering over old postage-
stamps.
Dear Bulletin, — Be your par. anent the
finding of gold in Victoria in the “forties.” In ’4B,
a shepherd from Avoca brought to Melbourne a
piece of quartz with gold sticking out of it, and
sold it (as you say) to Charles Brentani, a jeweller
living in Collins-st. Brentani showed it me on the
day he bought it. I thought the metal was brass
stuck into the stone, but I altered my opinion
when, in Sept., ’5l, I got some like it at Ballarat.
The shepherd’s piece of quartz was about as large
as a good-sized walnut. —Yours, &e., M. Alex-
ander, Charleville, Q.
Marshall Hall, the Melbourne musical
mystic, scorns art criticism on the grounds that
“ the laws which govern art are undiscovered,
perhaps nndiscoverable.” That is to say, the true
artist in music, or painting, is the only living
person who can possibly understand the meaning
of his greatest works. If a red-nosed man at a
street-corner works himself up to a beery frenzy
and blows three husky blasts on a cornet, it is
quite open to the inspired boozer to believe that
he has realised in music the beautiful effect of a
golden sunrise on the Day of Judgment.
Wyllie, the North Melbourne Labour
member, was killed by “the depression.” He
bitterly felt the malicious and idiotic sneer,
“ What have the Labour members done for the
workers?” and the feeling was intensified by his
inability to do anything practical to ameliorate
the wretched condition of the unemployed thou-
sand-!. He was sensitive, and let these things
fret him, thereby proving his utter unfitness for
Victoria’s Parliament, which is mostly but a
feather-bed retreat for the callous-minded man
who bellows for the “ existing condition of
things,” and wears a sole-leather over-hide all the
time.
The “ rebel ” Melbourne magistrate,
M'Donald, once attended a Vic. Government
land-sale, whereat four acres were specially put up
at £1 per acre. M'Donald bid the upset price,
whereon a quiet-looking man hard by bid a
shilling, and then M'Donald went another shil-
ling. “Do you know, Mr. M'Donald,” said the
auctioneer, “ what you are bidding for ?” “ Land,
I expect.” “Yes, and you are also bidding for
Faoey Hurst’s body.” “Then I withdraw my
bid,” and the other man got the land. Hurst
shot at Diamond Creek by Burke, the N.S. Wales
bushranger, was buried in a Government paddock
near his own farm, and the Government had sur-
veyed four acres around, the grave to enable the
family to purchase, which they did.
One night wheil Sam Whittaker, now sub-
editor of Melbourne Evening Standard, was
reporting for the Argus at the Y.M.G. A. Hull,,
t.O.U.’s were invited at the collection. A col-
league of Sam’s dropped into the hat an 1.0. U.
for a guinea, signed “S. H. Whittaker ” to the
life. Three months after date a man, attired in a
long black coat, a flabby umbrella, and a melan-
choly smile, waited on Sam, and produced the
instrument. Whittaker looked at it calmly, but
curiously..and said mildly, “Well, I don’t remem-
ber.” “You were at the reporters’ table,” sug-
gested the dark gentleman. “ Oh, I was there,
certainly,” replied Sam ; “and this is my signa-
ture-. I’ll give you a guinea.” And he did. The
only guinea The Bulletin ever knew a reported
to give to a church.
Hussey Burgh Macartney, the patriarchal
Dean of Melbourne, is a hide-bound theologian,
but a real white man for all that, with the full
courage of his opinions. Example ; One day at
the Church of England Conference Bishop Moor-
hoUso Was tinkering up the usual compromise
between common sense and ecclesiastical humbug
MASKS j
Ini*
AT THE MUSEUM.
JIM : “Si, Liz, ain’t that like the old geyser we heard a-preachin’ in the
park last Sunday !”
about the inspiration of the S riptures. Plati-
tudes swallowed at a gulp by the whole white-
ehokered crowd save the old Dean. Up he bobbed,
like an ancient skye-terrier in a black coat. “ I
believe in the full and literal inspiration of the
Scriptures, from the first word of Genesis to the
last word of Revelation. If I don’t I’ll be
damned ! ” Then the proverbial pin was beard to
drop, as the assemblage turned its horrified gaze
on the Bishop. But James Melbourne only
smiled, and the old warhorse went home with his
nose in the air.
Many people suffer a martyrdom of head-
aches and backaches, due to irregular habits and
defective action of the bowels. Such troubles are
due to a sluggish liver, which does not secrete
sufficient bile to properly evacuate the bowels,
and prevents the expulsion of the waste material
collected from all parts of the body. Piles,
fistulas, abscesses, and inflammation all arise
from neglect of these fundamental laws of nature.
If mankind will disobey the rules which ensure
perfect health, and over-work, over-feed, and
over-drink, they must pay the penalty. As a
remedy and general regulator of the system for
persons suffering in a hereditary way for their
ancestors’ neglect or over-indulgence, we recom-
mend Dr. Fletcher’s Pills as being the best the
world produces, and the safest and most harmless
medicine extant. Sufferers are particularly
warned not to use violent and drastic purgatives;
they are particularly dangerous. Dr. Fletcher’s
Pills are mild as a lamb, safe as milk, and sure as
an alarm clock. They act gently, safely, and are
generally recommended by all their patrons, and
are sold everywhere by all medicine dealers, or
direct from F. M. CLEMENTS, Newtown,
Sydney, for 13 penny stamps.
Catarrh, when chronic, becomes very offensive.
It is impossible to be otherwise healthy, and, at
the same time, afflicted with catarrh. This dis-
agreeable disease can be cured by the use of Ayers
Sarsaparilla.


• PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
'iFl.oya.l Syc3.ia.ey.
■lprice for Ordinary Cabinet Photographs,
15s. per Dozen.
~ Platinotype Cabinet Photographs,
30s. per Dozen.
“Invest Year Money in Land.”
MOB/T’S TOWNSHIP.
On Railway Municipality of Hurstville, only 10 miles
from the City of Sydney. Next Public-school.
Gas and (Jity Water.
Title Certificate lodged with Registrar-General as security
for purchasers. Vo!., 1060 ; Folio, 170 ; Official Plan, 2921.
Prices range, from .£5 to £l6 IDs. per Lot.
TERMS-£l CASH; 10s. MONTHLY.
I guarantee no forfeiture if you are sick or out of work.
Clients in the country can rely on faithful selection. No
rocks, gullies, or swamps, or money returned in full.
Deeds sent to any part of the world ; personal attendance
unnecessary at Sydney. You can pay as you like. This
is.a genuine offer to those who have a few pounds to
spare. No fencing clause, no land-tax, and Torrens’
Title, which cannot be jumped even if you do not t urn up
for ages hence. Deeds mad e-out in names of children or
wives. Free Plana post free from
E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
Licensed Auctioneer, 301 Pitt Stiikkt, SYDNEY
“GOOD WJNE NEEDS NO BUSH.”
The enormous quantities that have been used
prove that Wolfe's Schnapps needs no laudatory
tributes.
The use of cocaine, ,as an alternative to
nitrous-oxide gas, in dental operations, is daily
practised by J. I. Marshall, dental surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-st. entrance), Sydney. Mr.
Marshall has gained reputation as the author of a
popular treatise on “ The Teeth. ”
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
'phaetons
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
33 A 34 Clarcuce-sireel,
SYDNEY.
sdf
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Cofnplete Drill-
ing Kigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 23 and 2-1
Clarence St., Svpxey.
x\
5P
POLITICAL
POINTS
“The Age, the working man’s paper.”
Rot! David Syme’s.
“By all means let us have local option
in payment of members,” says the lately-seduced
and now “ kept ” Pali. Mall Gazette.
About 20 per cent, of Queensland manhood
was disfranchised for the elections just over.
Several hundreds per cent, of Fat Man voted.
It is reported that, at next N.S.W. general
election, A. G. TayW will stand for West Sydney
in the teetotal and clerical interest.
Hancock, ex member for Culling'wood, will
probably contest the North Melbourne electorate,
rendered vacant by Wylie’s death.
The Sunday Times has its eye on the Colo
Valley grab and the Sydney electric-lighting syn-
dicate. But Truth is mum. Why?
Mr. Sydney Maxted is N.S. W. Director
of Charities, and the most important of the
charities is managed by his own brother.
The Australian Star obviously seeks to
pave the way for Premier Dibbi accession to the
N.S. VV. Agent-Generalship.
One of M‘llwraith’s first moves will pro-
bably be, as a “clincher,” to carve out fresh
“scientific ” electorates in Queensland.
At the close of the Crick-Haynes fight,
John Davies, addressing a knot of M.’sL.A-,
solemnly observed, “Yes, you are the Lower
House."
If the N.S.W. Labour-party does not, even
at this eleventh hour, spoil the Colo Valley boodle
scheme, they will deserve execration and a short
shrift.
A question of State. Parkes (loquitur);
“ How does it come in any condition of civilised
society that a man like Mr. Thomas Slattery can
have any public influence ? ”
The N.S.W. Labour Bureau Select Com-
mittee ought to unearth some sensational evidence,
if there is any truth in the rumours concerning
many curiosities in axe-grinding.
No less than five of the Sydney Dairy
Telegraph directors are known to be opposed to
payment of members. Yet the paper “ supports ”
payment*
The cry against payment of members in
N.S*W. is but the agonised wail of the private-
bill boodler, thwarted and disconcerted by the
almost-solid Labour vote.
One of the test questions at the next
Maoriland elections will be: “Do you owe any-
thing to any bank or capitalist?” A politician’s
personal necessities are his tyrant.
Little wonder Glassey was not returned for
Bundamba (Q.). The coal-mines of his opponent,
Thomas, might possibly have been shut down had
the Labour leader got in.
The Workman and the Worker should
adjust their own little differences before continu-
ing their habitual sneers at the disunion of the
N.S.W. Labour-party in Parliament.
One pleasantfeature of the Central Cumber-
land, N.S.W., election is that it exploded the sham
chivalry which ordains that bankruptcy is to be
regarded as a legislative qualification, instead of
the reverse.
St James’s Gazette has a cure for the
growing disloyalty and indifference of “our
colonies,” and prescribes doses of Royal Family,
one scion to be taken at a time, in the shape of a
Governor.
The president of Melbourne Chamber of
Commerce believes that “wages will have to go
down before the province can rise again.” “The
province ” —that is the Chamber of,Commerce, of
course.
ft would be interesting to know how
many Q. Parliamentary Bills Brisbane Courier
Buzacott has drafted in his day; and how many
he expects to draft during the coming.reign of
syndicate ’:?
The class which tells you that payment, of
members is, a - fraud is the plural-voting class
'which also tells you that trial by jury is a fraud
and which would abolish juries and manhood
suffrage—if it could.
A few more such jobs as the Colo Valley
water-rights grab, and The Bulletin will begin
'to ad voeate the purification by shot-gun of N.S. W.
politics. Evidently N.S.W. is on the. threshold
of a land-steal, railway-sale era.
tParkes is never more absurd than when ,he
•mounts his moral hobby. Those who heard him
•at Singleton, and knew his real history, must
have grinned sardonically when he assured them
they weremll too fond of luxury —of getting and
Spending.
If State-school children are to be converted
into miniature soldiers, it should be done by men
■of real military experience, and not, as in N.S.W.,
•by men whose lives have been spent in civil occu-
pat ions—a working saddler, a draper’s assistant
find a schoolmaster!
Did that N:Si Wales M.P. try to persuade
the other M.P; by a corrupt offer, or is the
btliei 1 man a liar? The Bulletin has a fixed
bpinion on this question, but is willing to abide
the report of a commission (consisting, say, of
Salomons, Q.O.jon this unsavoury matter.
Melbourne Standard gloats over Premier
Patterson’s “rugged eloquence”—born of the
abattoirs and cultivated among the shrieks of
dying pigs. The words are kept “standing”
alongside “ blatant harangue,” which always fits
the active Oppositionist.
‘ ’ Does The Bulletin not believe in
private enterprise ?” That all depends on how
private it is. There is now before N.S.W. Par-
liament an enterprise which is far too private to
be clean. You can’t hear the promoters’ talk—
but you can smell the stink of their conversation
in the lobbies.
The “bank holiday ” fizzle perpetrated by
the Victorian Government reminded a good many
people that the Treasurer of the province was a
director of the Bank of Victoria. It also reminded
them that they might as well withdraw their
money (if they had any there) from the institution
in question.
When Bulrauald Wilkinson, M.P., moved
his motion for a dissolution of the N.S.W. Assem-
bly the other night he didn’t disguise the fact
that the Labour-party was the fly in his ointment.
He is a weak and intellectually flabby nobody;
but he had the courage to say what nine-tenths of
older parties think, but dare not utter.
<< Q; .Government denied the truth of the
gridiron 1 land-grab map, and published another
map showing only four lines of nroposed railway
instead of eleven. But the map which Hume
Black, special State-paid bagman for the (M‘ll-
- Meat-Freezing Co., took to Lon-
don to show the financiers, had the whole eleven
lines marked on it right enough.
A night’s discus-
sion in the Commons
has published and
emphasised the fact
that payment of mem-
bers by the constitu-
encies they represent
ean even now be
enforced at British
common-law by any
member who cares to
sue his district in a
corporate capacity.
This fact is now being
utilised by English
Tory papers to con-
demn the proposal tq
jpay members out of
the National Exche-
quer, whereas the in-
cidence of logic is ip
an opposite direction.
The principle of the
expediency of paying
parliamentary repre-
sentatives remains as
it always was; but
the circumstances of
the country having
been altered, a change
in the method of pay-
ment becomes desir-
able. The custom
merely dropped out
of vogue because the
system was clumsy.
“ Ex - Premier
Parkes;” says a Bul-
letin correspondent,
“ claims that he,
:than any other map
living, has saved Aus-
tralia fromithe afflic-
tion of a hereditary
peerage. He, among
his friends, distin-
guishes between a
title, ‘ the hallmark
of personal merit,’
and a title not earned
by the individual who
wears it, but professes
to be in hearty accord
with the feeling which
rejects or seeks to
reject all titles. An
Anti-Titles Bill will
not encounter Parkes’
hostility.”
Lawyer Crick took a step towards justice
in his N.S.W. Attorneys’ Admission Bill, i?ut the
rejection of Neild’s amendment, abolishing the
year under articles and racking.examination .we
sole test, of fitness for admission, by,33 votes fo
28, with all the lawyers, in the majority, recalls
| the quip that “lawyers so to heaven by degrees.
•“ We want payment of . members, not
abolition pf payment of members. We want prp-
; gress, not re-action. We don’t want opr Barlia-
l ment ever again to joe d.yid d between .wealthy
men and those more [dangerous men, whose impe-
cuniosity ,makes them useful instruments, in the
hands pf the .wealthy' writes “ Unit ”jn a daily
paper.
Reconstructed and with a liberalised pro-
gramme, the Downer (8.A.) Ministry will, it is
thought, still be badly defeated directly the new
Assembly meets. There is at present a majority
of quite six on the Opposition side, including the
Labour vote, which will go against the Ministry.
The National Ass has, virtually wrecked the
, Downer party.
Purves, Q.C., developes his idea of, a;State
lottery. It may come off, for the.onoo-rich saints
who used to lead the opposition in such matters
are now all mote ot lets Insolvent, and are pre-
pared to make mbney, or save themselves, by any
means. Even the clergy would, most of them,
wink the other eye. They hardly dare Oppose
their best patrons.
Premier Downer (S.A.) has temporarily
propped up his leaning-tower Ministry with
“Works” Moule, the wrecker of two former
Governments that ignored his claims to office, and
“Onions and Education” Castine, a gentleman
who might beat “Jannery” John Davies in
spelling. Moule is 40, Castine, 47; while both
are nine-year-old parliamentarians.
Tonkin’s motion in N.S.W. Assembly to
reduce members’ salaries to -£lOO, and add the
.£28,200 thus saved to the was
carelessly allowed to go as formal. Everybody
knew that it was hollow gammon, and didn’t
want to hear Ebenezer canvassing the Sunny
Corner miners. The motion promptly
rejected by a three-to-one vote, 51 to 17.
The WoRKMAN-Burclekin episode, wherein
the directors of the official Sydney Labour-organ
borrowed -£9B from a millionaire landlord, whom
by passive, if not by active, means they subse-
quently helped into Parliament, only happened
yesterday. But its moral is thousands of years
old—The borrower is ever the servant of the
lender.
There are numbers of Solomon Islanders
and other South Sea savages doing duty as coach-
men, grooms, and so on about Petersham, Wool-
lahra, and Darling Point, Sydney, and when they
drink, as was shown in a recent police-court case,
they run “amok.” In default of a nigger-exclud-
ing Act, the employers of such laboitr should give
bonds for the good behaviour of their niggers.
If there is in N.S.W., Upper House one
man a Radical at heart, let him satirically intro-
duce and force to a division a bill to provide for
paying the members. Of course it would be .a
gross swindle to pay nominees and thus put it m
the power of any Ministry to pitchfork its pimps
THE LEGS BOWED DOWN.
BROWN : “Have a wet?"
JONES : “No thanks, Bob I've stopped it—I’ve joined the Army; I’m
born again.”
BROWN; What! Born again—and with them same legs !”
into fat sinecures, but all the same, three-fourths
of the tipper House feels aggrieved because
“ they ” get } paid and “ we ” don’t;
Jawbone Neild’s -,-N.S.W. Law .Bill pro-
eposes that to, pass an examination in law shall pe
sufficient, to be called, to, the bar—that' Sound
English, and, a good, knowledge of law shall take
the place of'". “ French comedies' and Greek
tragedies” as a test for admission. Should the
measure be passed, if is whispered ISTeild Himself
, will become a barrister. Rriebbag and wind-bkg.
It seems a piece of poetical justice that
Mj'llwraith, who has been, oh, the whole, sup-
ported by .the Central Queensland Capitalistic
coterie in Parliament and who is the
, incarnation of all the virtues worshipped by the
Capricorni,an, boodlers, should be proposing a
Land-Grab .Rail way scheme th,at. will unfailingly,
if carried out,’ reduce Rockhampton to the level of
or Port jDouglas.
,S. A. Labour-party talks of trying to amepp
the electoral law of that province so that voters
may vote through post. This .night open the
door to unlimited hanky-panky. , Let the law
merely be altered so that each elector may record
his vote for Ills own electorate in any district.
Had this been the case in the em-
ployers’ organisations could not have starved out
the franchise of the, wage-earners.
The M‘llwraithian gang attempts to bribe
the starving Queensland proletariat to part with
their heritage, by pointing out to them that the
land-grant railway means work and wages—a
little temporary prosperity. It is to be hoped that
Bananalanders will rather endure hardship and
depression than sell their children as slaves to the
syndicator. Let them remember Tom Paine’s
noble words i “If there must be trouble, let it be
in my day, that my child may have peace.”
“ Billy ” Graham, M.P., the Newcastle
auctioneer, recently locked up in the N.S.W.
Ministerial smoking-room for the use of filthy
language to the Chairman of Committees, while
intoxicated, was led out by the Sergeant-at-arms
some weeks ago in consequence of riotous conduct.
He is not a member of the Labour-party, but has
many times denounced that body, and vacillates
between wild jamborees and periods of penitence,
preceded by a public taking of the pledge.
The newly-elected N.S. Wales member,
M'Credie (who, by the way, doesn’t believe in
payment of members) voted straight for the Bill
to give a set of syndicators control, for electricity-
generating purposes, of the Colo and Grose Valley
waters. Sniff! The same M'Credie virtuously
refuses to give his name to the directorate of the
proposed N.S. W. Fruitgrowers’ Exportation Co.,
on the ground that he might thus lead other people
to invest and lose their money. Sniff, sniff.
The letter of Houghton, M.P. (N.S. W.),
to Sydney D.T., showing how he had refused
unspecified bribes for unspecified services in but
dimly-described jobs, was almost as ass-headed as
the immortal declaration of a certain N.S.W.
(still-sitting) member a few years ago : “Mr.
Speaker, before I had been in the Assembly a
fortnight I was offered forty bribes.” All that
Houghton says may be true; but why didn’t he
hire a man with the satiric sense to edit his letter ?
The capitalistic party makes no such mistakes. '
One of the points which will crop up
shortly is the position of N.S.W. civil servatitfe
under the Constitution Act, sec. 52, with respect
to pensions. It is not generally known that Chief
Justice Martin expressed the Opinion that the
Superannuation Act, the fund created by which is
now insolvent, did not Supersede civil servants,’
rights under the Constitution Act. Moreover, it
is questionable whether the aiCtion of the Railway
Commissioners in throwing a hugfe nutaberof their
ex-employes on the fund iS not iff contravention
of that Act. 11 ‘ * 1 ’
When the white man of British descent
sees a grievance of any kind, his firsfidea is to
form a society to put it right. Under 4 these cir-
cumstances, there sbems room for a society for the
suppression of persons who desire to’ interfere
between Haynes and Crick in the course of any
future uneasiness between these two eminent
legislators. The membership fee will be £l, and
the society’s business will be to keep on hand when
the trouble eventuates, and hold back the crowd,
and take home the remnants in a wheelbarrow.
Recently left Buudaberg (Q.), Rev. Thos.
Moore, author of the most stirring brochure yet
written on the Kanaka question. Mr. Moore was
too honest t 6 succeed in Kanakaland. He never
withheld his hand from the needy or turned up'his
nose at the unfortunate and degraded. Conse-
quently he was not understood —
No wonder no one understood
The ways the parson had ;
He spent his life in doing good
By going to the bad.
QUEENSLAND AND LILLEY.
•She casts aside the hero’s sword,
And stands unarmed in the strife,
And in her bosom straight receives
The blade of the assassin’s knife.
E.D.
The Secret of My Life.
There are few more rugged figures among the
Scotch scholars of the present generation than is
Professor Blackie, of Edinburgh. Though eighty-
three he has neVer worn a pair of spectacles, and
for thirty years he had no need of medical advice.
He attributes the vitality of his old age to his
custom’ bf living by an unvarying system* and it is
noteworthy that 'Oliver Wendell Holmes, who is
’of about the 1 same age and equally Well preserved,
told an some time ago that hid''own
good health ‘wasdue to the habit of living strictly
\by‘ rUle, even to the temperature of his bath. It
is interesting to know that Professor Blackie does
not go to till'the Clock strikes l twelve. He
1 rises at half-past' SeVen, and aUvays after'his mid-
day meal he takes a nap. * ' > ■ • i
1 But he lived in a slower age than ours. Booms,
syndicates, and corporations were unknown in
his day, and mankind now wear themselves out
‘ and go the pace too rapidly, and life is too full 6f
cares for us to have time to pay attention to all
' small details; We wear ourselves out too quickly.
,’Tis the pace that tells, and brings on liver com-
plaints,! Bright’s -disease, indigestion, locomotor
'artaxis, add btain paralysis. Hundreds of men
'die Annually from s ich diseases, but if. ’on the
' first “approach' of sUch diseases they Wou’d have
’reCoUtSe to such a reliable remedy, as did Mr.
Charles Page; butcher, Maitland-road", Islington,
‘New South Wales, Who writes on January 17th,
1893 This is *tb" certify that I have- used
Clements'Tonic, ‘as I have been a victim to
extreme nervousness and general debility (that is
what I believed I was suffering from) and cdn-
"tiliual headaches, 1 with Complete loss of appetite.
‘ I havb lain night after night unable to jjet a wink
of sleep, and arose in the morning moreftired than
when 1 went tO bed at night. Well, I' found no
'relifef from anything I tried. ’A friend of mine
said—“ Why don’t you try Clements Tonic ?” I
took his advice and did so, and I can say that
before ,! had finished the first bottle‘i was
relieved, ahd by the time I had taken the second
s bottle I found myshlf entirely cured. I have
neWer had a return of my complaint since. I'am
’’only too happy to recommend Clements Tohic on
all occasions, as I believe from expetience'that ’it
’ls 6tfe of the greatest aids to appetite in the world,
and' as h. strehgthener of the system there’is
nothing in the World to equal it. If you think by
publishing this it will benefit others*,you are at
■ ’liberty 'to do s6 r . —Yours siifcorely, Charles Page,
butcher,' Maitland-road, Islington, New South
'Wales. “ 1


OT)0)
' / i j \
vssgLt
S\ S I^T.NIC-, Te^^ T '(_
tiI;LIE UEi
VLU : Iseuv
Of A
etviL
21-- MAin-
L LK U L> S
|) f I’KIU-N'IEUT
Lv£VE , vi3i.'tc-V3|. e a
I’.lA t'un-
t'SLIEi
(Ti.-j :y
$
4-3
f C S /~ J /'
Aty> fih &$/////} j " S^rtG ? /s <?0
T/tp <2. p
\ /ff/ss
io
7‘^s^>on
TfraC' 7%Z fat-
/fuafaf/ffa.d\ \
of TKk^
Lor ? JTuS&at'aj
/j fo /eap *% air /W/,
01, !*> O $ ~h*,
froh~ c*' b cl
sy/:
i
I
0 1-i r>/
N-shf
f-/Cil4 j
/deada /nit-
-0 \ ac /'fr
( nuttj rcLiccca _
Sccys ffe do-ble
Tho Queen walked up ami
down tho ranks, and closely inspected
oath man Her Majesty constantly re-
peated the pleasure which it afforded her
to see them, and admired their splendid
physique and fine appearance, as well r.y
their handsome uniforms.
6affcp* a.?ef/f a/ frs
a /Jays 'g/r/s.
i F»V-Tfjc
SUWN
.CftpW
ITKTThi.,* I
a ***» \
lAf '™ f
WCoonthv
I BUKINS ISr
THf MAN
__/y_QXRM/\j
1/OTFFBR
msßyi
I c'w ' Di o * l^
ivJh.
'r.tvniiTU!
If H.UKAN
plMAfl
W 0865 AND
CHFAP ■
WHliKy
FOR
mw».
80^5'',
-pjeNW^
MW'
: ACANDIOft
MJumH
WMP
fOR \
\ Sruw s ■
I
cM»fi
->|,OMP j
FOB. I
poPW* I^ 1
SoPfßi
iu£*ri
Uof.ft
Local
option
* iv'-ja
1 fJO ( * U< * I
1 |»B .
i-tusbs I
Wfrww
\ (.(oiot*'-
x wt -
sd
I) sound
I AN Di>rlfiifii
s^oo^
CL ETJgjO/ •-- 9
4*
(cj^tO af ”
4 a ° n r._
VIEWS FROM A SYDNEY STANDPOINT.


"yTTalh on
Off/ce-,
fy* 2 /^elboun^iz* .
Za.iSfi Aeojheat^
]So m<XT\y- i/1 Jt> fff'i/f/es
0/i ~fi[ e Q.7>. O ~R M. %. Wy' nne "*Vs cZeterni/ / ne.oL~~^o
Tn-attei- .
fsd
1 L.L. Sm/hfy /$
dherjoyeol ah ixiiex.Joe tied
receifiioj- fas (fra ndja Ik £ r’s
Clock.''
~ CaJfJe.
I
■
rfflfli:
mNi
fWf
spU
(I?
jV^ag'i sit ate _-H av/syou.
'To Say'T"
TV;*aner-l-wJll / y%f Wars bifcj'iliin'Js ate.
Mow/’ in a. Very calamitow j sfate / cm el az'
N. ■ \fkrdiict' of- Committal ti ot ~~y'
/ \ -fenano -mattcis’ specially' Jci-me,
K**-
Tremier 'T’dftk'ersotXr-*- T)o Voxa.-feel TvttmVlfc— ■?
Treasurer Carter —~ yoxc'fce/'" J. do. JJotx'CyoiATtlxink. ~ur<*-
should, eo rd idly co-oJo&i-aTte^
//? fef- a.y~<£LJ- ’? "
TUB' day OF HUMILIATION
AHD PRAYER.
7%eoc?cre. Tin 7c (jo Zct'/toi-')- — You. ztr'tH, o7)/ig4~
, me- %y~ Sa.yl'n.y~ n }7l at all in con ire. n. ieirf
aho vCt Sir MaST/io ur~ dairies ure.
fSt A. I J'vx. ourt of y/tls titf/e. dlft-c ultjr'."
SirHj*
~u n ~^2\ e ct vdlk,o r/7i&. s an k,!o u. s
ofind for prisoners / n same kind—
Of xtrork ika.i' urovLld nol~clo.sk sW
of o ids!£q. ZoJhot\ Mour / 'ur/ty~.'nof~ s?
* r ''l*-™- -a turn 5 at e.Ke*eisinj- olt-Aw /
Sir ' Bryan- O’Loghlen .states that',
j he had purposely refrained from reading the
! newspaper repotta of the trial before the
City Court in order to deal with the, matter with
an unbiassed mind.
OP VAtCTS*. 1 *
fs
Sfo e c.u lotto h A/jyur}J e
I S o. CaS e In. Jo O t'nl / W'h. e
Zcc-ncL hooi'n. xv l sc 5 cCt its /ie/ g fct~ s 4<S~
W~£-i g A.e.ot /i S7aL,oe/i.att~ ftc-lr i'iouj'J 11
MELBOURNE BANKING—AND OTHER MATTERS.


EACH OF THE FOUR SEASONS
Brings some, hurt to the human system. It
therefore prudent to keep on hand invariably
good supply of Wolfe’s Schnapps,
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
When the bowels become torpid, slow digestion
ensues, accompanied by low spirits, then use
Wolfe’s Schnapps, the famous vitaliser.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Golemane anil Sons, are unsurpassed.
The Queensland Government .seriously
proposes retrenchment. The expenses in conneo.
Gr
o O D s p E 0.
SAFE, PROFITABLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing- by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
ffold finds- at Murchison, &c.- Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds tor
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth, The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from £lO
£XS (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd
(Estnb. 1885) 3(H) Plft-st. Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: ST. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A
Society
The proposed marriage of the Duke of
York and Princess May recalls a horrible parallel
in English history. Arthur, eldest son of Henry
VII., was engaged to Catherine of Arragon ;
bub that unhappy youth died, and then old
Henry, wishing to keep the money in the family,
passed the lady on to his second son, afterwaids
Henry VIII. Twenty years later that bloated
object—probably the most incurable widower in
English records became smitten with Anne
Boleyn, sheof the swanneck and equally attenuated
morals, and in the scrimmage that ensued Henry
made most of his subjects turn Protestants, under
many and awful pains and penalties. In like
manner, May was betrothed to the heir of the
British Crown, and he being dead is now handed
over to his brother. Also, George seems just the
sorb of individual who will go the way Henry went,
and as he can’t make England turn Protestant
it being mostly Protestant already—he will pro-
bably hang the Archbishop of Canterbury, and
make a coup d’etat, and compel the nation to take
to Judaism or Mohammedanism :
It is the painful
duty of every visitor to
read the names tagged
to many inoffensive and
helpless blossoms in Mel-
bourne Botanical Gar-
dens : “ Lady Loch,”
“Lady Kintore,” “The
Lord Hopetoun,” “ The
Lady Robinson,” “The
Lord Kintore,” &c., &c.
Now-a-days, when a Go-
vernor’s name is men-
tioned, one is not sure
whether it is a mountain,
a chrysanthemum, a
boarding-house, or a bug.
* * *
Last week, before
M’Donald, J.P., had
finally decided to commit
Davies and Millidge for
trial in the Mercantile
case, The Bulletin
wondered if that magis-
trate had been deputa-
tionised by shuddering
gentlemen in high hats,
and button-holed inshady
places by important per-
sons who desired to point
out the moral and ma-
terial evil that would
fall upon Australia if
the accused were not in-
stantly acquitted without
a stain on their character.
Since that was printed
Magistrate M‘Donald has
said: “I can say that
some of the influences
which have been brought
to bear, and of which I
do not care to speak
now, have positively
made lay heart stand
still.”
# * *
A. G. Stephens, a
Banaland journalist, says
that he met old men who
were deserters from the
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Poor
Asylum, every half-mile
or so, recently, on the
road between Mount Vic-
toria and Wentworth
Falls. They admitted
having been well treated
as to tucker and tobacco.
“Then whv did you
leave?” “Well, y’see,
they make us wash our-
selves every morning.”
The Austrian Archduke nears Sydney as
we write. On his arrival Acting-Gov. parley s
agonies will commence in real earnest, and he will
begin to go out of rooms backwards, and wear
out his back with much salaaming, and get
callosities on Ins knees through voluminous genu-
flection. Meanwhile, Sydney Government House
is being practically torn up by the roots in the
frantic effort to get things straight before thedreary
globe-trotter arrives, and everybody is failing
downstairs with his mouth full of nails in joyous
anticipation. # #
How the square men of the public service
will fit into the round holes is shown by the fortu-
nate career of the ex Director of Agriculture in
N.S.W. He began life as a State school teacher.
Then he was put at the head of the Agricultural
Department some two years ago, and now he is to
take charge of the Public Library! Truly a versa-
tile genius. The Public Librarianship should surely
have been given to some distinguished literary
man, or bookman. Mr. Anderson must be pos-
sessed of enviable influence. But, after all, there
is a compensation in everything. The pumpkin-
department of literature will henceforth have a
jealous guardian.
Lord Hopetoun has burst forth with a
brilliant suggestion that Maoriland South should
be called “New Scotland beyond the colonies.”
An awfully jolly ingenious idea and full of soul.
•Afr At die
Last Saturday, “ Faustine,” of Sydney
Telegraph, after bracketing Whitman with
“Jesus and Socrates,” broke into a poetic quota-
tion on the subject of corsets. The verse is
tolerably steep; but “Faustine,” who has a gift
for putting things gently, simply describes it as
being “Frenchy.” If one man disembowelled
another with a kedge-anchor, she would probably
say that an unpleasantness took place between
them. Still, when a lady, writing in the highly
respectable Telegraph, can quote the giddy thing,
a coarse and ordinary male in the sinful Bulletin
can surely do likewise. So here goes :
I envy thee, the joy of thy love’s story
Stretched softly ever on that ivory breast;
Share thou, at least, I pray, with me thy glory.
Her days be thine, but leave me all the rest.
“Faustine” also remarks concerning the lines in
question that “an English lady wouldn’t like to
have them sent her.” Therefore, it would either
appear that “ Faustine” isn’t an English lady, or
else that, though she wouldn’t like her own quota-
tion sent to her, she doesn’t mind sending it to
other people. Further, it seems to imply that the
Telegraph is not fit to be sent to an English
lady.
J * * #
Dear Bulletin, —Last week you referred
to a man who, though shot through the brain,
lived long enough to walk to a doctor. This,
as you remark, is not unusual. Last year,
two men were shot through the head in
Victoria, and both are now living. The
first fired a ramrod through his forehead,
but travelled a train journey to Melbourne, and
walked into the hospital. The rod was withdrawn,
and after some days the patient was discharged
cured. The second, at South Melbourne, carries
A PAYING CONCERN.
Brown : “ You know that bank you advised me to put my money
into a couple of years back? Well, it’s paying a dividend.”
JONES :“Ah ! I knew it was right—had a branch in England and
several lords on the directorate. By the way, what dividend
are they paying?”
BROWN : “ A twopenny first and final.”
a bullet in his brain to-day, and its presence has
apparently affected neither his health nor his
sanity.—M. M‘G.
• • •
A recent applicant for an hotel license in
the Bathurst (N.S.W.) district was required, after
preliminaries, to produce some person of standing
to give him the customary character. Among the
questions put to this person was : “ Where did you
see Mr. last?” Answer: “Please your
Worship, under a wire-fence, lying dead dnlnk.”
He got his license, however, the magistrate merely
telling him to keep sober in future, and remarking
. that it was quite a change to hear a little truth
in such matters.
The N.S. Wales Artillery has lost one
man by suicide, and another by accident, appa-
rently the result of carelessness, in a single day.
There is a general impression abroad, by the way,
that the corps loses far too many men from disease
arising from drink.
The Jolimont railway accident was a simile
for the Melbourne banks. When the axle was
broken and the carriage went bumping along, the
wise men said, “Keep cool; sit still,” but those
who lumped out were the best off.
• o *
Sydney Evening News “ad.” A new
industry :
"C'NGLISH Widow LADY, recently arrived, would be
glad to hear of a few pupils to teach Whist, in-
cluding solo, and other card games. Instruction,
William-street P.O.
Sounds like teaching billiards, including football.
# # *
Teetotallers in these banking days wish
they had taken to drink.
At a recent Vic-
torian fire-inquest, a
medical witness dogma-
tically pronounced some
charred bones to be the
remains of an infant
which perished in the
flames. “Ham-bones,’’
said a juryman, audibly.
“ Are you an anatomist,
sir’’’ enquired the wrath-
ful medico, scornfully.
The bones received
“Christian burial.”
Later, the seorcbed-up
skeleton of the infant, in
whose supposed grave
the pig’s bones were
interred, was found in-
tact. Which recalls the
old-time story of the two
Sydney doctors who, in
an infanticide case (de-
fended by Dailey), de-
posed that the remains
before the Court be-
longed to a baby. Then
came poor Gerard Krefft,
the naturalist, to swear
that the bones were part
of the skeleton of a wal-
laby. And so they were.
# * *
J. J. Horrocks’
recent disinterment, per
medium of a Sydney
daily, of Bishop Frazer’s
anti-panic banking let-
ter,! recalls the fact that
when invoking the exer-
cise of calm judgment on
the part of the business
men of Manchester the
Bishop had <£Bo,ooo
stowed away in consols
and other securities al-
most wholly outside the
sphere of disturbance.
It is easy to be calm
with the greater part of
,£BO,OOO in consols and
an episcopal stipend of
.£5OOO a year.
• * *
Any Melb. man can
recall 20 cases of death
from mere broken heart
Thus an English correspondent:
Dear Bulletin,— Suppose this Beaney “ Insti-
tute” bequest of £lO,OOO is declared void, and the
money (or what the lawyers leave of It) goesi to• the
relatives of the illustrious departed, then Canterbury
won’t get its institute, but the “ Munificent Founder
will have his memorial in the cathedral all the same.
Perhaps you will think that a gorgeous joke, but I tell
you we want the money badly, and you 5; a "
our vexation. Beaney actually offered to build and
endow this precious institute several years ago wt
wanted a new town-hall, and told him so. Whereat,
Beaney refused and said : “If you don t want what 1 ottei
vou, you shan’t get anything at all.” If we are done out
of our bequest, what’s left of the money will'go to
Beaney’s poor relatives, whom we refused to help when
we first got news of our thumping legacy. This will be a
bitter pill. The dean and chapter are all right, and the
sculptor is all right, I suppose, for he probably got cash
on or before delivery. Please hurry up the Melbourne
courts and get them to send along our money, or
Beaney’s money, or anybody else’s money, tor we aie
poor and needy, though not quite so poor as Beaney s
sister—unless she flukes into a rich woman after all.—l
am, &c., A Citizen of Canterbury. Canterbury (hmg.),
April 2,1803.
# # *
A prisoner in Pentridge (Vic.), convicted of
stealing bank shares, suicided last week on hearing
of the bank’s collapse. He could not face the
liability on the uncalled capital.
* * *
A poor little “ milliner’s apprentice” sent
■“ half her week’s earnings” to the Melb. Women s
Hospital week’s denial fund. And how much did
it amount to ? Sixpence 1
• * *
They are turning the gaols into granaries
and creameries in Victoria, and, perhaps, are
rather “ previous.” If so, however, there will be
plenty of vacant banks available for use as gaols.
* * *
In certain S.A. country districts the police
are to be provided with tricycles. Wo can see it
coming: “He knocked rao down and tore me
machine, yer Worship. ’
* * *
Changes are taking place in the “make-
up” of S.M. Herald, and will continue to be
effected until the paper is a facsimile of the
London Times.
# # *
The landlady of a Macquarie-street (Syd-
ney) boarding-house one day last week refused a
well-known parson boarder the use of a latch-key.
On importuning her for the favour, she protested
that the three other lady-boarders in her estab-
lishment were without keys, and made no com-
plaint. , # ,
A man, locked Up in a Sydney watch-house
one night last week, was found in possession of
the manuscript of a long letter to the b.M. Herald
on the evils of drink. The MS. was his property,
and as the charge on which he was locked up was
drunkenness, it is supposed that on his way to the
Herald office his enemy slew him.
After noting the number of garnisbeo
orders put in to mop up Clara Parker’s little
dividend out of millionaire Joe Clarke, we con-
clude that Clara could give points to Mrs. Gordon-
Baillie in stringing men like beads.
» • *
Bishop Field Flowers Goe, Melbourne, in
announcing a day of humiliation and prayer,
trusts that no one will take exception to the word
“ humiliation.” The Almighty does not call upon
a Christian of “position ” to sacrifice his dignity,
# • *
It may be frankly and freely conceded
that Matthew Davies never did anything with a
well-defined criminal intent. The larid-boom per-
ception of financial dishonesty was so clouded by
the fumes of champagne and dazzled by the
glitter of new gold that bank-bleeders in general
drew the criminal intent line at the thought of
shovelling the deposits into a cart and driving
away with the entire bank. Moreover, the
boomers sang one another’s praises at so many
banquets that each of them began to believe in
HIGH KICKING.
ELDERLY PERSPN : “Fie ! my daughter ; football ? Is not that rather
an unfeminine amusement ?"
YOUNG PERSON : “O no, pa ! It’s splendid practice for the skirt
dance!”
(Of course he had nothing more to say.)
the integrity of all the rest, and to heartily thank
God that he was quite as good as they, anyhow.
* * *
“ The Queen was highly pleased with the
appearance of the troops, and mentioned that the
uniform of the New South Wales soldiery was
specially attractive.” Cable.
Let the big drum boom and the brass horns bray
For the Duke of York and the Princess May!
The March of the Dead,
Played for poor Prince Ned,
Is the wedding-march for the bridal gay.
The funeral meats, you can let them stay,
For the Duke of York and the Princess Alay !
In the wedding feast
We can have at least
Sign of him who is gone on the long, dark way.
Keep the wreaths and flags and the trousseau gay
For the Duke of York and the Princess May ;
They will all suggest
Thoughts of him at rest.
Quite appropriate on the wedding day.
Let there be loud cheers and a grand display
For the Duke of York and the Princess May ;
It begins to. toot
At the Hinstitoot,
And will echo away to Hobson’s Bay,
God save the Queen ! and Hip, hip, hip hooray
For the Duke of York and the Princess May,
For there’s none would spoil
The nuptials royal
With tears for the Prince gone the long, dark way.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
THE SANDY BLIGHT.
Where’er we take our walks abroad
We find the Gov. a Scottish lord ;
We mostly find a “ leading man ”
Included with the Scottish clan,
Who, all the day, their voices lift
In solemn praise of Scottish thrift,
And, by the way, are not bereft
Of pious skill in Scottish theft.
’Tis open, though, for men of mirth
To find a flaw in Scottish birth ;
Life’s roses ne’er in beauty bloom
When Sol is dimmed by Scottish gloom.
All, all around one sees the work
Unlovely of the Scottish kirk,
And, therefore, do we think and write —
Australia has the Sandy blight.
THE THAILOR MAKES THE MAN OF WAR..
Again our gracious Monarch stoops
'To weave another silken bond !
She gave some taffy to the troops
Of whom the Sydney girls are fond.
They ranged before her in a line,
She smiled upon them once or twice,
Then witched them with this truth divine—
“ Their uniforms are really nice."
Ah ! happy wights from New South Wales 1
For this ’twas good enough to brave
The awful fury of the gales
That blow across the briny wave.
Far sweeter than the song of birds,
Or music made by silv’ry lutes,
The ring of Yic. Regina’s words
“ I do admire those pretty suits.’
No chance have they to fight and die
For England, as per Dailey’s scheme;
Of letting off a battle-cry
Those noble fellows vainly dream.
But, in default Of shedding gore,
They’ve tried to do their level best ;
Our dummy troopers can’t do more
Than aim at being smartly dress’t.
AbashM feels the common clown
Who spends his time in chopping logs;
No wearer of a jewelled crown
Would compliment him on his togs.
He fools around and fades away—
In point of fact, goes “ off the hooks —•
And moves no noble queen to say
How very beautiful he looks.
Who would not he a soldier bold,
And wear a gay, distingu6 coat,
Enriched with fal-de-rals of gold
Tight buttoned round his martial throat 7
The arts of peace are very well,
Insensate war true manhood loathes ;
But nothing can resist the spell
Of “ specially-attractive ” clothes.


Reconstruction.
Thus prompt acceptance of various schemes of
banking reconstruction is a cheering proof of the
restoration of public confidence in the solvency,
stability and future prospects of the monetary
institutions of New South Wales, and demon-
strates the fact that depositors have recovered
Control of their reasoning faculties. The turmoil,
anxiety and worry, inseparable from the panic,
Carry their own hygienic penalties—nerves are un-
strung, strength is diminishing, and the various
Organs of the body are thrown into chaotic con-
fusion. To reconstruct the nervous and muscular
systems, and rebuild afresh shaken constitutions,
recourse should be had to that wonderfully effica-
cious and widely-known remedy, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine—a proved “perfect panacea” for
all disorders springing from lack of nervous
vitality. Mr. A. A. Blackwood, one of the oldest
and best-known travellers on the Western road,
writes from Dubbo, under date 7th May ;
Some time ago I used a bottle of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, and several since. Just bought another at
Graham s. I never used anything so effective in renewing
vitality aid appetite. I have recommended it to dozens,
who are using it and state the same, although chemists
laugh at the idea as fancy; but their own quinine and
iron mixtures, which they substitute for it, nearly always
affect the head, whilst Marshall’s Tonic Nervine does
not. Unless the article was as I describe it, I would not
lend my name to it.
Th E equitable
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS 1
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. J£107,68C,366
New Business, 1891 ;;(;(J,.'{lo
Surplus, Januaiy 1, 1892 5,438 871
Apply for “TONTINE TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens tf A dual Remits.
SYDNEY BRANCH:.
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society’s perma-
nent building)
Junction of Hunter, Pitt Si O’Connell Streets.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p, 1.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—Wo. 3.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors j/ro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within six weeks from Saturday, 22nd April,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to tiie manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 3.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or IS penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, 3rd June,
1893.
When Dailey made his
proposal, at a meeting of N.S.W. Cabinet,
to offer a contingent for service in the Sou-
dan, the only members present besides him-
self were Francis Augustus Wright and
James Squire Farnell. Dibbs knew nothing
about it until he saw a paragraph, stating
what had been done, in a daily paper, when
he was coming up in the train from Emu
Plains ; and Stuart was in Maoriland.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received—so deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
an’ ~ft prove' to
your Hking, prithee resolve
me this, y ’Tis certain every
proper maker when he self
his Organs does verily lay
his Reputation to the haz-
ard. " If his an indifferent
Organ, e’en though he sell it
privily Gossip will out and
buffet him. Go to, then!
'Dost not perceive his only
safe to buy of him on whose
diploma Time , Truths and
Fame have set their seals.
Seal thou with him the trade.
He hath a name of Esthy
and abideth mightily at Brat-
tleboro, Vt. Eke nigh unto
the fifth part of a million
organs voice his
forty yw gosts hf*
Sole Agents—
W- H- PALING & CO., Ltd.,
Sydney & Newcastle, N.S. Wales, Brisbane & Toowoomba.
The LARGEST IMPORTERS of PIANOS and MUSIC
in AUSTRALIA.
tlon vvlth doling Out blankets to the wretched
aboriginals on “ the Queen’s Birthday " are to be
rigidly cub down. All male blacks, and any
female and Infant blacks who work on any station
during any part of the year, will bo excluded from
the distribution. Only unemployed gins and pioa-
nlnnles are to get “ Queen’s Birthday” blankets :
(fold save, crazy Kaween,
Longa lib no bally Kawoon,
Daal mine been thank ltd
8e;ul her big story us,
Crabby and gory us,
Long to rain nobblers—*■
Baal gib it blanket!
And, by the way, there is in N.S.W. a cruel rule
that the aborigines shall not be served with their
annual blankets till Queen’s Birthday—just as if
the winter did not begin long before the 24th May!
Will some member of Parliament kindly look into
this matter ?
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley and his
brother judges made merry the other day over the
magistrate who allowed a woman to be sued com
jointly with her husband for a debt contracted by
the husband, the creditor having discovered that
she possessed independent means. The Chief
Justice said that if such a practice were allowed a
wife might be fined for an assault committed by
her husband, and scathingly alluded to the magis-
trate’s deficient sense of equity. The N.S.W.
Full Court doesn’t appear to know that American
jurists are divided on the principle of such cases,
and that in a case of seduction of a servant girl an
Ohio woman of independent means was decreed
against for the action of her husband, a man with-
out means. Tiiere are circumstances which occa-
sionally bring the principle well within the bounds
of equity.
* » #
Nepotism is the sweetest flower that
grows in a certain Australian adultery-court.
* # *
A Sydney lawyer tells us that, the other
day, while overhauling papers in the estate of a
deceased citizen, lie found ample evidence of the
fact that the N.S.W. metropolis possesses a “Grief
Factory,” whose business it is to supply funeral
advts., wholesale or retail, at so much per spasm,
in assorted lots of prose or verse. The Sydney
“Grief Factory,” unlike the flint-hearted Mel-
bourne establishment which demands payment in
advance, is willing to give credit to any ghost with
a decent estate, and to await the realisation of
assets by the executors,
* * #
“ Have you a bank account ?” asked Judge
Williams of defendant in an alimony-case in Mel-
bourne, last week. “No, thank God!” was the
reply. “It is not so bad as that.”
* * «
Ad. from Melbourne Argus : “ Marriages
solemnised at any time or place by duly authorised
Protestant Minister, fee £l.” Auctioneer Kins-
man beats this by “chucking in” the ring, if
necessary.
* # *
Dear Bulletin, — A recent picture by
“ Hop.” recalls a Hobart incident a few years ago.
A man committed suicide by cutting his throat,
and was found by his wife, shortly after the
event, prostrate on the floor of the “best bed-
room.” She did not attempt to obtain medical
assistance until she had carefully dragged him
out to the sewer in the back-yard, remarking that
she wasn’t going to have her carpet spoilt by his
foolishness. Will this devoted wife be entitled to
a vote for “thrift” when woman-suffrage comes
along ?—Kurrajong.
* * *
Mrs. Darley’s friends are beginning to tell
her that she is much more eloquent than her vice-
I'egal predecessor at Government House, Sydney.
# « #
Apropos of hidden deposits. In ’7B,
“Noppy” Hayes, a Rushworth (Vic.) digger,
struck a patch ; the result being a brandy-bottle
full of fine gold, and a bit over. He liquidated
the said bit over at the nearest pub., and, though
fairly drunk, knew himself to be incapable of
looking after it, so “planted” the bottle for
safety. The remainder of Noppy’s life was
devoted to trying to get the exact degree of
drunkenness he had acquired that night in order to
remember where he put the bottle. Years after-
wards, when Noppy had long disappeared, it was
washed out of some tailings by a couple of China-
men. The police seized the gold pending en-
quiries, but there being no claimants the Chows
ultimately got the treasure.
T. W. Glover, the teetotal lecturer, attri-
butes the presence of so many Maoriland pressmen
in Sydney and Melbourne to the extension of the
prohibition principle to several M.L. towns.
Included, it is said, in the Downer (S.A.)
retrenchment schemes is the abolition of one
Judgeship—worth £l7OO per annum. The idea
is that Justice Boucaut will be asked to retire,
and Insolvency Commissioner Russell will then be
appointed a Judge of the Full Court, without
salary. Of late, the S.A. Judges have had nothing
to do except mingle with European aristocracy.
Chief Justice Way and Judge Boucaut are both
wealthy. The former is a squatter, and owns, in
addition, valuable Adelaide properties. Boucaut
is worth about £50,000, and makes a hobby of a
stud-farm. Bundey, the popular Judge, is poor.
That heavy man, Minister Lyne, of N.S.
Wales, took the opportunity, on receiving a depu-
tation the other day, to read a long lecture on the
advantages of “private enterprise,” which expres-
sion he used no less than fifteen times in the
course of his oration, Mr. Lyne has never
possessed any sense of humour, else he would have
postponed his howl to a more convenient season.
Just now between forty and fifty millions of Aus-
money is locked up in “ private enter-
prises ’ which have gone broke, and the man who
selects this time above all others for pointing out
the advantages of that blessed system runs a
serious risk of being mistaken for a lunatic. In
fact, he runs a serious risk of being a lunatic.
Nicholas Willis. M.L.A. (N.S.W.), issuing
Russell Barton, of Bourke, for £2OOO libel-
damages because Barton read aloud that article on
Willis in the Cumberland Times, for writing and
publishing which Editor Ferguson was recently
fined £5O. Fifty pounds for writing a libel and
£2OOO for reading it aloud seems rather anomal-
ous ; probably if Barton had lain awake at night
and thought about the article the damages would
have been £20,000. Anyhow, Willis might as well
have waited till his late partner’s eye was better,
else the firm may have too much on hand at once.
At present it has got to prosecute John Norton, to
wallop Haynes, to put cooling-lotions on its. optic,
and to run the Barton libel case all at once, which
is a good deal of work for two men.
Novelists, famous
and infamous, love to
portray the average
woman as placing her
highest ideal of eartldy
happiness in riches and
all its concomitants.
Quite a mistake. The
greatest joy this world
can offer the average
woman is the puredelight
of sitting on and squelch-
ing another woman. The
other day a young lady
who had taken her medi-
cal degree at Sydney
University, was recom-
mended to a vacancy at
the Children’s Hospital
at Glebe Point. Her
peculiar fitness for the
post was vouched for,
and the doctors con-
nected with the institu-
tion were favourable to
her appointment, but
the ladies’ committee
which controls the hos-
pital would have none of
her. It was an oppor-
tunity right into their
hands to snub another
woman, and they em-
braced it with greedy
ardour. “It would
create friction,” said one
of them in lofty tones
of scorn. Sydney is
cursed with a little clique
of these commonplace
lights of “society.”
Their names appear over
and over again on the
committee - lists of all
organisations instituted
to humiliate unfortunate
and helpless people.
They are the blatant ad-
vertisers of smug virtue.
If those women who
really and single-heart-
edly desire the greater
social freedom of their
sex want to know their
bitterest opponent they
will find her in the
average woman. Let a
woman elevate herself in any way above the hum-
drum level of her sisters and the average woman is
at once in full cry. A woman has no more relent-
less enemy than the other woman.
Lawyer Crick, M.P., has mentioned in the
N.S.W. Assembly the existence in Sydney of an
“ironclad brigade,” who live on embracery. It is
notorious among people whose business takes them
much to the Sydney law-courts that there are
persons whose livelihood—and a pretty good live-
lihood it is—is gained by bribing jurymen and
supplying “perjury ”at so much per “perje.” It
would be impossible for any newspaper to prove
the facts it knows with regard to this scandal ; to
attempt to do so and fail would be certain ruin
and ignominy to any pressman. But Crick—who
ought to know the names of the principal
chiefs of the “brigade”—from his place of
privilege in Parliament, might go a little further
than he has done, and let the country into the
secrets of this flourishing gang of scoundrels.
A highly-paid N.S.W. Civil servant, whom
it was proposed to retrench by transferring him to
a slightly-less-paid but still most enviable appoint-
ment with free quarters and the most lovely view
on earth, went up to Parliament House and whin*
ingly placed his “ grievance ” in the capa-
cious ears of several members of Parliament.
While he was buttonholing one representative in a
lobby there burst in upon the pair Premier Dibbs
in a tall fury—luckily Dibbs did not know the
C.S. by sight—with objurgations to this effect: —
“ Look here, Soanso, I hear that Acorns is lobby-
ing members about his retrenchment. By (Jumbo)
this isn’t a party retrenchment—the fellow is a
political enemy of ours, yet we’ve given him a
rattling good billet instead of the one he had. If
the (gentleman) isn’t satisfied, by (Moses and
retinue)! we’ll retrench him altogether !” The
C.S. slipped out incog., and will probably not
whine any more'about the lobby.
The Argus discovers a brand-new argu-
ment in favour of renewing the ancient and con-
servative system of assisted immigration ;
The whole of the costly public services of this country
have been establish'd upon a scale adequate to the steady
increase of population, which the shortsighted on the
other hand have striven too successfully to check.
Therefore, we should encourage an influx of
European cast-offs, in order to have more shoul-
ders to assist in bearing the burden which the
undertakings of the State have cast upon us. In
short, that we should divert the heterogeneous
stream of Russian Jews, German cranks, Italian
bravos, and British paupers, rolling towards
America, on to Australian shores, that they may
help us to pay our debts, and to continue to sup-
port the official Fat Men, the pensioner, and the
expensive gubernatorial establishments with which
we are afflicted. The Argus confidently recom-
mends tight boots as a cure for corns.
From a democratic point of view, it was a
painful sight to see the feverish anxiety with
which certain politicians circulated between the
floor of the N.S.W. Assembly and the space
behind the Chair, where sat some of the “ pro-
moters,” on a late private members’night. The
politician who doesn’t believe in being paid, and
who prefers to pay himself, was there in full force.
So was the commercial politician, who had been
keeping himself fresh by neglecting the country’s
business, while a good many honest Democrats,
Worn-out with long sittings, were unfortunately
absent.
There was some queer business in connec-
tion with the Bulimba (Q.) election. On the South
' 'ffl<I *
ffN IT UR t
RfcMOVi; o
THE BACKYARD BANKING SYSTEM.
MR. SHEEDY (who is removing to other premises) : “ Faith but I’ve been
afther diggin’ up the flure of half the yard and the divil
can I remimber where that money [?] plinted.”
MRS. S. : “Look in that corner where I put the three ha’f-crowns on
the furst of May.”
side of the river—the Bulimba side—the polling
was recorded thus—Donaldson, 451; Dickson, 396 i
But in North Brisbane Dickson polled 537, and
Donaldson only 281! Where was the necessity
for a North Brisbane booth in the Bulimba elec-
torate? Also, after a polling-place was provided
m the city, why were a number of Post Office
employes boated departmentally down the river
to vote at outside polling-places, as alleged by the
Q. press? Why didn’t these Brisbane officials
vote in Brisbane ? Perhaps some of them did.
The 33rd annual report of the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the U.S. revels in
paralysing figures. In 1892, new assurances to the
amount of =041,768,816 were effected, the total
assurance in force at the end of the year with this
company being =8177,283,801. Assets, >£31,887,511;
liabilities, £25,410,466. This society had paid
policy-holders, up to the end of last year,
£30,622,711; during last year, £3,568,604. Its
income last year was £8,465,182. The Equitable
makes a special feature of Tontine policies, which
are made terminable in 10, 15, or 20 years accord-
ing to choice. If the assurer survives the full
selected period of Tontine, he or she receives the
full amount of the policy, plus a share of accu-
mulated profits. If the assurer dies during the
Tontine period, his or her heir receives the full
sum on the policy, without any bonuses. At the
end of a Tontine period, a living Tontine assurer
has several advantageous choices of action, from
drawing his full cash to re-investment under
beneficial terms. The remarkable popularity of
Tontine assurance is a triumphant vindication of
its attractive and sound business principles, and
an utter rout of the tempest of vilification which
its initiation had to encounter. Three-fourths of
American assurances are now granted under
Tontine conditions, the primary adoption of
winch has, probably, been one of the chief causes
of the Equitable .swiftly striding to the front.
Ihe terms of the Equitable’s system of annuities
are liberally surprising*, and would seem to
guarantee that any fairly steady Methuselah can
Jive out his green, old age on a fat salary paid
punctually in consideration of his merely drawing
breath with more or less regularity.
Between two large stations near Wagga,
there was formerly a sheep-wash, a great camping-
place, and there was generally a cook there for,
at least, three months in the year. In the wet
season a German who had been bushed called, and
was refused a feed by the slushy in charge. He
then went on to the nearest station, was well
treated, and asked to spell for a day or two. Whilst
there the man who denied him victuals was called
to be cooked, byone Nicholas the Ancient, in a fiery
furnace. Then the “chips”of the station made
a box and put him in, but the corpse’s legs were
drawn up and raised above the level of the lid.
Being a nervous man, the undertaker went to the
travellers’ hut and invited any swagmau, who
wanted to earn five shillings and a drink, to follow
him. The German and another went to inspect
the work. When told that it was to break the
knees down level with the lid, the first man
refused, but the Teuton, being sore pressed, under-
took the job with a sledge-hammer. Just as ho
succeeded, the cloth fell off the corpse’s face and
revealed his dead enemy. “ Mein Gott !” said he,
“ Ven I know it was you, I preak your plooming
neck for nodings.” Some people never can for-
give.
SAWS RE-SET.
"Worth makes the man !” so sang the poet, who
Surveyed mankind from China to Peru ;
But Croesus, reading, laughed—“ E’en bards are
human :
My cheque-book proves ’tis Worth that makes the
woman !”
" When thieves fall Out the honest get their due !”
It read of old, but must be writ anew;
For, in these latter days of modern sin,
When thieves are out, then honest men fall in.
In days that were, as all men know,
’Twas money made the mare to go j
In days that are it is not so :
The mare ’tis makes the money go.
“The child is wise that his own father knows !’’
So quoted Simplex. Cynicus arose.
And, pointing court wards, said, in accents mild,
“Far wiser is the sire that knows his child !”
Melbi
STEELE GREY.


Settlement of tne People on tn© Land!
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION of 1893.
SUBDIVISION OF THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
KTamtoroK <§& Melton Park.,
250,000 Subscribers of£l each. 251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments.
First Prize, estimated value, £39,000
Second „ ~ 12,000
Third „ „ 7,000
Fourth „ ,> 3,=09
Fifth „ „ 2, 00
Sixth „ „ 1,090
Each Share has the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of £1
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth.
I
s.
m
m
m
~ ;
■
v-
■
as
ss
NAMBROK HOUSE.
—Also—
-113 Prizes, “"S“ each £lO5O
9 „ „ from £SS3 to 990
120 ea °h 55)
3 „ „ from £3£3 to 5£J
100 „ » each 24
Total Value, £250,000.
EACH SHARE lias the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
All Investment of £1
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth.
PLAN OF SUB-DIVISION OF THE NAMBEOK ESTATE,
PARISH of DENISON, near SALE, GIPPSLAND.
03
eft
S 3
&
£
A.'i
CO s
A' $
v/
X C r
f 5 K
00 S
rv ■_'
zai
Wl2
v>:
001
202
291
S
s :
BSI
/Si
9SI
vO cO
k :-
<0 s
'T „
0•0 ■ 00?
‘i >
a
<
QOS'
cc
I g m
901
I IH
«I
lIS
iris
II H
W 2
:. a
kk | psr;
sai I o«i
esi
691
= 3
- *
_l_i_
2 S
s
THE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
situated on the Latrobe River, Gippsland,
comprises 15,000 acres of very rich land,
which can scarcely be surpassed for agri-
cultural, fattening and dairy purposes. The
land is specially adapted for the growth of
maize, hops, root crops and cereals, and is
practically ready for the plough. The
Nambrok sheep and cattle have been for
many years noted for the excellence and
high prices obtained. The rainfall is abun-
dant, averaging about 30 inches per annum,
and the climate salubrious, being free from
extreme heat and cold. An unlimited
supply of water can be obtained at a mode-
rate depth, under 30 feet, in any portion of
the Estate.
The Thompson River, which is close to
the northern boundary of the property, can
be easily and cheaply utilised for irrigation
purposes. The Rosed ale Railway Station,
111 miles from Melbourne, is within 2\
miles of the property, and the railway line
runs directly through the property, and
the Heyfield station on the Maffra line is
about 5 miles distant.
THE
MELTON PARK ESTATE
comprises 7146 acres, close to Bacchus
Marsh, in the Parish of Yancardook,
County of Bourke, and is well known in
Victoria for its great fertility and resi-
dential attractions. It is about a couple of
miles from the Melton Railway Station,
20 miles distant from Melbourne, where an
ever ready market exists for everything
the Estate produces.
Plans oftoth Estates will be forwarded
on application.
PRIZE I—Nambrok Estate—a superbly built mansion of 15 rooms with all necessary
domestic and outbuildings (cost £10,000), together with 2000 acres of magnificent agricultural
and grazing land, and adjoining the Heyfield and Kilmaney Park Estate—(see above Illustration
an I Plan). Estimated value, house and land, £30,000.
PRIZE 2.—Melton Park Estate—All eight-roomed modern built house, with magnificent
•stabling, containing 11 loose boxes, coach-house, &c., together with r OO acres of first-class land,
Situated in the celebrated Bacchus Marsh District, 20 miles from Melbourne. Estimated value,
aouse and land, £12,000 , . ,
PRIZE 3 A comfortable house of 9 rooms, together with 500 acres of superior land, most ly
rich river flats. Estimated value, £7OOO.
PRIZE 4.—Three hundred acres of superior agricultural land, adjoining I nze 3. Itstimated
value, £3OOO.
PRISE 5 —Two hundred acres of land similar to Prize 4. Estimated value, £2OOO.
PRISE 6.—One hundred and fifty acres, similar to Prize 5. Estimated value, £l6OO.
PRISES 7 to 119 . —Each containing one hundred acres of rich agricultural land, ready for
the plough. Estimated value, £lO5O each.
PRISES 120 to 123. —Each containing over 50 and under 100 acres. Estimated value, from
£560 to £9OO, according to acreage.
PRISES 129 to 218- -Each containing 50 acres. Estimated value, £550.
PRISES 249 to 251 . —Each containing over 30 acres and under 50 acres. Estimated value,
from £340 to £540, according to acreage.
PRISES 252 to 351. —Each one acre township allotment, valued at £24.
T „e Till© Deeds are Rented by .he Cro-vn, are in perfect order, ae will be aeen from the attached letter received fro,., Meaara. Bhdte and Riggall. -
M - "h a vc tolnfv'm you that the title deeds to the Nambrok Estate and the Melton Park Estate are in order and complete, and there is no obstacle to the immediate transfer of these Estates to a
Purchaser.—}ou>s trulp, BLAKE <k RIGGALL. ... . , all moneys will beheld in trust until the Ballot has taken place. The following gentlemen, in conjunction with Ten
Clear Titles w.llbe transferred to successful costand c M OFFICER, Melbourne ; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide ; Captain J. WHITNEY,
Shareholders, wil be Pjeent at the Mo l P- * about June 30, will be duly advertised, and results intimated immediately afterwards. Should the winner of any Prize so desire, the
Promoters Imvt arranged withthe late owners to act us agents for the working leasing or sale of any of the Prizes for a period of three years without any charge.
Australian ftrr Shares should JJ. J. d C BOMPOED, ~
*>e made by Registered Letter to-
State amount forwarded .and enSose one SSS IWSSSS* in the above
,„hcd,de Land’ IX" a°„ac?e aS pril« on Sbaais. Frit. No. 1.0 be inel.il in this allotment. N.8.-No Shareholder i. liable to any farther payment on
allotted Shares.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
. shareholder winning Property No, 1, who shall have applied for a Share or
ShWM on «r«ate lttl? g loTh to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus of
£l5OO c ,,
£375,
. chnmhnidfir winning Proucrtv No. 3, who sholl have applied tor a Share or
Shared on any date after May 10th to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus
of £ll2 10s.
Columbian Land Distribution.
1893.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
Name
£
Address
To E. J. dr Bom ford, o/o J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell-st., Sydney.
Please make remittance by Postal Note or P. 0.0. If by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed
envelope with stamp for reply. Do not attach stamp if other than N.S.VV. (Cost of stamp may be added to
P. 0.0.) Register your letter.


Premier Patterson urges Victoria to be
thankful that it isn’t Russia, where things are in a
• frightful state.” Which reminds us that we are
glad Patterson isn’t the Czar, or the Emperor of
Morocco, s
WHEN THE SYSTEM IS EXHAUSTED
And the Nerves Shaken, use
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
London chairman,Bright, of the Australian
Pastoral Co., has declared that Australian squat
ters “have been compelled to economise on
account of the cost of labour.’’ The squatters
have “economised on labour” with a savage hand,
but on nothing else. Hundreds of squatters’ men
are working for little more than tucker, and if there
ate many further economies in that direction,
Australia won’t exactly require a London cable-
gram to inforth it of the fact.
More Australian Testimony.
THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS.
Mr. J. B. Warbrick, or “Joe Warbrick,” as he
is familiarly known, was captain of the New
Zealand Native Football Team (better known as
“The Maoris”), which visited the Old Country
and gave such a good account of itself during the
season there of 1888-89. This team firmly believed
that St. Jacobs Oil is one of the secrets of success
in football, and kept itself in prime condition by a
free use of it. The team was so unanimous in its
verdict that the matter is worthy of special men-
tion. Mr. Warbrick, in conversation with one of
the representatives of the Chas. A. Yogeler Co.,
in Sydney, after their return, stated; “I have
much pleasure in testifying to the efficacy of St.
Jacobs Oil. I have used it constantly since my
first visit to New South Wales in 1884, having
then injured my knee in our first match ; and dur-
ing our tour in Great Britain we have used noth-
ing else, and the New Zealand Native Football
Team all speak in the highest - terms of its
qualities. In fact, so much did we think of it
that we hardly ever travelled without a case
of it.”
AN ENDORSEMENT.
Mr. J. R. Scott, the successful proprietor of the
leading hotel in Gisborne, N.Z.—the Masonic
Hotel —and the able manager of the above-men-
tioned New Zealand football team on their tour
through Great Britain, endorses the above by
letter, in which he states : “ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the wonderful properties of St.
Jacobs Oil. While there (Great Britain) I got for
the team’s use nearly a dozen different embroca-
tions, but none seemed to do the men the same
amount of good as St. Jacobs Oil. In fact, we
never considered our baggage complete without a
case of it.”
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
Pave established for themselves an unrivalled
reputation as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and
INEXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are LTNEQUALLED by any
ether low-cost watch in the world.
JALA’S, CONSULTATIONS.
Arrangements have been made so that winners
in the Birthday Cup can receive gold if desired.
Commercial Bank notes taken in payment.
83T" “ G A LA,” c/o. H. ALEXANDER,
C 7 Oxford Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
CHEAP MUSIC!
PAXTON A CO., 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
Australian Branch: 251 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To he had
of Music sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanston-St., Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale, Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 1(5, 1893.
f I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River at YeramOah, road Goo-
dooga to Collarendabri
Bridge over Little River at Sergeant’s Point, road
Mongarlowe to Braidwood
Bridge, (Julgoa River, at Wulmorongle, road Bre-
warrina to Molten Plains
Bridge, Jerabaicumbene Creek, road Braidwood
to Major’s Creek (Elrington Road)
Completion of Bridge, Bega River at Tarragundra
Pipe Laying, Parkes Water Supply.
Construction of Elevated Service Tank, Nyngan
Water Supply
Additions and Alterations to Bridge over Cabbage
Garden Creek, road Booligal to Hillston
Pipe Laying, Bathurst Water Supply Extension,
Contract No. 9
Manufacture within the colony, supply, and erec-
tion of Pumping Machinery at Meranbuni,
Molong to Parkes and Forbes Railway
Manufacture within the colony, supply, and erec-
tion of Seven Circular Iron Water Tanks.
(Railway Construction Branch.)
Casing for Lift, &c., new Lands Office, Sydney
Construction of Lift for Lithographic Stones, new
Lands Office, Sydney.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bombay Crossing,
road Braidwood to Queanbeyan
Bridge, Burrowa River, at Acraman’s-road, road
Burrowa to Frogmore. Fresh tenders.
Construction, &c,, of Iron Bridge and Approaches
tliereto, at Wilcannia, Darling River
Bridge, Morton’s Creek, road Beechwood to
Ennis. Fresh tenders
Bridge, Mount Hunter Creek, road Westbrook to
Camden.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Manufacture, Supply, &c., of Ironwork and
Erection of Iron Bridge and Construction of
Approaches thereto, at Wagga Wagga.
Materials comprised in section No. 1 of con-
tract, to be manufactured in the colony.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 26.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
CAUTIOKT.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending OCT circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
sdf
A.daxn Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Fitzgarald Brothers’ Monster Austra-
lian Circus and Menagerie,
The history of Australia shows a record of vicis-
situdes of fortune experienced by the pioneers of
the circus business. Extraordinary legends are
related by the old hands of the marvellous fortunes
made and lost by circus proprietors in the
“earlies.” In those good old times when the
gold fever raged, the diggers paid for admission at
TOM FITZGERALD.
the tent door in gold dust or nuggets; and a sue-
cessful equestrienne would receive a shower of
nuggets from enraptured diggers as a tribute to
her charms or talents. So the showman of those
days Waxed opulent and proud, and one Carried
his love for display so far as to have his horses
shod with the precious metal. But, though gold
was plentiful, and many made fortunes in those
halcyon days, few retained them; because, of all
speculations Connected with the amusement of the
public, a circus demands the hardest work and
the greatest risk for its proprietors. Consequently,
most of the older showmen have disappeared from
DAN FITZGERALD.
the scene.
It is a fact that circuses exercise an extra-
ordinary fascination, not only for young children,
but for those also of a larger growth ; and a good
circus to-day attracts as much as ever it did. The
origin of the business is lost in remote antiquity,
though, no doubt, we can trace it from the gladia-
torial exhibitions of the Romans, they having, no
doubt, adapted it from the Greek games, the Isth-
mian, Olympian, &c. But we must not grow
erudite in treating this subject. Suffice it to say,
that the popularity of circuses has never waned,
and will never die out while the present system of
populating Australia by beginning with babies
remains.
We have stated that vve do not admit that the
circus appeals exclusively to the small boy or the
small girl. While the human heart remains young
-—which it does in most people to a very advanced
age—circuses will flourish. What being, “erect
upon two legs, and bearing all the outward sem-
blance of a man, and not of a monster” (as
Sergeant Buzfuz says) can ever forget his first
circus ? The whole delirious sensations arise before
us as we recall our own first circus. Our first
shock of delight Ott sight of the pictures posted
up, oh the gum-trees near our ancestral home at
Wattle Gully; the subsequent delicacy of the
negotiations with a stern father and a religious
mother, and the diplomatic triumph of these
negotiations. Then followed the awful joy of the
entrance within the mysterious canvas. But most
if these sensations, vivid as they are, seem wholly
wallowed up in the remembrance which followed
-the sight of our first down— an event which,
bringing with it a resolute purpose to make the
clown’s avocation our life’s mission, decided oiir
choice, and gave relief to a mind wavering between
bush ranging and piracy. To our first clown we
trace the culmination of our aspirations in a
journalist’s calling. The sight of our first clown—
but here, as the novelists say, when they run out
of ideas to express what was said by their reunited
lovers, or felt by their disconcerted villains, a
veil must be drawn—for there are domains into
which even the imagination should not enter.
My feelings on experiencing my first clown are
too sacred for publicity.
For some years past news has reached us from
various parts of Australia of the doings of the
Fitzgerald Brothers, those well-known young
Australian circus proprietors, whose portraits we
present herewith. And accounts, though varying
in the degrees of enthusiasm, have agreed in the
opinion that-with an entire absence of the
trumpeting and spread-eagling to which we have
been accustomed on the approach of many of our
recent visitors in the same line Fitzgerald
Brothers’ Circus is one of the most genuine
artistic successes ever known in Australia. Upon
the fact that they are “native here and to the
manner born” they lay particular stress, not in any
way for the purpose of making capital out of their
nationality, but to challenge an opinion that in
this line of business Australians can hold their
own as performers, athletes, horse-trainers, or
organisers with any other nations in the world.
The public of Sydney will soon have an oppor-
tunity of judging. Relying upon the capacity of
the Australians to do better than anyone else in
any particular line, Fitzgerald Brothers, far from
disguising their nationality, actually revel and
glory in it.
The present firm, from small beginnings, has
progressed to the magnitude of its present posi-
tion. From a small road-show, with a couple of
waggons', they now have grown into the largest
road-show that has ever travelled Australia.
Eighteen waggons, one hundred horses, and eighty
performers are included, with the accompanying
agents, canvas-men, grooms, rouseabouts, cooks,
&0., constitute a pretty large colony. And this
colony has to be provisioned like an army corps.
The marvellous celerity with which the great tent
can be put up and taken down seems to be of
magical origin. After finishing in a country town
overnight, the tents are pulled down, and every-
thing packed on the waggons ready to start at
6 a.m. the following morning. A commissariat
waggon precedes the other waggons, the man in
charge chooses a camp near good water, pitches a
dining tent, builds large fires, cooks the breakfast
and prepares the tea, and when the hungry army
arrive everything is prepared for them, and
nothing remains but to fall to. Horses are taken out,
feed-stalls improvised on waggon-poles, and soon
men and horses are refreshing the inner apimal.
And so on from town to town, getting over a whole
territory in a week. The performing horses are
run loose, and follow the waggons like dogs. This
is a characteristic of animals ; when once they
attach themselves to a circus, they never leave,
but follow faithfully, or else climb on to a waggon.
Dogs of all descriptions, a kangaroo and two goats
have thus attached themselves to the circus perma-
nently. Exceptions to the above rule are made
in the cases of the pony Commodore and the
beautiful ring mare Fanny, both of which, being
priceless in the eyes of the firm, are led captive to
a waggon. Through the bush, by all kinds of
country and scenery, with the band startling and
delighting the settler along the line of route, an
occasional camp-out on Sunday nights in summer,
and games in the moonlight or yarns round the
camp fire, make the life novel and picturesque.
Then the invasion of the large cities for a season
of urban bustle and excitement. A sight for the
gods is the entrance of this great moving colony
to a large inland town, preceded by the band, and
followed by the youngsters, who turn out to a boy,
and become almost cross-eyed by the fixity and
fascination of their gaze when once their eyes
become glued to the procession.
Of the proprietors, Mr. Dan Fitzgerald is lord
of the internal provinces of the circus, and trainer
bf the famous Cdmmodore, the Broncos, the
“Curiosity Pair*” and the “Bernhardt team.”
The latter are so called from the fact that they
were purchased by the firm from the famous
actress on her departure from Melbourne. Com-
modore is the bright particular star of the stud.
In him are shown the results of the skill which
has placed Mr., Dan Fitzgerald in the same rank
ifi command over the hdrse—with the laffi
August Renz (of Berlin), Wiilff (of Homburg), or
Corridine (of the Pans Hippodrome). And th,o
fiony himself—he is a beautifhl, pure-black-and-
white stallion, of marvellous symmetry, extra
(ordinary intelligence, and pretty, coquettish ways.
If he had flourished in the early days of the
golden shoes, he must have had them affixed to
his hoofs with diamond-headed nails, surely. In
addition to Commodore are the Broncos, six milk-
white beauties. The rest of the stud, ponies, &c.,
are the best of their kind.
Added to the attractions above related* the
Company includes star lady and gentlemen riders,
tumblers, gymnasts, trapeze artists, riders, vaultets,
jugglers, contortionists, all stars in their line ; and
not by any means least, the funniest of funny
clowns.
But we digress. Continuing their adventurous
and successful progress—a week of which would
provide a Mayne Reid with material for two
novels —the Fitzgeralds have won the good opinions
of audiences all over Australia. Their greatest
success, however, was their famous Melbourne
season last year, when they put up the greatest
run-on record in Australian theatrical history—a
run of 200 consecutive performances.
Since their marvellous Melbourne season a year
has elapsed, during which they have added con-
siderably to the staff of performers, the agents,
and the stud. But the greatest addition to their
show has been the purchase of a menagerie of wild
animals. One of the attractions will be a den of
savage lions, and a lioness and her three cubs.
Thus the performance to be given in Sydney Will
include all which gave popularity to the Melbourne
season, with the addition of the menagerie, a
large stud, and several new performers of cele-
brity, who will be associated with the star artists
previously engaged.
The business part of the show is conducted by
Mr. Tom Fitzgerald. Associated with the success
of the business part is Mr. John Morris, who has
acted as agent in advance from the inception of
the show. As press representative, Mr. Harry D.
Lyons is on the warpath. Mr. Lyons is well-
known as an agent, and first made a reputation
by taking the famous Blondin through India,
America, and Australia.
The circus makes its first appearance on Mon-
day next, the 22nd May, in the most convenient
position in Sydney. The proprietors have secured
the piece of ground adjoining the Benevolent
Asylum, at the junction of George, Pitt and
Devonshire-streets, and right opposite the Redfern
Railway Station. The convenience of the posi-
tion lies in the fact that it is on the line of route
of the whole of the Western and Illawarra railway
suburbs, and of trams from Leichhardt, Newtown,
St. Peters, Botany, Glebe, Forest Lodge, Cam-
perdown, Balmain, Redfernand Waterloo. Looking
at all that is promised, and at the past reputation
of the Fitzgerald Brothers, their opening aeems as
attractive a lure as ever was set to inveigle stern
man to his own amusement.*


RECONSTRUCTION.
Herr RASSMUSSEN to the RESCUE!
BANK OF HEALTH.
“ The ALFALINEI VITALITY PILLS will entirely re-construct a
ftroken-down Nervous System, and thus make it a veritable Bank ol
Health,- inasmuch as Health is better than Wealth.”
—Medic a o Joursao.
CONGRATULATIONS.
EQUITY OFFICES,
SUPREME COURT, CHANCERY SQUARE,
SYDNEY, MAY 9 y 1893.
HERR RASSMUSSEN,. Esq.
Dear Sir, —
Having frequently heard and read of the Wonderful Cures effected by your World-wide Celebrated and Wonderful HERBAL ALF ALINE REMEDIES for the
BLOOD, NERVES, &c.,- I take the liberty of writing you a few lines by way of congratulation and encouragement. Ido so because I consider that a gentleman who
devotes his time and talents to the benefit of his fellow creatures is deserving of everyone’s esteem and regard—in fact, he ought to be looked upon in the light of a public
benefactor. The testimonials in the public press,- and the expressions of satisfaction and gratitude of those who have benefited by your advice and remedies, are a suffi-
cient guarantee of yoUr ability and honesty of purpose in your claims for the great virtues your remedies contain. The many favourable opinions promulgated by the press
Concerning the noble' mission of diminishing the pain and Suffering of your fellow creatures must be to l you a source of satisfaction and gratification. The very fact of your
having the Parisian Academy’s GOLD MEDAL and DIPLOMA of HONOR entitles you to universal respect and approbation. I am, dear sir, with all earnestness of
opinion that a pound or two invested in the purchase of your Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES will be better invested and return better interest than if invested or
deposited in some of our present-day banking concerns, each Remedy of yours may be justly termed a BANK of HEALTH,—I am, dear six', yours truly, E, BALY,
P.S.—You are at libex’ty to inake what use you like of this rather hurried note. —E.B.
How to Cure
THE NERVES.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Vitality Pills.-
Guaranteed to Curo
Nervousness,- _W EaEnes^
ETESPONDENCY, I) E B ilitTY,
NERvotJs Trr It a bIEIt y ;
gP’ECKS BEFORE THE EIfES-
Want of self-oqn f i dence,
MELANCHOLIA,- tOSS OF
MEMORY, WEAK
NERVES.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special PowcrlulY 43s. (iU.
T^estlm.on.la,l.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.;,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bult.e-
Tin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Herr RassmPssKn. — Dear Sir,—l
think it my duty to inform yoti that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality-
Pills acted very berieficially on my
nervous system, arid, in consequence;
I have recommended theiri to many
friends who have all been! cured by
their use. Very truly yours, R,
ADAMS LUCKHAM.
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS-
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
COSTI VENE S S, WIND,
BTLIOHSNEvSS.'TNDIGES 1 lON,
FLATULENCY AND IRREGU-
LARITY.
Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and 6s.
Testimonial.
Berr Rassmussen. — I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies.—A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
How to Cure
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
ALL COMPLAINTS PECUI.I A K
~~ TO FEMALES.
Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted!
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
Herr Rassmussen,— l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, aud everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Vic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, and
wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remedy for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all
Affections of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 25.;
posted, Is. 6d. and is. 6d.
Porous Plasters.— These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each; posted,
Is. 6d.
“The Natural Doctor."— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. 6d. per bottle.
Herr Rassmussen's Head Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, H.S. W.
BLOOD I I
DISEASES NERVES
SYDNEY
PILL ARCADE
■1 It SYDNEY jf
HenRASSNUSSEHS
Pill PALACE
LOCK IVITAL
CUBEWUS I mu
Itor
lIP
“nTFT
Lelebratedißes'sUrcd ALFALINE. PILLS
fe BLOOD&NERVE DISEASES
,_Pr¥PARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
• HERR RASSMUSSENI •
SOLO HERE IN BOTTLES 2f sjf A 22/* 4
n"/ aT/ \"/viv >■’' l
. A'/\ • AVI. /»I /,s , * ,\l \ , * .*
PRESENTLDToY^V
l/M ■
Mil
&E;/o
■' r \x FMMNfNEiwsPATmS™
V Having Restored ThiMk /
m
m
ut
1 ?
? /?AS^'
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFA L I N
REMEDIES!
Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of Acadd'inie Parisienno dps Inventeurs, France ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U.J.t .C. ;
Honourably mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries ; Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney for his Herbal
Remedies ; Author of "The Natural Doctorformerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal,” Sydney ; Discoverer ot tbe
‘Minto Process ”
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Expert Blood and Nerve Remedies —Cured 100,000.
SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
GUA-RA-KrTEED HERBAL CUBES
FOR TUB
Xji O O ID and IST E R V E
REGISTERED and AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES ;
Victorian Head Depot: ... •• • •
Queensland Head Depot: ....
South Australian Head Depot: ....
Now Zealand Head Depot: ....
lr,o Bonrko Street, Melbourne
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street. Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
How to Cure
THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Lock Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN
AFFECTIONS, sores, boils
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COM-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND
OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Spcriitl Powerful Course. 435. C«l-
TestimoniaL
T 1 io Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
health,—Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
R HEU MATI S M, GOUT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
Boxes—Ss. and 65., Posted, _
235. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Testimonial.
Parliament House. Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir, —I
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A,
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND GOUGH.
TAKE A BOX OP
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
ASTHMA, COUGHS and COLDS,
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxes —Posted, 35., 65., and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted,
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. H. KIMM,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER Sc BEAUTIFIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Testimonials.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.—J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of
Debility.— Thob. Mudiman, 515 George-st.,
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albury, 04 Wash-
ingl6n-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me ol
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.— Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son,
after many doctors had given him up.—
John P. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria.
Herr RASSMUSSBN’S
Chief Laboratory & Head Depot for all the Colonies;
547 George Street, Sydney,


A.XJST^A.XjiXA.Tg-
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A., Chairman; J. T. WALKER. Esq., Deputy-Chairman ; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L. A.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq. i BENJAMIN SHORT Esq.: J R HILL Esa ! A
MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary; RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.E.A. 1 ’ ' ’ 4 ‘?
Accumulated l ands . Ten and a-Half Millions Sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828) yielding Reversionary Bontises of over ONE MILLION STERLING^
ZEE©**, cl Office; 87 PITT STREET, SYXSTNTJE3Y. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
BIRTKCOA.Y OX3T3E*- —!• If, May »4, 1893.
50,000 at Id 50,000
G-x'au.dL 3XTational IHlurdle- —Fleiulustou* July 8, 1893.
50,000 at 20 50,000
( ONLY; ADDRESS:
“TATTEKSAM..’*
1 C/oGeo. Adams (Owner), Tatter*
I sail’s Hotel &01dClub
y Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W,
E. G. Brown, M.P. for Tumut (N.S.W.),
once drove Parkes, then on a stump tour, from
Tumut to Gundagai. At the “crossing-place’’
Brown pulled up in front of a cottage, with a view
to Introduce the proprietor to the great man who
was supposed to be unknown. “ Him ? Oh, I’ve
seen him often before,” said the citizen. “ Hin-
deed?” said Parkes, surprised; “May Hi hask
where?” “In The Bulletin.” The “hairy
Bismarck ” wouldn’t even stop for refreshments.
:
:Sonstes
RRialcmsTOfinii?
Care ‘Menders, 1
# /
iso Pitt-st., Sydney,
Or AUbury* N.S.W.
NOW OPEN ON
Dirtliday flip, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each
Birthday Cup, Sydney. May 27. 5000 at 5.
brand National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 5.
Grand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.p. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully:
“Robin Hood,” c/o. Manders’ Telegram Agency,
180 Pitt St., SYDNEY, and Dean-St., ALBURY.
S.EACH.
±
£
5. EACH.
M°2Sm
sd
THi
ON TJIK
JBIRTEC3DA.Y C XT P.
fllnjr 37, l«;«.
At 5 each 83T" £9,UOU At 5 each
First .. .. 1500
Second .. ... 500
Third .. .. 250
S. (d.) .. .. 600
N.8. (d.) .. 400
30 at 30 .. IOCi
50 at 10 . „ .. OOO
100 ftt 5 .. 500
175 Consolations at 2 each, 350.
Less 10 per cent.
345 Extra Cash Prizes 345
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes
Registered Letters to “GALA,” p/o. H, Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The ONLY Genuine One at 5 each in the Colonies.
Subscribers may witness Drawings.
ADAM BEDE’S
Birtliday Cup 10,000 at 10.
Randwick, May 27, 1893.
First ..
Second
Third
S. (d) ..
.. 1500
.. 500
.. 200
.. 300
N.S. (d) .. .. 500
10 at 50 ... .. '5OO
20 at 25 _ .. 500
50 at 10 .. 500
100 at 5, 500. 180 Extra 180. Less 10,
Write for Our Printed Circulars.
lease write your address correctly to avoid mistakes
Only One
Address
* -A.cLam. Bede,’
POST OFFICE CHAMBERS,
SYDNEY.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
IT*
linau;*'
s'^
r
35,
The Best Dressing
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
uriance,
and color
to an ad-
vanced
~, period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
supplied by nature, In youth and health, as
modern chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowe!!, Mass., U. S. fl.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
Amusements.
■p H E A T R E ROYAL.
* Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“SLAVES OF SYDNEY."
Commence at 8. Carriages, 10.45.
ALFRED DAMPIER, Miss LILY DAMPIER, Miss
KATHERINE RUSSELL, and the Popular Company.
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel,
Dress Girdle, 45.; Orchestra Stalls, Ss. ; Stalls, 2s. ;
Family Circle, Is.
Bits. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
SATURDAY, MAY 20.
The equitable building society,
Brisbane —Apprbved by the Crown Law
Offices df Queensland. Intending Subscribers are
reminded that thb MONSTER FREEHOLD
PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION, under the
auspices of a ilumbet of the loading citizelis of
Brisbane, is rapidly approaching. Full par-
ticulars liaVe appeared in previous issues of this
journal, but may be summarised as under i—
mr 2403 PRIZES. IS'"' Valued at £105,000.
NO DEDUCTION OF ANY KIND.
105,000 Shares of £l.
ANYONE CAN APPLY!!
NO LIABILITY!!!
Every SHARE has a chance of 13 SEPARATE
PRIZES, valued at £49,460, including First
Prize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, Value .£30,000. Rental value,
£l5OO a year.
Apply promptly to SECRETARY, Albert-
street, or CORRIE & CO,j Queen-street, Bris-
bane*
Applications (by wire if necessary) received Up
to
SATURDAY, 20th MAY.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia,
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE'S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA.
Cures
Indigestioil
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache*
■«r- »
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS'S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUNt).
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
1 Summer Months.
Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
I the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
Preserves Furs from
the Moth.
Cleanses
Domestic Pets
of Parasites.
nn-ftßßgß'a
NO
In tho
a Rup-
like
TRUSS
World will Retain
ture or Rive Relief
,"**• Pierce's ffla^netic
lilastlc Truss. This Celebrated
Truss has radically cured thous-
ands of cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
- Itcanbowornwitheaseand comfort
IVlsrlit and Day. Perfect littingTTusses sent by mail.
Springs.
Xlgrlii and Day. Perfect ttttingT:
If you want _the_lJEBT,_Bend_ for Pamphlet No. 1.
Add-ess MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO., San Francisco Cal.
Or IVastilnglou 11. SouIA Co .lOOPlltSt.,
Sydney, or Kllioti. Itrost., Brisbane, Agents
ALES OF THE CONVICT' SYSTEM.
TRICE-ONE SHILLING.
__ Amusements.
ITER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold,
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS
of
“ Bast Lynne.”
A Revived Dramatic Version of the Famous Story by
Mrs. HENRY WOOD.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
■TIHE LYCEUM THEATRE
“■ (Pitt'street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY) AND EVERY EVENING,
and until further notice,
ts -A. Million, of Mioney.”
By Sir Augustus Harris and Henry Pettitt.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
fJEITERION THEATRE
w Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTSt
of
a X k e i - , T ■ o n dL o n.”
Preceded at 8 o'clock by
“in honour bound."
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance. x
I V O L I THEATRE
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sont Lessee and Managbli .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
Unprecedented phenomenal success of
I J 1 r 11 A « « V it I<KA U l> S I
And his A ew Tivoli Minstrels aiid Sp&bialty Company.
Million Prices, DU ss Circle and Orchestra Stalls 2s! '
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B;—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
it! if.
i
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, post free Is
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be bad only of
M-’m. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
VIOLINS. VIOLINS. VIOLINS-
■[FINEST copies of Stradivarius, Amati, Steiner,
Guarnerius, Maggini, and Conservatory, unsurpassed
for workmanship, appearance, quality of' tone, sterling
value, marvellous, at the lowest e\ er heard prices. Band-
masters, violinists, and parents who require either a
single instrument or 100 dozen will find our prices right.
It’s to our interest to sell you a violin that is better
value than you can buy elsewhere for same amount, as
our enormous trade is secured by advertising, and a
highly pleased customer is the best advertisement we
know of. We send hundreds of instruments to all parts of
Australasia. We have grosses of violins to select from,
also clarionets, flutes, piccolos, flageolets, drums, guitars,
banjos, auto-harps, mandolines, angles, concertinas,
accordeons, violoncellos, strings, &c., &c. Catalogues
posted free. Hurry up, musicians, my prices will astonish.
It may save you pounds, send at once to
J. ALBERT & Sons, 118 King St., Sydney
ms
r,
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
ANNA RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC will positively re-
x move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter how
long standing), acne (so prevalent in moist climates),
salt rheum, oilyness, excessive redness, etc., soon dis-
appear after its use. This SKIN TONIC is a healing
remedy. Every bottle is guaranteed to be as represented.
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan,
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientific!
and healthy ; it opens the pores of the skin, so that all
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving the net-
work of the skin clean, fresh and youthful; hardens
flabby skin—in fact, gives a new appearance. ANNA
RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively than
all other skin preparations combined. SKIN TONIC is
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Every
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands of
letters are coming in, and are loud in their praises of this
SKIN TONIC ; old cases of acne, eczema, coarseness of
skin, etc., are bemg specially cured when other remedies
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. 6d.,
three bottles together (usually required), £l l2s. Cd All
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamped
envelope. Consultation at office free. Valuable new
“Book of Beauty,” post free on receipt of 4d. stamps.
Call or address the celebrated American Complexion
Specialist,
ANNA RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia
153 SI rand, Sydney,
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, etc.
Ichabod.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
At the annual meeting of the Church Society for the
diocese of Sydney, the Rev. Canon Morbton said that “ the
trams, trams, and places of amusements swallowed up
the people, and the beautiful Sunday of the past now only
existed in the memory of the past”:—
Are we deteriorating ? Are
We fast becoming heirs of wrath ?
Have we shed Grace and wandered far
Upon the flowery downward path?
Are we irrevocably classed
As goats ? Is sweet Religion dead ?
Are the good times for ever past
When shepherds by their sheep were fed ?
Alas, then ! It was different
Once; people in confiding droves
To church, as they were biddeh, went
And brought the fishes and the loaves^*
Once they were rounded Up by threat
Of woe with candle, bell and book.
No shepherd then for bread did sweat
But got it “on the (pastoral) crook.’ 1
Then whoso dared to disregard
The nod of Priestcraft felt its rod
Upon him, and went banned and barred
Of men, by men who spoke for God !
Those were the church’s palmiest days
(A reference to its little palm)
When it could bid the faggot blaze
And here and all hereafter damn*
But that is altered .now, and things
Have noticeably changed ; the church
That once across its knee laid kings
And flogged them with d scorpion-birch.
Moves circumspectly with the times.
Less sternly ordering men Jess dense.
And, dollars failing, picks up dimes
And renders thanks for Peter’s Pence I
And that establishment which turned
From Rome to follow Luther’s bell,
And would have flayed and racked and burned
As devils’ limbs and spawn of hell
All differing Christians, in its day
Of arrogance and pride and power
Fed fat and walked in rich array
Wringing from toiling want its dower;
The Yicar, with his grog-flushed face,
Who lived to drink and hunt the fox
And preach, to live, the words of grace
To ribald squires and clowns in smocks.
Was fellow-lord with lords obeyed
By fellow-men who swung the scythe
And touched their hats, at plough or spade,
To passing thieves of rent and tithe.
He doesn’t fare so well just now,
And tithes are harder to collect.
The hind who delves and mops his brow
Does not show such profound respect
As formerly he did, because
The hind has almost learned to think,
And grudges filling hungry maws
Of idle frauds with meat and drink.
In like way, too, have shrunk the doles
And votaries at envious shrines
Where jarring prophets tended souls
Each on correct especial lines.
The bitter subdivided creeds
Built up from Revelation’s shreds
To satisfy the needs and greeds
Of builders having level heads
Are not as prosperous as they were
When ignorance lent heedful ear
To tales of brimstone and despair
Told of a God of hate and fear.
Those who believe in tweedledum,
In our day, cannot really see
Why there should be such woe to come
For those who stick to tweedledee.
Oh, yes! the Sunday Beautiful
Which Canon Moreton mourns has died,
A sour thing, barren, cold and dull
By Reason’s verdict crucified.
To-day, instead of swallowing stale
Flat sermons, sandwiched ’twixt flat psalms,
On Jonah swallowed by the whale,
The crowd is swallowed up by trams.
Instead of long-drawn platitudes
And sad ad infinitum slush
About the Flood, in nasal floods,
Or Moses and the Burning Bush,
The modern man and woman go
To hear a decent song or two,
Or feel the fresh salt breezes blow,
Or watch the monkeys at the Zoo.
Instead of spending dreary hours
In listening to empty words
They wander forth to gather flowers
And see the rocks and trees and birds ;
And some, with less hypocrisy
Than those who take their forty winks
In church, seek pubs, beside the sea
And straightway “sell a horse ” for drinks.
If churchmen preached, with voice sincere
As the first Christians, from the Text
That life must be made better here
In preparation for the next;
If they spoke out for human rights
And held the Truth, to win or lose,
There would be fewer hypocrites .
Addressing rows of empty pews.
The time of day is rather late,
As any but the blind may see.
For jowled divines to fill the plate
Explaining “joys of poverty ; ”
The priests of Dives cannot now
Bid Lazarus attend to hear
His master justified, and bow
A meek strong neck in praise and fear.
The “ masses ” will not be enticed
From the few pleasures they can reach
To hear in Christ’s name preached what Christ
Condemned alike in act and speech.
And till belated teachers show
That they have hearts to feel, and brains
To plan relief for want and woe
We freely back the trams and trains.


IDEAL."
The NEW MODEL “ HAMMOND ” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS; Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 42 styles of Type.
jggr- LIGHT. COMPACT. PORTABLE. DURABLE.
The greatest success in producing Thousand, ot of Cirgdar. on .h.■ Mhneogrjnh, on °° “ * °*"
Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK.
D, B.
Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
THO Australasian Agent, Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY,
J 49.460 woi*th for £l.
See Amusement
Column.
THE MOST VALUABLE PRIZE
Is health. “ How shall we obtain it ?” cry the
nervous, the weak, the dispirited. We answer,
“ by Using Wolfe’s Schnapps.”
NOT A BLIND FAITH,
Bub one’ based on experience, is that which the
public place in Wolfe’s Schnapps. It excels as a
medical beverage. Buy whole bottles.
The Bulletin’s Missing; Word Competi-
tion Coupon will be found on page 13. Attention
is drawn to the date on which the competition
closes,
SHAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
aliove old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected fbr accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Flectric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous,
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings,
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Ea "fc I* 013 "t, Syclney.
•pBITZGERALD PROS.’ GREAT CIRCUS
Menagerie of Wild, Savage Nubian Lions.
I®" OPENING NIGHT 33nd MAY,
Location ; v Next BENEVOLENT ASYLUM
(Near Redfern Railway Station).
Afternoon Shows—WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
Prices-Is., Bs., 25., Is.
FITZGERALD BROS Sole Proprietors.
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
-AND-
The Largest Circus in Australia !
100 Horses ami Tonies 10#
80 Artists 80
12 Ladies 1$
Agents, Morris, Sklton and Webb.
Press Representative, H. P. Lyons.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co,,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
At Lilliebridge, Sydney, on Saturday night,
Mirabeau, in the Dwarf Handicap, llh. 3in., 3 furlongs,
carried the extraordinary weight of 12st. 81b. to victory ;
and later on he annexed the Midget Handicap, 12h. lin.,
also 3 furlongs, with list. 71b. on his back.
# * *
Our amateur oarsmen must cry small as com-
pared to the English University crews, amongst which
lost, men are every year as plentiful as blackberries.
The aggregate weights of the crews which rowed on
Saturday were as follows Victoria, 91st. 51b.; N.S.W.,
90st. lib.; and Queensland, 86st. 121 b. Jim Kennedy,
12st. 71b., and H. Waters, 12st. 31b., both N.S.W., were
the only two in the 24 who could draw the team at 12st.
# * *
“Tata !” calledfrut bookmaker Deery, of Syd-
ney, on the road from Kogarah station to Moorefleld
course the other dav, and a man in front turned round as
if shot, “I thought I wasn’t mistaken,” said John.
Who is Tata? “Tata” once upon a time got a leg-
in for a big double, when he laid-off a pretty big portion
of the wager. The second horse won all right, when Tata
collected the whole of the cash, and started for pastures
new, sending en route a telegram to each of his victims :
‘Ta-ta, will see you in Phillippi.”
# * *
Billy Lees, who died almost in want the other
day, was at one time thought to be “ well in.” Next door
to Beach’s Hotel in Sydney, which he once owned, as well
as on the principal courses, he made a big book. He had
a stable at Randwiok, and owned some useful nags, four
years ago he was the chief “gaffer” among footruimers.
In his “ stable ” were kept eight peds, and Lees partially
kept as many more, and could by arrangement with a few
other “gaffers” always command a hundred of the
fleetest runners in any handicap. His first blow was over
the Yankee, Skinner. He kept and backed the latter tor
a couple of years, and lost. Then when Lees picked
Harrison, Skinner “ went on his own uut,’ won a big
Botany, and went home.
» * •
What has become of all the money involved in
Sydney pedestrianism a few years ago? The promoters
s-erain-dv got none of it. Frank Smith, of Botany, died
recently,‘a poor man. The Carrington people have shut
shop and allow a valuable piece of ground to he idle.
Tie ’runners have no money. Samuels is once again a
uo’ blackfellow ; of his while rivals, B,'inc are ini gaol,
dtherS wish they were there. Seemingly the ‘ gaffers,
ff-ho were supposed to pull the strings, are no better off.
* * *
tt is seldom a crew show better form in a race
than in practice, as was the case with the N.S. W ales
crew in the interprovincial eight-oar contest on the Parra-
matta, last Saturday. Starting with a dash of close upon
40 to the minute, N.S.W. at once drew out ahead, daylight
showing between the boats at Uhr’s Point, and at the
mile beacon, when the leading crew had settled down to a
swinging, well-rowed-out 34, a procession had set in, with
the locals two lengths ahead of the Victorians, who- led
Queensland by a length. N.S.W. ultimately won in
19min. 23sec., some six lengths ahead of Victoria, Queens-
land being completely out of the hunt.
* * . *
The visiting crews complained before the race
that rowing against the tide placed them at a disadvan-
tage, bn account of the local crew having a better know-
ledge of the course. However, the incidents of the race
showed their fears to be ungrounded, as N.S.W. led from
the jump, and the other crews had only to follow the
excellent course steered by young Hellings, if they
thought he knew more than they did.
# * •
The ruling passion. A Q. 0., in arguing an
application of the A.J.S. Bank before a Sydney Supreme
Court Judge, over and over again referred to the institu-
tion as the A.J.O. And it was “ A.J.C.” all through his
notes, and the brief had been drawn by someone who
wrote “ S ” over “ C ” in several places.
# * *
A Sydney boating club of 25 members —mostly
clerks-is thinking of winding-up because 22 of the crowd
are out of work. And some of the other clubs are in
much the same situation.
« • •
The four-year-old “Vakeel,” winner of Adelaide
Cup, St. Leger, and Fisher Stakes, owned by the wealthy
John Crozier, S.A., is now the S.A. fancy for Melbourne
Cup, and will carry most of the Adelaide gold.
* * *
The more closely it is studied the more un-
satisfactory does M‘Manus’a hop-step-and-jump record
seem. The measurement, levelling, &c., was left in the
hands of the clique who promoted the meeting. The
young Cootamundran should make another attempt
under better auspices.
# # »
Walter Giffen seems, so far, to be merely a
passenger in the Australian Eleven. Which bears out
public opinion as expressed in Australia months ago.
# * *
The N.S.W. police were lately beaten in a
cricket match with H.M.S. Orlando. The force missed a
lot of catches. A cricket-ball is more slippery than a
drunk.
* * *
One solitary “quid ” was the price paid for the
oyster bar on the Hill, at last Melb. Hunt Club meeting
at Flemington Some of the drinking bars were leased
for the day at £5 each, and others fetched no bid at all.
Catering at race-meetings is not a popular specu ation
these had times. Attendances have fallen off so much,
and the people who do attend are so economically sober.
« • •
Ye Gods of Olympia ! fancy a pug named
Stanton Abbott. The good old days of the ring and “ the
Spring Chicken ” are indeed gone. Augustus Percival de
Vere, Esq., next,
# # •
“ Mossy ” Isaacs, the well-known Melbourne
rrietalliiivn, drew his fixed deposit of £7OOO from the
Bank of Victoria the day before the suspension.
* * *
Why did N.S.W. win the eight-oar race? They
rowed in the Samuel Hordern, and had the Samuel
Hordern luck.
# # •
The Australian Eleven refer their opening
disaster, at Sheffield Park (Eng.), to want of form. Lord
Sheffield’s team defeated the Australians with ease by s
wickets, W. G. Grace piling up, in the first innings, 6 g
runs ; Shrewsbury, 6-2 ; Gunn, 56 ; and Hewett, 30. Th e
Australians could only total 138 and 173, the great Georg e
Giffen contributing a duck and a unit as his respectiv e
quota. The tranquil scorers amid the rout were—Coning-
ham, 26 and 29 ; M‘Leod, 25 and 24 ; Graham, 32 and 12;
Lyons, 21 and 15 ; Trott, 20 and 14 ; Bruce, 8 and 26 I
Turner, 0 and 22. W. G. Grace considers Turner the
most scientific bowler of the team, but George Giffen the
most difficult for a batsman unused to his style ; and
Graham the best all-round player. At Birmingham, Hie
Australians wiped out the Warwickshire eleven hj’
lOwickels; the local county men only putting together
159 and 153 against the Australian first-irinings score of
286. The chief Australian scorers were: Lyons, 71 and
18; Graham, 55; M'Leod, 40 ; Trott, 33. In these two
matches the English teams went to bat first. At time of
writing the wires were furnishing progress reports of tire
match against Gloucestershire at Bristol, where the Aus-
tralians went in first, and had scored 277 for two wickets
—Giffen, 124 not out. Immediately pending fixtures;
The M.C.C. and Ground Eleven at Lord’s, 18th instant;
Yorkshire, at Sheffield, 22nd ; Lancashire, at Manchester,
25th.
♦
“ Why do babies die in Australia ?”
breathlessly asks an Adelaide Advertiser leader-
writer. The prevailing local impression is that it
is due to the Advertiser woodcuts.
Brisbane telegrams report that an attempt
has been made to blow up Busteed’s livery-stables
in that city, and “the outrage is believed to be
the result of the elections.” Up to time of writing
there is no evidence at all against anybody, but
everything in Queensland is “ believed ” to be
connected with the Labour-party these times.
The Bulletin itself “believes” that the bomb
was put into the stable by MTlwraith disguised
as Glassey in order to bring suspicion on Samuel
Griffith, and thus create a false impression that
Oonrnack was conspiring with Hoolan. This
“ belief ” has just about as much evidence to sup-
port it as the ether one.
Another of “ Gala’s ” popular consulta-
tions was drawn the other day in Sydney with
the success which has invariably attended
the operations of this enterprising “ sweepist ” in
the past. “Gala’s” operations have gained a
reputation for strict honesty, and integrity, and
his nameis already becoming widely known. His
consultations are drawn in public, in the presence
of as many subscribers as care to attend. The
drawing is conducted by a committee chosen from
among the subscribers present, and the operations
are farther supervised by a scrutineer appointed
by the meeting. “ Gala ” does not draw his own
sweeps in the Ordinary acceptation of the term ;
they are drawn entirely by the subscribers with-
out any interference on his part, and an absolute
guarantee is thus afforded against any possibility
of suspicion. The ss. consultation is one of the
few financial institution which neither suspends
nor re-constructs in these times.
The Symese twins used to be applied to
Age and Herald, but now one is maliciously
tempted to apply it to Age and Argus.
The sterling reputation of the promoters of
the Columbian Land Distribution, advertised on
another page, is a strong guarantee of its genuine-
ness. The Bulletin is glad to hear that the
subscription is fast filling up.
A Bulletin correspondent has been listen-
ing to a certain very well-known Australian poli-
tician lately “on tour ” :
This is my first near acquaintance with , and 1
venture,to say lie is the most filthy and disgusting old
reprobate I ever listened to. I am not squeamish and
have lived in a shearer’s hut, a drover’s camp and a
sailor’s fo’c’sle, but any of the jokes you hear there, or all
of them combined, are cleanly compared with those in
this man’s repertoire. To women, and especially little
girls, his remarks take the form of dirty double entendre,
and his whole private conversation is upon one subject—
lust and its concomitants.
And yet the gentleman is a nice, pious old party>
much inclined to angle for religious support. His
name is (here insert the missing word.)


Ml*. JAS. E. NICHOLSON,
A well-to-do Farmer of Florenceville, N. 8.,
Canada, suffers for seven lowj
years with
CANCER OF THE LIP-
Agonizing- torture relieved, Disease Cured.
“I am 55 years of nge, and until ISBI had al-
ways enjoyed good health. About (hat t mo, a
little hard bunch, like a wart, ilppoarcd on my
lower lip. Finally, the bunch gathered, broke,
and formed a sore ; then it began to oat into tho
flesh. The Cancer —for that is what the doctors
Anally called it—kept getting worse and worse,
year after year. It caused me great pain and
uneasiness. During the last year, I would wake
twenty times in a night, suffering intensely
from twitching pains. It was as if my flesh
Was being lorn from me by pinchers, bit by bit.
m
m
m
m
At last, 1 began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
In the course of a week or two I noticed a
decided improvement. The twitching and the
pains were very much less, and the sore began
to look healthier. In three months my lip
began to heal, and, after using the Sarsaparilla
for six months, the last trace of the Cancer dis-
appeared, and left very little scar.”—J. E. Nich-
olson, Florenceville, N. 8., Canada.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ah^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald'
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
I Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
fs
df
Reuter’s Little pilu
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
I sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
, . enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
ate them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Prop's-
"on. The smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a. phial
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.R.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board of N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Pee of 2/6 ,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
11l these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefor e,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS' SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON £ NEW YORK PRICES.
ODR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr, H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College op Dental
Suegeiit.
)Ve guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIAN!, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST,,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
PHI
K
,£49,460 worth for <£l.
See Amusement
Column.
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the'simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
Skin, and scalp;
CUTICURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces* Cuxi-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and SkiA
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
m
V,
8*
M
8
w
'/I
I.
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Ctmcuß a Reme-
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to pcrofula.
to Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, sc
Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Cuticura Soap, 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. / «.
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by CutiCUra Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifies,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap , and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin.
Cleaverb
Juvenia
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion,
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO. .. SYDNEY.
TVR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
XJ JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
RELIEF FROM GOUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
I
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
> FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS £ COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 id. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s
Prepared only by &, HAYMAN & CO.,
16, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseuis, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists!!) the world.)
f lectric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
1 1 armless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. Gd., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
m
S 3" The only thoroiighlj
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
Biiox(tmis
A"ID
INFLUENZA.
It can nr .v be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
■*. H. FOOT, Pharni; a er.tical Clicniist,
Oxford Stkbkv, SVLbNLV.
ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st
Wholesale of Elliott JJrotheia. Limited
HALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM'
L Price—One Shilling.
es Maigldckchcr
'TiljofiheValKJ
GUSTAV IOHSE
BERHH
- LILY OF THE VALLEY-
PERFUME
TO!LET SOAP
are tbe most fashionable in world.
Sold by all Ijiglj classferfumers.
6USTAVLOHSE. BerIin.
The OALIGrRAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest, and Swiftest. Must Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always bo recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impiesdon ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which v rites
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agei t for the t aligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Oaligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Oaligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies atone operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligiaph 1 as two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS; - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
s'i'''t (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
C. S. C mningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins street ;
IhttSBANE, Webster & Co., Alary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
N THE PRESS : “ The Last of Six."
Bulletin Series, No. 3. Price, Is.
He was a Journalist.
A CHARACTER SKETCH.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was lunch-time, and I was sitting in the office
reading the Akgus. Suddenly tlie glass folding-
doors spread wide apart, and a tall, solemn-eyed,
dilapidated man, with fineaqniline feature's,stepped
in, let', hig the doors swing-to behind him with in-
considerate violence. He paused, wliile his eyes
wandered over the office, till they dwelt at last
upon ray head, protruding just above the Counter,
and partly shielded by the paper. Then he
staggered proudly towards me, and I saw that
there was something wrong.
Loaning over the counter, he said, with a
magnificent unconcern, and majestic point-
ing of his i c lean hand, “ I see,
you are reading my brilliant leader! lam a
journalist ! Brains rule this world. Within
this forehead ” —he lifted his hat, exhibiting for
my admiration a high, pallid “development”—
“ power lies enthroned. You are a man of figures.
/am a man of brains. I doubt not —I can see it
—you are a creature of routine; lam a free lance.
To-night, for the Age, I shall smash that article ”
he nodded to the advertisement-page which
faced him—“ into—into— ”
“Smithereens,” I prompted, tentatively.
He drew back from the counter, but kept tight
hold of the edge vyith one hand, whilst he eyed me
with a glassy, rigid stare, swaying irregularly to
and fro as he did so. At last he'spoke,' with
withering contempt. “No! not smithereens—
into a cocked-hat!”
He breasted the counter again, “/make and
unmake Ministries,” he said. “ Will Patterson’s
Government stand, you ask?” which I hadn’t
asked, or suggested—“ That rests with me,” he
replied-.
His eyes began to roam tho counter next. A
pen was sticking out from a pewter inkstand, and
on this small object they found rest, so it was
bound to come out —his next utterance, the in-
spiration and the journalist being both at hand.
“The pen is mightier ” Readers will please
finish !
Having given the quotation in full in slightly
wavering but dramatic tones, he made a half-turn
on his feet, giving me his eagle-profile to study,
and immediately began to address an invisible
concourse, declaiming with an unconscious self-
satire that was touching. “Hamlet !” he cried,
in brief introduction.
“ What a piece of work is a man ! How noble
in reason ! how infinite in faculty ! in form and
moving how express and admirable! in action
how like an angel! in appre ”
At this point a stranger appeared upon the
scene to whom I was obliged to give attention.
Finding that his sudden pause of speech and a
cold, sarcastic stare that he threw upon the
stranger did not unnerve him, the Journalist
turned to me, and in thick, haughty tones said,
“ I have something of importance to say to you
when this gentleman retires.” Then he steadied
himself again by aid of the counter, and waited in
proud disdain.
Upon the retirement of the stranger he began
to address himself to me upon a changed topic,
but no less fanciful, in its relation to circum-
stances, than was characteristic of his previous
observations; meanwhile I had decided that it
vyas time to ring down the curtain upon my
gifted but erratic entertainer, so, speaking up
cheerfully, I said, .“Well, good-bye, I’ll lookout
for your ‘ smashing’ article in the morning.’’
He smiled largely, but ignored the hint.
“I have something important to say to you,”
he observed with a great show of mystery, “ but I
will write it. Pursue your reading of my article
in the meantime.”
He seized a pen, and snatched up a printed
form that lay within his reach, which he reversed,
and began writing with swift, rapid jerks. When
he had finished, he replaced the pen with a splen-
did though trembling deliberation, and pushed
the paper over to me, as if acceding to a request
in so doing. In fine, scholarly caligraphy was
written :
The write/ hereof is a man of education and ability, to
whom fortune has dealt out her cruellest blows. As a
Journalist, he possesses talents of a high order. He
solicits your benevolence in the sum of sixpence.
I handed him the desired coin, for which he did
not offer any thanks, but said loftily, “ I shall be
honored by an exchange of cards ! ”
Then he gathered himself together, steadied
himself by one hand on the counter, and stag-
gered proudly forth, once more to do battle with
a cold, hard world.
Melbourne.
PELICAN.
Dr. Maloney, M.L. A. (West Melb.) post 8
up on his residence, “ Fee 55.” And if some level-
headed barrister of experience, tired of battling
without influence against a world in which there
are few briefs for him, were to start and adver-
tise a cheap-law shop, and give rough, square
advice to all and sundry for two half-crowns per
interview, he could make lots of cash instead of
starving in a genteel way, as some sound men do.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs has a perfect
horror of morning-newspaper reporters, and says
he will give them no more audiences while
he remains in office. The foundation of this
declaration is that he has never yet been
able to distinguish the S.M. Herald poli-
tical reporter from the D.T. representative, so
strangely alike to him are the pair. As a
consequence, he has often complicated matters
by denouncing one while erroneously believin"
himself to be talking to the other.
Frederick William Dennis, the crier at
Melbourne Law Courts, has been found drowned.
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton
Albany Buildings, 3!) Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
So'tly, softly, twang the lyre
To a lilting lullaby ;
Death, the cold, impassive Crier,
Called another friend to die.
Vanished from the sight of men is
Mortal Frederick William Dennis,
Like the sparks that upward fly,
Lulla-lulla-lnllaby,
Soundly sleeping let him lie.
Touch the harp with fingers lightly
To a lilting lullaby :
Harshly, or perchance politely,
Rang the well-remembered cry.
Crying for the waiting witness,
Now, in things’ eternal fitness,
We must drop or heave a sigh,
Lulla-lulla-lullahy—
Meet you, Dennis, by and bye.
Beat the drum with muffled fury,
Drone a dreary lullaby.
Hark ye, counsel, judge, and jury,
drier Death is lurking nigh—
Lurking nigh and ever calling,
Day and night, in tones appalling,
Folks who come without reply,
Lulla-lulla-lullaby
So he calls for you and—beg pardon—7.


MACKs
DOUBLE-
Requires No Addition or PREPARATION as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. IViATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
J 3 Perfect Foog
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
sdf
fp
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For travellers.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
TWALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-111 valids, surpasses all other light diets. 1
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HIU, LONDON, E.C.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
sd
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free . to any ad-
dress. State whether
yon would like Song,
Kano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the now list of
fs
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
m
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. l5, Ho’borc, London, Eng,
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS.
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug-.
26, ’9O, says ; —“ 1 think them, such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O : “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.B.C.P;, Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED-
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Cbtaiuiug from Dsapevs’ write Patentee, 15»
Claremont, Hastings, England.
£49,460 worth for <£T, !
See Amusement
s Column,
3E®0030
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELON’S
LAGTO-GLYCOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate,
To ibe obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
df
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
m
Lancet.
&' m
A
St. John’s Works, I>ondon, W.C.
«
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
.A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
"When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
ScJle Agents—
BRAHAM 2c MUTCH,
75 Kino Sr., SYDNEY.
Established 1876.
o w
JO x
m s
WRITE *OR
D?
HAIR'S
TREATISE
ON
ASTHMAj,
sd
fs
'MELBOURNE:
Rockc.TompsiH»<?.
BliOttßfW.i
HI'QtLBMtiI,/
aide: F.H.Fauldins«f(?.
Adelaide ; F.HTauldint ar,Ct
vellington. N 7, shaijan&Ci
Auckland Sharland »(*. -a/®.
V send Treatise and Testimonials t.
'gan/dddresi
c JC' & / A
EBV
« N V
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
‘SWEET SCENTS
ILOXOTIS OPOPONAX
i FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
* b v
*°nd Stree' 1
Beware of imitations. The genuine is sign ed
TRADE MAJIKri; MDSR PUR
df
Carter & Co?
JjUAIiTABIiE
NuN REVERSIBLE
rrtHIS ingeniously Constructed 1(1 I 1,11 K!> lIIMVfi-
L TJ.BIiH is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Kllegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction. Billiards have no equal, combin-
iinggenllo-cxercisc with an elegant and scientific recreation.
'The PRICES—BS to Idiniras, include cover,
Ibalte, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules,- and
iaiuiingenious receptacle for the above.
j Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne, Factory, Uaiversity-St.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. IEULZDZRIZDG-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
ss
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR,
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used l.y
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG «5c AITKEW,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 683 George Street, Sydney,
No Cur e, 3ST o aE^a^y,
belt
- h
PTHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
x cure all NERYOUS WEAKNESSES in ' all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that yon should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCOA
THE •CROSVENOR HOTEL,
y.
(Inclusive, or Separate .Tariff as jdesiretJ.
: Single Rooms frpm 3s. Double Rooms from 6s,
Inclusive Tariff 10s., Cd., ,12s. Od. per diem,
■ Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
“£he (Sydney (Coffee palace” <gotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the mam
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
DEAF'
NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck’s luvisibls Tubular Ear Cushion**
Whispers heard. Successful »lien
remedies fail. Write for book <A prooi*
A. M, NAST,
«
ifREE,
<£49,460 worthfor «£l.
See Amusement
Column.
The Charter of Living,
(F OR THE BULLETIN .)
What were Thy terms, Lord, when man was driven
Forth from the gates of the Eden of old ?
What were Thy terms to the banished one given?
Let them again in our hearing be told.
In sweat of thy forehead thy bread shall be eaten !
Toil - with life’s sustenance for your reward ;
Hard though it seemed, it has served life to
sweeten,
And blessing has come from the curse of the
Lord.
Brow-sweat for bread ! We all offer it gladly,
Giving our labour for something to eat,
Hoping for better things, even when madly
Fighting Life’s battle to save a defeat.
But in this world of competitive labour
Man jostles man from his natural place ;
One cuts the throat of another —his neighbour ;
Woe unto him who lags last in the race !
Whose is the blame that a man who is willing
Cannot find avenue fit for his toil ?
That poverty dwells, with environment chilling,
Here, ’mid the corn and the wine and the oil.
Who is to blame for the labourer’s striking—
Fighting to raise some low standard of wage,
1 ighting if things be not done to his liking,
Fighting for naught in unreasoning rage ?
Who is to blame for the grinding and sweating—•
Wealth giving labour grim Poverty’s dole?
Who is to blame for the squalor, begetting
Vices that poison the body and soul ? K
Brow-sweat for bread ! You magnanimous
master—
Hold out your hand to the worker who cries.
Tell him how groundless his fear of disaster,
Bid him cease list’ning to demagogues’ lies;
Tell him to seek work, and then he will find it ’ii-'
Somewhere unspecified, somewhere remote ; %
Give him your message, with no truth behind it,
Utter the lie from an eloquent throat.
But, my good master, your voice is uncertain, *
Tones in it ring with a sound insincere,
Draw from the truth the conventional curtain, *
What do you see that you shrink as with fear ?I
Look at the actors —the men who are pleading—
Praying their fellows for something to do,
Women whose hearts with deferred hope are;
bleeding, j
Children—a ragged and clamorous crew.
Brow-sweat for bread!—the old labouring charter, \
Man has improved on it—made it complete,
Heart-blood for bread you must now learn to
barter,
Cringing the while at your murderers’ feet. f
Sydney.
M.
Shorthanded in chalk on the Melbourne
flags: —“ These papers of ours are the biggest
lying rags that ever were, ”
Why do people who are bushed travel in
circles ? Because 90 per cent, have one leg shorter
than the other, and, without the guidance of the
eye, our unequal steps tend to the round. (
Prince Beatrice ; Battenberg is only a Royal,
Highness in Britain. When abroad he is plain!
Jones or Smith, preferring’incog, to ignominy. |
Naturalist Bray, \of Sydney, has settled!
in the affirmative the long-disputed question of ;
I the cannibalism of snakes. He has in his posses-
sion one big snake which has more than half-
swallowed another. /
A rather timid,Trundle (N.S.W.) squatter
who absolutely dneads labour-troubles, treats his
shed-hands with marvellous politeness, and
“Misters” even the rouseabouts : “Mister Hall,
will you have the kindness and oblige me by
taking just a little more wool off that sheep ? I
should be so thankful; and to you. Mister Moore,
I should be extremely grateful if you would
kindly pick those ‘ dags ’ a little cleaner.”
Two N.S.W. swaggies presented them-
selves one Wednesday at the residence of what
might be a big “cookie,” or a small squatter up
Gowra way. “ Yes,” said the unwashed magnate,
“ I want two good men. You cam start at once;
fifteen bob a week. I’ll count to-day as half a day.
You can get half a week’s rations to-night.” The
men turned to, and at night rolled up for their
rations, which were doled out—4lb. flour,, a couple
of handfuls of sugar, one pinch of tea, two bits of
mutton. Next night they turned* up again with—
‘ ‘ Let’s take another half-week’s rations in ad vance,
boss. We’ve eaten ourselves broke.” “Here’s
three bob a piece,” said the dirty man, “and you
can clear. If you stop on I’ll soon be carrying my
drum, too,” “ Thanks,” replied one, “ and if you
do, old man, carry it collar-fashion. I find it the
easiest.”
A newly-arrived English ('doctor recently
bought a practice in a small N.S.W. country town,
and had not been there a week' when, about mid-
night, he was aroused by a mam who said his mate
was dying some 3G miles out. / After a fast, rough
ride through blinding rain, they reached the sick
man’s hut—to find the patient well out of danger.
Installing the mate as nurse the doctor retired into
an adjoining room, on one' side of which was a
bedstead built of wood and having a calico top.
He lay down and was just* going off when a drop
of something lukewarm fell upon his face. Think-
ing it was only the rain coming through the roof
he turned over and slept the sleep of exhaustion.
A.waking at sunrise, he found his face glued to the'
pillow, his mouth refused to open, one ear and eye
were effectually sealed, and his pillow was a mass
of blood. Then the untrammelled eye discovered
on the calico bed-roof a huge red stain and the
outline of something terribly like a human body.
Tremblingly mounting his bedroom furniture—at
box —he cautiously examined the top of the bed,
and found the body—of a freshly-killed and badly-
bled sheep! Interrogating his companion of the
previous evening why he had made the bed into a
meat-safe, that individual blandly replied: “Them
native cats and dogs is so blasted bad that a
feller ’as ter keep his meat indoors, an’ the caliker
top o’the bed seemed a ’andy place to st nv it.”
Then that young medico scraped the blood off
himself, repaired to his hotel, and passing by with
a shudder the chops offered him, wrote a long
letter to his people at ’Ome about the uncivilised
( condition of this beastly country.


Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From ntt-otrect to
t'asllereagh-strect),
Between King Jc Market Stg.
SYDNEY.
rr’Rlligr'isil
; J i i. Li
I
m
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS. !
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SS&KS OOM}, Manage,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CHa
&
4?
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted I
to be worth a Guinea I
a Box for bilious |
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
Bleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited- to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are
s a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to he found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands Who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are ‘ FACTS tea med
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeoham's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough. Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly' depn vei the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkecitam aCougu
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared onlv, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 50 pills), and at
2S 'soM ( by b aUdruggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere. .
N.B. —Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
CROMART!
v.o.
mm
Whisky
Greenlees Brothers
OHSCOWICHDOMItD
W ■ ■
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
He Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
finASMANIA. Messrs. FITZGERALD
| BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of Thk Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Business Announcements.
whisky
m
m
g^-
•^rtOß'
25s
Best on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing & Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
/Z
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party : “Why did n’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Ijy Coupon with Every Case.
Medical.
as
*m ROS E’S 1/
MM
SMS
N
a
&
O
O
-a
OS
§Jn|
LOTJ
8
S/T
THEOfO
RELIABLE
mTTIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
reoommended-by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
jgg" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
EUREKA
\s
ELECTRIC
BELTt'V
y
. V'
HD
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
unwaids This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Bark, Lum-
ba»o Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 caisa/yss trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a Continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cm e l in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full inhumation and testi-
monials from nrominent people .throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Addnss:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 910. G.P.0.. Sydney.
Business Announcements.
j
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 15s. Oil. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
ave never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-IPAN on the Window.
-Send pTo.O. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
Pitt Street
r ATKINSORi’S^
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
! ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, andits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. AIKINSCN
24, Old Bond Street, London.
SAUItON [ —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
w Trade Mark—a 4 * White iiose .
and address in full.
Busc
□ Scot
IE
Whisky
DRINK
“1111
SCDTIIE”
W^ky.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best' Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 80s. per WEEK.
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any causa whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case meet minutely, and j oint out
with unerring accuracy, the btst means of-rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
drugs.
I ate House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lend.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
tjnalifica-
\ cions,
Dr.
L.S.A., &c.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
"Glandular Enlargements
Bit extensive experierde in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake t';e tr> atment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, a; d to assure Ids patients of a
SPEEDY and i‘lsl IMAM ENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat d of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how ttiis
most enslaving habit can he overcome.
Dr. Perry Supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric B slt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly FF.I.T, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.rn. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.in., and from 7 t) 9 p.m. oo
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
r|I.\LES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SEDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australla’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
la the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy,
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Pefsdri, dub Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Edilcatibri.
Reform df thb Criminal Code and Prison
Systeni.,
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present ;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
arm has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influende and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once' be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form-printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege —the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clanns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any hitman authority which has not been granted
by the people over' whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that' so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they arc printed.
The Bulletin's red cover is equally familiar
to the bush man of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of Ihb Bulletins
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact
easily ascertainable from any postal official- that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
ail remittances are payable. Editorial communi
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light anti Life,'
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
s. WARD.& CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET* SYDNEY.
"TVfOTldE.—Advertisements for Current Week
I “ cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION-
Sydney Agents: CURCIEK, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, C.P.O.
Telephone 072.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
CTJT’Z-.iEsrsr
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms:
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUENE.
lyrow IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EBIsTEST faveito,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 p IXT Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard, Square, SYDKTBY.
[Established over a Quarter op a Cbstury.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. } ’ ( ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—los. Cd. per Day* Walter Sidney (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A ■ I
i mM
k a «:
° °C^’..
Iv £i
•. fT\ ■- :--'■
V’ ’•.
It. A, Hervey, Agent, 144 <larence-st, Sydney.
66
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM/
Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
M‘Arthur’s York Hotel
(Late Milthorps’),
Corner York it King Streets, SYDNEY,
Splendid Accommodation. The best Brands of Liquors
and Cigars.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON, 1/-
ROBT. M'ARTHUR, Propriktor.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frae Vanner or Cre Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
: General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EYERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Eeqnisites.
Proprietor of tb.e “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
A#*' 0 *
W
sdf
Knowles’ Steam Pumjs
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
r'
01 O'
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P, nominal.
WORKING PRESURE —BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMIN O Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Ri vetted. Manhol es.
Hay-street 0 ""'' Sydney.
Collius-street, Melbourne.
T-
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street,, Auckland.
teas
>I, $:•
*
