

o.
CO
I
CADBURY’S COCOA
_____ ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
B. G. WATKINS «SE GO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
s
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PUKE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
c°-
o
<>
o
&
V
4
s>
o
iX
<y
&
$
0
o
A
Kg- A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes m grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. SST" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
eourious.
VtVv
r*.
)
2
bJ
o*
a ns
sxt
rn«
IMP
The Oxford Hotel, ICisxs Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
Lenten Season. Lenten SeaSOn ! Lenten Season.
NEW SOUTH WALES
thresh (flood and Ice Company, Ltd.
Fish ! Fish ! Fish !
("AWING to perfect arrangements in the PISH and GAME
' J DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supply iug.FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.—as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
Id. per lb. for the most distant towns —the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the P.P. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893..
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.— We shad be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs-Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
3E3Dy. Pateson, Manager.
•25 t 033 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WALKER’S WHISKY. ALLSOPP’S ALE.
WA.LKEK, 24: ZOOIKTaO STREET, S^JOIKnErST.
TT
o •
Sole
CS. SCO
A-gents in. HXTew Soxitli Wales for Messrs. Clayton and. Simi iiewortii.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
■mniltMUiiHlitjllffiß®
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Riding'.
: ’ ~; r.—
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
fctjwje Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all el asses: Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators : Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting'and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
( Lightness in fraught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each.
Convertahle to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINKS, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. &T Full Catalogues of Engines, Aerrioultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
JT.& c. Howard, SBoi Pitt street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. 684. j
[Saturday, March 25, 1893.


TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.’
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
■«-—S
'« " *
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
SHR;Pierces Kaote,-,-,
y
NO
In the
Rup-
Irke I>r.
Klaslic
Truss has
ands of
Springs.
TRUSS
World will Retain
ure or give Relief
Pierce's Magnetic
Truss. This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
It can be worn with ease and comfort
Slight and Day. Perfect fittingTrusses sent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet Ifo. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO.,SanFrancigco,Cal.
Or Washington If. Soul <& Co , 160 Pitt St..
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
ASK FOB
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
1 hi-: Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
DOW’S
CATIO
u
Y \\SOLO
'.\EVERY*WHERE?
mi
■ .'V
/ to-
rn
m
Or.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., x’.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
PsomsrT*
fr
V
CROMMTYII
Whisky
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative,
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Coni Cmr MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIES,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Asjent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
The most refined of all Perfumes.
Sweet as the Rose itself. Imitated the
world over, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON'S
EATJ DE COLOGNE
is now universally preferred to the
German kinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but Atkinson’s.
Of all Dealers.
J. 8c E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTIOH f— Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
v Trade Mark— a “ WJute Rose
Bt and address in full.
dd-
J
AIAXHOOD.
HEALTH. RESTORED
O s R* COrjdS
£SSEN cE of n F £•
The only Infallible Remedy for RFRTLTT7.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
v/J'':,,.?}™]'.' 1 s Essence of Life restores Health and
strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the. human frame.
In cases of Ids, or four quantities in one for ,16s. Freight
mvelop, PamPhletS * Tee <m rtceipt °S stam Ped addressed
Agents for Australasia—Perry <t Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitaroy, MELBOURNE. “
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
» sons
$
cosy
o*^
/
Kif
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD?
Manufactory:
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
GROSVENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs.
Yfl
Q9
5fY
nm
9*
|s Always fHE- Best
Scale of Advertising
u
THE BULLETIN
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ...
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
(is. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
NOAV IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
(4
The LiA.ST OF SIX:”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
nest r aveuc.
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:-** In these Tales of the Austral Tropics will bo found the strange
romances winch write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. —Posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.
Z’/ 6
A LINE FROM LONGFELLOW.
“I stood on the bridge at midnight.”


Medical.
DhSPEER
Assisted Tby Dr. ELiMSHE,
M.D.,L.F.P.5., L.S.A-, L.M. ,ETC.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
p.o. Box 820.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
n/ N S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their oom-
nlaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells- him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
nroper remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful ana successful physician in N.S. W. m
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Ollice Hours s 1© to 13 a.m.; Bto 4 and
7 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing*
HARD TIMES,
Dr SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made..
Dr SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his eharge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
aiid WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
O.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases ef
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
eto., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL AND RAPID TREATMENT.
G.—ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURB.
Mention this paper when writing.
«Men I have Smiled with.”
W
W
E STAY at Bruton’s,
NHiiavnoD
E STAY AT THE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
GHTLTERN, VIC.
U McSWINEY’S STAR
HOTEL
Is the Best.
"W AG-G-A.
rj.ive E. dXT auglxton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
&3T Under New Management.
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
Bs. per Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager Geo. Hy. James
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
albury.
THE GLOBE HOTEL
(T. K. BROWN, PKOPRiKroB)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
SAT New Sample Room just Added. US
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury*Gardens.
GRANT* Ho*
melboohnb.
Opposite Parliament House, -
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3a. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding; Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special airatige-
merits for large families. A. K. BICKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
rALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
m.
/mr
T
L R.C.S L,M R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered toy
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young _ and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healerand so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, it
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions: —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow .Complexion, Restlessness at Wight, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver. Indigestion, Heavy heel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head .
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate oases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a pro<ff
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
test them free,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim.
may be returned. The Electric Girdle has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
patients Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint , or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Honrs of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9 30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 P- m - to 5 P- m -
Saturday— 9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday-
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
AST Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales,
m&im
dj'irna
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case If you do not think you understand your
case', send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ire to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION TREE.
E N
Shipping.
GLA ND VIA ~ AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
iltivclb die ct V d/UctUiC! AL,J - # + " UIUUIUOj CVIAV*
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66,
Combination Ticket, <£s2 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d,
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON. .
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government or
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates:—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plaoe.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent,
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep,
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Fxtra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
12LZ5S Kill Scrub Co.’s
DE STRUCT ANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYD3XTBY.
gsg* Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NONIOXJS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision'of J. L. Thompson, Lsq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director-General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
j experts.
se's MaigVdckchCi
LilrffteW
GUSUV LOHSt
a **UH.in tmi l ' 1
LOHS E'S
MMGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY-
PERFUME
toileTsoap
are the most fashionable in the world
Sold by all high class'j’erfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin,
FOR
MOUSTACHEII
o H >
Caplllarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. Cd., Post Free.
CKAId »V AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
£49,460 worth for £\
See Amusement
Column.


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
: *
.■■ri .
SW~ POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W, Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W,
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very mbdeiate.
T. BROWN, Proprietor.
OME
SIMPI® 31
8-REST
Before purchasing any other
SBN’D FOR CIRCULAR OF ask yOUf
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
dfs
M
J.Wjotinston&Co.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
PREMIER BRAND « BOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
“ PREMIER.’/ They stand alone for style, quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECT TO THE WEARER —there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single
Fairs MAILED to any part of the Colony nt SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carriage Paid.
t®" Try Th.om.
DEPOTS—32O George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
df
li'orThey-waLste.
,fe?^sete*fe>in»e:kem.wSrl^
LI O is >He
electric lijgfihiphhouse-desnin
JiWi
THE OLD RUT
“ Gth ? dß are not the easiest by far. Many people travel them
because they have not tried the better way. It is a relief from a sort
of slavery to break away from old-fashioned methods and adopt the
labor-saving and strength-sparing inventions of modern times. Get out
house mt ° W&yS by using a cake of SAPOLIO in your
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
A. AND J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand
sd
fs
The only TUBES used by all the Governments ot Australia.
Manager for Australia— T. J~. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE
* Plum’
df
sd
the
‘ Plum’
mills brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to tho public.
I uro hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price f u- n * 2 ’| e ! n strong leather case, Kb. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s,
I Single .Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 80s.
[tidered and sent Pod Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Solo
Agent*
CRAIG & AITKIN, G80 George Street, SYDNEY.
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT A KODAK.
3VL .A. JD HE
IN—
FIVE SIZES.
SSgggjg
PULL the
STRING I
PRESS the
BUTTON!
We Do the Rest J
SEXTIE) POE ZDsTIEW JY'i'lEai) t^T^LOO-TJIEJ
■JCZJOC
BAKER AND ROUSE,
375- — GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY 375
Directly Opposite SYIMXrEY ARCAQS.
And at 256 Collins-st., Melbourne; 69 Rundle-sL, Adelaide; 46 Btishand.
SAY WELL & CO.
OEPOf
Or
L
T
A
C
c
o
*<*o
9^or
S'®
S r
CE
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK;
Engines, Boilers, &aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY,
*3- Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of,
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied $p without any delayT
INSTRUMENT MAKERS,
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc,
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Stock. Heated Catalogues BOSt FREE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as wo are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
LADIES. Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fik them up equal to new.
=»oc=>
Craig Sz
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY;
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain overyoo Apart-
ments ami are highly recommended by
Australians. the Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Paries, Colonial
Institute, &*c., arc easy 0/ access.
_ «Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMEp BAILEY, Managing Director*
♦ n
TALKS »tm CONVICT SYSTEM’


The Bulletin
Pol ia<-~Kc.C34.
SATIJRT)AY. MARCH 25, 1893.
Price, 3d.
.OiiHflm
sau of
CLOVES'
/)
, ik*fl
i
fry A
A'/^~
A*^"*
0~
? f/ iUnr
do W
wJCaa**' V
y/isc? * J
REFRmPIfNT Room
A , .....
/•*r \
'
>»* iSr* “ £
SITTING ON THE SAFETY-VALVE, OR THE SUPPRESSION OF PUGILISM IN AUSTRLIA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt strkjet, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... ... ... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
tvhich you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not ivish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed 3. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing icith Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin caa be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal '.—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s, 2d,
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre •
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
7?i*rsxzlleZx#L.
SATURDAY, MARCH 25, 1893.
An Unclean World.
Something over eighteen centuries ago
Christianity got fairly started and became
dirty. The pagan of Italy, Greece, Egypt,
Syria and other centres of pre-apostolic
civilisation was exceedingly and wonderfully
clean, hut when the early Christian put
away the masters and ideas that pertained
to paganism he put away cleanliness also,
and denounced it as a thing accursed. For
fully eight centuries the man who washed
himself was lost, or thereabouts, according
to the theory and practice of the Church.
Dirt, in its largest and most comprehensive
sense, was invented—so far as Europe and
Western Asm were concerned—by the early
Christians, and the Aryan race has never
since become properly clean. The lost
art and mystery of cleanliness is being
learnt again by infinitesimal degrees, and
only by a comparatively small section of the
race—the great majority remains almost as
unwashed as its ancestors were in the days
when no individual whose habits were not
those of a hog could hope to enter the
Kingdom of Heaven. Therefore,, so far as
civilisation consists of cleanliness, there is
exceedingly little civilisation, as yet in exist-
ence. And even that small minority of
mankind which is gradually rising to. better
and less dirty things is, as yet, only in a
rudimentary stage of development; a certain
small percentage of humanity is personally
clean, but it is content to live among filth
and horrors of all descriptions. The extent
to which the reform has spread can be
gauged by a survey of almost any modern
city. The typical city of the better class
consists of one handsome street—which,
probably enough, tapers off into foulness at
either end, one or two comparatively elegant
suburbs, and a vast mass of assorted ugliness,
offensiveness, dirt, neglect, disease,. Chinese
dens, and all manner of leprosy and infec-
tion. And civilised man, so-called, travels
contentedly to and fro every day among
these things, and reflects, now and then, on
the ways of his grimy and worm-like ances-
tors, and is much inflated by the reflection.
* • #
Most of the vices and diseases of our
civilisation are born, more or less directly,
of dirt. The larrikin question, the Chinese
question, the* nigger and cheap European
pauper problems, the problem of sexual im-
morality—so qnctuously ■,discussed by the
Social Gimlet Brigade—all hinge more or
less upon it. For all these evils live and
fester and have their being in the dirty lanes
and alleys, and foetid byways and airless
dens which compose somewhere 'between
one-half and three-fourths of every modern
city, and if these haunts of foulness were
abolished they could not live from sheer
want of a congenial residence. They are all
the legitimate children of their environ-
ment. The flat-headed, angular ruffian of
the “ push ” is symbolical of the flat,
angular, unlovely hovel in which he has
his ox-igin ; his lankness is the lankness
of the low-grade “terrace” where every
house is squeezed thin by exterior pressure
until it gets down to sixteen or twenty feet
of street frontage, and his moral hopelessness
is closely related to the horrible monotony
and desolation of all his surrmindings. The
denizen of the house of ill-fame is the natural
complement of the flashy, draggled, dingy
regions in which she is principally to be
found—the regions of cheap meat, and
leprous-looking vegetable-shops, and hope-
lessly-decayed, old-time “gentility.” The
nigger and the illiterate pauper fi-om Eastern
Europe are in keeping with the dirt-en-
crusted hovels in which they “hang out.”
If these malodorous regions were abolished,
and if all Australia were made violently clean
by some cast-iron Act of Parliament, there
would be a prompt and wonderful evanish-
ment of most of the undesirable elements of
the population. Some of them, probably,
would reform, because the joy had gone out
of their old lives with the loss of their old,
grimy associations. And, as for the rest,
they would probably roam over the face of
this continent in search of some dirty spot,
and finding none, would vanish into the
Pacific, or drift regretfully back to the lands
from which they came.
* * *
Sydney is the oldest and, as the natural
result, about the most unclean of Australian
capitals. The fix-st essential for the regenera-
tion of that city is the destruction, by fire or
otherwise, of the greater part of Botany,
Alexandria, Paddington, Redfern, Pyrmont,
N\ aterloo and Balmain, of all northern
George-street, and half the regions lying
between George-street and Darlixxg Harbour,
also most of Newtown, Woolloomooloo,
and various other suburbs. Then these
regions need to be entirely re-built under
a rigid building law, which shall fix a mini-
mum frontage for each house, a minimum size
for each backyard, which shall abolish low
ceilings, small or insufficient wixxdows, defi-
cient drainage, and undersized apartments,
which shall require that every house, how-
ever small, shall be provided with a bath,
shall be durable, sightly, and supplied with
sufficient out-offices, that every street shall
be as straight as possible and not less than
100 feet wide, and which will abolish the
loathsome network of back lanes which now
disfigure the city. And, further, it requires
to be laid down as a legal axiom that ugliness
is a crime, and dirt and evil smells a felony.
The ancient British saying, which the first
British settlers imported into Australia, that
a free man’s house is his castle, wants to be
entirely abolished : every man’s house should
be his castle so long as it is kept clean and
sightly, but no longer. When the last rem-
nants of the early Christian reverence for
filth has passed away, the individual whose
house is even comparatively dirty will have his
premises scrubbed and cleaned by the State
at his expense, and if the offence is repeated
he or she will be put in gaol and taught to
scrub ; and the house that is dingy and an
eyesore will be painted and repaired by the
State at the owner’s cost; and the person
with the neglected back-yard, or the broken
windows, or the decayed fence, will be
visited by the strong arm of the law,
and the citizen, or citizeness, of un-
pleasant personal habits who declines to
reform will be washed in prison. The
“ liberty of the subject,” in this respect, has
been much overdone. The matter is not
one of mere private interest; the foulness
of the humblest member of the community,
or his family, or his house, or his back-yard,
is a public concern, and every inhabitant is
justified in demanding that evexy other
inhabitant shall have a bath and a clean shirt
with reasonable frequency, and that his
surroundings, from the greatest to the least,
shall not be an eyesore, or a germ-factory,
or an offence to the nostrils, or—by reason
of its foulness and sordidness—a breeding-
place for possible criminality.
* # *
The disciples of the almost-forgotten
aesthetic craze were wise in their theory,
whatever foolishness might bo discernible in
their practice. Grace and external beauty
are the principal elements of civilisation.
The foul, loud-mouthed, brutal, and blas-
phemous elements in the community will
never be abolished or reformed until the
slums in which they have their home are
wiped off the face of the earth. To some
extent they create their surroundings, but to
a much greater degree they are created by
them. The hideous dens of Wexford and
Goulburn Streets and the Rocks in Sydney
—the worst ot their kind in this continent—
have produced a race of people who are in
keeping with their hideousness—a dank-
haired and horrible tribe, halfway between
the troglodyte and the Chinaman, or some-
thing worse. Some of these are as well-off
as many average residents of any com para-
lively decent suburbs, yet tb y seldom remove
in search of brighter and healthier quarters;
they belong to their own particular
Gehenna, and if they left it for a
region which was not in keeping with
their habits they would either have to
reform or die out. If a small cargo of
kerosene and a torch were applied to all the
foulest and most dangerous regions of any
city, the hopeless section of its inhabi-
tants would presently fade away out of the
census and the criminal calendar, and in all
probability no one would ever know exactly
where they had gone. But to produce the
required effect, it is necessary that (he law
should be exceedingly strict and’ that it
should be enforced with the utmost rigidness.
It should take cognisance of the individual
who disfigures the walls with flaring and un-
sightly placards, and the speculator who
erects 12 or-14-storoy monstrosities in brick
and whitewash, and the Goth who paints his
shop a flaring red for advertising purposes,
and the persons who allow their vacant
sections to be used as a dump for rubbish
and ancient jam-tins, the rag signs, and
the condemned and abandoned buildings
which are left to fall to pieces by gradual
decay, and all these persons and things
should be suppressed under heavy penalties.
So, also, should the unclean Italian or Greek
or other fruit vendor who sleeps 18 in one
ash-box and keep his bananas to ripen under
the bed, and the Chinese vegetable horror
who stores his vegetables among the lepers
in his opium-den, and the citizen with the
unclean dairy and the diseased cows, and
the butcher-man with decayed meat in his
shop and festering offal in his back premises
—all these persons should be visited with
12 months’ imprisonment, or more, for
wantonly spreading murderous diseases
among the community. And in addition to
these there is an almost endless list
of offenders and offences against clean-
liness and beauty which want to be
put down in this grimy, dirt-sodden world
which has not been even reasonably clean
since the year 1 a.d., and which was only
clean in spots even then. About the most
conspicuous of them all are the wealthy—
and generally Christian—landlords who own
the hundreds of loathsome tenements that
make our civilisation hideous. The prin-
cipal difficulty in the way of an all-round
reform is the vast sums which these indi-
viduals would demand from the State as com-
pensation for the destruction of their pro-
perties, and this difficulty has hitherto been
regarded as insurmountable. In reality, the
problem is capable of very easy solution.
The difficulty can be surmounted by requir-
ing the landlord to destroy his own public
nuisance at his own expense, and, should he
fail to do so, by putting him in gaol till he
complies, or else confiscating the nuisance.
The State does not compensate the man
whose dead cow spreads disease through'out
his neighbourhood, and why it should com-
pensate the one whose deceased tenement
does likewise passes comprehension.
Sydney Chamber of Commerce
Takes Hold.
The other day the magnates of Sydney Chamber
of Commerce got together and “viewed with
regret not unmixed with alarm the depressed
condition of the province.” They congratu-
lated each other on having awakened from their
lethargy—leathergy would be a better way to
spell the profound and chronic immersion of
many of them in questions of greenhides and
drysaltery—and proceeded to point out how
the people should be governed. “Our w’ool
was bringing good prices at ’Ome, tallow was
booming, and the harvests were good. How
then, did the depression arise ?” asked Mr.
J. H. Storey.
* # #
That expresses the commercial apprehension
of life and the things therein with exactitude.
If tallow is booming, how does the depression
arise ? If the harvest is good and the wool clip
satisfactory, why is business, the being, end,
aim, and religion of the commercial man, stag-
nant ? Later on, Mr. Storey came full against
the reason with an absolute concussion. It
was a “ tendency to give way in many respects
to what was known as the masses of the people.”
These masses had obstructed trade and com-
merce by strikes, and, failing to get the whip
handle by that means, had gone into Parlia-
ment, and caused a very great deal of trouble,
by being representatives of one particular class.
How the masses can represent one class should
have been explained, but wasn’t. Abolish pay-
ment of members, wipe out mass legislation,
abandon the income-tax, put threepence a pound
duty on tea, and a halfpenny postage on news-
papers, and there you arc, said Mr. Storey.
Having set the country in thorough going order
•again, commercial attention could "once more
focus its cold, calculating glare on the tallow
boom.
# # #
There was divergence of opinion, however.
An amendment was moved, setting forth that
members of the Chamber of Commerce “ view
with deep concern the unprecedented and in-
creasing commercial and industrial depression
which exists,” and suggesting a dissolution of
Parliament as the remedy. The stoppage of
importation in all lines of desirable immigrants
and the concentration of the people in cities
was what was the matter, according to Mr.
St. Vincent Welch. Mr. Littlejohn would
merely fund the railways, borrow forty millions
upon them, and then gradually sell all the re-
maining Crown lands. Others of the bold buyei’s
and sellers thought that their profits should not
be levied upon by the tax-gatherer, but that,
instead, retrenchment should be rigorously
carried out and the earnings of the public ser-
vants cut down. Ultimately, the meeting
thought that safety was only to be found in the
original resolution. It decided, therefore, that
it viewed with regret, not unmixed with alarm
the goings-on of what is called the masses.’
Then, having done its duty in counselling the
State, it returned to the fleshpots of frozen
carcases and wool in the grease with a zest
begotten of unwonted divorcement.
* * #
These people should keep to hoggets, and
mining scrip, and bank shares, because they
understand that sort of thing. They can
view the world from no higher watch-tower
than a keg of lard. If they had not per-
spired at the muckrakes of commercialism
gathering little heaps of wealth from hoofs and
horns, and striving to transmute the needs of
others into a ‘1 stake in the country ” for them-
selves they could have acquired some know-
ledge of political principles. For them the su-
preme question of existence has been the eternal
query of Mr. Baps, “ What if Russia steps in
with her tallow ?”or some similar problem bearing
on market gains and losses. They have had
much experience in steering between the Scylla
of insufficiently salted hides and the Charybdis
of illegitimately salted mines, but that does
not fit them for a turn at the political helm of
the country. An intimate knowledge of how
best to utilise by-products does not postulate
statesmanship, nor long apprenticeship at the
till of commercialism qualify for holding the
tiller of public destinies, The Chamber of
Commerce meeting has shown that. Its delibera-
tions, subjected to the familiar process of
boiling-down, do not yield as much solid residue
as one Western Division merino would after an
EgesON drought. It also cried aloud to the
National Ass to come over and help it.
• * »
Now, here is a body of men specially in-
terested in the various processes of commerce.
Whatever increases the power of the people
generally to buy anything is plainly to their
advantage, as well as to everybody else’s, for
the time being. The proposal to pawn the
railways, sell the lands, and have a brief and
intense commercial spree with the “ stuff,” is
understandable. Every one of the provinces has
a chronic impulse of this kind, and has yielded
to it in some degree. First an orgie on the pro-
ceeds of something sold or popped, then head-
ache and nausea, an empty stomach, sackcloth
and ashes, the gold dissipated and the bi-
chloride thereof resorted to. This is one of the
lines indicated by the Chamber of Commerce.
It is selfish and unpatriotic almost to the verge
of Panamacanalism. The other line is patriotic,
contradictory, and wooden-headed. It is to in-
tensify the prevailing depression by reducing the
screw of everybody who isn’t somebody, and re-
cruiting the regiments of the unemployed. The
Chamber of Commerce knows as well as every-
body else knows, that departmental retrench-
ment means either sacking one man and putting
two in his place, or leaving in snug billets those
who ought to be sacked, and sacrificing the
politically friendless who earn all they get and
more. But even if there was the faintest chance
of carrying out in a fair way any considerable
reduction of public expenditure "it would pro-
duce an immediate “slump” in sheepskins, so
to speak. The ability of a large number of
persons to satisfy their requirements would
be reduced. If they received so much
less per week they could not as fully
satisfy their craving for tallow and things. The
London market might remain satisfactory for
sellers in a few lines, but every act of retrench-
ment would injuriously affect the local market.
* * *
The country is suffering now fj-om just such
legislation as the Chamber of Commerce sug-
gests, and will continue to suffer until repre-
sentatives of “what is known as the masses ”
are numerous enough to legislate in the interests
of all people who work at anything useful, and
wise enough to do it instead of squabbling with
each other. The Bulletin hits told what is
the matter with us plainly enough and often
enough. The best lands of the country have been
sold into the hands of a few, and the money
thus obtained spent chiefly in increasing their
value. The mines are guarded by “ First
Robbers ” who will not let anyone lift a pick
until he hypothecates most of his prospective
earnings. More than half the-alienated country
land of New South Wales, and that half by far
the richest, now belongs to 677 owners, who, as
Coghlan shows, continually buy up more*
And most of the rest belongs to bank share-
holders. What message of joy has a tallow'
boom or a big w'ool clip to the mortgaged
squatter ? How does the country benefit when
a good harvest enables the farmer to escape
foreclosure ? Every year an increasing amount
of Australian produce is sent across the sea for
which Australians get no return—the rent they
have to pay to foreign landlords. This, with
the wholesale fleecing of the people by class
legislators of the Chamber ®f Commerce type,
who want to have the teapot taxed instead of
the bank credit balance, is responsible for a
state of business stagnation which is viewed
with alarm. Anyhow, it isn’t mass legislation.
That hasn’t begun yet, and, if the Chamber
combined with the Ass can help it, never will
begin.
Kanaka Labour.
Editor Bulletin,— When Griffith issued his cele-
brated manifesto at the beginning of last year, all
those interested in the Queensland black-lahoiii'
trade congratulated themselves on his change of
front, and .thought that the traffic would progress
upon the basis which had obtained ere the Pacific
Island Labourers Act of ’B4 was enforced. But
they were doomed to disappointment. To expect
Griffith to run straight on any political line is to
exhibit phenomenal guilelessness and innocence.
At the time he issued his manifesto, his dignity
and self-esteem had been most rudely assaulted by
members of the Labour-party, who could not
understand how it came about’that the man who
had published his opinions on the rights of Labour'
in terms which none could misunderstand, should
turn a somersault and practically attack the very
principles which, in theory, ho had but a short
time before advocated. Smarting under the well-
earned abuse of the party he had deserted, he
ostensibly threw himself into the ranks of
the ultra - conservatives, but only to hetrav
them as he had his former friends and ad-
mirers. Planters and farmers engaged in the sugar
industry wore jubilant when his manifesto was
made public; the bitter animosity he had pre-
viously displayed towards the planting interests


was for the moment forgotten, and the standing
toast of the North, “Damn Sam Griffith ! was
honoured no more.
« * *
But time and a better knowledge of the regula-
tions he promulgated as safeguards to the traffic
have served to prove that what he gave with one
hand he took away with the other'. Under the
Kanaka regulations of ’B4, the planter who im-
ported islanders was obliged to pay Government
a capitation fee of £3 on every Kanaka introduced
bv him to the province. At the expiration of
three veara-the term for which islanders are in-
dented—if the labourer desired to enter into a
further term of service, the sura of £5 had to be
lodged by the importer with the Government to
defray the cost of his passage to the islands; but
if the islander re-engaged with another employer,
he could claim a refund of the return passage-
money from the new employer. Under the regu-
lations of ’92 the importer has to defray the whole
cost of importing, and provide for the return
passages of islanders indented by him. No claim
for a refund is allowed, save in cases of death ; so
the small farmers, as well as many planters, have
rushed the Kanaka labour-market, and not having
the £5 for return-passages to pay, they can now
afford to give higher wages to islanders who have
finished their three years’ engagement than the
original employer could possibly afford to give,
with the result that all Kanakas’ wages, with the
exception of new hands under indenture, have
risen at least 15 per cent, since the regulations
have been enforced, and they will rise higher and
higher until the minimum wage of white men in
Queensland has been reached, at which stage the
Kanaka traffic will die a natural death.
* * *
Planters will not continue to import islanders at
the present cost, which totals as follows—=B2o
each, passage from the islands ; stamps on agree-
ment 2s. 6d.; capitation fee, £3 ; return passage,
£5 • total, £2B 2s. Gd. This sum, all but the last
item, has to be expended by the importer before
the labourer has done an hour’s work. In addition to
the above, add the islander’s wages, which average
£7 10s. per annum, or <£22 10s. for three years ;
his clothing, food and medical attendance cost,
at the lowest computation, <£37 for the same
period, making a grand total of .£B7 12s. Gd., or
an annual cost of <£29 4s. 2d. per head. As a
matter of fact, the planter who imports islanders
at the present time risks—first, a certain amount
of capital on a commodity that may _ die
within a month of its arrival in the province,
in which case he loses the total amount already
expended. Secondly, the article may as it often
does—prove useless or sickly ; if the latter a heavy
item is added to his expenditure. And thirdly,
even if the article turns out all that cpuld be
desired, he has it but for three years, and then
nine chances to three he enjoys the poor satisfac-
tion of seeing it pass to another owner, who has
paid not a red cent, or run a farthing s worth of
risk to procure it.
• * *
Of the 5000 odd islanders now in Queensland,
4000 are “overtime boys” i.e. laborers who are
serving a second, third or fourth term of service.
These men receive from <£lß to <£2o per annum
and rations, and the employers are compelled by
law to provide them with medicines, and medical
attendance when sick, free of charge, but no
deduction from wages is allowed for either medical
attendance, Sec, , or lost time. It frequently
happens that a boy is engaged for one year at, say,
<£2o, and passes three or six months of his time in
the hospital at his employer’s expense, his wages
running on all the time as if he were at work. In
such cases, if the boy dies, the wages due to him
up to date of his death are paid to the inspector,
and this sum goes to swell the Pacific Island
Laborers Fund. As the wages of _ over-
time boys” have steadily risen during the
last few years, and, as their employment
has now been restricted to field-work only, it will
be seen that the cost of .this description of labour
almost equals that of white labourers. Since the
obligation to refund the <£s for return passages
has been cancelled, the number of employers of
Kanakas in the Mackay district alone has in-
creased from 74 in ’9l to 182 in ’93. A majority
of the farmers employ from one to a dozen
Kanakas during the crushing season, and as they
only require them for that period it pays them to
giye high wages ; 12s. Gd. up to 14s. per week with
rations being not unfrequently given for ex-
perienced hands. The result is not difficult to
foresee. The planter will gradually cease to im-
port islanders for the ultimate benefit of those who
risk nothing in the transaction, and the supply
already in the province will, in a few years, be so
small that it will cease to influence the labour-
market. The Central Mill system will be adopted ;
the farmers will grow the cane, and during the
crushing seasons contracts for cutting and loading
will be given. As Kanakas are not allowed to
work in the mills the cessation of the Labour
Traffic will not affect the manufacturers. The
planters of the progressive school have already
recognised the fact that they cannot rely upon a
continuance of Kanaka labour; and in view of its
early stoppage they are making arrangements to
meet the difficulty by adopting the Central Mill
system.—N.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Reputable Raggery.
The “great” Australian dailies, otherwise
known as the respectable press, have recently
created a national interest in the domestic life
of a degraded British drunkard, and the woman
who married him, presumably in cold blood.
Lord and Lady Howard de Walden are the
people referred to. Morning after morning of
the first few days in March found our “ lead-
ing ” organs prostituting their cable services to
the De Walden divorce case, the word “adul-
tery ” looming large in headlines for the benefit
of such as can’t read small type without their
glasses. From first to last, however, no attempt
was made at giving any reason why the in-
sobriety of this brutal lord and the alleged
immorality of his wife were of the least conse-
quence to “ Her Majesty’s distant possessions.”
The wretched story was simply reported in
stupid newspaper stylo, and when it came to the
grand climax of “ Judicial Separation Granted,”
the names of Lord and Lady De Walden dropped
out of the great dailies, and the editors prayed
inwardly for another nasty subject to arise and
fill the vacuum. This habit of assuming public
importance for any scandal attaching to any
title, and treating it as a solemn historical
event (in the same spirit that a “penny ’orrible”
illustrates the case of a girl falling off a tram,
just for the sake of bringing two legs into
the picture), lays the “respectable ” press open
to the scorn of the intelligent, and heaps con-
fusion upon many a thick Tory head without
its owner being aware of the fact. Now The
Bulletin, wdiich was recently called a “ dis-
reputable foreign newspaper” by the chief
whitewasher of Victoria’s missing mace, sup-
poses that the person in question pins bis local
faith to the Argus, and adores the S.M. Herald
at a distance. To him, and such as he, the
Arguses and Morning Heralds of this world
represent all that is best and purest and most
useful in journalism. They accept a full
and particular account of how De Walden
kicked his lady when he was drunk, and
how the inevitable captain was seen in the
lady’s company under suspicious circum-
stances, as a sample of first-class valuable
news. Yet they had not previously heard
of anything which could make the matrimonial
disturbances of the He Waldens worthy of
more notice than the matter would get else-
where in a contemptuous paragraph. And, be
it observed, that the respectable daily press
does not look for a moral in the spectacle of
another hereditary legislator making a beast of
himself. The respectable press simply clutches
hold of a “ Lady’s ” alleged immorality by the
noble “handle ” and drags it across the seas at
vast expense in order to relieve the ghastly
dreariness of its columns. In truth, a daily
paper must make the most of what are called
“spicy” cases, because it has few legitimate
attractions for the casual reader.
Stocks are Up.
Last week’s announcement that the Associated
Banks of Victoria have agreed to hold one
another up “to such an extent as may seem
justifiable to each of them,” together with the
inspiring news that an impecunious Government
intends “to afford cordial co-operation,” drove
Melbourne’s representative fat men nearly
crazy. At one fell swoop financial distrust had
been removed from their midst, and the country
was saved—saved ! The public-spirited conduct
of several shaky banks in deciding to shake or
fall together would, in itself, have sufficed to
restore prosperity, but the force of the Govern-
ment’s “cordial co-operation” was felt to be
irresistible. This must have the effect of
elevating “stocks,” and every stout, responsible
gentleman knows that the welfare of the com-
munity, and the salvation of things in general,
depends upon “stocks ” being “up.” Unfor-
tunately, the nigger comedian, George VVoop,
has left for America before he could explain, in
a new stump speech, how the producing power
of Victoria was practically dependent upon a
rise in the price of certain bank shares. The
country being thus quite rescued and confidence
completely restored, it was only natural that
the newspapers which announced the glad
tidings should begin to howl at the ignorance
of those “ill-conditioned gabblers” who had
ever doubted the integrity of any Melbourne
bank. “It is impossible,” said the Argus,
“ to lay down a rule of conduct for an entire
people, but it may at least be suggested that if
citizens as a body would unite to check and
discredit the scandalmonger, we shall make a
rapid advance towards emancipation from the
thraldom which most unnaturally has fallen
upon us.” The Age, too, after referring to the
“ utter tmreasonableness of anything like dis-
quietude,” was severe upon the “ busybodies ”
who spread slanderous reports concerning the
stability of Melbourne’s noble financial institu-
tions. ” And the evening journals echoed the
morning’s sentiments in a shrill “ cockadoodle-
doo ! ” Nevertheless, it is not quite clear that
the Associated Banks, the Government, the
corpulent citizens, and the virtuously indignant
newspapers have vastly improved the situation
by rebuking the scandalmonger, any more than
Graham Berry saved the Mercantile Bank by
crying “ Shame ! ” upon all who doubted its
solidity. Nor has this determined effort to
blow away suspicion altered the fact that all
the powers that be are wholly and solely
responsible for all the scandal that is. Up to
now the Melbourne scandal-monger has
generally been able to justify his whispers,
whilst the Government, and, up to a certain
point, the Press have contrived to feed the
growing idea that nothing and nobody could be
trusted. Had Matthew Davies and a dozen
other suspicious circumstances been promptly
enquired into, had bankrupts been labelled as
such in the ordinary way, and had there been
no miserable conspiracies to represent corrup-
tion as honesty, and fraud as fair dealing, the
scandalmonger would, by this time, have died for
want of nourishment. Hitherto the Victorian
Government has seemed to afford its cordial
co-operation in every wrong direction.
.*.
Lead Poisoning at Broken Hill.
Whatever may be the recommendations in the
report of the Lead Commission which recently
concluded its sittings at Broken Hill, the
miners of the silver city have a right to demand
that legislative aid be called in to at least
modify the fearful amount of sickness which
now results from lead-poisoning on the Barrier.
The disease is—with the exception ot isolated
cases which occur in certain trades—confined in
Australia to the silver-lead mines of the
Barrier. When a man takes work in a Broken
Hill mine—unless he has the good fortune to be
located in an exceptionally favourable spot—he
does so with the full assurance that he will,
sooner or later, become “leaded.” He may
escape for years, or he may go under in a week
or less, but in the former case he has the satis-
faction of knowing that his trouble will be all
the worse in the end. Happily but one of the
four forms of the disease is prevalent at Broken
Hill —a variety of lead colic which rarely kills
its victim right off, but generally lays him
out for a few weeks or months. The
more fatal varieties have, for some reason,
not developed to any great extent. The un-
fortunate victim once cured—a long and tedious
process—must return to work to recoup himself
for many weeks of forced idleness, the know-
ledge that the process will assuredly be re-
peated availing nothing where the alternative
of starvation has to be faced. This is no fancy
picture, but an experience which is a grim
reality to hundreds of miners on the Barrier,
and it is a point in the economy of the mines
which docs not affect the mine-owners to any
great extent. One man is as good as another in i
their eyes—as long as lie is pot an agitator, and
did not address meetings during the strike,
and so qualify himself for inclusion in the
black-list—-and as soon as one man has to retire
to go through the process of lead-elimination
another is willing to take his place —only to
retire, in his turn, to make room for a third.
So it doesn’t matte* to the directors, anyhow.
There are, of course, methods of at least partial
prevention, one of which is watering the lead
slopes to keep down the impalpable lead-laden
dust; but while men are cheap the mineowners
will never, of their own accord, adopt measures
to prevent the wanton sacrifice of health and
life among the batch in use for the moment.
Whatever recommendations may be made by
the commission it is the duty of the Govern-
ment to legislate for the prevention, as far as is
possible, of what is under present circumstances
the scourge of the Barrier —a plague which
differs from other plagues in that it attacks
the toiler in the mines and leaves the rich man
alone, while it gathers in its victims with
monotonous regularity from one year’s end to
the other.
Revel in the irony indulged in by Samue l
Griffith when sworn in as Chief Justic 6
of Queensland: —
Mr. Griffith, in reply to congratulations, said that his
predecessors, Chief Justices Lutwvchb and Lilley, had
given him every encouragement while practising at the
bar, and he trusted all would join with him in wishing
Chief Justice Lilley long life, that he might enjoy a well-
merited repose.
Years ago, in Bananaland parliament, Lilley,
then a political leader, contemptuously declared
that Griffith, then a junior member, was and
never would be anything but a pettifogging
lawyer. Lilley’s prophecy was falsified by
events. The chameleonic and politically con-
scienceless Griffith became a maker and un-
maker of Chief Justices, and proved himself
hide-callous enough to clap another £lOOO a
year on the salary before calmly vaulting on to
the Bench himself. But Lilley may possibly
yet have his revenge. Instead of “enjoying a
well-merited repose,” he may return to
politics, and introduce or engineer a Bill
to Suppress Chief Justice Griffith, as
a retort courteous to a recently foundered
Parliamentary attempt to suppress Lilley.
Lilley need only alter the names in the
abandoned Bill. To return to the satiric
vein of Griffith :
He knew he could rely on the loyal, cordial, and ab'e
assistance of his brethren on the Bench.
Brothers Harding and Real must have felt
their gizzards a-blistering. The provocation
would have justified judicial fratricide.
♦
The curtailment of Hansard expenses is a
question now being vindictively agitated
in N.S. Wales and Victoria. The daily-news-
paper controllers cordially detest, and gleefully
publish any disparaging comments concerning,
Hansard. This is but natural. Were
Hansard abolished, the market rates for first-
class shorthand-writers would cheapen. But
this is only a commercial cause for the venom
of rivalry. More remains behind. Were
Hansard abolished, the partisan daily-paper
could publish maliciously unfair parliamentary
reports, without incurring any danger of
authoritative exposure. The daily-newspaper
report of Parliamentary proceedings is merely
a highly-coloured daub, choke-full of alternate
malice and flattery ; Hansard is the pillory of
political rascality—it is frozen lightning,- the
instantaneous photograph of the politician as
he squirmeth. The country can no more afford
to abolish Hansard than it can afford to abolish
gaol.
Policies may be impartially judged by their
results. Although the Dibbs regime—which is,
after ail, only the first resultant and necessarily
the frothiest slop-over —has been largely re-
markable for gas and impotence, nevertheless
The Bulletin feels that it did a distinct service
to the province when it made a visible cleavage of
parties by separating N.S. Wales Protectionists
from N.S. Wales Freetraders. The province
had groaned under “ Government by Pabkes,”
and hardly knew what “Governmentby Party”
was. The first curse is dead, and it cannot
need a very much longer exhibition of the evils
that fester under the second curse to evolve a
radical cure. The very fact that N.S. Wales
Ministers can now no longer bully a solid
majority into supporting measures holus holm,
but is forced to accept potential amendments
with a good grace, may be a sign that the
Assembly is, like the country, getting nauseated
with Party Government. If so, the yeast of
tremendous changes is fermenting.
It is said that the Wesleyan element was very
strong on the Melbourne bench that discharged
Rev. Ralph Brown without a stain on his
character. What can’t be gainsaid is that Rev.
Ralph ought to thank the Lord heartily for
having taught His tribunal to make certain of
the shepherd’s innocence by assuming that an
1 ostensibly innocent lamb was as black as their
[bell-toDpers. The Bulletin’s opinion is that
Providence provided a very sympathetic bench
—Wesleyan, or otherwise —for Ralph in his
hour of trouble, i.e., sympathetic towards the
accused gentleman in holy orders. A more
circumstantial story than that of the 14 year-
old damsel was never told in a police-court, and
the magistrates who could swear to its false-
hood at a glance ought to be laid on to discover
the missing mace.
Extract from a private letter from Westralia: —
If I had my choice I would prefer station life to
residence in this God-forsaken country. But as soon as I
can scrape together £lOO I’ll be off for America. There
is nothing to tempt a man to stay here—an uncultivated
miserable land and a people admirably suited to it. There
is a lot of talk in the papers about the loans of this
province, and about the great quantities of gold found,
but this is only a bait for outsiders, as they want popula-
tion, and when they have enticed a crowd of poor devils
like myself here they hope to settle them on the barren
sandy wastes to attempt producing. The loans and gold
fables are decked out in attractive colours by the Six
Families by whom this place, land, flesh and spirit is
entirely owned. The Czar of Russia is a mere babe and
suckling to the Premier of Westralia, and the juggling
of the land - boom banks honest and Christian-like
as compared with the actions of the W.A. political Star
Chamber. This is a poverty-stricken, one-horse crib
run on the principle of one man to 50,000 slaves —the one
man is Premier Forrest, and I am one of the grovelling
50,000. The Civil Service is already over-manned, and
the Government is getting hard-up—a fact which is mak-
ing itself felt throughout all business circles. If you take
my advice, you will keep away from here ; for my own
part, I would want a certainty of at least £8 per week to
tempt me to endure such an existence were I once away.
The squatters are a miserable set of cockatoo farmers,
running about 300 sheep on a million or so acres of fine
building-sand. They are scarcely the Toorak crowd you
seem to imagine them. I have just been 200 miles through
the country, and found the land-owners just as hard-upas
myself, and was little surprised when I saw their posses-
sions. Perhaps lam a bit prejudiced against the place,
but everyone thinks the same, and none even have hopes
for the future.
The Necessary “Onion.”
Everybody regards Mr. Gillies as 1 the strong man
required to represent Victoria in London at the present
time.”—(Melbourne Journals.)—
In Duncan their faith is implicit,
For he used to have charge of the State,
And he worked up a thumping deficit
To prove that his talents were great.
He used to fly round with the boomers ;
He thinks, when a pal goeth wrong,
That the Crown musn’t “ listen to rumours !
And, therefore, old Gillies is strong.
He promised a line to each member —
He ever was on for a job—
To the waiter, as you may remember,
He tipped the twelfth part of a “ bob; ”
His friends love to boast that he’s lazy,
Having never done much all along—
But not being brilliant or crazy
It follows, of course, that he’s strong.
Reputation, bedad ! is a bubble
In Parliament easily blown ;
If you get the finances in trouble
And always speak up for the Throne;
If you wink at the cronkest of capers,
And sing a dull platitude song,
You will earn the respect of the papers
Because you are palpably strong.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Strephon ” : You have been reading Barcroft)
Boake’s “ Where the Dead Men Lie.” Five lines are
good; then you degenerate badly “The Lone Lar-
rikin ” : Your picture of the dead stepmother caning the
cherubim is laborious humour “Horace F.”: The
bard who makes “frown ” rhyme to “ Jones” is a public
enemy “Toby Twist”: Not bad verse, but somewhat
too bulky “E.S.” (Junee Junction): The hen trouble
when that fowl has laid an egg is bad enough, but what of
the row which the rooster makes without any egg?
“Torrelila ” : “ Old Mo” practically amounts to this—he
was an aged man and he died. The fact that Mo died is
no more remarkable than the fact that Mo was born
“Tekton”: Thanks “ Crosscut ”: The language of
the old man at the church bazaar is too horrible for
publication “ D.8.M.” (Thargomindah): When a
“remains” has been exposed for a week or so to the
flies and other horrors of a Queensland summer only an un-
savoury realist wants to write about it ... “J. F.” (Mary-
boro’); You say, “ So fill up once more, with this quaint
social force 7 ” Is “ this quaint social force ” a drinkable
then? “No. 7” (Sydney): Metre very bad, and too
much “ Ha, ha!” and “ Ho!” and things like that in it...
“A.H.G.”(G.P.0., Sydney): The "prevailing depression”
is the most hopeless subject beneath the heavens
“Joseph S.” (Smithfield); We take no vestige of interest
in the fact that you have “ recanted.” “ The Pauper":
“ Snarley Bone ” has no specially bad points and no con-
spicuously good ones. In fact there is not enough point
to hang your hat on.“ Samoa” : Will use.... “ St. B.”
(Amberley); The red-headed-woman joke has had its day.
For our part we rather like the girl with the port-wine
locks and the crushed-tomato fringe “Onioni”: For
confusion of misplaced adjectives, and great slabs of de-
composed circumlocution, and an awful habit of sleeping
in your write, you have no equal... “S.L.” (Glebe Point):
A poor, tenth-rate pun of the most depressing variety ...
“ Yarran ” (Cobar): Your “sort of a yarn” to hand. We
sort of regretfully decline the same. The dead bushman
whose name is, in a manner of speaking, Jim, is played
out “Tom Bury”: We have to shut down on the
Adams-Davitt-Fitzgerald controversy, which really doesn’t
much concern Australia after all. It has now grown so
bad that w'e have to climb over the manuscripts to get
into the office.. ..“F.C.” (West Maitland): It isn’t
humorous the way you write it.. .“1.M.5.” (Mary-
borough): Thanks “ Marro ’’ (Townsville): Do you
seriously imagine that we will publish your hunk of
loathsome blasphemy ? Why don’t you get a house to
fall on your head for a birthday present? “E.D.”:
We really don’t know whether the Telegraph reporter
will take 425. for keeping your ease out of the paper or
not “ 1.A.” (Melbourne): “Merely the circumstances
had to be got o’er” and lines like that are not poetry
“ The Giaour ” : To cut it short, the bad man got in his
crop on Sunday, and the good man’s crop was carried
away by a flood on Monday morning while he drivelled
on the shore “J.H.R.” (Brisbane): Thanks
“ Taispoice ” (W.A.); He will be glad to hear from you...
“ K.M.” : Illustrated News office, London, will find him.
“ Gambil ” ; To hand....“ Philip L. Zebina is a
Yankee. (2) No; he is not now here. But he is in
Sydney “E.C.C.”: We are told that it costs £l2 12s.
to obtain letters of administration, in N.S. Wales, to an
estate valued at £100.... “ Edgar A. H.” ; Still under con-
sideration “ 0.E.” ; Contract work means labour
sweating. Every shilling of profit that goes into the
pocket of the contractor is either added to the just price
of the job or deducted from the earnings of those who
performed it “L. 0.”: It wasn’t the lash which “pub
down” garotting in England. Read P. A. Taylor’s
House of Commons speech upon the subject “C.
Morton”: As a correspondent observes: The difference
in character and personal attributes between Govs.
Carington and Jersey was never more strongly illustrated
than in the manner of their respective exits from N.S.W.
«* G. M‘C.” : Send registered letter of application to
the liquidators, Melbourne, stating that you had unsuc-
cessfully applied. And let us know if you don’t hear
within a fortnight.... “ L.L.0.” :So many lies have been
told in the “ reports” on N.S.W. mines that the actual
occurence of any wonderful development in a mine would
never be believed until the battery had proved its truth...
“ V.” : “ Our respected townsman,’ 1 “ A duty one owes
to society,” “It does not come within the range of
practical politics,” “The table was replete with good
things.” “The gentle reader.” Bah! “ O.O.” : No,
let him make a name tor himself if such is his destiny.
Christen him George.Higinbotham and he will become a
titled thief. Call him E, J. 11. Knapp and he will disgrace
you by wallowing in beer. Baptise him Robespierre Danton
and in after life he will figure as a weak-chinned slave
with watery blue eyes and fragile whiskers who unblush-
ingly vends garters in a hosiery shop —“ Walhallow ’*
(Quir.): Yes, but unsuitable. “The Boss” generally
tells the same story as “ Jim,” and Jim has done his to
death “ Warrego ” (0.): Two ancient. None usable
“ M.J.F.” (F.L.): Yes, for accepted matter— “ Milton ”
(Maoriland): Thanks for information. Will give the
matter attention “Droughty”: No good..
« Qro ”: The average Australian detective dies young, of
bad wines and worse women... “ L. Falconer”; Why
doesn’t Willis introduce a bill to abolish the Afghan and
acclimatise the camel, if he means common-sense busi-
ness?. ... “Splinter ” (Lismore, N.S.W.); As the sawmill
was there before the court was established, according to
the supposed vogue of vested interests, the Judge was
wrong in stopping the saw-music— “ Jog ” ; Tales with
mustard-plasters in them are at a discount just now
“ Abolitionist ”: No liar fears the Almighty enough to
prevent him lying; therefore, no oath can bind the
conscience of a liar ; whereas the fear of human discovery
and human punishment may cause a cautious liar to
hesitate about the chances—“Olo”: We are tired of
“tall, gaunt, haggard” suicides. Wanted, a fat, rosy-
checked, purse-lined ruffian who makes his own quietus
“Connobolas” (Sydney, N.S.W.); Your blast) but
forcible wail (in 47 well-turned lines) that you " cannot,
dare not love,” and that you “ am not loved,” might be
traded off (with a decent reserve price) to L. L. Smith, as
a convincing “ don’t-you feel-well? ” advt.,...“ Wompy ;
The Bulletin declines to advise concerning the £250,000
consultation, “in shares of £5 each,” in what is called
“The M.C. Gold Co.” (promoted in connection with the
next Melbourne Cup race) Advice to “keep your money ’
is lost upon the man who wants to fool it.


LEADS THEM! ALL.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official anrl critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to. and in-
eluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows :
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS are
£35,900,000 ; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS ; AND
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENNIE, General Manager.
principal (Agency—l3l §itt Street, Sydney,
Branches—473 Collins Street, Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street. Brisbane.
In vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
Innes' Boar’s Hoad Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
moat economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar’s Head
brand comprises winep of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, mlutots, hocks, and others too
numerous to specify.’
PwWhilfMor^CejJJr
r , ••
TKe Old Blend
WS\is ky
l; ■n
lv)i.
wsU
013ECT PROM OISTILtCR-S.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLCft
MATURED SCOTCH HALT
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
_ 22nd March, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Nursing isn’t a publicly-popular profession, as a
Sydney nurse found out the other day. She had
made a number of purchases in a draper’s, and
was hanging about aimlessly trying to find the
Duff tartan or something, when a shop-walker
suddenly came up to her. “ Ain’t you an
nurse ? ” he asked sharply. She
‘ allowed ” that she was. “ Well, if you’ve done
your shopping, I’d feel obliged if you’d clear out.
.Trade s bad enough as it is, without scaring off
intended customers for fear of hepidemies ! ”
But there is a funny side to this kind of thing.
For instance, a lady medical student at Sydney
L niversity tells the story of once helping to hack
a dead woman for dissecting purposes, and just
as the corpse was nicely drawn and quartered the
deceased’s husband knocked and demanded it.
No husband was expected, as the woman had died
friendless; but he had to get the body all the
same, so there was a great cording-up of arms and
legs. But, alas, the left leg was missing ! A high
and low hunt failed to find it, but revealed the
left leg of a Chinaman handy for the purpose.
The situation was too desperate for squeamish-
ness. There were no missing branches on the
corpse the bereaved widower had handed out to
him a few minutes later. But, anyhow, a bit off
a clothes-prop would have done as well. Where
dead women are concerned, men haven’t the tastes
attributed to the front row of the stalls.
One of the many things the much-criticised
Lady Hamilton did well—she evolved and stood
president to an “association for the protection of
infirm persons from ignorant nurses.’’ Such an
aggregation is wanted everywhere. I know of
one woman who was driven into a fever by
the wagging tongue of a morbid nurse. The
patient’s horror of grisly stories was in propor-
tion to the nurse’s relish for them, and as the
patient was weak and the Nightingale strong, the
latter set out to “ entertain ’ her victim with all
the gory bones and shrieking memories in her
repertoire. When she ended the first batch, deaf
to all expostulations, with, “ And when she died
I slept in the same room with the corpse—pooh !
I’m not afraid”—she found her victim insensible!
However, sister Dora brought her round with
a sharp scientific twist of the water-jug, and
went on with her entertainment. At next pause,
the patient was delirious.
This is one of the stories Lord Jersey will pro-
bably remember to tell about his “ colonial experi-
ences.” On one of his up-country raids he was
presented with the usual flattering address which
was put—after the ceremony—in the usual tin-box
to save it from dog’s-earing in transportation. As
the Governor was beating a retreat the wife of a
local leading Sawbones pounced upon him. “Just
fancy, your Excellency,” she said effusively, “ you
have the address in the tin-box my husband’s
diploma came out in—the very same!” Upon
“George” politely expressing a hope that he
wasn’t depriving them of it—“ Oh, no, your
Excellency,” she said beamingly, “he’s got it in a
biscuit-tin.”
Talking about vice-regal anecdotes, there is
rather a good story going the rounds about what
happened to Lady Jersey at a school-parade up-
country once—illustrative of the pushing officious-
ness of some women under any and every cir-
cumstance. Ido so wish it were possible to
whisper in print!
Sydney Quinette Society’s maiden show in the
Y. M.C. A. Hall was a success in every way. The
card only held six numbers, and as no encores
were given, there was neither feast nor
famine. A trio of Raff, never heard in
Australia before, was the lion item, but it fell
rather flat, although Madame Kellennann, Pous-
sard and Straus did full justice to its intricacies.
It got a recall —but more as a relief that it was
over. People want to be acquainted with a long
scream in four chapters like that before they get
hold of the tunes that really abound in it.
Deslouis was in resonant voice for, perhaps, the
most difficult baritone solo ever written, Meyer-
beer’s “ O Possente Magia,” and refused a double
encore, but the lady vocalist who assisted sang
Bach’s “My Heart ever Faithful,” as it was a
ballad with a moral in it. By the way, the sort
of incident I like occurred when Madame Keller-
mann was knocking fireworks out of a Chopin
polonaise. Her bracelet got in the way, and in a
flash she plucked it off, flung it down, and went
on with the pyrotechnics. It reminded me of
Bernhardt doing up her back hair during a death-
scene.
An imposing front row graced the launching of
the S.Q.S. Acting-Governor Darley with his
suite, Mr. Darley (why didn’t they face them with
blue instead of yellow?) and Mr. Dangar
were the patronising party. .(I prefer, en
parenthese, make - believe to real Governors,
kou are spared the National Anathema, for one
thing). There were one or two frocks. Mrs.
Irank Suttor (the only Society matron in
Sydney who wears a motherly-looking cap)
had on a good-looking combination of black
Bengaline, mauve silk, black lace and jet. Mrs.
(Mayoress) Manning wore heliotrope brocade and
chiffon. A golden-haired girl was charming in a
pale-blue velvet Figaro jacket with blue silk
sleeves over a black skirt—but a welter-weight
lady, in bright yellow silk boldly contrasted with
black lace, must have taken a hint from Alice
Leamar’s ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay toilet.
They ought to call the old fable “ the Toffs and
the Grapes,” in Melbourne, now. I read that one
of the recent adornments to Flemington carriage-
paddock is a hanging grape-vine from which the
grapes depend in purple bunches over the heads
of the lunching carriage folks, who are politely and
conspicuously requested “not to touch.” But at
last Y.R.C. autumn meeting they did touch—the
society person never dreams that he or she is
included among the people who musn’t walk on
the borders, or touch the exhibits, or smoke in
this compartment—and the result is that a lot of
well-known people are to be prosecuted for some-
thing like fruit-stealing ! If the defence set up is
that the grapes are sour the lawyers will have a
precedent to go upon.
In “Faust up to Date,” at Sydney Lyceum,
they rang no changes on the original frocks, so
one had leisure to note how fearfully and wonder-
fully gotten-up is the charming visage of the d.c.
maiden. It is one of the mysteries why burlesque
should mean a two-inch cake of pink pigment, a
red, red mouth painted half way to enhance the
rosebud effect, and stove-polished eye-lids, on the
part of the performers. You don’t see such highly-
coloured purple anywhere outside a circus-bill—
and in proportion to the vivid loveliness of the
ladies is the acquired hideousness of the gentle-
man. Which, I presume, is the real reason why
you see a majority of ten men to one woman at a
Gaiety show.
“Faust” is a forest of fleshings, and chiefest
of them all are Addie Conyers’ pale-pink trunks
thrown out in bold relief against a purple velvet
cloak. Addie is the hero of a hundred tights of
various degrees of skin-fit—but the pallid bifurca-
tions of “Faust make even the vivid red
radishes she sported in “Joan” dwindle down
almost to the modesty of a divided skirt. As far
as toggery goes, “Faust” affords more scope
to the auxiliaries than the stars—and as if the
consciousness of variety of fancy suits puts heart
into the chorus, their demeanour on the first
night was gay almost to a fault. It certainly is a
pleasure to watch a stage crowd which is in-
terested in other things than trying to furtively
scratch its ankle with its off-side heel—but over-
vivacity on the part of the army, or the villagers,
or the happy flower-girl, looks like the
beginning of a riot on a usually welbordered
stage. The dress-circle (let me say that the
stalls are the best position in the gorgeous
Lyceum—quite English, you know) hadn’t much
society interest on the first night. You see, this
is the Lenten penitential season—the only chance
in the year for society to get its second wind, as
it were.
A well-known Sydney society woman, who
resides principally at her country residence in the
Moss Vale district, had an unpleasant experience
recently. She had staying with her a young man
(son of a well-known Sydneyite) who had lost his
reason through being crossed in love—had been in
the asylum, but was discharged as cured, and was
visiting her for a change of air. He had seemingly
recovered (with the exception that he went to a
dance one evening with two wet blankets over his
clothes), and one day he was driving her home
alone from the station. As he was letting
the horse walk, she remonstrated with him, saying
that she wished to make haste, but he an-
swered, “ The Lord won’t let me hurry !” When
they did arrive home, lie drew a razor out of his
pocket: “ I had it with me all the time,” he said ;
“ I would have killed you only I like you.” He’
is under restraint again now—but the lady cer-
tainly had a very narrow escape.
Sydney Agricultural Society holds its annual
show at the Society’s grounds, Moore Park, from
2Dth March to 4th April. Judging day is the
2!)th, but the next day (Thursday) will probably
attract the bigger crowd, as that is jumping day.
One of the flood-relief officials, while opening the
street-collection boxes, the other day, found a
pound-note in which was stuck a bent-piu hook,
with a string attached. Unfortunately for the
fisherman the string had broken, and the note will
go to the poor people it was intended for. The
moral is, never put paper money in street charity-
boxes. The most industrious thief can’t hook
a sovereign.
There is a society young man in a Southern city
who gloried in his brass as lieutenant of H.M.S.
Keelson, until one day he went to a Military
tournament, up country, with hts war-paint on as
usual. During the day he was posing in the sun,
on the railway-station, hoping the simple-minded
natives would mistake him for the Admiral, when
three pretty girls bore down on him—smiling and
blushing. The Lieutenant gave a most impressive
sweep with his gold-laced cap as the prettiest girl
stopped to address him : “If you please, Mr.
Station Master,” she said, “when’s the next train
to Raparap ?”
W. H. Jude, the talented composer, set up his
successful one-man show at Sydney Y.M.C.H., on
Monday before a keenly appreciative audience.
It is no little achievement to be one lone, lorn man
on a fern-decked platform, and yet keep hands
and sticks going as if you were a troupe of 40
performers in which each individual member is a
star. Mr. Jude’s fine baritone voice was heard to
most advantage in “Plymouth Sound,” and “The
Skipper; ’’ also, the pretty little ballad “Grannie ”
was given with much well-placed emotion, though
most of the items were the entertainer’s
own compositions. “ The Erl King ” of
Schubert, and the plaintive “Religious Melody’
(for piano) of Gottschalk, were given best position
on the bill, which included “Little Trots,” and
several effective bits for the orchestral organ.
The said organ, by the way, coughed a little in
the lower notes, as if the Queensland flood had got
into its subterranean workings. There was a
Y.M.C. A. sort of audience. It is impossible to
conjecture what the people who nevah enter a
theatre would do if Jude and other improving
entertainers didn’t happen along occasionally and
give ’em a chance to bs out after seven.
There are dozens of things in this world that
ought never to have been said, and the following
is one of them. Mr. Blank, a Melbourne man,
married a lady who failed to adorn the menage
with an olive-branch, and when she died dis-
heartened, Blank married her sister. This union
was blessed with a son and heir. “ What a pity,”
said a well-meaning but heedless friend to the
exultant father (in the presence of his wife) as
somebody was showing off the blessed infant,
“ What a pity that Mary ” (the first wife) “ isn’t
here to see him ! ” Fact !
Most men like to sun-polish their faces —I.have
known youths to oil their visages and pass whole
holidays on their backs in the blazing sun. But
their are degrees in skin-tanning. For instance,
a new postmaster came to a Queensland township
dominated by a squatter who was burnt to a chip.
One day the squatteress called at the post-office
for the letters after her husband had been.
“ There are no more letters, madam,” said the
verdant official, “ your blackboy called for the
mail! ” Yes, her blackboy !
.Somebody tells me of an imposing incident
which happened while she was waiting for a tram
at a street corner the other day. A pretty girl
was standing on the kerb when a youth in search
. of adventures approached and accosted her.
“Excuse me,” said the damsel, with indignant
emphasis, “X am not one of these—they—those—
I am waiting for a tram ! ”
Whenever I see a widow advertising her grati-
tude to the life-assurance co. which has just
promptly paid up its policy on her deceased hus-
band, I always think of the sorely bereft and
artful female who sobs out (in a mixed company)
how dreadful it is to be left like this with a
terrace of houses to look after ! I have more than
once seen widows emerge from the big insurance-
offices pocketing their cheques after safely
“ planting ” the dear departed. The widow who
rushes out with the price of the poor old man in a
big handbag and vanishes hurriedly in a three-
penny ’bus can always be relied on as genuine—
but not so the fashionably-dressed relict who takes
a stylish friend with her when she reaps her
harvest and reads the cheque on top of the marble
steps ere pocketing it—as I actually witnessed the
other day.
However, it is not by sobs and fresh flowers on
the grave that you oan tell the really mourning
relict of either sex. If you notice it, the widower
who has to be held back while he struggles
violently to jump into the grave with the coffin of
his late house-angel is almost certain to fill up the
domestic vacancy with business-like dispatch.
Likewise the hysterical widow who turns poor
John’s funeral into a circus is generally safe to be
found stirring Hymen up with a long pole—so to
speak—before the daisies she planted have taken
root.
Tours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s. “ Man to Man.”
Lyceum "Carmen up to Data.”
Opera House Lyric Combination.
Criterion “ Niobe. ”
Tivoli Theatre.... Harry Rickards.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Gilbert & Sullivan Operas
Opera House Variety Show.
“Faust” filled an aching void at Sydney
Lyceum on Saturday night, and though in some
minor points it had a faint tendency to be a
square devil in a round hole, the aggregate result
was decidedly pleasing. There is a satisfying
atmosphere about this burlesque which is wanting
in most others, particularly when a red and
ferocious Mephistopheles pervades the stage and
promises to fry the Melbourne bank director in
the sweet by-and-bye. Lonnen’s devil is just
about perfect, except when he gives up being a devil
and suddenly becomes a costermonger, which is an
irritating change, as well as being out of place in
a land where a leper goes round with vegetables.
Miss Addie Conyers, as Faust, makes another
desperate attempt to look manly in her masculine
attire, and fails abjectly. It is Addie’s mis-
fortune that she only looks like a badly-disguised
woman under all circumstances, and as a rule she
looks more badly-disguised at any given time
than at all other times put together. Aggie
Kelton, on the other hand, is boyish and
altogether charming in her male costume. Miss
Clara Meri vale, the Marguerite of the piece, in a
somewhat deficient skirt, makes her first real
success since she joined this company. The part
suits her, whereas Joan of Arc was a hideous
misfit, and her rendering of it is excellent,
while the “Jewel Song” is a gem of melody.
Miss Alice Leamar, unfortunately, is ob-
viously giving out. She bounds as furiously
as ever, but she doesn’t get so high as she
used to do, and comes down more suddenly;
her famous dance requires about as much mus-
cular exertion as would move a ton of coals two
miles, and the lady is apparently leg-weary.
Grace Wixon is a too young and altogether too
beautiful Martha, and Courtneidge, in his wonted
beery character, is the same to a hair as he was
before. On the whole, the recent changes have
done the company much more good than harm.
“Carmen up to Data, ’ which is a weak and
lamentable show, is announced for Saturday.
** # *
On Friday night St. Patrick broke out
violently in va ions parts of Sydney, part c durly
at the Royal, where that grand old chestnut, tho
Shaughraun,” made his inevitable annual resur-
rection. For even if the “ Shaughraun ”is buried
in a cave, and a billion paving-stones are piled on
his chest, ho will rise on St. Patrick’s Day i n
defiance of all obstacles. The company at the
Royal looked somewhat weak on paper, yet
with one exception, it panned out remarkably
well in reality. Miss Clara Stephenson, as the
wild Irish girl, was the exception, her attempts
to be even reasonably wild being a lamentable
failure. Four very ancient veterans, Messrs.
Ihynne, Leopold, Welsh and James Hasker'
whose combined ages, if strung out in a line*
would go right back to the execution of Charles I.’
produced gratifying results in the characters
of the Shaughraun, the inevitable squireen, the
mformer, and the praste, respectively. Also, Mr.
Phmmer’s Captain Molyneux was a work which
calls for no voluminous execration, and a dainty
little maiden described as Miss Josephine Thynne
played Moya with reasonable success, and was
rewarded with a stupendous bouquet. The cus-
tomary assortment of bogtrotters, gossoons, spal-
peens, qmadhauns, and various bhoys with shticks
were laid on with a lavish hand.
** * *
“ Niobe,” which is fast becoming the
Wandering Jew of comedy, still progresses joy-
fully at Sydney Criterion ; and “Man to Man,”
at Her Majesty’s, lives and prospers on the realism
of its railway collision. Harry Rickards, at the
iivoli, has fixed up a new “dramatic scene”
showing the Thames embankment and the Houses
of Parliament in a snow-storm ; also last Tuesday
he lent his theatre for a matinee benefit to Miss
Ldith Blande who, for some unexplainable reason
seems to have established a claim on the boundless
gratitude of the “purfesh.” The Boneless
Wonder, at the Opera House, continues in good
health and walks on his ear and one toe with his
accustomed affability, and a few small and
medium-sized shows continue to live and move
and have their burnt cork humorist much as here-
tofore.
*m * *
Josh Lake’s English collection of paint-
ings, in Melbourne, is higher in average than his
last, though its predecessor was superior in one or
two examples. He caters mainly with those land-
scapes which run from about .£l5O to £2OO, and
goes more for the sale, of course, than the show.
1 here are a dozen landscapes not to be missed on
any account, such as the examples of Clayton
Adams. The show is specially remarkable for its
water-colours. Two splendid works are “The
Poacher, and a view of the Tower of London as
seen across the Thames —the biggest water-colour
picture as yet exhibited here.
** * *
Amateurs who aspire to warbling with
their feet are getting ready for the Duvallis’ Skirt
Dance Ball at Melbourne Town Hall. The
Duvallis have devised this carnival for the benefit
of the Brisbane Flood Fund, and they expect 700
ladies to take part in a Skirt Dance Competition,
dla the Countess Russell and her sister, Mrs.
Dick of that ilk. The joy of seeing a small army
of beautiful creatures whirling after the manner
of a live Countess ought to attract as much of
Melbourne as can crowd into the building. Also
there will be a number of favourite ballets by the
Duvallis’ pupils, in addition to the usual ballroom
programme. The event is advertised for March
23, and double tickets, at 12s. Gd., are already
going off freely.
** * *
Meston writes The Bulletin indignantly
repudiating Mr. Purcell’s assertion in a recent
letter to this paper that he (Meston) is solely
responsible for the stranding in Melbourne with-
out means of the Queensland aboriginal troupe
collected for Chicago Fair. “ Mr. Purcell is
posing in Melbourne as a much - injured
person who has lost everything by the specu-
lation. Ihe weakness of this complaint lies
embedded in the simple fact that the total cost of
collecting the blacks, and weapons, and purchas-
ing scenery and outfit was borne by me alone, and
represents an expenditure of over £1000.” Mr.
Meston then proceeds to detail many matters
into which The Bulletin must be excused from
entering. In conclusion, he says: “My disgust
with the whole business culminated in Mfelbourne
where the pirates who composed a certain “Fete
Committee ” broke their engagement with me, and
only paid £l5O, under compulsion, out of the £550
that was due. I then left Purcell with the whole
outfit, worth at least £250 (I had paid £l3O for
the scenery alone) and no liability whatever, and
remained personally responsible for all the debts
m Sydney and Brisbane. I came out of the
concern without a shilling. He would neither sell
out, or go out and leave the blacks in other hands,
and as there was no prospect whatever of our
working amicably together I legally transferred
all to him, or some buyer he professed to have
secured two months ago, and made the best of an
exceedingly bad bargain. To ask me to accept
the responsibility of his own failures since he
started on his own account displays much cool-
business is a most unfortunate one.
Mr. Meston cannot thus quite get rid of his moral
responsibilities to the unhappy blacks. However,
it is but fair to say that he feels the position most
acutely and is understood to be doing his best to
remedy matters as far as possible.
** * *
“The Old Guard” went marching on
beyond last Saturday at Melbourne Princess’,
and the unveiling of “ The Mountebanks ” has
been postponed for a week, it seems. Mr. George
Lauri deserves much credit for his performance of
Pqlydore, nevertheless there was an excess of
rejoicing over the discovery that a good part
makes a good comedian, and that two little men
disguised in the same_ get-up are remarkably like
one another. Lauri was funniest, as a rule,
when he copied Elton’s mannerisms most exactly.
Before the next “Old Guard” revival it will
be advisable for Ryley to buy a new
coat. The blue garment in which he has figured
hitherto does not accord with the fitness
of things, and Ryley seems to feel that tho slop-
made article is more than enough for him. He
walks down the stage like one,conscious of creases
between the shoulder-blades. While the baritone
is getting another military coat the tenor might as
well procure a new style altogether ; but, perhaps,
this is too much to expect. Bracy, for all we
know to the contrary, may be fixed'and immut-
able. “ lolanthe ” —best, hut most British of
comic operas—was announced for Wednesday. On


TUHLIB
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1846)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and ail Profits bklon® to the Assured.
On Ist January 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its
im fMliMS2'£S.lis,4!6, being the LARGEST held by any purely L,/e
LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
nrtxrrt STIIEFT Plf A MRRIIS.
BURROUGHES
■—AND —
WATTS,
billiard table
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
m" Orders by Post receive prompt attention,
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
cuinrdav “ The Yeomen of the Guard ’’ will
Lauri as Jack Point, and this will be
followed by two nights of “ Mikado ” during next
week. # # #
Talking of Ryley, rumour states that
certain literary virgins of the Austral Salon
consider themselves shocked by his free and breezy
way of “catching hold of girls 1 upon the stage.
There is undoubtedly an appearance of kiss-m-tne-
ringness about the young man’s winning way, but
the audience doesn’t object to that sort of thing.
On the contrary they like to see an actor enter
earnestly into the spirit of the scene, so as long as
Rvlev is merely carrying out the author s instruc-
tions ’tis all well and good. Whatever his right
arm finds to do, let him do it. Were he to run
counter to the plot by catching hold of the wrong
c-irl there might be cause for critical complaint.
Meanwhile it is likely that the virgins aforesaid
have not traced their shock to this real source.
Rvlev might settle the difficulty by strolling into
the Salon one afternoon, and smiling gently at
the sisterhood.
** * *
The variety show at Melb. Opera House
is doing about as well as can be expected, but the
nromises of its preliminary advts. were evidently
reckless. The man who comes forward to tire off
three hopeless songs in three different hats is not
a striking novelty, and the perennial acrobats,
forming pyramids on the eternal strip of carpet,
lose some of their charm as the years roll on.
Business doesn’t seem to suffer at the halls mean-
while, also the theatres that are closed remain
shut up with gigantic success, although they are
still open to receive applications for a long lease.
Mr. David Cope, having educated a band of ladies
in the use of the seraphina, intends to produce
them at the Town Hall on Easter Saturday.
** * *
In theatrical circles “at home ” the death
of Mr. Abington Baird will raise the question
whether he has left any money to Mrs. Langtry.
** * *
The Jubilee Singers & Virginia Concert
Co start their farewell Sydney season at Cen-
tenary Hall, York-street, Good Friday night.
Besides the familiar names of Mattie Allen (lady
tenor) Julie Wormlie (elocutionist), Orpheus
M‘Adoo (“ the double A-flat bosso ”), Hodges
(baritone), the cast includes two new members,
Misses Ingram and Saunders. The season will be
for as long a period as the public will stand the
infliction. The singers will proceed shortly to
the States.
At Poverty Point.
Katie Barry, understood to be very ambitious to become
a “ star,” was indeed a trying little woman. When Katie
had occupied the stage for ten minutes you knew all that
she was ever likely to do between now and the Lrack oi
Doom. Even her plump little legs became a weariness to
the spirit before the end of the first act.
The wonderful Graggs have made things very rough for
acrobats who come after them. So rough that the others
can’t get within a mile of the hard-headed Lancashire
man and his troupe.
The opening scene of 1 * The Mountebanks has a dis-
tinct flavour of “Pirates of Penzance.”
For the last two years the dramatic critic of Melbourne
Age has been Herbert Low, a young and comparatively
truthful writer—as writers of daily newspapers go. It
was Low who once astonished B. and B. by slating un-
mercifully a new and foolish farcical comedy (name
already forgotten) produced at the Bijou. An un-
sweetened notice, coming from an organ that draws a
four inch advertisement, has much the same effect upon a
tin at rical manager that Brutus’ dagger had upon J. Caesar.
In this case B. and B. must have known that their comedy
couldn’t live, but they were shocked to find the Age s
young man sticking a knife into it.
Irving may well pride himself upon his production of
Tennvson’s “Backet,” says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent. Thanks to judicious excisions, most of
them by the Laureate himself, it has been transformed
into a really good acting play. Irving’s interpretation of
the part of Becket will stand side by side with those
great creations, Wolsey and Richelieu, as one of the
most masterly impersonations of modern tunes. Ellen
Terry, as Rosamund, looked her best, and acted with a
charm which is quite her own. Genevibve Ward, as
Queen Eleanor, “looked real.” She was every inch the
jealous wife and Queen. The scene where she offers her
favoured rival choice of steel or poison was remarkably
powerful, and she and Miss Terry were applauded to the
echo. Leo Byrne, of Australia, had very little to do, but
what he did was done so naturally and well that it did
not seem like acting at all. The lad is exceedingly clever.
Bill Holloway played a small part, as a monk, to the very
manner born. Terriss was never better fitted with a part
than as King Henry, the proud, self-willed and impetuous
monarch. In his love-scenes he was amorousness
personified. How he did hug and kiss the fair Rosa-
mund !—one would have thought he was putting on an
extra bit on purpose to make Irving squirm. Altogether
it was a treat to see a fine play so magnificently mounted
ami so admirably acted all round. 1 have never seen,
even at the Lyceum, so enthusiastic a first night audience.
“ Becket ” will enjoy a long run in England, and it is sate
to predict a splendid career for it in America.
Harry Young, brother of Florence Young, would pro-
bably do well in England. lie is not far behind ‘ Mr.
Atkinson ” in his line.
Lauri is an architect by profession.
Bessie Doyle is, on the whole, doing fairly well in India.
She does not, however, advertise herself as an Australian.
J. C. Williamson intends to run a season of English
Opera at Sydney Lyceum when the Gaiety Co. go to
Maoriland. The principals will be Annis Montague,
Charles Turner, Parley, Syd. Deane, and 1 Cissy Staun-
ton. “Carmen” will be the trump-card.
A hayseed astonished the audience at one of Wiegand s
Hternoon recitals at Sydney Town Hall, by kneeling down
when the organ’s first notes rang out.
Can H. A. Jones have heard of Parkes? In “The
Bauble Shop,” Stoach, the keeper of a London toy-shop,
oecomes the Radical leader.
Walter Bentley sends a circular note to all the parsons of
Adelaide asking them to come and see a clergyman s son
elevate the modern stage. They are to be let in free,
gratis, and for nothing, which is everything to the black-
soats.
Darrell bolsters up his forthcoming Melb, season with a
missing-word competition.
An unkind critic describes Emerson and Woods
minstrels as “ formed of Wood, and would if I could.
W, J. Holloway’s first Melbourne appearance was with
Mrs. Gladstone, in “ London Assurance, at Melb. Opera
House opening.
Justin McCarthy, Junior, who is engaged to Mias
lenoure, was to have married J. L. Toole s daughter, who
lied. Toole lost, in rapid succession, his son, daughter,
vife, and brother.
Penley is fully expected in Australia by Christmas. This
droll little comedian will make a big hit with his brilliant
comedy, “Charley’s Aunt.” He has a notion that
Thornton mopped up too much here as the Private Secre-
tary- ... *
Agnes Hewitt has come in for a slice of fortune. An
old American admirer of hers, who wanted very badly to
marry her years ago, has just taken it into his beau to
die, and has left the lovely Agnes £12,000. This is
what Boyd, of the Pelican, says, at least, and he snouiu
know.
Victoria will not be represented at the Chicago (U S. A.)
Exposition—except by the convict hulk, Success, winch
gloomy old relic of convictism, with its grisly waxwork
show of manacled desperadoes, and its magazine of leg-
irons, is to be anchored in the lagoon off the British
Reservation —if it doesn’t sink on the voyage.
A New York critic says that Mrs. Bernard Beere is
“possessed of a serpentine and sinuous personality,
dominated by intellectuality, permeated by cold and even
cruel calculation, and swept at rare moments by purga-
torial fires.”
The Circus water-pantomime is taken from the naval
fights which used to come off in the Roman Coliseum.
In proportion to their numbers, the Jews supply about
a dozen times as many great actors and actresses as the
Gentiles. The Gentile can’t act—that is Jhe cold and
brutal truth. He thinks he can, but he can’t.
There is a good deal of “ loyal ” and disloyal anxiety to
see Queen Victoria’s drawings and etching! in the new
British Art Gallery, at Melbourne. These priceless proofs
of royal regard for Australia haven’t come to hand, the
show-promoters being cute enough to hold them back for
an extra attraction. The scornful radical musn’t expect
to get a huge laugh out of the royal sketches. They have,
no doubt, been more carefully “edited” than the “Leaves
from her Diary,” and they consist chiefly of portraits ot
her babies drawn 40 or 50 years ago.
Courtneidge, of the Gaiety' Co., had a long record of
more or less unsuccessful barnstorming before he became
a dividend-paying property. One of his saddest reminis-
cences was when he was running a burlesque show in the
English provinces. On a certain cold, wet night at Staf-
ford, business was so poor that, instead of playing, Court-
neidge invited the audience round into his dressing-room,
and produced some whisky, on which he and the admiring
public made a night of it. There were just six of the
admiring public, all told.
The condensed biography of an actress, from an
American paper: She wanted to be great. She shrunk from
common things and her iris-hued eyes scanned the great
plane of mediocrity for some pinnacle upon which she
could mount and look nearer to the sky. She was gar-
mented in unreal robes of ermine and phantom laurels
waved above her brow. The drama offered her the oppor-
tunity that she yearned for. She secured an engagement
with a manager who paid her travelling and hotel
expenses, but gave her no salary'. Her heart was
palpitant with beautiful hopes. One night she was play-
ing in “Anaconda.” An egg, aimed at the leading man of
the company, struck her full in the neck, right under her
little pink ear. The egg was no better than it should be
—not so good, in fact. That egg quenched every fire that
burned in her bosom, dampened the ardour of her
enthusiasm, and trickled down the front of a Nile green
crSpon gown that she wore. She packed her trunks that
night after the performance and arrived home in two
days, just in time to prevent the culmination of a flirta-
tion between her husband and the upstairs girl. She
doesn’t enthuse now at all and she never sees eggs on the
breakfast-table without a shudder. Her enthusiasni,
hone, faith and belief in attainment had all vanished, and
she looked no longer at life through a lorgnettte.
The last year’s profits of London Pavilion Music Hall
were £28,000 net!
Mrs. Brown-Potter took ’Ome with her as a Chinese
souvenir an executioner’s sword which had the day it was
given struck off 19 heads.
For the sake of the never-failing stage “Damn!” the
world must hang on to its theory of a material sheol. No
h 1, no d n, donchersee.
The laughing trio, from Balfe’s “Rose ot Castile,’ and
a selection from “ La Traviata,” were the choice items in
a recent Melbourne Sunday sacred concert.
As soon as Melb. Alhambra struck oil, Coppin stuck up
a streamer outside the Royal with “A Big Surprise
Coming.”
The only son of Balfe, the composer of “ The Bohemian
Girl ” has been found, an old, worn-out man, among the
paupers in Field-lane Refuge, London. The only other
survivor of that Balfe branch is the Duke of Frias, Spanish
consul at Tangiers, who has just succeeded to a legacy
of £50,000 a year ! He is the old pauper’s nephew.
Warwick Gainor, well-known in Australia, is now prin-
cipal baritone in Mapleson’s Opera Co. at New Orleans,
and receives enthusiastic notices from various American
papers.
Fred. Hiscocks says he has brought more theatrical
people to the Australias than any other man living.
Plain Bill, it appears, was asked by Irving to play
Lear at 3 p.m. “He returned home by rail, retired to
the study, and left letter-perfect at six o’clock.” “To the
study ”is good. But it is not quite English, yer know.
A real Englishman would have said “ ray ” study. “My
horse,” “my hotel,” “my wife,” “my lawyer, my
banker.” Everything is “My.” J. Bull owns the earth.
Here are Sandow’s measurements:—Biceps, 19Jin.; fore-
arm 16in. ; chest, contracted 46in., expanded 52m;
waist, 32in.; thigh, 28in. ; calf. 18in. Said he to a
Lancashire interviewer: “I am not ma-rned. But you
should see some ot the love-letters I get. Almost as soon
as I arrived in Manchester two were handed to ms.
Women everywhere like “fine" men, just as most men
like “fine” women. Called “fine” because they re
coarse, by the way.
In a certain Australian province within the last month
the “ house ” of a travelling theatrical crowd was at least
£l5O on the opening night. The actual money takings
were less than £2o—“paper” was responsible for the
rest. ...
We have received from “Professor S. S. and Kittie
Baldwin” a lengthy communication, which purports,
accordin'' to a memo, in the corner, to be “ Dictated by
Prof Baldwin to Secretary No. 3. It sets forth that the Prof,
is now in England on the most successful tour of his life,
and that he will re-visit Australia in ’94 or ’95. Further,
it contains some disparaging remarks about one Tracy,
alleged to be, or to have been, a song-and-dance artist in
Melbourne, who, it seems, sneered at Mr. Baldwin in the
street several years ago. The Professor evidently feels
ba I about that sneer to this day. Tracy will be so glad.
An American paper complains that Mr. Jevyett is ob-
viously playing, not “Mr. Barnes of New York, but
“Mr Barnes of Sydney.” It describes Mrs. Jewett as
“ a young lady of apparently limited experience.
A perfectly overwhelming incident happened at a
Svdnev theatre, the other evening. A gushing society
girl leant forward to address a gentleman crony, grasping,
as she did so, the back of a chair in front of her. To her
horror after she had talked for a.while, the “ chair-back
gave a faint remonstrative wriggle—and looking down she
saw that she was firmly clutching the arm Of a perfectly
strange man 1 ...
“ The actor is a sculptor, who carves his image in
snow.”
Four big fat women, in a curricle, drive two little rats
of black ponies on Collins-street block, and are steered by
a black boy, behind. Are these a pair ot the quartette of
unlucky black ponies? Fred Marshall had the lot, and
introduced them in his Melbourne Princess’s pantomime,
of “ Whittington.”
Salvini in his autobiography, admits he was desperately
enamoured of Ristori, who married the Marquis
Capranica del Grillo. As a lad of 19, he would study a
fresh, long leading part in one day to win her favour.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The Sydney Permanent Freehold Land and
Building Co. has broken the record in the “ arrange-
ment” business. About 13 months ago this institution
made the customary composition with its depositors,
whereby they were to be paid by instalments with me
per cent, interest. The first instalment—a humble 2s Bd.
in the £—is now about due, and the Company
gently proposes that it shall postpone payment tor
four years more, making five years from the date of the
original suspension, and at the end of the said five y
it shall proceed to settle by six annual instalments, so
that the final payment will come off only 11 years flora
the date of the first “arrangement!” It proposes also
to reduce the interest from five per cent, to tour. Moie "
over, it is only the most fortunate of the depositors who
will be settled with at the end of the 11 years, ihe
agreement of 1892 provided that all deposits should he
renewed from the date when they fell due, and the new
arrangement provides that they shall be further renewed
from the date when the first instalment falls due. ilius, it a
depositor had planted his money for five years just betoie
the original “arrangement,” it is due for repayment
about the beginning of 1897. Then his first instalment
under the composition—the aforesaid humble 2s. Bd. is
nominally payable in 1898. But, under the second
proposed composition, he is renewed for four years more
from that date, which, brings him to 1902, and after that
he gets into the region of the six annual instalments, ana
is ultimately paid off in 1908. The only financial idea on
record which gets ahead of this is the ancient Gaelic
device whereby the trusting Hielandman used to lend
out his money to be paid back when he met his creditor
in Heaven. _
# * *
During the Barrier strike, the mine-directors
protested that, although they had broken two agreements
solemnly entered into, they did not intend to increase the
miners’"working hours. Now the thin edge of the wedge
has been introduced —at least in the Proprietary mine,
which employs half the miners on the field—by the
abolition of ‘one of the “six-hour” shifts. Working
hours for miners on the Barrier were 49 per week, made
up of one six-hour and five eight-hour shifts ; but by
the abolition of one of the three six-hour shifts Pro-
prietary miners will now work two weeks of 46 hours
and one of 40, being paid, of course, for five shifts for the
latter week. In the old days, the men would have met
this move by striking right off, hut a strike is now out of
the question. The alteration isn’t much of a saving, but
it gets rid of one of the short shifts, and it partly relieves
the directors of the painful necessity of paying a tun
day’s wages for only six hours work; also, it is a move in
the direction of raising a week’s work to 48 hours.
* * *
Cabled that a London paper says the fall in
Broken Hill Proprietaries is due to sales made by Mel-
bourne banks. Perhaps, to an extent; but it is due chiefly
to the fall in silver and to the limited life of the mine
above the sulphide levels.
# # . *
A year ago The Bulletin said that the creep in
Broken Hill was nothing compared to the creep out of it.
Now it is declared by the Financial Times that leading
directors have sold all shares excepting those necessary to
qualify for seats on the Board. Same old story.
• # «
A Tasmanian lands official is accused of holding
back local applications for mineral or gold leases, and
meantime selling the information concerning the same to
Hobart speculators, who thus get first show, as central-
office applications receive priority of consideration. The
Hobart men’s agents then peg out the claims, and the
local prospectors are “bested.’' This was attempted to he
met by the ruse of locally applying for a duffer claim
adjoining the area reallv coveted ; but the land-office
touts and the Hobart sharps got to know the counter-
move and “monkeyed” accordingly. The curse of mine-
leasing is metropolitan centralisation.
• • •
Reseigh Martin, committed for trial re the
•• Laidman Mort” (Sydney) lottery swindle, declares that
he was the catspaw of one “Barnett,” of Melbourne.
Apropos, N.Q. Herald says that it received the mislead-
ing ad. “from a Sydney advertising agency in the usual
course of business,” and has demanded an explanation.
The police here have a clear sailing-chart.
* • •
The .£9 call made by the Anglo-Australian
liquidators will mean utter ruin to 60 or 70 Sydney
families.
* * *
In re that Consultation in connection with the
purchase of the assets of the Queensland Deposit Bank
(Brisbane) in liquidation, Tub Bulletin would like to
know (1) if the first prize valued at £30,000 “cost
includes a £15,000 mortgage held by a Sydney
bank. (2) If the other “prizes” are also unen-
cumbered. (3) If the whole amount which is to be
thus raised will not he entirely absorbed in payment of
the next liquidation dividend bv the bank, and (4) if the
value of the residue of assets will represent anything at
all like the balance of the unpaid liquidation dividends I
The lottery investors seem to be pretty safe, but what
about the shareholders in the defunct institution after
the approaching div. is paid?
* * *
The difficulty between manager Zebina Lane,
of Broken Hill Block 14, and his directors re proposed
reduction in his salary from £l5OO to £lOOO has been
amicably settled. Mr. Lane withdraws his resignation
and, it is understood, accepts £1250 a year and certain
allowances which will probably quite make up the differ-
ence between the reduced screw and the original figure.
Evidently the directors’ bluff has miscarried badly.
• * •
~lt was certainly necessary for Melbourne “con-
fidence” to be restored somehow before the Mercantile
Bank case had gone too far. One of the counts in the
indictment mentions that “ on the 25th January (a week
before the issue of the balance-sheet) the insolvent insti-
tr tion borrowed from one of the associated banks the
sum of £100,000.”
# * *
The conviction of the Anglo-Australian Bank
men is chiefly a disgrace to ex-Premier Shiels, who had to
be forced into prosecuting them.
#. * *
“A Poor Depositor” complains that theliquida-
tion of the Metropolitan Bank (Melb.) has been dragging
on for more than a year without any meeting of creditors.
Five liquidators, at £lOOO a year each, revel in the grue-
some mysteries of the Metrop. Meanwhile, the farcical
winding up of the Daviesian group of companies seems to
be left in the hands of Matthew’s relatives and frauds,
who are consuming the fragments in the form of salary.
» • *
Some Sydney people who are endeavouring to
promote the Chronicle, a morning Protectionist paper,
have been strewing round the prospectus. Apart from the
reoklessnessdisplayedin attempting to start a metropolitan
daily paper with £20,000, “ in shares of £1 each only
half the capital to be called up in the first instance ; the
remainder only if required ! ’’—although power is retained
“to increase to £so,ooo”—the prospectus is a gem of
impotent innocence:—“The public are solicited to be-
come members and take shares, thus giving them a direct
interest in the prosperity of the Company.” The emerald
slopes of verdancy ! People who talk thus would be
capable of semi-annually electing by ballot the editor and
his staff, and letting a delegation of constituents attend
nightly to approve of each issue before publication. The
Chronicle is to be a Protectionist paper with 1 reetrade
impulses ! It has been cruelly stated that the venture is
being promoted in the interests of the Dibhs Ministry ,
probably by some deadly enemy in disguise ! Here is a
specimen of the promoters’ command of “prospectus
English ” “ It is" admitted on every hand both by Free-
traders and Protectionists that the present is an
opportune time for the launching of the Daily Chronicle
upon the troubled waters of journalism, and that,
although it may meet with the stormy seas of competition
with old-established Metropolitan newspapers, yet its
thoroughly liberal principles will commend the support
and encouragement of the general public which its
advanced ideas must commands and that, asaqood-paying
concern, it will take its place in the front rank.” If the
natural habit of judging a scheme by its prospectus be
followed, the Daily Chronicle is going to be born dead.
# * *
Zeehan silver stocks have dropped almost
entirely out of the Sydney and Melbourne Exchange lists,
yet during the last four or five months the returns from
three of the mines working have been steady and profit-
able. Hundreds of mines, however, floated during the
boom for thousands of pounds, have reverted to the
possession of the original badger, as the esculent wombat
is locally designated.
* • •
Since the determination of the Melbourne asso-
ciated banks to mutually support each other, the clerkf
of one big institution breathe freely. They made a c.r-
tainty of joining the ranks of the unemployed.
* * •
A Broken Hillionaire, resident in Melbourne,
during the boom went into a land-syndicate with halt-a-
dozen other reputedly wealthy citizens, and became witn
them jointly and severally liable. Up to date he has pai
£17,500 for his little investment, he being the only
member of the shindykit left outside gaol or the Insolvency
Court.
# * *
Several Melbourne companies possess on their
directorates an individual who, when beaten on the vote
at meetings, immediately bursts into a copious mood of
tears. What a valuable assistant such a man would have
made to the boomsters of ’BB, when his lachrymose torrent
could have been directed to smudging the balance-sheet,
and making a meaningless blot of the undivided profits .
* * •
The sudden fall in a certain water-power co.’s
shares is accounted for by the fact that the market was
flooded by 10,000 shares, belonging to a very well-known
contractor. The co. seems all right, as does also the
vendor, so the reason of his parting with apparently good
stock is inexplicable.
* * *
A thousand houses in Melbourne, to which the
Gas Co.’s pipes are laid on, are empty.
• • •
Staples, the Melbourne “ banker,” like Morti-
mer Franklyn, came from ’Frisco to .Australia with about
sixpence.
# # *
During flood-time in Brisbane a broker’s safe
was washed away, and by some means came open. A lot
of valuable scrip was lost, and the only thing left was
some Mount Morgan scrip, bought at about £l2.
# * •
Sundry Northern money-lenders got a nasty
knock recently. Two Civil servants, whose billets trembled
in the balance, visited them in rotation, and by judicious
backing of each other’s bills got advances from seven of
them, at the usual 120 per cent. Then the two financiers
set out for parts unknown.
* * *
The Queensland National Bank situation is in-
teresting. That famous institution has on deposit
£500,000 Government money at 4 per cent., and over
£1 500,000 at apparently no interest at all—free, gratis
and as a blessed act of charity. If it lends out even half
this money at only 6 per cent, it makes a clear piofit of
£40,000 a year, which is all it manages to pay in dividends.
Therefore, &c.
# * *
In Australia the proportion of the population
whose lives are insured is twice as large as in Great
Britain. Still another point for the “thriftless” Austra-
lian.
* * *
The Outer Circle Railway (Melb.) is to be closed.
It is 10J miles long, and cost about £300,000, and the loss
is £12,000 per annum. Probably the best way to mini-
mise the trouble would be to let out the track to China-
men for the cultivation of cabbagee; 10J miles of acdi*
tional vegetables would, at least, help to keep down prices
in Melbourne.
* * *
Extraordinary that, despite the success of
artesian well-boring in arid Australia, the two chief boring
co.’s are liquidating. One at least, fattened on the
Australian greenness in well-boring. He came out with a
patent which he sold for big money and scrip, and enjoyed
a Premier’s salary, and his travelling ex.’s were worthy of
his own splendid physique. Result: grief and pain to a
lot of people.
* * *
Buckland, called upon to resign the mi.naging-
directorship of the Victory mine, is a big thorn in the
sides of the Sydney directors by reason of bis own
enormous holding and local support. He is said to hae e
more shares than all the directors together, ai d as
nothing succeeds like success he has got the right end of
the stick.
« * •
Mount Wills tin mine (Vic.) is to have one last
chance. Govctt, a Hungarian expert, is putting up a
plant on the mine at his own expense, and says he can
treat the stuff profitably. Govett depends on making bn
money out of ttie shares, of which he takes 20,000 from
the Co. at 4d.
# • •
Mount Stewart has reached the inevitable.
The staff to be reduced and the furnaces closed down.
Prospecting will go on, to open up, if possible, richer ore.
What will now be said by those (including the Sunday
mining tipster) who so persistently advised the purchase
of these shares as a monthly dividend-paying stock?
• • *
The Metals Extraction Co. people are making
another trial of 50 tons of ore from the Junction North
mine. As they stated that the failure of the previous
tost was through striving to recover the ammonia, they
intend to let it go this time. They must have faith in
their process, as they have just ordered a complete
ammonia plant from Birmingham. Perhaps White Reck
will yet be sived.
# * *
The Adelaide people attracted to the Shoalhaven
(N S W.) sluicing district have started their water-gravi-
tation scheme from Reedy Creek-a big and expensive
work of which one sees no mention in the dry-rot N.S.W.
mining-reports.
» * *
Any report in a storm. lirst Faulkners
decided to erect a wonderful machine known as Jordan’s
centrifugal pulverizer and amalgamator, which was going
to treat 150 tons a week. Next it was rumoured that
even if it put through 50 tons a week it would be regarded
as very satisfactory, as it would save all the fine gold
which baffled the battery. Result—much below 50 tons
a week—some say only *2O, and the gold is mostly in the
tailings. Another grand old wheeze is resurrected-it is
all on account of the arsenic and sulphur pyrites in the
ore. A recent report says that a big fire has been
burning the stone for many days and everything is in a
“ beautiful red glow ; the arsenic, sulphur, &0., going off
splendidly.” The Faulkner’s heap of seconds lias been
sadly robbed by the careful way in which the firsts were
washed, scrubbed and otherwise carefully picked out.
The gold is so fine and flaky that when all stone in which
it is visible is selected the balance is not worth nearly as
much as the public have been led to believe. The pyrites
excuse is too weak. The percentage of pyrites is very
small and hardly interferes with the free gold ; moreover,
even these, if valuable, can be simply concentrated and
easily treated.
* * *
The Pambula paper says that now Mb. Lewison
mine bids fair to become the richest on the field.
Exactly 1 Once the Killarney mine was the richest, then
the Pambula, after that Faulkner’s. Each local mine
seems to have had its short and fleeting turn.
« * *
The Sunlight property, Hillgrove, suffered most
in the recent rains. The plant had a narrow squeak. The
creek was high enough to show that the plant of the
Baker’s Creek mine is not too safe in case of a big flood.


iHRTHH
;C
vvww
IOKIICN A AUSTRALASIAN
ST A MI'S.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 all post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Rare stamps bought.
VUMDUNT «3c CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot ,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
TOILERS AT THE DESK
Mariners, travellers, ami others all unite in prais-
ing Wolfe’s Schnapps as a stimulant to be relied
on in time of need.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Footballers ! Smoke GN U N Darlings.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Is in every respect a standard remedy, the
measure of whose popularity is its acknowledged
desert. Buy whole bottles.
A well-in vested 3d. —a GN U N Darling.
ra« ‘ ‘ YOST ’ ’ Typewriter.
yWta
l:
”ni:-
No Ribbon.
Perfect Alignment.
rriTIE “YOST,” yon will remember, is the Champion of
1 many NEW and wonderful ideas: —Centre - guide
Alignment; Non-wearing Loose Hearings; Velocity Touch ;
Direct Printing without Ribbon; Easy Keyboard ; Change-
able Types and parts, etc.
If you would understand its rapid march into popularity,
and why it is head and shoulders above (he patched-ny
models of other style machines, send for our handsome
illustrated catalogue. Mailed post free.
The YOST TYPEWRITER 00.,
126 Pitt-st., Sydney; and 141 Elizabeth-st., Melhournk.
Personal Items.
mi -nt n in tt tt , . „
IhreeJN.S.W. Upper House champions of
the “Thrift” vote-Jacob, Joseph, Moses.
Viscount Gormanston, aged 56, one of the
poorest of Irish peers, has been appointed Governor
of Tasmania.
Certain leading Sydney yachtsmen did
their best to get Brassey appointed Governor.
And they nearly succeeded, too.
First Victorian Patriotic Leaguer :
“Matthew Lang is dead.” Second ditto ditto:
“ What! Before he is knighted ! ”
Speaker Coles (S.A.) aspires to preside
over the new S.A. Assembly as “ Sir Jenkin
Coles.” He began as a policeman.
“Miss Laura Fowler, M.D., &c.,” is
practising in Adelaide. The lady is a daughter of
G. S. Eowler, a big local capitalist.
Nelson, the new Queensland Premier, is a
mediocre Scotch squatter, remarkable for nothing
in particular—and very little of that.
m • r t j.- ht i j • 1 ■ 1 • x
Chief Justice Madden is playing his part
as Acting-Governor of Victoria for all it is worth.
If he didn’t get knighted, we should smile.
m i -xt 4 > i i ,
iwo barristers, M.A, s, are employed at a
fashionable circulating library in one of the Aus-
tralian cities. Salary—<£l per week each!
Poor little Hodgkinson! If he had only
t. 4. I,* if -i . .i . , /
been true to himself, and to the miners, and to
Queensland. Such be the reward of traitors m
icir o a^e *
An Oxford M.A. earns a living for self and
wife by fishing at George s River, Sydney. They
m day tune and cam P ou fche river
.
Copies of the first edition of N.S.W. ex-
Judge M'Farland’s first book fetch treble the
original price,. He was once the rising hope of
the Ulster politicians.
, j- , T , -r-,
- c coi cling to jondou Daily Chronicle,
Lady Jersey s f ather, Lord Leigh, is one of the
only two Liberal English Lords-Lieutenant Lord
Ripon being the other.
Parkes accuses Dibbs of wasting his time
in London running after “long Duchesses.”
Parkes, of course_, would have expected the
Duchesses to run after him.
Rev. C. J. Byng, Anglican parson of
Sydney, late of Melbourne and Braid wood, took
lessons in boxing from Jem Mace when that pugi-
list was in the Victorian capital.
Victorian Astronomer Ellery, qualified for
“ retirement ” because a sexagenarian, gets ,£lO5O
a year, £l9O more than the N.S.W., and £650
more than the Queensland “ moonstarer. ”
The schoolmaster who taught the new
Queensland Chief Justice his ABC and twice two
are four, still lives at North Sydney. He is very
proud of Samuel. God alone knows why,
..
Mayor M Master, ox Brisbane (Q.), refused
to accept a reduction of official allowance. He
wanted £5OO or nothing. “If I take nothing,”
quoth Mac., “the citizens won’t expect me to
spend anything.”
. .
I'm indisposition of both Gladstone
and Salisbury has been announced within the last
few days. In each instance, the news that they
ters rapidly recovering came to hand at the same
time. What we really need is a cablcgrammer
who will name the exact date when somebody is
going to be ill, in order that we may get a decent
chance to feel anxious.
Dr. Badham, who
has begun practice in
Sydney, is related to
the poet Campbell. The
late Professor Badham,
the young doctor’s father,
was - Dailey’s ideal of a
scholar. Badham was
father of many of the
felicitous classical allu-
sions which enriched the
orator’s speeches.
Chief Justice Samuel
Griffith, and Harry
Levien, the N. S. W.
Attorney-M.L. A., were
schoolfellows together
in Maitland. Griffith’s
wife hails from there,
and a few of the lately
submerged allotments in
that district are his
property. At school
Levien was thought a
cleverer lad than the
future (as some say)
Chancellor of the Aus-
tralian Dominion. Harry
is certainly much funnier
than Griffith.
Argus on the efforts
of American showmen
to induce Tummy of
Wales to be on exhibit
atChicago Fair“ Even
a people which has
legislated itself into a
dull, dead, blank level of
nobodies, and fettered
itself in that condition
by the most stringent of
precautions, will in its
heart yearn for the sight
of something rare and
eminent.”
Out West, along
the Darling, every other
Scotchman one meets
claims to be “ Scotty the
Wrinkler,” of The Bul-
f.ETiN (says Henry Lawson).
A youth named Evan Murray was charged
with horse-stealing at the late Napiei (M.L.)
Supreme Com t sittings. There was some doubt
about the case, the defence being that he had
bought the animal on credit. Had prisoner s
counsel stuck tothat, hemight havegot him off, but,
unfortunately for accused, the lawyer remarked
impressively that his client was highly con-
nected in the old country, being a near relation of
the Earl of Caithness.” That settled it. Verdict,
guilty.
O’Sullivan, M.P. (N.S.W.), gibes at
Local Prohibitionist Clark, “ Teetotallers seem to
bald-headed pretty soon.” Whereupon even
Clark’s bump of philo-progenitiveness crimsoned
in all its nakedness.
An old Maitland identity, named Weller, a
hermit of great wealth and most penurious habits,
was, during the floods, drowned in the garret of
his house. He was uncle to the members of one
Sydney’s richest families,
( Martin Burgess, executive chief of the
S.A. National Ass, is brother of Rev. H. T.
Burgess, ex-president of the Wesleyan Confer-
-2, who , has siv5 iv 1 e « U P a . ctlve , work Wlth hls
church and now dabble s m journalism.
No man “can cast the finger of scorn at
me.” —Bur dekin, M.L.A., {N.S.W.) No man, for
that matter, is likely to “cast ” his finger at any-
thT wo ° dea le S at
Burdekin ’ bufc that 9 ulte a dlfferent
Money-lender Cohen, M.P. for North
Adelaide, makes it a point of honour not to
advance moae y *> an -V of bis constituents. When
the screw has to be put on he prefers that his
Radical supporters should not hear of the fact.
T ■ „ -»«- T ,
. en ’ M-D.A. (jS.S. V .), states that the
bareness of the crown of his fellow-member, Glen
Innes Hutchison, is due to the frugality and time-
saving propensities of his ma. She used to stand
him on his head in order to mend his pants,
OT ~.. TT , „ . _
, L^ ds Howe s official
room is in the sun for about two hours a day, and
to avoid this four bi depar tmentB exchanged
offieeS) at a cost of £2 * m , I j lowe seems to for B ge t
the time when he was in the sun all day as a
policeman,
One of explorer Lindsay’s newly-named
discoveries bears the title of “ Mount Doolette,”
named after an Adelaide tailor who blossomed
into fame by striking Broken Hills! Another
hillock is named after the champion drunk of S.A.
Legislature.
-n ,
Dear Lulletin,—On the authority of a
young Quakeress, a correspondent of Sergeant Bal-
lantine, Tawell, the murderer, once a Sydney
chemist, was not a Quaker. She declares that he
“put it on,” as the Maw-worms do, for purposes
of deceit.—Yours, ALP.
Griffith is to be the Queensland Govern-
meat’s “legal adviser ”as well as C.J. This looks
as jf ke intended toact as Parliamentary draftsman,
which will be nuts for Drake to crack, considering
how long and earnestly he has “barracked” for
appointment of such an officer,
A portrait of Q. Chief J ustice Griffith, in
ermine, appeared in a Queen-street photographers
fcbe ver y morning after his installation ! Not long
a S°> b y tbe wa y> mosfc of the Q- Ciy il servants re-
eeived a circular from an English firm requesting
a " order for a portrait of Gnffith aforesaid.
Tt 18 said fchat the wealthy daughter of a
deceased Melbourne pork-butcher will capture the
rosy-cheeked Duncan Gilliesas soon as he becomes
a knight. The news of his approaching bebauble-
ment has, by the way, been announced on four
different occasions—only to be contradicted later
on.
r, -in -n ~
George E. Rowe, one ot the most out-
spokenly Radical of the Adelaide Methodist
parsons, has been transported to Perth (W.A.) by
his senior brethren, who detest his liberal views
and are jealous of his popularity. With charac-
teristic injustice they elected him chairman of the
West Australian district over the heads of several
older ministers in order to soothe his ruffled feel-
ings when he threatened to make trouble over his
banishment.
NOAH UP TO DATE.
PARSON: “Yes, my dears, everybody was drowned except Noah and
his family.”
TOMMY : “And did they subscribe a Flood Fund for themselves?”
John Dunn, the nonagenarian Adelaide
miller, whose property is worth well on to
£500,000, recently got a country scribe to write up
his life and to give him a price for 500 cloth-bound
copies. The sum asked was £OO, but the frugal
old gentleman decided that he couldn’t afford to
pay so much.
The just-deceased J. B. Randle, M.L.C.
(N.S.W.), once an ironmonger, is said to have
left behind him an estate worth a quarter of a
million sterling. He was an apostle of “thrift”
and orthodox meanness, and an absolutely useless
legislator. Ho died of stqjnach-canoer and had
been ill two years.
John Plumper Hoolan, M.P. (N.Q.) :
“ I’m not a carcase, but a real, live and singularly
honest man. ... I have heard that Mr.
Morgan called me a loafer. I should be glad to
meet Mr. Morgan, or any of his dirty crew, any-
where, here, or out in the lonely bush, to prove to
him, or them, what a sound, moral, honest, pure-
minded, pure-principled, genuine, really hard-
working man I am.” Modesty, thy name is
Hoolan.
Glass, the Trevenson (W.A.) murderer
and suicide (who shot his two daughters because
one of them loved a youth named Brown) was a
small wit in his way. When Premier Forrest
visited Trevenson, in Aug. last, Glass responded
to the banquet toast, “Our Roads ” :
The question of repairing our roads is a question of
ways and means. Let the Premier give us the means and
I can assure him we will mend our ways.
“ The man who would make a pun would ” ?
By the way, re an allegation that the Trevenson
Glass was a son of the late Mr. Hugh Glass, of
Melbourne, Mrs. Hugh Glass writes from Flem-
ington:—
There is no truth whatever in the statement. I have no
sons married, nor has any member of my family even
visited any part of West Australia; also, there is no
member of my family connected in the slightest degree
with the Mr. Glass referred to.
When a boy at college.
Lord Rosebery, it is said, de-
clared that his three ambitions
in life were to marry the richest
woman in Europe, to win the
Derby, and to become Prime
Ministerof England. Hemarried
a Rothschild, just missed win-
ning the Derby five years ago,
and he is far the likeliest coming
British Premier.
Henniker Heaton was
born under a lucky star. Im-
perial Penny Postage has been
taken up by the Westminster
Review and other advanced
Liberal papers, and some of the
Radicals predict that it will
have a place in the new Budget
statement. The Postal Union
agreement will, no doubt, hinder
its accomplishment, but that will
be got over if the Government
really agrees to the reduction.
It would be strange indeed if
Henniker got from the Liberals
what his own party has so
strenuously refused. He is get-
ting monstrously stout, we hear,
and his figure has entirely lost
that graceful outline which made
him a successful ladies’ man.
A couple of years ago there
was a crier in Melbourne Prac-
tice Court who had been sud-
denly promoted from the rank
of attendant in the corridors.
And he concluded the oath to
witnesses with these solemn
words : “So help your Gord ! ”
This was too much for the gentle
and decorous Chief Justice
Higinbotham, who, having heard
this form of adjuration daily for
a week, sent his associate, at
the rising of the court one day,
to teach the crier the correct
form of oath. The next morning
the crier was in court an hour
before the Judge sat, and filled
in the time by administering the
oath to the sweeping-brush which
was stuck in the witness-box.
By his marriage with an Australian girl,
Lord Charles “Precedence” Scott, the late
Admiral of the Australian squadron, is said to
have forfeited much of the heritage which would
have been his under the will of his ducal father,
had he married in consonance with that now
defunct potentate’s wishes.
A mysterious underground intrigue seems
to be going on for the sale of the Victorian rail-
ways, and glimpses of a strong desire to let “ pri-
vate enterprise ” look in constantly recur in
N.S.W. Minister Lyne’s speeches. When you see
a long letter in a daily paper urging this step, you
read between the lines and it outweighs a leader.
Samuel Griffith, Q.C., the chameleonic
lawyer, who, after having while Priemier got
<£looo added to the Chief Justice’s salary, calmly
appointed himself Chief Justice over the heads of
the other local judges, was thus welcomed by
Puisne Judge Harding:—“Sir Samuel Griffith,
the precedent for a few words of congratulation to
a new Chief Justice was created by the late Mr.
Justice Lutwyche, on the assumption by the
late Chief Justice (Lilley) of the position
you now occupy. I desire to follow it. Sir
Samuel Griffith, in the future you will receive the
loyal assistance of your colleagues on the Bench.
May your motto he that of the Chevalier de
Bayard, * Sans peur, et sans reprochc, ’ and, like
Caesar’s wife, may you be above suspicion.” Lovely,
this, to anyone thoroughly “in the know.”
Dear Bulletin, —Your correspondent
“ Gi ” is somewhat severe on poor Jack Ellis.
Jack drank heavily, as who did not in the
sixties, in Queensland, but I never heard
him swear or use a bad word, and I knew
him very well. He lived for some time at
Amity Point, Moreton Bay, with Captain Rolls
and another man whose name I forget, and
whilst there they did a little dugong fishing, a lot
of drinking, and indulged in other diversions.
Jack then went to Brisbane, and whilst staying at
Lennon’s, he was struck down by paralysis, and
his little room of an afternoon was crowded by
friends who came to cheer him in his misfor-
tune. An arrangement was made between
the Dowager Lady de Walden and Harry
Biggs by which the latter was to look after
the invalid during his life. Biggs removed
Jack to Southport, where he ended his days, but
he certainly was not mad a few months before his
death. When the three Ellises—“ the Seraph,”
“the Cherub,” and “Jack,” owned Malvern
Downs, they sent to Rockhampton for six iron
ship’s tanks. Their agent wrote and suggested
they had better be filled with stores, as it would
bo waste of money to send them empty. The
reply came pat : “Fill ’em with rum and send ’em
along.” Every shanty and every township through
which those happy carriers passed was left a dis-
organised community. It took those teams nine
months to reach the station. Two of the drivers
died of jim-jams, and the route was lined for
weeks afterwards with men suffering recovery.—
Torkalliba.
Foxes are now so plentiful in Victoria and
are being so numerously trapped that the Lands
Department has reduced the reward for each fox-
scalp from ss. to 2s. 6d.
Brother Adcock, at Melbourne Wesleyan
Conference : “ The Salvation Army, instead oi
looking after the sinners who never go to church,
take people from the different congregations and
are really sheep-stealers.”
Silas May died at Bendigo (Vic.) last week
from “ loss of blood and shock.” He was in charge
of the air-compressing plant atLansell’s 222 mine,
one of the “ lions ”of the place. Silas revelled in
oiling and burnishing the plant, but early one
morning last week the machine caught him and
rending the flesh and muscles of his arm laid bare
the bone. No one else was astir, so the man
walked across to a neighbour, while the stripped
bones dangled at his side, and calmly reported the
accident. Then he returned to the mine to
resume his charge. After he had fainted at his
post, he recovered and set out to report to the
manager. The latter, on arriving at the engine-
house, found May striding up and down, in
a terrific attempt to retain his faculties. It
was discovered that ere the manager had
turned up, May had, despite the torture
of his mangled limb, done everything neces-
sary to prevent the explosion which must
have occurred had he been incapacitated.
It was only when he saw that a substitute
was at hand that he began to give way. He had
put the damper down, he told the manager, so
that the boiler could cool. Pointing with his
uninjured arm to the water-guage, he said that
there was water enough on for two hours, by
which time the boiler would have exhausted itself.
Then they took him away to the hospital, and
he implored them not to have his arm amputated,
he would rather die. It was amputated, but it
was a hopeless case of slavery to the stern daughter
of God.
THE BEGGAR.
M-gr
Day by day he stood, stalwart and strong,
Pride and independence writ upon his face.
Yet begging, his fellow men among,
Not food, not money—or such disgrace—
But only— Work.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
“Disappeared by Magic.”
Mr. C. J. Wilson, timekeeper, Merewether Junc-
tion, Newcastle, New South Wales, writes on
January 14th, 1893 I have very much pleasure
in contributing my small testimony as to the great
benefits resulting from a course of Clements
Tonic. I have been a great sufferer for many
years from liver complaint in one form or another.
Some of the faculty treated me for rheumatism
and neuralgia, but I never received any per-
manent benefit from them. About three years
ago I bought a large bottle of Clement Tonic, and
was surprised at the improvement I experienced
from it, in fact the symptoms from which I
suffered disappeared as if by magic, and in a very
short time I felt quite a different man. I have
been taking it ever since (that is as often as 1 can
afford to get it). I am only sorry that I did not
know of its wonderful curative powers years ago.
If anybody has ever benefited by taking Clements
Tonic I am a living witness as to its virtues. It
has performed a cure where all other remedies
failed. I forgot to state above that I have taken
it in conjunction with Dr. Fletcher’s Pills. I
recommend it to ray friends, and shall continue to
do so.—Yours, &c., C. J. Wilson, time-keeper,
Merewether Junction, Newcastle, N.S.W.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
tg
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
COS
Messrs. Charleinont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
gains rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
will without doubt establish itself .very soon as
one of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
WOLFE'S SCHNAPPS
Is as efficient a curative for disordered stomach,
liver and bowels as for malarial complaints,
debility and kidney troubles.
Baldness may be prevented, and a thick growth
of hair stimulated, by the use of Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. This preparation a’so restores the
natural colour to gray hair, and renders it soft,
pliant, and glossy.
THE FOUNDATION OF VIGOUR
Once sapped the entire superstructure must soon
tumble —a hopeless ruin. Make the foundation
sure by using Wolfe’s Schnapps.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
88 A 84 Clnrcncc-strect,
SYDNEY.
: w%
I s m
1- xi
, l::
ARTESIAN
"Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
yu
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Labour member who wants to do any-
thing for the people must make no attempt to do
anything for himself.
The Victorian Governmentevxdently means
to logroll land-grab railways through the mallee
country and in Eastern Gipps and
Labour-leader A. Hinchcliffe (Q-) • L 1
mv pxnerience, I have never known one auctioneer
to have sympathy with Labour movements.
Labour-member Glassey (Q.) anticipates a
Labour-party of 25 in the next Parliament. IHE
Bulletin discounts his anticipations one-half.
The absentees own the Q. N. Bank, the
O N Bank owns the Government, the Govern-
ment'owns the military; and there you have the
Queensland situation in a nut-shell.
Carpenters are working for Melbourne
Metropolitan Board sweaters for 2s. 4d. a day,
and labourers dig post-holes for Is. Id. a day.
Figure-head Fitz Gibbon gets about £o 10s. a day.
Payment of members is so essentially demo-
cratic a principle that were pure manhood suffrage
once established the property party could no more
abolish stipendiary members than they could
abolish God.
The Gladstonians didn’t run any risk in
allowing N.S.W. Governor Duff to leave ‘‘the
party.”" Duff’s seat was a “ dead bird ” for Home
Rule, and his successor polled 771 votes more than
the Tory candidate.
According to N. S. W. Millionaire Burdekin,
ML A the income-tax is “ obnoxious to all men
who breathe British blood.” Tenders are hereby
invited for a sketch of Burdekin “ breathing
blood ’’—and slaughter.
J. H. Griffin, Mayor of Hurstville,
threatens to contest Canterbury as a Freetrader at
next N.S.W. general election. Let us see :
Didn’t Mr. Griffin once unsuccessfully woo St.
Leonards as a Protectionist?
South Australia has 1700 Civil servants, of
whom 270 are over 60 years old,, and some have
reached the age of 80. There is no superannua-
tion and no compulsory retirement in the province
and all the good billets are monopolised by old
stagers.
What is the extent of the “ cordial co-
operation” which the Tory liquor-merchant, Vic.
Treasurer Carter, extends to the associated banks
“with a view to restoring confidence? ” City
men indicate at least three of the banks as
cripples.
Attorney-General Griffith: “This unfor-
tunate colony has been made to pay for this
(Robb’s) unfortunate contract ,£lOO,OOO over and
above what it should have paid. ’ Ibis comes
well ftotn the man who, is responsible for the
whole mess.
Gladstone’s half-way and undemocratic
proposal, that of paying “ needy ” members of the
House of Commons, is word for word the proposal
made by Parkes in N.S.W. Cabinet when lom
Gatrett insisted on introducing a Parliamentary
Allowance Bill.
Cabled that Lord Burton, the newly-made
Bung peer, says that the English Licensing Bill
is|a tyrannous measure pandering to the votes or
hypocrites and dissenters. Nearly every peer is a
churchman. Burton, of course, meant ‘‘dissenters
and otker hypocrites.”
The year 1893 is the jubilee of N.S.W. re-
presentative institutions. Jnst 50 years ago the first
Parliament assembled j 24 elective and 12 nominee
ttlehibers constituting the House. 1 L?ra,
in Sydney, and Charles Nicholson, M.D., m Lom
doh, are sole survivors.
The Victorian Legislature has been in the
habit of drawing more than 800 frCe railway-passes
per annum for wives and friends. Yet nothing
much was heard about the shameful matter when
times were good and dead-heads could better
afford to pay for tickets.
So MTlwraith and Byrnes (“that rising
politician ” as the Courier calls him) are to run
the Queensland political hurdy-gurdy. MTlwraith
san’t fatten any more. He must burst, and
Byrnes’ whole political career is damned by the
gahg that started him off.
Perhaps now that Charles Raymond
Staples is on fixed deposit for five years the truth
about his retirement, infavourof Duncan Gillies, at
the election of 1889 will come out. Several
queer stories were cqrrent, but all sounded too
improbable (then) to be false —now.
It is not generally known that whenever
Lieut. Blank, of the Victorian militia, is for-
warded to Hingland for military education (at the
province’s expense), his pay in the local forces
goes on all the same, accumulating to a big sum
by his return. And yet they talk of retrench-
ment !
Premier Downer (S.A.)has much offended
the local Irish by refusing to give a half-holiday
on St. : Patrick’s Day and by being discourteous in
his method of doing so. This is the last nail in
the coffin of Works Minister Grayson at West
Adelaide, which is as much Roman Catholic as it is
Democratic.
Probables in M‘II wraith’s new Parliamen-
tary syndicate :—Chief Secretary, MTlwraith;
Colonial Secretary, Tozer ; Mines and Railways,
Unmack ; Post-office, Buzacott (with seat m
Nominee Chamber); Treasurer, Nelson; Educa-
tion, W. H. Wilson; Attorney-General, Byrnes.
A nice crowd.
“ I have always held, and still hold, that
the best Labour representative is the man who
has had actual experience of the necessities and
conditions of Labour, and not he who comes to
that side by conviction against his environment,
rather than by actual training and experience.
SOHNADHOBST.”
Now that he is no longer of any use, and
neither to be courted nor feared, the Brisbane
dailies and the party whose dirty work he did
“ turn dog ”on Griffith. The Courier refers to
him as “ the Ministerial incarnation of economic
fallacy,” while theTELEGRAPH parson-editor reads
his burial service.
Age asks in an agony of grief if, con-
sidering the corruption of the Victorian railway
service, “the time has not come for the State to
sell the great property which it holds only to mis-
manage.” “If thy right hand offend thee cut it
off.” No, David Syme, but the time has come to
sell the corruptionists.
Melbourne Age is quite hurt because
Anderson dares to contest Kara Kara against the
Age’s minion Dow. Old members’ “claims to
consideration ” are amongst the most ridiculous
features of Australian politics. Let us have an
asylum for political derelicts —aside from the
Upper House, we mean.
Higinbotham’s withdrawal from politics
was the cause of the present Victorian embroglio.
Twenty years ago, the Tory party began its steady
course of victory, not much interrupted even by
Berry and Black Wednesday. Here we have the
outcome of the destruction of real Liberalism, the
throttling of Higinbotham’s noble ideas.
Stock, M.P., late Attorney-General in the
Holder Government (S.A.), and, until recently,
President of the Railway Service Association, has
astonished Adelaide by solemnly renouncing the
Labour-party and all its works. It is stated that
for his particular form of political phthisis he has
been ordered a diet of National Ass’s milk.
Sell the Australian State railways ! Better
for the workers to have civil war. The command
of locomotion is more valuable than the pos session
Tat Ryan
«*•
ft
THE CHILD OF NATURE.
RYAN: “Go on, you black nigger; go on now!”
BILLY: “Well, you gib it one feller grog more belongin’ to tixpence.”
RYAN: "Be off now, or Oi’ll belt the divil out of yer!”
BILLY (picking up two racks and looking at signboard) : “Well, s’poso you no gib it grog more,
by cripes I mash yer plurry licence.”
of the land—it means practical land-monopoly.
While the public slumber the plot matures m
N.S. Wales, in Queensland, in Victoria—where
the Age is digging deep the foundations of the
scheme.
Exclusive of railway employes and State-
school teachers there are 172 sexagenarians in
Vic public service, over whose devoted heads
hangs the priming-knife of Premier Patterson.
They represent a bulk salary-list of jbbl,b/U,
which sum, less pensions, is to be retrenched. In
all, <£loo,ooo is to be saved by retiring sexa-
genarians and officers of 30 years’service.
Mr. Schnadhorst, the world - famous
organiser of the British Liberal-party, lias been
staving at the Australia Hotel, Sydney. ‘ Eleven
years ago,” he says, “my friend, Dr. Garran,
(then and until lately editor of the Foreign-trade
S.M. Herald) “told me that Freetrade was
doomed in Australia.” Of course, the foreign-
trade papers don’t print this interesting item.
Ex-Premier Gillies has declined ||the Vic-
torian Agent-Generalship; he will remain in the
country and keep his cold and critical eye on
Patterson. The Premiership is stjll a possibility
ahead ; and, moreover, Duncan is one of those
intensely methodical old men who always cut
themselves in exactly the same place when they
shave in the morning, and he doesn t like change
and bustle.
Judas Johnson, M.P., of Adelaide has
been much surprised by the resurrection of a
Hansard report of a speech, made nine years ago,
in which lie inveighed lustily against all capitalistic
cliques and pinned his faith to payment, of
members. He now talks of moving for the repeal
of payment, condemns the results of One man-
one vote,” and has his doubts concerning man-
hood suffrage. They all have.
The Earl of Meath, who rushed through
this country at express speed a few months ago,
writes to say that “he has never heard of good
work being done in any eolony ■ possessing man-
hood suffrage.” The Bulletin quite believes
ttiis. There was a deaf, stupid, abstracted air
about Meath which seemed to suggest that he had
never heard of anything in particular except him-
self. We presume he has heard of himself, by the
way.
“ Where is there a railway system in the
world in the hands of the State which , ®
pointed to as even a qualified success . '
Bulletin submits that in N.S. Wales, up to
date, Commissioner Eddy has demonstrated that
it is possible to manage honestly and successtn y
and in the interest of the State a gigantic r a dway
concern. Let the workers remember that btat
syndicates are preparing to “snavel the wlO
Australian railway system.
The English cable announces that a large
slab of the Kentish coast, including about half the
town of Sandgate, has slid into the sea and
vanished. Another commentary on Canngton s
“ loyal ” shriek that England and Australia will
“ for ever form part of one mighty empire. 4lie
time is coming when samples of what was once
England will be dredged up from the bottom ot
the North Sea and dried on a bit of card so that
scientists may look at them through a microscope.
Editor Bulletin, —Be South Sydney
election, what was the matter with ex-M.L. .
Walter Edmunds that he did not run for Ins old
seat? Is it that a conservative reaction is setting
in, and a comparative Radical like Edmunds was
passed over for a “ lawnorder ” protectionist like
Manning, who just managed to get in, while the
Labour man was clean out of it altogether,
the South Sydney election is anything to go iy,
God help the Labour-party as well as the Uioos
Government at the general election. —Mackay.
According to Dr. Bacot, resident surgeo 11
of Townsville (Q.) Hospital, Cairns, a town pos-
sessing a luxuriant vegetation and a rainfall of
inches, has originated a most extraordinary
disease. The children of the neighbourhood have
acquired a taste for a sweet, red clay, found m the
district. Results : Extreme anaemia, distention
and often death. Dr. Bacot need not fret. W hen
the MTlwraithian land-grab schemes are fully
accomplished, it will take a clever child to get a
fistful of dirt anywhere to satisfy his earth-
hunger.”
Editor Bulletin, -It is a pity Mr. Fitz-
gerald, in his defence of Davitt, is not more
accurate in his statements. The occasion when
Davitt threatened the Labour-party at Newcastle
was not, as stated by Mr. Fitzgerald, when John
Morley was opposed by that lory candidate,
Hammond, but when he (Morley) went up for re-
election after accepting a portfolio and was
opposed by Ralli, a Liberal Unionist, and that
section of the Labour-party which is represented
in the Commons by Keir Hardie, M.P. for West
Ham.-— Napoleon.
N.S.W. Ex-Justice Manning’s Parlia-
mentary avowal that he 44 would rather be treated
by a clever intuitive quack than by a dull doctor
with all his degrees, 4 ’ is a valuable argument
in favour of throwing open of the Bar to lay-
advocates. The public, if allowed, would in many
cases select the clever intuitive advocate m pre-
ference to the horse-haired hollowhead. But
Manning is the first to rise in horrified protest
when the throwing open of the Bar is mentioned.
He is liberal when other people’s professions are
at stake, but stubbornly conservative in respect to
his own.
Victoria’s list of duly-qualified retrenches
begins with Oouchman, chairman of the Public
Service Board, .£l5OO a year, and ends with Julia
Coakley and Honora Foster, female warders, at
<£96 a year each. The same list that dooms
Julia and Honora contains also the name of Von
Mueller, botanist, £BOO a year. If the btate
doesn’t need a botanist, well and good; but to
delete fromtheservice-listthe names of Von Mueller
and Ellery merely to make room for other officers
of less certain competency would be more than
foolish. True scientists, such as the men named,
m iy bo in their mental prime as octogenarians.
Dear Bulletin, —I happen to know the
whole of the circumstances connected with Lilley’s
acceptance of his title, and can assure you that
very great injustice is done him l>y the paragraph
on the subject which you lately published. Ihe
draft is in existence of his letter of acceptance,
and the original of Governor Kennedy’s reply.
The whole of the circumstances (hating titles as 1
do) constrain me to say that, so far from showing
Lilley in a weak light, they show the reverse. At
the same time, I submit he should never be asked
to join the “Labour” or the Democratic-party,
till he drops the title—even supposing the danger
to his health did not last.—X.
N.S.W. Minister of Education Sutto*
admits having appointed his wife’s aunt’s grand-
son to a <£so cadetship in his department. This
is just the indictment that the enemies of the
Dibbs Government frame against it. If a Minister
is so preciously fond of the grandson of the sister-
in-law of his mother-in-law as to get him a billet,
what would ho not do for his more immediate
relations? The Bulletin believes that, as a
matter of fact, Minister Suttor has had his brother
appointed an Inspector of Agriculture. And what
special qualifications has Minister Sutter’s brother
got for such a position, beyond the fact that he
wanted a billet and is Minister Suttor’s brother?
Ash, M.P., (S.A.), who is studying law,
has been assured that his acceptance of salary as a
member of Assembly will not prevent his admis-
sion to the bar. In this particular trades-union
the man who earns money while preparing for his
examination is held to be disqualified from accept-
ing service in the devil’s brigade, but it is held
that a politician’s pay is an honorarium and not
mere wages. That also is the fiction about a
barrister’s fees. When a barrister sends in his
bill or “memo, of fees ” to an attorney he never
adds it up. The “ etiquette of the profession ”
forbids him knowing how much it amounts to.
But if the attorney pays him half-a-sovereign
short
How to keep Civil servants’ “ travelling
expenses” within bona fide limits is a conundrum
that can never be solved, unless the Gordian knot
were cut, by compelling officers to pay their own
expenses under all circumstances—a proceeding
that would often amount to a penalty. Though a
voucher were insisted on in each individual case,
the ’cute official, “ with his nut screwed on
right,” would “ get there ” just the same.
“What’s my account—er—Mr. Bung?” “Five-
pun twelve-an’-sixpence, sir.” “ All right, ‘ take
thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write’ some
more. Whack in ‘ one week’s horse-feed, £2 12s.
fid.’, gimme <£l cash, and fill up the voucher
for ’<£B 55.” “Right. An’ what’s yourn ? It’s
my turn this time.”
The Bulletin hears, on reliable authority,
that the exact attitude of G. H. Reid, M.P.,
leader of the N.S.W. Opposition, towards pay-
ment of members, and his individual action with
respect to his salary, is this ; When the Payment
of Members Bill was before the House, Mr. Reid
strongly urged that it should not be applied to the
present Parliament, his argument being that the
electors had not already received the benefit of the
“ wider choice ” which the salary was expected to
afford. When the last Parliament terminated,
there was a sum of <£s4B for back salary lying
to Reid’s credit. He drew out this sum, but paid
it back into the Treasury the same day, in order
to prevent any possible claim being afterwards
made by heirs, executors, administrators, &c.
During the currency of the present Parliament,
he has, we believe, accepted his salary.
“Nobody wants a second Chamber except
a few disreputable individuals. It is a valuable
institution for any member of it who has no
distinction, neither character, talents, nor estates.
A peer who possesses all or any of these qualifica-
tions would find himself an immeasurably more
important personage in what, by way of jest, they
call the Lower House. The. revising wisdom of a
senate is by no means necessary as a salutary
check to the precipitation of a popular assembly.
Why should a popular asssembly, elected by the
flower of a nation, be precipitate? If pre-
cipitate, what senate could stay an Assembly so
chosen-? The thing has been tried over and over
again ; the idea of restraining the strong by the
weak is an absurdity ; the question is settled. . .
The House of Lords originates nothing ; it has, in
fact, announced itself as a mere Court of Regis-
tration of the decrees of the Commons ; and if by
any chance it alters some miserable detail in a
clause of a bill that excites public interest what a
clatter through the country about the power,
authority and independence of the House of
Lords. . . You may make aristocracies by laws,
but you can only maintain them by manners.”—
Disraeli, in “ Coning shy.”
“Wait a Wee!”
A fact, well-known to physicians and all who
have studied the causes of disease, is that inaction
of the liver and kidneys gives rise to more con-
stitutional disturbance than all other causes put
together. Inaction of these organs results in re-
tention of the waste products and effete matter in
the various valves, ducts, and glands of the diges-
tive apparatus and excretory channels, where it
becomes impacted. The liver is the organ
destined to secrete a natural cathartic fluid, called
bile, intended to carry off from the system all
waste, poisonous, and worthless material by its
natural excretive action. Headaches, Constita-
tion, Aching Limbs, Languor. Tired Feelings,
Backache, Costiveness, Painful Micturation,
Giddiness, Indigestion, &c., are all signs of a
torpid liver, and serious disease will set in if the
digestive and eliminative organs do not properly
perform their several functions. Dr. Fletcher’s
Pills are prepared on a scientific principle to
prevent impaction of the luepatic glands, &c.
They act on the only rational principle of curing
and preventing disease, do not gripe or purge, but
stimulate the organs to perform their allotted
duties, increasing the secretion of bile, which
evacuates and invigorates the clogged passages,
restoring a healthy action and condition without
the annoyance, discomfort, and pain of griping
and purging. Patients are requested to get the
genuine Dr! Fletcher’s Pills and refuse all sub-
stitutes. All dealers stock them ;or post free for
thirteen penny stamps from F. M. Clements,
Newtown, Sydney.


One result 9f the increase in N.S.W.
railway freights is that goods are now
being carried by teamsters from Sydney
to Peak Hill, a distance of about 300 miles, at a saving of
30s. per ton as compared with the cost of railway carriage. '
Quaintly illustrative of the boast that the N.S.W. railways!
are run on “ commercial principles.”
J The Sydney Fresh Food & Ice Co. are going
v —' to exterminate the rabbits by freezing them out.
Of course, they expect to catch them first.
Mr. G. D. Clark moved—“ That,
in tile opinion of this House, the sale of
intoxicating liquors in the Parliamentary
refreshment-room is unnecessary, and should
therefore be discontinued.”
Mr. Suttor said the abolition of the bar would have one of
two effects—it would either drive a number of members to the bars
in the town to procure liquor, or else it would induce a number of
men to bring flasks and bottles with them.
(Motion lost.)
' ' » i \ \ \ \ \ \\ \ ’
A ST PATRICK'S DAY TRIFLE.
jimimimui m—,,
The associated publi-
cans of Sydney (N.S.W.)
have' subscribed £5O towards
■ sending an Australian dele-
gate to a conference of hotelkeepers to be held in
Chicago next year. The delegate will make it his
business to find out all about American mixed drinks.
Early yesterday bWniog Ann M ‘Kay (34),
accompanied by her son George (16) went to
the Sydney Hospital in a tab, suffering froth
very Severe burns about the lower part of
tne body. Her statement was to the eiSfct
that her husband, in a.drunken fit, JhVd de-
liberately poured a iiuantityi of kerosene
,oyer her ;»nd ignited her clothes.
An old woman named Ann Burchell, who
lives with her husband, John William Bur-
chell, at Cameron-street, Paddington, was
admitted to the Sydney Hospital last
sutlcring from a dangerous wound in tho
hdad.- A few hours previously she said she
was at home when her husband came in and
struck her a violent blow on tho head with a;
smallaxe. The weapon Indicted an exten- 1
A suggestion to landlords in flood districts.—No charge.
A SUPERIOR KIND OF HUSBAND
Citizen (just returned from Local Option meeting) : “ Well,
there’s one thing, Mary Jane, you can’t (hie) shay 'at 1 ever
burnt you up with (Ate) ker’shene, or chopped your (Ate) head oft’
with an axe 1 ”
RACIAL DISTINCTIONS.
When the modern European male arises in
the morning, the first thing ho does is to put
his head under the tap.
The Mongolian doe.i likewise—only hu. « a
cabbut i -head.
CHIEFLY IN N.S. WALES.


P<xn\cm Wo uAcV 1
Lo.ur allow rwt. to
C o vw v»vv
r (X ill I t
A-ortr I cv v.r
yt
'g'ODTftfi 1 '—’ WHat a,v« £lav’mjr
mr iriend?' §ikes__
‘
tka t Vo w.
Xvro
o
x ri^"lV'
Yesterday a capture or |
Khieves was made at West Melbourne, which |
I was remarkable, because the thieves, two i
in number, were both old men.
of them is 75 and the other i 5.76 years of
age,.
SWRSr
To
*-0M Don
:‘^S&
Duncan Glides- ' T f- il
Jshcuras depicted in
perspective ty t/ie
jnellrobcrne daily 'Press
r u **
<K
*.<jE-
N\oSeS StrikingTtie^ oc ty
‘Moses Carter. J 1 if isn'h mu.ck of cx rocK , c -f
ana ike r{our of- t
—'fair ’ft** J wiracle all -tke &oarv - -
kark^M
vo T£ - ;
D(fW^ yn ‘ or — , ' ! 7a%i U tofoose iur^r^to
£ tic. k to s y urovAd >jOU.
X>fur 's‘en. , M/eM ; 1 Ju.e s 5
'g.en.lr ivciw.u you.
<XW«3L e-V\,u-tXe4
-fb nvouk.*.
u-v £c*A k. 6 V, s
0 5
Ta'Het-s o n ■’
you —*T
U, *he*|
i i Pqi-
10 I H £L_
DERD HERD
?L RTFORIt
VufJ*'.
IN MELBOURNE—AND THEREABOUTS.


O O D SPEC.
SAFE, PROFITABLE.
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming alone:.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FHOM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from ElO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title,
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1885), :«>0 PIK-mL, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: SI. GEORGE’S TERRACE. PERTH, W.A.
To most children, the bare suggestion of a dose
of oil is nauseating. When physic is necessary for
the little ones, use Ayer’s Cathartic Pills. They
are safe and pleasant to take. Try them.
CONDITIONS FAVOURABLE TO SLEEP.
The initiation of sound digestion and the per-
petuation of it until restored. These can be
obtained by using Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. !•
EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“ sriid'M ins: ilit ii Use, when Krqnlml,
and liow lo I’nrc.lmse."
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should bq
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method ot
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists' Opticians,
463, 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY-
Society
0
sensational breach oi legal etiquette !
Last Thursday morning, in N.S.W. Bankruptcy
Court, a junior barrister arose in a matter of
accounts with, “ May it please y’r Honor,” when
Justice Manning interrupted with, “Who is it
that addresses the Court? The air is very thick
this morning, I cannot see you, sir.” The junior
immediately buttoned up his coat to the chin and
then said, “Perhaps your Honor can see me now.”
“No, I cannot, sir—l will adjourn the matter for
five minutes, then I may be able to see you. The
air may then have cleared.” The fact was that
the junior appeared in Court wearing a
black necktie and minus the barristerial “band.”
When the offending necktie had disappeared and
the band became visible the “ junior” came within
the field of judicial vision, and Justice Manning
volunteered the opinion that no barrister should
wear a black necktie even in the street. Which
reminds us that when Mr. F. M. Darley had
clambered on to the N.S.W. Supreme Court
Bench he one dav discovered “Jack” Want,
Q. 0., in a very “loud ” pair of pantaloons
whereon he promptly dropped him a note to the
effect that coloured pants were infra dig. in a
Q.C. “Jack’s” troubles! By ' the way, if
Manning J. wishes to conform to old-world legal
customs he had better get rid of that moustache.
. * * _
1 lie Victorian Missing Mace Enquiry
Board has issued, or is about to issue, a beautiful
report exonerating the House from all suspicion and
announcing that the only evidence which went to
prove otherwise was necessarily ridiculous. Some
bluff about prosecuting Brodzky was to bo thrown
into this precious document,.also the Board in-
tended to reprimand the police sergeant who
didn’t say anything because he ought not to have
said it. Whether the Board meant to draw special
attention to the satisfactory statement made by
t he brothel-keeper, or to compliment the detectives
on their mysterious knowledge that nobody had
seen the Mace except the thief they couldn’t find,
were questions still in doubt at time of writing.
An at a
leading Sydney tailor’s
was lately sent to the
consulting - rooms of a
quack-doctor to try and
collect a three-years’-out-
standing account. The
young man was shown
into the waiting - room,
and shortly after ushered
into the “surgery.” The
doctor, who was writing
at a table, welcomed him
with a nod and motioned
him to a chair near his
own. Presently he turned
to the young fellow, who
was nervously twisting his
hat about, and opened the
conversation: “ Good
morning, sir, I am
pleased to see you. You
have just called in good
time. You needn’t ex-
plain. I know exactly
why you came, and I’ll
not embarrass you by
asking too many ques-
' tions. How long has this
been going on?” “ About
three years now, I think,
doctor.” “Hah! So long
as that! Well, never
mind, I’m glad you have
come in good time. It
doesn’t do to let this sort
of thing run on too long.
Now, if you’ll be guided
by me I think that in a
month or two ” “ I’m
very sorry, doctor, but
the boss says he must
have it at once or he’ll
summons you.” “Have
what at once? Summon
me for what ? What are
you talking about?”
“I’ve come from Breeks
and Co. to collect their
account. I thought you
said you knew all about
what I wanted.” Tab-
leau.
A gory narrative of a certain Southern
Parliamentary personage, his young lady “ friend ”
and her other “ friend,” has come to hand. The
leading man in this social drama had fixed up the
heroine in a villa under the rose, and thither he
usually found his way when he wasn’t attending
to public duties or residing with his wife and
family. In the natural order of things there
came a time when the damsel at the villa began to
sigh for a visitor who wouldn’t be generally drunk
(as well as invariably red-faced and fat) when his
splay foot tinkled on the tufted floor, and as a
matter of course the necessary young man caught
her eye. Somehow the personage got wind of the
necessary young man. Public duties required
him to be in a certain place at a certain hour, and
he very properly concluded that this was the best
hour for swooping down upon the villa unex-
pectedly, for verily the fat man is wise in his
generation. Relegating the country to the care of
somebody else for the nonce, the “ protector ”
made his swoop. His worst suspicions were con-
firmed, and immediately the young interloper fell
out of the window in a hideous mass, whilst the
poor little girl pleaded for mercy with two lovely
black eyes. The irate onslaughterer further vindi-
cated his honour by killing the cat with the coal-
scuttle—and there the story ends. It is intended
as a warning for young people who are not ready
for the Mormon bridegroom when he cometh.
# # *
The drink-problem is indeed a curious one.
In the Inebriates’ Home, at Echo Farm, Middle
Harbour, Sydney, they have had several tea-
tasters, but not one representative of thewine-and-
spirit trade.
* « •
Purves, Q.C., made one last appeal for his
boy-client when the Anglo-Australian case came
up for sentence. It appeared that in addition to
being reduced to one pawn-ticket the young fellow
was also the sole support of his mother. The
mystery of how he came to “ brief ” Purves and
engage a junior counsel into the bargain becomes
more inscrutable than ever.
• » *
Jerry Wilson’s narration of his gruesome
recent experience in one of the newly-discovered
Jenolan (N.S.W.) caves, when his candle had
burnt out, and he for some time believed that he
was without matches, recalls a hair-raising inci-
dent in the life of the writer during a long and
weakening illness. To tell of this in convenient
personal form :—I was one evening in the drawing-
room of a doctor, a friend of mine, at St. Kilda,
Melb., at whose house I was going to stay for the
night. It was winter, but there was no fire in the
room. The shutters were closed, and heavy
curtains kept out all outside light. The doctor
was called away to attend an urgent case, and
departing shut the door, saying that he would be
back in half-an-hour or so. Suddenly the gas
went out, without apparent cause. As I lay on
the sofa, I fumbled in all my pockets but could
find no match. The room was in utter darkness.
Presently, I smelt escaping gas. I must rise
in my weakness at all hazards and either turn off
the gas-jets or find the door. I attempted the feat
in perspiring agony. Crash ! I fell over a mass
of brie a-brac and became oblivious for a space of
time. Becoming again conscious, with throbbing
THE DEPRESSION.
HE (to Tollie, the [?]): “Do you find the depression reduce
your receipts?”
SHE: “Yes, the married men are all so hard-up that they have
now to spend their evenings with their own wives.”
temples and giddy brain, I lay there awaiting—
what? The sensuous stupor of suffocation if the
doctor did not return in time. But should the
doctor return suddenly and strike a light?
Mangled suddenness. A reckless contempt of the
chances crept over me. I lay back, lightheadedly
laying the odds on either event and taking my
own wagers every time. My limbs were nar-
cotised ; I couldn’t move. Presently I couldn’t
speak. . . The doctor had no matches. . . .
Ho smelt the gas, and walked over and threw open
the shutters. . . My recovery was more agonis-
ing than my hypnosis.
# # #
A dandy Civil servant, co-respondent in a
Sydney divorce-suit just adjudicated upon, being
found in a strange house in company with the
respondent, and being promptly knocked down by
the injured husband, yelled as by inspiration—
“ Don’t ill-use me, , old man ; you have your
remedy.” The punching, however, was part of
the remedy.
« * •
At last Albany (Westralia) sessions, in the
absence of the R.M., W. G. Knight, J.P., was
appointed acting-chairman, and thus addressed the
jury in one case : “ Gentlemen, it is now my duty
to say a few words on behalf of the Croton. lam
not a lawyer, or I might put the case more forcibly.
The Bench are quite satisfied witli the guilt 01
the prisoners, and hope that you are also .**
• # •
A woman who has just succeeded in a
Sydney divorce-suit deposed that once, when her
husband had hanged himself, she and her mother
“cut him down.” —
A freshly “ decree-nisi’d ” wife, of Goul-
burn, N.S.W., was asserted by her husband to
have, as the result of one drinking-bout, piled up
trophies amounting to 200 “dead marines,” and
to have yelled for “ brandy ” on the morning after
her marriage.
There was a missing-word
competition (£1 entry) at Lon-
don Stock Exchange. If no
one guessed the right word the
promoter “ scooped.” The sen-
tence was: “In spite of his
great wealth Abraham Mel-
chisedech is a ———No
one guessed right. “Cad,”
“snob,” “blackguard,” “thief,”
&c., were each sent in scores
of times, but the word was
“ gentleman.”
• # •
Dear Bulletin, — I have
read with the deepest interest
“Dipso’s” experiences in the
Tyson sanatorium. I would like
very much to know if the
alcohol-craving comes on
“Dipso.” when circumstances
induce him to take a cheerful
view of things. My own
opinion does not incline to this
belief. It is simply an intense
nature realising the barrenness
of existence and seeking eleva-
tion of soul in whisky. Suppose
that whisky were not, “Dipso.”
would revel in drugs. That is
where the human race is crippled,
warped and strangled. Abolish
alcohol and other narcotic drugs
and the dipsomaniac would
substitute suicide. I repeat
that all suicides are dipso-
maniacs. With the one it is
simply a staving-off—with the
other it is precipitation.—Yours,
&c., Polype.
• *■ •
A Sunday paper says the
trustees of Sydney Free Library
“ prescribe Zola ” to the patrons
of the institution.
The most pathetic divorce-case before the
N.S.W. court last week was characterised by a
love for narcotics on the part of the man, and a
fad for “ boarders ” on the part of the woman.
Hash-house and haschish !
• # •
An Adelaide (S.A.) lawyer advertises: —
“Advice free on Saturdays.” Wonder if he
always “will be back in 10 minutes” on Satur-
days? Wonder, again, whether his Saturday ad vice
gratis is, “Call antj see me on Monday?” But
the ad. suggests that there is a widely-open chance
for a brainy, honest barrister, who (not being re-
lated to any Judge, or influential barrister, or
solicitor) may now be waiting in the nausea of
hope deferred for the briefs that come not, to pile
up a fortune, by daringly defying professional
etiquette, and advertising that he will attend so
many hours on so many days per week to dispense
summary legal advice to all-comers at (say) five shil-
lings a head. If a solicitor and barrister honestly
worked a cheap-law shop like this “in c 0.,” or
with mutual support, what a golden harvest they
would reap I
» • *
The failure of the unemployed wharf-
labourer, Emil Solenge, to commit suicide —he
attempted to put a pistol-ball through his heart —
in Hyde Park, Sydney, the other night,
is an illustration of the popular fallacy that the
heart is situated well over on the left side of the
body. Aim more centrally, ye would-be solf-
pistollers; but, once more, what is the matter with
morphia ?
* * *
The “ Home ” Government has come to
the conclusion that the “new style of Australian
Governors,’’inaugurated by Carington, is a failure,
after all. Carington stayed out his term because
he was dev’lish tired, and this was not a bad sort
of country for a fellow to yawn in. Lordlings
like Hopetoun and Kintore, not having “gone it”
very much before they came out, are probably
anxious to get back and go it a little more.
# « *
The Brisbane (Q.) Flood Relief Fund has
created a new kind of drummer-artist. 'Men can-
vass distressed families and put through their"
claims for relief “on commission.” The artificial
manufacture of destitute sufferers is an industry
by itself. Then there are sectarian engineers who
forward the interests of members of their own par-
ticular flocks, but cause to be scrutinised rigidly
the claims of those who belong to any hated rival
sect. And, of course, coming politicians—men
who are going to stand at the approaching elec-
tions —are consolidating themselves with the aid
of other people’s money.
• • «
The barmaid who talks artistically about
her mother, and has generally promised to spend
next Sunday with her aunt, is the girl that really
fetches you.
# # •
Apt 'opos Gov. Jersey’s flunkeys, what
became of Hopetoup’s? Ho invaded Melbourne
with a staff of men and horses about equal to that
of Fillis’s circus, but perceiving that he was on
the wrong tack, drew in his horns—and saved
money.
* # *
The absence of an important witness from
the Robb (Q.) aibitration-case was duo to a
dispute between him and the Railway Commis-
sioners “as to a lady riding on the cowcatcher of
an engine on the Cairns line.” She was a dis-
tinguished lady, with a letter from the Premier,
said Virgil Power. Name?
Several Melbourne ladies of the Wesleyan
persuasion have publicly resolved that baby-
shows “lower the moral tone of the community.”
The resolution didn’t attempt to explain where
the degradation came in, but from what one
knows of the tall, bony ladies who go in largely
for Kerristianity on the tract system, it is safe to
assume that they regard babies as indelicate under
any circumstances. They are not addicted to
such things themselves, and if one of them were
called upon to have a baby, the unfortunate infant
wouldn’t be suitable for a show where fleshliness
is accounted a virtue. Furthermore, they are
bound to object to twins on the ground that the
Bible doesn’t justify more than one at a time.
# # #
A few days ago the Saltwater River (Mel-
bourne) “ tragedy” was finally blown to the winds,
and the tale of the two boys who professed to
have seen a man drowning a woman in that
malodorous stream was demonstrated to bo
ordinary lying of the garden or penny-dreadful
MISS GRACE FAIRLEY ROBINSON.
(The first lady M.B., C.M., of Sydney University.)
order. But The Bulletin still waits in vain for
some explanation concerning the other witnesses
who testified so hard in support of the original per-
jury. There was first of all the woman who said
that a man rushed into her public-house and said
that he had seen the horror perpetrated and had
been bitten by the assassin. Then there was the man
who said he met, on a lonely road at night, a wild-
eyed person who said he had tied the murderer to a
fence, and the other man who said that he met a
man who said that he also had a hand in the busi-
ness, And these people, apparently, haven’t
offered the slightest explanation as to why they
kept dark about all these extraordinary proceed-
ings till the" boys’ story got into the papers, and
then came forward so unanimously ; and the men
who, they said, said all these strange things to
them don’t appear to be findable anywhere.
Were there ever any such men, or was the whole
three of him only a vision ?
# # #
We present our readers this week with the
portrait of Miss Grace Fairley Robinson, a native
of Sydney, who has j-ust taken her degree as
Bachelor of Medicine and Master of Surgery of
Sydney University. Miss Robinson’s career
throughout the medical course has been most
praiseworthy, for she has never failed in an
examination, and on more than one occasion has
been among the first flight of competitors. Miss
Robinson is the first Australienne to pass through
the trying medical course of Sydney University.
# * #
Dear Bulletin, —“ What price justice ?’
is surely a pertinent question just now in N.S.W.
A boy, charged with stealing 10s. at Lismore
(first offence), was sentenced by Acting-Judge
(Crown Prosecutor) Harris to two years’ imprison-
ment. If two years for ,10s., why not (say, in the
case of bankidefaulter Bennett) 40,000 years for
,£lO,OOO ? Is it not a mistake to make Crown
Pjoseeutors into Acting-Judges? You do not
give them enough time to forget.— Klepto.
* * •
At Sydney (N.S.W.) last week, John
Richard TTott, a fickle wooer, failed to explain
away 180 amorous letters and 60 telegrams, sent
in his recent fervent past to Margaret Scanlan,
who claimed £2OO as compensation for her lost
Dicky-bird. A ring clinched the business, and
'Judge Fitzhardinge decided that the expressions,
“Your own dear boy,” “Your own loving boy,”
“My dear,” “ My dearest,” and “ My darling,”
were worth .£3O and costs.
The moral plain of this, we think,
Is—never put your love in ink.
More pleasant ’tis, and free from slips,
To safe convey it by the lips.
# * #
111 the Australian room of the British Art
Gallery (Melb.) they have hung a harrowing
picture described as “No Admittance.” It has
something to do with Cupid and a young girl, and
the construction of Cupid is one of those things
that gives the new chum an excuse for jeering at
Austwalia. Artists may, perhaps, say that the
colouring of this gem (by a 8. A. lady) is delicate,
or that there is “ a feeling ” of something or other
in it,’but the general idea will bo tiia't the draw-
Imprudent act! His folly scared their senses ;
Had they refrained, what saving of expenses !
Nor wife alone averts the deed of awe,
A knife is wielded by the mother-in-law !
Salvation gruesome ! Vinegar and gall!
“This was the most unkindest cut of all.”


BOSE'S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshiwj.
T H E B E S T D RINK FOR ALL.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold l>y a l Storekeepers, etc.
Genehai. Agents:
JULES REWARD Sc CO.,
KENT STREET. SYDNEY.
THE VIOLENT CLOSING OF A. DOOR,
The shreiks of noisy children, tend to derange the
nervous system, while Wolfe’s Schnapps is
guaranteed always to reform it.
PEM ELL’S
WHEATENA.
The Gemi of Wheat. A Breakfast Gern.
The Euoalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Men, women, and children all do say G N U N
Darlings the best smoke of the day.
“Centenarians are born, not made.”
An Australian editor lately refused to
allow the word “larrikin” in his paper—said it
was giving a dog a bad name.
THE RHEUMATIC
Should be prompt to avail themselves of this
estimable remedy, Wolfe’s Schnapps. Its use
cannot be too strongly urged.
(> N U N Darlings burn a snow-white ash.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can.
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within five weeks from Saturday, 25th Feb.,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When tlie prizes arc awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition, particulars
of which will duly appear.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
‘ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word.
Competition Coupon.—No. 2.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or IS penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to be received by Saturday, Ist April,
1893.
The assumption of Premier G. Republican
Dibbs that the name of the new Governor of
N.S. Wales would be submitted to him in
advance for approval has proved erroneous.
The haughty stand taken by the Colonial
Office in this matter, even after the sharp
lesson given it by MTI wraith in the Blake
affair, is a logical consequence of the ex-
Republioan’s , in accepting a
title while intoxicated with the glamour of
the Court.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
ivord will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received—so deduction whatever
being hade. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies xvill be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy,
of the reputation of the paper.
/'“VN a dear night
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & CO,
(LIMITED),
Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL & LEOHLEITEE, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by ail Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’s BAND INSTRUMENTS,
338 George Street, Sydney.
:nnr of Cupid’s arm plays native art low down.
Y6t if the bestiof the Australian artists choose to
keep out of the show, they can’t complain when
shy pictures are hung as samples of local talent.
# * *
An undertaker has “ingeniously” taken
advantage of the Melb. tram-car text move. The
scriptural space quotes : “It is appointed unto
man once to die,” and next to it, is the trade
announcement ; “ Funerals economically fur-
nished.” # # *
The bush bride is a familiar study in Mel-
bourne and Sydney. The dazzling style in which
she comes to town ! The clothes are fearfully and
wonderfully made, the fashions of 30 years ago, ■
raked out’ of Fosselman’s mercery, at Wanta-
badgery, # # ,
In Wellington (M.L.) police-court, the
other day, itj transpired that a woman, 70 years
old, worked hard to keep her parents, respectively
98 and 96.
• • *
The Munmc Miner, a Georgetown (Gulf
of Carpentaria) paper, came out one recent day
with the deranged and inverted _ title, ‘ The
Miner Mundic,” but as the boss is one Brewer
this is naturally explainable ; more especially as,
on same date, it offered these graceful exhorta-
tions to “the sausage-wrapper which, out of
courtesy, we call our contemporary” :
How some journals run by capitalists in the interests o
the capitalistic classes grovel and squirm on their slimy
and liokspittal way ; how they bow down their miserable
carcases and bare their brainless, mangy heads to anything
they consider in their foul rancorous minds to be toffy,
and, like pigs, they wallow in the filthy charnal houses of
their fossilised imaginations for any lies about Hoolan,
and what they dare not print they scatter broadcast in
another way. The Scripture says that the devils went
into the swine, and we honestly believe that the swine
turned editors of some of these polluted and fester-
ing journals and when afraid to grunt them-
selves at their betters, they allow every malignant,
canting, carping cur to launch its gross, offensive filth in
them under some norm de plume or other, and then they
wallow in the strong, offensive stench and revel in their
own beastiality. Their fiendish malignancy is only
equalled by the poverty of their intellect, which reduces
them to the level of buffoons when they attempt to bray
at the Mundic Miser for its exposure of shams, hypocrisy,
fraud, and injustice. We advise these petrified corpses
to bury themselves decently, and pollute the nostrils of
honest journalism no more. These reptiles were all
created on the sixth day, at the beginning of the world,
for we read that on that day the Lord created every
crawling and creeping thing on the face of the earth,
* * *
One of the applicants for assistance from
Brisbane (Q.) Flood Relief Fund was found, on
enquiry, to be worth .£lO,OOO,
* # *
R. L. Stevenson’s experience in the Islands
shows him that even “ decent whites ” are antagon-
istic to missionaries. No need for R.L.S. to
wonder, though. Both are “business” competi-
tors —rival robbers.
# * «
The Mayor of Maryborough (Q.) has only
353 blood and marriage relatives in the town. No
wonder he is Mayor.
» # #
It has just been decided by an English
court of law that the friend who drops in to dine
with you without an invitation, is liable to be
charged for Ins meal at current public-house rates.
Surprise-parties and miscellaneous bores will do
well to make a note of this.
* * *
The Adelaide bakers have been crushed
by their masters, and must accept longer hours
and shorter pay as commanded.
# # *
The prevalent English habit of taking a
Sunday walk, to qualify for a “drink” as a
“ bona-fide traveller,” has added a word to the
language—the verb “to bonify.”
* * *
An Australian circuit-court. The prisoner
found guilty. “ Any previous convictions ?”
The local gaoler, drunk, staggered forward, indi-
cating not the convict but the jury-box, in which
his spiritualised vision discerned 24 jurors instead
of 12 (loq.): “Why, shert’nly—hie ! Sher two
foxshy fellers —hie ! —shree timesh for cattle-
shteaiink—hie !—sher twins wizzer red ndSe-hio !
—wunst f’rarson —bwoop !—sher cock-eyed pair,
shix timesh
# * *
Some more developments are reported
about the man with the lost memory. That
individual, in his capacity as Mr. Southern, left
his home at Albury on Gth Jan. On 12th Jan. a
man named Arthur Percival, sailed from Mel-
bourne for Launceston (Tas.) accompanied, it is
alleged, by a lady who hasn’t yet been accounted
for. Percival, like Southern, was a piano-tuner,
and those who knew him in Launceston swear
that the portrait of the man of the lost recollection
is he and no other. On Feb. 6, Percival quitted
Tasmania for Melbourne leaving behind him a
quantity of socks, &c., marked “A. P.”and about
three days later Southern, wearing a collar marked
“A. P.,” wandered into a Melbourne police
station and proceeded to fish for his lost identity.
Therefore it would appear that he has forgotten
more things than he is aware of, for he doesn’t
seem to remember anything about Tasmania, or
the socks he left there, or the lady who figures in
the passenger list as “Mrs. Percival,” and that
female, if she really existed, appears to have even
forgotten herself, for she has vanished altogether.
Possibly, however, the Tasmanian yarn is only
another evidence of the frantic desire to corrobo-
rate something with which the human race is so
badly affected.
# # *
With some people the desire to swallow
medicine is evidently a passion ; when they have
a spare shilling, they at once drop in at a chemist’s
and dissipate in pills, or have an orgy with a porous-
plaster or a seidlitz powder, or something. As an
evidence of this a Dunedin (M.L.) paper publishes
some extracts from the books of the local Friendly
Society’s Dispensary—an institution which pan-
ders to the unhealthy craving for senna and the
like by selling such things at reduced prices. One
regular customer, apparently in good health, has
had 172 prescriptions made up in two years. A
girl, under twenty years of age, bought 1290 iron
pills in six months, also six boxes of seidlitz
powders; and two other girls had 2312 iron pills
between them in the same period, the three of them
having jointly swallowed, in half a year, about
enough metal to make a saucepan. But the best
customer of all is an apparently sane woman who
has used 25lbs. of Glauber’s salts in six months, and
is keeping it up at the same rate. Evidently the
medicine crave is a mental disease which wants to
be studied and classified. If it spreads, as such
diseases usually do, then a new literature will
presently arise about the senna fiend who has to,
be rescued out of chemists’ shops by his patient
wife and hungry children, and who swears off every
Monday, yet reels home late every Saturday with
a bloated face and a haggard eye after dissipating
all his earnings in quinine and aloes, and who sits
up in his wretched bed on Sunday morning and
heaves chairs at his wife’s head because she won’t
go out and get him some pills and a bottle of
Gregory’s stomach-powder.
# * •
“ Warrandyte ” is the new title of Deem-
ing’s Windsor villa, and the children romp there
as gaily as Gordon wished them to do over his
tomb.
* * m
Herald, Melbourne, speaks of local “gold-
bugs.” Alas ! there are few goldbugs in Mel-
bourne now. Most of them are only silver gilt.
* » *
Sydney daily paper “ad.” illustrative of
the superstitions of the nineteenth century :
SPIRITUALISM.—For Sale a polished Divining
° Crystal, very pure, without flaw. Box 1009,
G.P.O.
The present writer has also a disused trance for
sale cheap, and a misfit elementary spirit, rather
creased in the back, which can be had at a great
reduction.
The Hebrews
know a thing or
two! When a Jew
marries out of his
religion, his chil-
dren are not con-
sidered eligible as
followers of the
ancient faith; but
if a Jewess marries
a Christian, her
offspring can be
admitted, after
conforming to the
necessary rites.
They argue it out
this way : They
are sure that the
Jewess’s children
has some of the
Chosen blood in
them ; but, in the
case of the Jew
who strays from
the fold and
marries a Chris-
tian, there is no
positive proof that
there is apy of the
Israelite about
them. “A wise
father,” &c.
# *
A Sydney su-
burban policeman
who had been
savagely kicked
and thumped
by a frantieally-
drunken rough
late one night, bub
who succeeded in
locking his assai-
lant up, entered
the cell next morn-
ing and presented
the sick bruiser
with a tumbler of
brandy- and - soda.
“You must have
a head on you,”
said the sym-
pathetic police-
man. The bruiser,
later in the day,
after trying to
prove the evidence
against him per-
jury, went off to do his sentence without learn-
ing that the battered policeman had been the
voluntary Samaritan of the morning.
# # *
Fong Gung and Ah Fat hung themsekes
with one accord and one rope at Maryborough
(Vic.), the other day. Fraternal sentiment. ine
Chinese do hang together.
« # *
Specimen of Australian grammar, from
Sydney Evening News
mHE attention of the Balmain Police is required in
-L the vicinity of Longnose Point to the danger of
Stone Throwing, Blue Metal, and ether ™'^ lles >
particularly to one house, being hardly safe to enter
your own yard. _ ...
The Australee man’s faith in advertising is
evidently something tremendous. In any other
country a man would either pound his assailant
or go for the police, but here he only inserts an
obscure “ personal” in the paper hinting that his
brains are being gradually knocked out with
road-metal.
» • *
At Cooma (N.S.VV.) criminal sessions,
an “unfriendly” juryman’s name was called.
Prisoner’s lawyer (in an Irish whisper) : Never
mind; he’s my cousin.” Crown Prosecutor
(promptly): “Stand aside. P.L. : Ha. had
him this time; good!” A “friendly ” man s
name is called. P.L. (in the same old whisper);
“Right. He’s my nephew.” Crown Prosecutor
remains silent, and the “nephew’ (bona-fide) is
duly sworn.
Captain Bullen.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Let me call him Bullen. He is a Sydney lounger
who lives mysteriously, but is generally well-
dressed, usually quite half drunk, and enacts the
military style in everything. _ His speech is a
howling caricature of the lingo of the stage
“Johnny.” He insists upon being known as
“Captain.”
One time, he rooted out a well-to-do namesake,
and introduced himself with the chilliest sang-
froid. .
“My name’s Bullen ; so’s your’s. Im Captain
Bullen, late of Her Majesty’s Naughty-North,
Cawnpore, India. Now, doesn’t it seem a pity to
you that a fine fellow like me should be really and
positively haid-up for a new suit of clothes, until
my remittances come to hand ?” , .
Then he glibly proceeded to prove a distinct
relationship between the family of his namesake
and his own, and ended triumphantly in being
introduced to his victim’s tailor.
What a time he had there ! Four tweed suits,
six hats, one dress-suit, a dozen of all necessary
items in mercery, gloves, hose, Gladstone bags
over .£lOO worth ! But still the rascally firm
of Cox and Co. forgot to send his remit-
tances, his bankers were uncommonly inflexible
“in consequence of the prevailing depression
everywhere,” his namesake host dropped him as
an insatiable sponge after trotting him around as
a newly-found cousin, and once more his ward-
robe commenced to grow seedy—that portion of it
which had not passed into the possession of his
uncle, or been hidden by masterful landlords who
objected to trust longer in his delayed remit-
C A shabby-smart copy of his former grandeur,
he lately stood with a street crowd during the
“ dinner-hour,” and listened to the evangelical
earnestness of a well-known barrister. He after-
wards sought an interview with the evangelist.
“Mr. F , you’re a fine-made man. feo mI.
I’m a military man —Captain Bullen, late of Her
Majesty’s Naughty - North, Cawnpore, India.
You might almost bo a military man with your
d
A BIT OF REAL LIFE.
Scene-North Queensland Court. Battered-looking creature who has
apparently been plying her vocation in a continuous hurricane of brickbats
and mangrove mud, convicted of theft from a drunken man.
POLICE MAGISTRATE (in deep bass tones, tinged with streaks of pity): "Hum-m-m!
You seem to have a wather bad wecord, and to have led a ah—a—
hum most abandoned life. I suppose, poor woman, gaol is the best,
in fact, the only place for you.”
RAGMENT OF VIRTUE : “Ah (addressing his Worship by his Christian name),
you didn’t talk to me like that in Brisbane, when I was a nice
little piece of 18. Then I was your own chookie-”
SERGEANT (to attendant policeman ): “Remove this woman at wanst!”
magnificent physique. Let me tell you, sir, you’d
make a grand-looking soldier. Why, I declare
that you are almost of the same build as myself, I
believe your clothes would fit me. But I, alas !
have no clothes except these shabby ones.”
The generous evangelist took the hint, and gave
Bullen a letter to take to his (the evangelist’s)
wife.
Next day, Bullen trotted out to Randwick, and,
having made his most finished bow, introduced
himself.
“Yes, my poor man, Mr. F spoke to me
about you.”
“‘ Mv poor man !’ Madam ! Do you call a
gentleman who has borne Her Majesty’s Commis-
sion ‘My poor man ?’ I tell you, madam, that I
am a gentleman—a born gentleman, madam,
temporarily embarrassed in consequence of some
stupid mistakes on the part of my English army-
agent.”
“Well, well ; there’s a little wood you might
chop, and then I’ll give you some dinner, and,
meanwhile, I’ll look over some of my husband’s
old clothes .and see what I can spare you.”
“Chop wood! Old clothes! Never, madam,
has Captain Bullen been so insulted ! Never in
my life has my profession been so disgracefully
attacked ! Captain Bullen, madam, never con-
descends to chop wood like a common beggar. I
will permit you, madam, to entertain me in the
drawing-room, if you choose; if not, madam, I
wish you good-morning.”
Anil to this day the Captain will relate, with
tears, over a “thrippenny ” pint of beer, how his
honour was insulted by those low people who
wanted him to chop wood in return for his dinner
and some old clothes.
Gi.
The first public meeting ever held in
Sydney had for its object the raising of funds to
build a gaol.
A new industry is developing in Brisbane
—the making of tanned boots for Chinamen
and dudes, from horsehides. It involves the
slaughter of a good many horses and is being kept
pretty quiet.
Messrs. Mountcastle & Sons, the well-
known hatters, of George-street, Sydney, have
arranged with the leading makers of London to
receive regular shipments of hats in all the latest
styles, and with a view to causing a boom in
head-gear of every kind and variety they propose
to make greaf reductions in prices all round.
Messrs. Mountcastle’s stock is one of the largest
and most varied in the city, and in it will be
found nearly ever kind of hat that was ever heard
or dreamt of in this world or any other. Gentle-
men’s and ladies’ straw hats a speciality, also
ladies’ sailor hats ; hats blocked, cleaned, and
made young again like the venerable Faust when
his lost youth was restored. Also, all hats
warranted a good fit, and the newest shapes
always on hand.


'm
*/
'• IDEAL.’
The NEW MODEL “ HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS; Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 42 styles of Type.
LIGHT. COMPACT. &T PORTABLE. W DURABLE.
The greatest success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars on the Mimeograph or Oyclostile, on account of no Backing, no Folding, no Cracks, and no Varnish, as by other
8 Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
t~> 33, nnTTfVivr /v sf, Australasian Agent, Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY; and 101 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
TATTERS ALL’S
Doncaster Handicap — E»ndwlcfe, April
25,000 at 10 25,000
sY ID 3XT 3E3 Y CXT r* Baiidwlch, April 3,
50,000 at io 50,000
1, I8!)3.
It 03.
(ONLY ADDRESS:
I “I'ITTIiUSUI,"
•[ C/oGeo, Adams (Owner), Tatter’
sail’s Hotel & Old Club Premises.
Pitt-st.-, Sydney N.S.W.
MEDICINES FOR THE TIMES.
IT IS CLAIMED
FOR THK
PREPARATIONS NOW SO WIDELY
AND
FAVOURABLY KNOWN
AS
Warner’s Safe Remedies,
That they deal directly and promptly with the
Complaints for which they are prescribed.
SAFE CURE,
Is for all Kidney, Liver and Urinary Disorders,
Bright’s Disease of the Kidneys, Jaundice,
Gravel, Catarrh of the Bladder, Dropsy, In-
fluenza, and All Female Complaints.
IT IS UNEQUALLED FOR CHILDREN.
And is the
GREATEST BLOOD PURIFIER KNOWN.
SAFE DIABETES CURE
Is a Specific for Diabetes, Melitus and Insipidis.
SAFE RHEUMATIC CURE,
For All Rheumatic Affections,
LUMBAGO, SCIATICA, GOUT, &0.
SAFE NERVINE,
A Vegetable Compound Free from Opium,
Morphine and other Deleterious Ingredients—
For Neuralgia, Nervous Prostration from Shock
or Overwork, Headache, Want of Sleep, and
Apoplectic Tendencies.
SAFE PILLS,
THE VERY BEST IN THE MARKET,
SAFE ASTHMA CURE,
For All Asthmatic Affections.
SAFE PLASTERS,
Are Porous and Pain-Relieving.
TIPPECANOE,
For Dyspepsia, Mal-Assimilation, Malaria,
Bilious Headache, &c.
TAKE NO SUBSTITUTES.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE. /
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
#
*
// Sample
j copy sent
/Gratis & Post
/ Free to any ad-
/ dress. State whether
/ you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This Is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
i
INTO THR COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME. 18, Holborn. London, Eng.
On the tram, smoke GNUN Darlings.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA All Chemists.
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
WILLIAMS’S AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Preserves Furs from
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Cleanses
Domestic Pets
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE of Parasites.
Mr. JAB. E. NICHOLSON,
A well-to-do Farmer of Florenceville, iV. B. t
Canada , suffers for seven long
years with
CANCER OF THE UP-
Agonizing torture relieved, Disease Cured.
“ I am 55 vears of age, and until 1884 had al-
ways enjoyed good health. About that t'me, a
little hard bunch, like a wart, appeared on my
lower lip. Finally, the bunch gathered, broke,
and formed a sore; then it began to eat into the
flesh. The Cancer—for that is what the doctors
finally called it—kept getting worse and worse,
year after year. It caused me great pain and
uneasiness. During the last year, I would wake
twenty times in a night, suffering intensely
from twitching pains. It was as if my flesh
was being torn from me by pinchers, bit by bit.
At last, I began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
In the course of a week or two I noticed a
decided improvement. The twitching and the
pains were very much less, and the sore began
to look healthier. In three months my lip
began to heal, and, after using the Sarsaparilla
for six months, the last trace of the Cancer dis-
appeared, and left very little scar.”—J. E. Nich-
olson, Florenceville, N. 8., Canada.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer ACo, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
S.EACH.
h
5. EACH.
d
ON THU
Sydney G- old. Gup,
April 3, 1893.
At 5 each 20,000 At 5 each
First .. .. 1500
Second .. .. 500
Third .. .. 250
♦
5..(d.) .. .. 60(|
N.S. (d.) .. .. 40g
Other prizes see circulars.
345 EXTRA 345
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes
Address to “ GALA,” c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
LI
Ifl
ffiOJjggtj
CASH PRIZeIcoBtATIONS>
Oare “MANDEES,” ALBUEY, N-S-W.
NOW OPEN ON
Sydney Gold Cup. 3rd April. 10,000 at 5.
Allniry Cup. March 16. 1000 at 5 each.
Kiriliday Cup, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each
Birthday Cup, Sydney. May 24. £OOO at 5.
Grand National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 5.
Grand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully;
“ Robin Hood,” c/o. Manders’ Telegram Agency,
DEAN STREET, ALBURY, N.S.W.
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over 20 Years before the Public of N. Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN :
SYDNEY GOLD CUP.
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000
at
10
Be sure and register your letters and take care 0/
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
•ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
Programmes Sent on Application.
f
CASH PRTZeIcOHSULTATInKI^
CARE
Manders’ Telegram Agency
Dean-st., Albury, N.S.W.
These are no bogus or bubble schemes,,
but legitimate enterprises.
NOW OPEN SSL
“ Southern Cross ”
GENUINE
PRIZE CONSULTATIONS.
RELIABLE DRAWING AND PROMPT PAYMENT.
Efficient Guarantees Given for These.
ear NOW OPEN -is*
on the
SYDNEY GOLD COP
(3rd April).
10,000 at 5 is* 10,000
as follows:
First 1000
Second 300
Third 150
S. (d.) 150
N.S. (d.) ... 150
20 at 20 400
20 at 10 200
20 at 5 100
50 at 1 00
Less 10 per cent.
In the event of Consultation not filling, the prizes
will be pro rata.
In the event of the Consultation not filling to the
extent of one-half, the 50 Prizes at 1 will not be
allotted, but 10 extra 5 Prizes will be allotted pro
rata in their place.
SPECIAL PLEDGE.
We undertake that each Consultation will be
conducted by a committee of disinterested gentle-
men under “ The Sportsman ” Check List System,
which renders fraud impossible. For further par
ticulars of this, send for prospectus, or see Spouts-
MAN of January 4, 1803.
State clearly the amount enclosed, and send twc
unattached stamps with addressed envelopes —one
for reply and the other for result. Make sure and
register your letters, and Detain your receipt.*
until you receive a reply.
NOTE 'i
the J-
Address J
“SOUTHERN CROSS,’
Care of J. S. WINTER,
I*.©., Albury, N.S.W.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Abington Baird’s death is cabled. He was a
fine athletic Scotch blackguard, the champion gilded
tough of Britain, a splendid rider, good boxer, and
started life with a huge fortune got by his father out of
iron. He died of inflammation of the lungs, acquired
while seconding Hall in the Fitzsimmons fight at New
Orleans, and his loss will be most felt by jockeys, pugs,
and Mrs. Langtry, to whom he wrs a kind friend. His
death will probably stop the Coibett-Mitchcll fight. He
was Mitchell’s backer.
# • •
Cabled that two men, while fighting, were
blown to bits by 7 dynamite which one had in his pocket.
Picturesque and suggestive item.
# # #
Glove-fighting in Australia is now dead. Police
interference has killed it. The united Australian autho-
rities should now unite in placing at the disposal of (he
few thousand dirty savages who have so long lived as
parasites on the game, a big steamer, bound for Yankee-
land, the earthly paradise of the pug. If they aren’t
shipped away they wi.l be throttling the police and biting
citizens’ ears off for a living.
* • *
N.S.W. Agricultural Society opens its Autumn
show at Moore Park, Sydney, on Wednesday next, 29th
inst. Entiies generally are encouragingly plentiful, no
less than 110 hunters and steeplechasers being entered for
the various jumping contests. It has been stated that
the Council intends to supplement the advertised prizes
for these events by giving awards to horses placed second
and thi;d. Secretary Webster anticipates an unusually
successful exhibition, despite the “prevailing depression.”
* * *
Certain Sydneyites begin to find out that the
trotting horse is not a circumstance alongside the bicycle
for stiff running. It might mend matters a little if only
the winner of each heat were eligible for the final. As
matters now stand, a favourite in his heat may be “in
the bag,” and still have a show for the prize by running
second. The bike is an animal peculiarly adapted for
running “stiff.” Moreover, he doesn’t finish with his
jaws wide open when held back, nor is it necessary to run
him off the course when unable to hold him back, as has
happened more than once in a trotting race. It is also a
much easier beast to nobble than the noble animal, as the
puncturing of a pneumatic tyre is much more simple than
the dosing of a horse.
* * #
Four Newcastle men drew Fortunatus in Tatter-
B ill’s Newmarket sweep. They laid the owner £5OOO, and
divided a clear £B5OO.
People say the Raynor crowd could have won
the Newmarket with Buccleugh, only they thought
Bungey could take it. Look out for Buccleugh for the
next, say, Caulfield Cup.
* * »
Geo. Giffen put up a record with the ball in an
interprovincial match by taking all the wickets in the
first innings of the Victorian eleven, bar Tarrant, who was
run out. Of the 403 made by the Victorians, 147 were
made off Gillen’s bowling.
* * •
On Saturday the Warwicks were disposed of by
the Carltons for a total of 24 runs. As an old Warwick
man, the writer beseeches the present members to dis-
band and spare the once powerful club further ignominy.
* # •
Many years ago that well-known sportsman,
“Black Bill” Forrester, was making a night of it at a
Walgett (N.S.W.) pub., when the subject of hard-hitting
came up, and a sawney-looking countryman offered to lay
a fiver that he could knock a panel clean out of the mas-
sive-looking door of the room they were in. Forrester
took the fellow up, but lost his fiver, as the yokel knocked
the panel right out at first time of asking. Sometime
afterwards, Forrester, passing through Walgett, heard
that the nails had been drawn and the panel readied-up
for the wager, and that a little fortune had been won over
that door. As luck would have it, the countryman was in
Walgett that night, and Forrester dropped across him.
The battle came off by the light of two candles, held re-
spectively by a J.P. and the police-magistrate of the day.
“ Black Bill ” got full value for his fiver.
* * *
If the N.S.W. Government really means to put
down glove-fights, it must act as the English authorities
did re the P.R. by making spectators parti ceps eritninis.
No spectators no money, and, consequently, no contest,
“cronk” or otherwise.
# * *
Hall’s defeat by Fitzsimmons is natural enough.
The former is one of the weakest hitters for his inches
that ever stepped into a ring. In his fight with Boland,
three years ago, he had the latter at his mercy, yet he
could not have finished him had the fight gone on, and
since then “ flash ” company has told its tale on Hall.
* # *
Hanton, One of the chief Adelaide Freemasons,
who piloted Wyllie, the “herd laddie,” on hisS.A. tour,
dropped dead, March 11. His chief recreation was
draught-playing, and he never grew tired either of
winning or losing, his temper being imperturbable.
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —You describe Fitzsimmons as
1 a Maorilander.” What can he be classed as ? Before
fighting Hall he took out his naturalisation papers as a
U.S. citizen. He was born in Cornwall, nominally an
English county, but as Celtic as Mayo—hence the clan-
nishness of Cousin Jack. His parents were pure-bred
Irish—his father a policeman, who had to leave the force
for his Home Rule proclivities. Fitz. was reared in Maori-
land, and received his “ education ” in Sydney from Peter
the Great. The “tight” given to Hall at Foley’s was a
“cronk” affair, but the tr'al at Mortlake, which Fitz.
won, was genuine enough. “ Pendragon’s ” description
of the late Tom King, “one of those lean kine who possess
much vitality,” applies to him. Richardson, the middle-
weight, is very much like him. You say Fitzsimmons
should not tackle heavy-weights. The same advice was
offered to Mace and Sayers, but they beat the big ones.
Weight goes for more in a glove-contest, but for all that
Fitz. need not turn his back on the best of them.—
Yours, V.
• * •
Patterson’s scheme of retrenchment amongst
Victorian railway deadheads does not include officers of
the V.R.O. and V.A.T.C. Query: Do Ministers "dead-
head it” on to the Lawn on race-days?
• # •
Christopher Moore is more than likely to ride
the Sydney Cup winner.
* 9 *
Raramage sticks more than ever to the opinion
that Portsea would have “ romped in ” for last Melbourne
Cup if he hadn’t fallen over Tirailleur.
* • #
Melbourne’s football mania has not yet ap-
proached the proportions of that form of imbecility in
the American Eastern States. The N.Y. Herald pub-
lishes diagrams of the playing space, with lines showing
the course of the ball during the game—an idea capable
of great extension. The spots where men are “ laid out ”
might be shown by a dot, while fatal accidents could be
indicated by an asterisk. Also, the place where the
umpire was stoushed should certainly not be overlooked,
but made an historical landmark.
• • •
At a Maitland (N.S.W.) cricket match, the
“ close thing ” was whether or not a batsman was “ run
out.” “How’s that?” yelled the wicket-keeper. “A
dead heat 1” replied the very amateur umpire.
A Windsor (N.S.W.) farmer is said to
have grown this season of potatoes on
14 acres of land.
The Channel Tunnel on the board again,
in the cablegrams. Gladstone is faithful to his
principle, when in Opposition, and refuses to
inhibit. This work might have been half done
now, but for the Jingo opposition of Cambridge,
Wolesley, & Co.
A Lachlan river (N.S. W.) selector recently
sold a prime fat bullock to a butcher living in the
nearest township. “It’s a fine beast,” said the
cocky, “so you’d better save me a quarter.”
“ Right,” said the butcher,” “ and we can square
up to-morrow when you call for the meat.” Next
morning, the selector called, and discoveied that
he owed the butcher, for only the quarter, 2s. fid.
over and above the sum agreed upon for the whole
beast.
The Panama Canal culprits are attacked
by the court with simple “ leading ” questions of
this kind—“ Had you no pity for the widow and
the fatherless when you spent their small savings
in criminal extravagance and debauchery ? ”
Rather rough on the prisoners who probably had
never taken anything except the cash into con-
sideration. In a big swindle every man finds it
as much as he can do to think of himself, and if
Providence allows him to make a big haul he
usually subscribes liberally enough to the widow
and orphan asylums.
Imaginary scene in some border-land
somewhere, where the over-the-boundary droving
of any diseased cattle means to the drover a tine
of 10s. per head, a further fee of ss, per head for
destroying, a 50-mile or longer ride to a township,
several days’ delay, &c. Inspector Bumpo:
‘‘H’m, yes. Several Uunpies; that’s bad.”
Drover : “ Oh, hang it, they’re all right.” “H’m,
they may be, but it’s a risk. . . Pity, too. . .
You seem a docent, good-natured chap.” “So I
am. . . (Takes outs pocket-book). . . Shake.”
There is a hand clasp ; a paper is quickly minuted;
the drover moves onward; the inspector rides
off about his business


Purify yonr Blood with Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla, the most thoroughly reliable altera-
tive ever compounded. For scrofula, boils,
ulcers, sores, carbuncles, pimples, and all
disorders originating in vitiated blood, this
medicine is unsurpassed. As a tonic,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
assists the process of digestion, stimu-
lates the liver, strengthens the nerves, and
builds up the body when debilitated by far
tigue or illness. Many people waste money
by experimenting with compounds, the prin-
cipal recommendation of which would seem
to be their “ cheapness.” The most reliable
medicines are costly, and can be retailed at
moderate prices only when the manufactur-
ing chemist handles the raw materials in
large quantities. It is economy, therefore, to
Use Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, the valuable com-
ponents o{ which are imported, wholesale,
from the regions where these articles are
richest in medicinal properties.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass.,
U. S. A. Bold by Druggists and MedicineVendore
Cures others, wil! cure you
ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it and
renders it soft and silky ; it is the best Bnllian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is m
reality very econom cai for general use; it is
the best softener and beautifler of ladies’ and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches; also prepared in a golden
colour for fair hair. Sizes 3s, 6<i,, Is., and 10,. 6a.
ROWLANDS’ EUKONIA is a pure and
fragrant toilet powder in three tints—-white,
rose and cream. Bare Is and 2s. 6 d. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, ox
20, Hatton Garden, London.
gh
N
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD.
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the LABOUR
you can produce more polish with TWO Packets
Of the "RISING SUN” than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blacklead.
B
[CHANCELLORS §>late %wckn
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria:
T. H. MATE & Co , Lc9.,
Alhiiry, Sydney, and Ke lbinrne.
m
i ■
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR an°SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
dfg
Reuter’S Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, donotafter
wards’constipate but by their general action please all whc
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
''on. The smallest and easiest to take. - Forty in a phial.
J[ Perfect Food
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK.
hd
\sr
' NOURISHING.
. DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
TUT ALTED MILK is the best food for In-
Ifl fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
TWALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-111 valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.
—British Medical 'Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros.. Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HIU., LONDON, E.C.
Q DDS AND ENDS.
Writers too frequently catch on to the odds and
ends of history to sustain some pet theory or to
uphold some mistaken notion. In 1817 John
Oxley, Surveyor-General of N.S.W., explored the
country towards the interior with the object of
finding the source of the River Lachlan. He
followed the course of the river for many miles,
but' was compelled to diverge by swamps of the
most dismal character. Heading these he was
again confronted and baffled by other swamps ;
ultimately abandoning his project in the belief
that these swamps merged into an inland sea.
This was subsequently disproved, but this scrap
has been the basis of much speculation about the
swamps of Australia, upon which was founded a
charge that the section referred to was unhealthy.
It is true Oxley encountered from exposure many
painful complaints, such as rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuralgia, and the like; nor were his
men provided with an absolute cure for these
diseases, such as an expedition of the kind would
be provided with nowadays; but there are no
grounds for the charge. The truth is that, even if
it Were so, the great preventive and cure of aches
and pains would make all things right. The
truth is, further, that St. Jacobs Oil cures all odds
and ends of pain, as witness the following : Mr.
S. H. Collins, Squatters Hotel, Brisbane, Queens-
land, was cured of a terrible pain in his ribs by
the use of St. Jacobs Oil. Mr. Thomas Craw-
ford, Standard Brewery, Sydney, N.S.W., suff-
ered 16 years with a broken ankle. He now
walks as well as ever from use of St. Jacobs Oil.
Mr. Stephen Thomas, Sydney, N.S.W., says one
of his children was cured of great pain from the
bite of a tarantula by the use of St. Jacobs Oil,
when he thought the child would have to undergo
a surgical operation. Mr. Jas. M. Mort, Foot-
ball Club, Melbourne, writes; “Was troubled
with cramps in my legs; but, rubbing well with
St. Jacobs Oil, have never had them since. ” Mr.
J. D. Flower, Balmain, Sydney, says: “Should
like all fellow-sufferers from rheumatic gout to
try St. Jacob Oil. It cured me.” Such are its
unrivalled virtues, that everything in the shape of
pain succumbs to it.
CARTER & C°?
jpUAL Table
{Non • RtVERSIBLEV 1
rpulS Ingeniously Constructed KIU.MKI) DIMMG-
J. T» ISLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction. Billiards have no equal, oombin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES-25 to 37 % Gu neas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, JJniversity-St.
<G>
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab’e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
3RAHAM & MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
lA
Lancet
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. Alexr. Paterson,
801 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
No Cure, IST o Pay.
iippi:\\v
o >7'
0 q
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
I cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you.. II it does not we will promptly return the full
amourfft paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call artA*amine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and rSwelist '("post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. ' Address-
Gorman Electric Appliance Agency.
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
-
vmM
It CM
&3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS
A-ID
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor :
H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY,
ity Retail Agenc3 r —J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George sb
Wholesale cl Elliott Brothers. Limited
O
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.’
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at th(
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Land A Building Co., Limited,
PITT and BATHPRST STREETS, SYDNEY
Are prepared to I.EASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’sGrant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
US' As an illustration For a Block, 5 acres, at
.£lO per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared ; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
£1 17s. 6d., £2 10s., £3155., £s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the £5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate ; or
VVATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney
GOLD! GOLD- GOLD! Western Australian
Goldfields afford to Investors and others a certain
opportunity of recouping all recent losses. Information
can be obtained by applying to THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
MINING SYNDICATE, Salisbury Buildings, Bourkc
Street West, MELBOUNRE.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, March 21, 1893.
L LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govkunmknt Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal-
lerawang, at Cooerwull.
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Port Macquarie to
Arm i dale
Bridge, Naraoi River, at Walgett
Construction of Tramway along Regent-street,
Sydney
Completion of Wilson’s Creek Bridge, road Lis-
more to Brunswick. Fresh tenders
Repairs, Post and Telegraph Office, Port Mac-
quarie
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge, Back Creek, at Marsden-road, Marsden
to Lake Cowal _. ,
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Plant for
Tabulam. Clarence River
Bridge over No. 2 Gully, road Demliqmn to
Wakool Bridge .
Bridge over No. 3 Gully, road Demhqum to
Wakool Bridge
Bridge over No. 4 Gully, road Demliqmn to
Wakool Bridge
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River at Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Oollarendebri
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalbaven River at Bombay Crossing
road
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
,£49.460 worth for <£l.
See Amusement
Column
The board of directors of the Melbourne
Tramway Go. have resolved to dismiss 18 employes
who took a prominent part in the attempt to form
an association* According to the kind of law that
is meted out to the workers under similar circum-
stances the board badly wants to be gaoled for
intimidation.
The first issue of the Deutsch-Austral-
isohe Post, a nicely-printed, Sydney eight-page
sixpenny weekly, devoted to German interests in
Australia, is to hand. The paper is apparently
non-committal as to local politics, with a leaning
towards the introduction of the referendum.
There ought to be a small fortune in a good
N.S.W. German paper.
That 15-year-old beauty—now a self-con-
fessed liar —who was found lying under the seat of
a Melbourne railway-carriage, the victim of an
impossible story of assault, seems to have been
prepared for her strange experiences on the
orthodox system. “The only picnics she ever
went to were those in connection with the Sunday-
school of the church which she attended,” and
her domestic service engagements were with an
organist and a parson respectively. Yet she con-
trived to go upon an unaccountable journey in a
mysterious new hat —instead of waiting patiently
for the next picnic.
The Bulletin would like to be behind the
dure when the Reverend Fathers Cassidy and
Morrissey, of Maclean, N.S.W., interview Car-
dinal Moran re the awful “belting ” (which cul-
minated in a police-court assault case) received by
Morrissey at the hands and feet of Saint Cassidy
on Parthrick’s night or thereabouts. Morrissey, it
came out, was in quest of “ light refreshments ”
(interpreted as “ale,” but possibly chlorodyne,
seltzer-wather, or ginger-woine) at 11 p.m., and
there were at first believed to be petticoats in the
case. To quote Patrick Francis Card. Moran :
“Cold water is the only cure.”
In England, one or two years ago, a
mechanic married a young woman who was a
ward of the Court of Chancery, She had a
fortune of £4OOO which brought in an income of
<£l2o a year. The Court settled her money on her
at her marriage, and spent £lOO in doing li-
nearly a whole year’s income. Shortly afterwards
she was attacked by consumption, and the doctors
ordered her to a warmer climate. She applied to
the Court for permission to use <£2oo of her money
for travelling expenses, and the Court considered
the matter for six months. She died while it was
considering. Then the Court solemnly refused
the application, and charged .£4OO in law costs for
thinking over it. Evidently Chancery is much
the same as it was when Dickens cursed it many
years ago. Nothing ever changes much in Bull-
land.
A New Plymouth (M.L.) parson of the
good old Tory type, wrote to the local paper
recently about the viciousness and drunkenness
of the unemployed, and the folly of the Ballance
Government in establishing a Labour Bureau for
their assistance. The rev. gentleman, it appears,
had travelled in a coach some time in March,
1891, with five labourers who, on account of their
alleged poverty, had been furnished with passes
from the Bureau at the cost of the State; yet
these individuals had abundance of money, and
drank copiously at every hotel they passed. The
Wellington Times thereupon pointed out that the
Labour Bureau was not founded until June, 1891,
therefore it couldn’t have issued free passes to
anybody at the date of the alleged occurrence.
After that, a great silence came over the New
Plymouth preacher, and his explanation of the
awful discrepancies in his yarn hasn’t yet been
forthcoming.
One of the most agreeable residential
retreats for the jaded man-about-town, or the
touring visitor from the country, or the travelling
accidental from the outside elsewhere (phrase
copyrighted), or the family in search of home
comforts, or the groom and bride in quest of a
quiet elysium, is the Royal Hotel, Randwick —a
commodious licensed mansion, situated in one of
the most delightful parts of one of the most
healthful of Sydney suburbs, and under the
veteran supervision of that accomplished caterer
and endearing host, T. Brown. The Royal Hotel,
Randwiclf, is run on the most liberal lines, and
strives to meet at every point the demands of the
most fastidious. Within a tram-drive of the busy
city, breezily overlooking the picturesque resort
of Coogee Bay, backed by the blue vastness of the
Pacific, and strong in its internal appointments
and accommodation, the Royal Hotel, Randwick,
offers an array of special advantages seldom to be
found beneath one rooftree.
A company working on the “ common-
wealth ” system does occasionally enjoy a whiff of
real bliss in Australia. The constitution of a
theatrical commonwealth being thriftless and
irrational, each actor and actress starts by fixing
a fancy value to his or her services on a maximum
salary list. Thus the fifth-rate barn-stormer, who
has never been offered more than £5 a week by a
responsible manager, charges himself to the
commonwealth at £l5 a week, and the others of
the company inflate their values in like proportion.
If, perchance, these strolling players make a couple
of lucky pitches in succession, the week’s receipts
may run into “full salaries,” whereupon every
man and woman assumes the self-satisfied appear-
ance of a superior artist. Next week the receipts
of the commonwealth fall to, say, quarter salaries,
and the week after that sees the gallant enterprise
collapse for want of any sort of reserve fund to
feed upon. Then the commonwealth crawls back
to Melbourne or Sydney, where the male members
lean against verandah-posts and talk airily of
their “price.” “Mine is £l5 a week,” says the
chief barnstormer. He snorts at a bona-fide offer
of £4 a week for a six months’ engagement, pre-
ferring to starve on the glorious recollections of
that particular Saturday night when he achieved
his record. Eventually he dies of indigence and
exposure to the weather, murmuring in the last
remnant of a groggy voice : “ My price is £l5 a
week.”
Melbourne has now its own Yalentine-
Baker sensation, with chloroform trimmings and
a precocious young duckling thrown in.
All civilised races smoke G N IT N Darlings.
Not one of the big alleged bank-defaulters
of Melbourne, when brought to trial, was put in
the dock ; they were all allowed to sit on comfort-
able chairs near the solicitors’ table. But when
MacDonell, the A.S.U. delegate, who was charged,
along with Rae, M.L.A., with standing on the
pavement in Bourke-street, asked for a similar
privilege, the amazement of the Court was a
wonderful thing to witness, and MacDonell was
hustled into the dock with much energy.
An English yarn concerns a lady who,
divorced her drunken and adulterous husband and
speedily married a widower who had been her
boarder for two years before the suit. Then her
first husband turned sober, got a good situation,
and went and boarded permanently with his
former wife. There arc several morals tangled up
somewhere herein for psychologists to unravel.


medical. Herr HASSIKEUSSHN’S medical.
CELEBRATED BLOOD and NERVE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
p.
y t/>
&
w
decernee
5
&
$y
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—AWARDED—
GOLD MEDAL!
SYDNEY and PARIS.
CURED 100,000.
aP
%
o.
PRESENTEOToQtf^Is
timfo- presentedto^av^j
h.p.rasmussen Esq
!l§ X3\h
: .qAsaTOKEN of GRATITUDE C i»
FfWHiNINEcFHiS PATIENTS
* -.for Having Restored Them* fimi
vO. _. --- ~e.
s ep >B
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
100,000 Testimonials.
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain 1 ”
Indisputable Evidence.
A.LFA.LIME LOCK PILLS
(REGISTERED)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured. Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
fgh
Declaration.
I IHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
> Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmnsseu’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is oter five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.—
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor,—lt gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it fe four years since, I am as well as ever. I
shall recommend .your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.— A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, ICO
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind.
Ordinary course, 235. fld. posted. Special powerful double course,
13s. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. Cd., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
»nd Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Lock Pills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/G ; Special Powerful Course, 43/0,
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CURES THE NERVES.
Owdnary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/C.
I
.
$
X
A
", '
'■
.. ■ •
::
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The CKr.EBUATED Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alkaline
Remedies.’’ Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
1 aris and Sydney; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris ;
honourably mentioned. in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
iDiscoverer & Proprietor
OF TUB CELEBRATED AND REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
wh’ch have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
Herr Rasamusaeix’s Diploma,
Lfi
t 11 ctd ii,'T c__ rvnnc a attc u A
M\ V v INDUSTHIELS etEXPOSANTS
, EMiPltoiE m BlllilE wm Mi RaOSOJUg
KO&dCav tJlamUl^CTOt^QSt
AVEC IE TITHE DE
2 Co’Ufijx>ti2cUif'^'
M y? of ,
li a 'iiSOfc
Jgs=
4 iiirmtrt ucrc/t
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.” —Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
"Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.).
It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established .in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the lona jidcs of his testimonials appear to be well
established.”— S. A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.”— Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Testimonialß.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rass-
mussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use. —Very
truly yours, R. Adams Lugkham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and moi laches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s.
and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6-
ALL PACKETS SENT lINOItSEKVED.
A valuable Herbal Work,
Tlae Natural Doctor.”
by Herr Rassmusskn, which contains much valuable advice and useful hin
Price, One Shilling (posted).
-
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register all letters containing mone*
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
Beware of Imitations !
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS FOLLOWS;-
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT;
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide*
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.


66
This is the query per-
petually on your little
boy’s lips. And he is
no worse than the big-
ger, older, balder-head-
ed boys. Life is an interrogation
point. “What is it for?” we con-
tinually cry from the cradle to the
grave. So with this little introduc-
tory sermon we turn and ask: “What
is August Fuower for ?” As easily
answered as asked; It is for Dys-
pepsia. It is a special remedy for
the Stomach and Diver. Nothing
more than this; but this brimful.
We believe August Flower cures
Dyspepsia We know it will. We
have reasons for knowing it. Twenty
years ago it started in a small country
town. To-day it has an honored
place in every city and country store,
possesses one of the largest manu-
facturing plants in the country and
sells everywhere. Why is this ? The
reason is as simple as a child’s
thought. It is honest, does one
thing, and does it right along—-it
cures Dyspepsia. ®
G. G. GREEN, Sole Man’fr, Woodbury, N.J.
Established 1876
What is
It For?
CURE
WRITE ro»
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON I
ASTHMAJ
Q
d
cnts
ELBOURWt
Rocke
EY: Elliott Bro?
ISBAWEr Elliott ßfO^(
auldjnft ar_(
iSharlamm*
UL.SN
arland * C? .
U Treatise and Testimonials frs£
'iMfAddre^^* 0 *
=,€- * L. 0
r ..cRY c*. a
** 'p
Sr <&
3.
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May he obtained
Of any' Chemist or
Perfumer.
*°nd stre®'
V° v
Bewareofimitations. The genuine is signed
TRADE MA RK In MUSK DEEP.
fgh
DOOFORS RECOMMEND REACTS PATENT
INVICORAJ^
fOK
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says;—“l think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
‘‘ SALOiC’ May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.8.C.P., Edin., says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on.
having our now long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Olaromont, Hastings, England.
Hallo, there ! smoke G N.U N Darlings.
At Forest Lodge you can buy GN U N
Darlings.
The OMjIG-RAPH Writing Machine.
f'lii
d
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Darts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has Juskeiven the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The Niw Special No. ‘i Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be titled with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Mki.bournk,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collma-street ;
liiiisßANß, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adklaidk, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
! <£49,460 worth for XI.
See Amusement
Column.
WHAT CURES PIMPLES
jA #;
The only really successful prevent-
ive and cure of pimples, blotches,
blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin,
and most complexional disfigurations,
is that greatest of all Skin Piuifieis
and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuti-
cura Soap. For irritating and scaly
humors of the scalp, with dry or fall-
ing hair, red, rough hands, chaps,
painful finger ends with shapeless
nails, and simple humors of the skin
and scalp of infancy and childhood, it
is simply infallible.
CUTICURA SOAP
A marvellous beautifies of world-wide celebrity, dm* So« “
parable as a Skin-Pnrifying Soap, unequalled for tbe Toilet and wotbo.t a uvaljor
the Nursery. Absolutely pure, delicately medicated, cxquisi c y pet ,
the whitest, clearest skin, and softest hands, and prevents inflammation and clogg
of the pores, the cause of pimples, blotches, blackheads, red and oily skin, and »
complexional disfigurations. It derives its remarkable medicinal properties. horn
Cuticura, the great skin cure, but so delicately are they blended with thepurehi
toilet and nursery soap slocks that the result is a «U>
superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling m e ic y
passing in purity the most noted and expensive of toilet and nursery soaps,
prevention of facial blemishes, for giving a brilliancy and freshness o
plexion, and for cleansing the scalp and invigorating the hair, it is without pe .
Sale greater than the combined sales of all other skin soaps. Sold everywhere. 5 •
Skins on Fire
with Itching and Burning Eczemas, and other itching,
scaly, and blotchy skin and scalp diseases, are relieved
by a single application, and speedily, permanently, and
economically cured by CUticUra Remedies, the greatest Skin Cures, Blood Purifiers an
Humor Remedies of modern times. Price: Cuticura. the great Skin Cure, 5° cents CuTtcuKA
Soap. a S cents; Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, sr.oo. Prepared by Poster Drug
and Chemical Corporation. Boston, U. S. A. *9"“ All about the Blood, Shin, Scalp, and
Hair,” 64 Pages, 300 Diseases, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent-
NERVINE.
MARSHALL’S TONIC
OSIBINAL and BEST TONIC. OFTEN IMITATED.
Tonic has been fully borne out, and 1 can confidently recommend it to all those snnilaily a
U.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
E B —MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE is warranted to he absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs.
On Sale Everywhere at 3s. and 3s. 6d. a llolfle.
M a RSHALL BROS.. Sole Manufacturers.
NEWTON & LAMB,
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS OF OFFICE FURNITURE,
LIBRARY and OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. HAT STANDS.
ENCLOSED WASHSTANDS. COPYING PRESSES, &c.
d
FALL FRONT- PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAK,
WALNUT, &C. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS and STOOLS.
The “Commercial” sft. Roll Top Desk, £l3 10s.
THE LARGEST and MOST VARIED STOCK in AUSTRALIA.
BOARD-ROOMS and OFFICES FITTED Ur. DESIGNS and ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
SPRING and O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH), Q
■-f y-, Brighton of New Soutli ales.
A ,v,A S f PnnifmtaVilfi Hitrh-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing 1 arties, specially
suitable for I annhes,
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTBR Proprietress.
A CARD.
To Merchants, Mine Owners, Captains. Pearlers and
Dealers in Pearls and Precious Stones.
ISIDOR BRAUN,
17 Hatton Garden, London, EC.
Broker in Pearls and Precious Stones (Established, 1872)
wishes to receive direct consignments Of all kinds of
Pearls and Precious Stones, rough or cut. Commission
2% on parcels over £lOO. Advances made on London
valuation. Speciality, Pearls and Opal-Ore.
ELECTRIC PILLS. —For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Electric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, al 'd
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. fid., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, «8 Bourko Street, E., Melbourne
“ Briticisms ” is a Yankee word, in revenge
for “ Americanisms.”
Litterateur : I have been trying all nxy
life to find Bohemia, and never could.
Mrs. Kindly: “My little boy being so
fond of animals, I am going to make him a
butcher.”
A perfect smoke —G NUN Darlings.
“M. Baugniet, the painter, delights in
those women on whom the disfiguring blight of
labour never falls.”—Currie.
Paradise —smoking a G N U N Darling.
There is a Newtown (Sydney) man named
Elsbab. When, one of these days, the compositor
alludes to him as Mr. B. Elsbub the band will
begin to play.
Great and small smoke G N U N Darlings.
A Gundagai (N.S.W.) publican was, the
other day, robbed of .£135. 5400 spurts of striped
devils gone in one act. Does any middle-class
t-v|p«rnan except a publican ever hold =£l3s in one
lump?
Wo worked through spring and winter, through
summer and through fall,
But the mortgage worked the hardest and the
steadiest of all. —Cakleton.
Community-given value, or unearned in-
crement, would be a much better title than unim-
proved value of land. Half the people imagine
that if you “ improve ” a piece of land it then
becomes impossible to tax the unimproved value.
Dear Bulletin, — In proof of your con-
tention that flogging does not reform, take the
ease of George Mulholland, convicted at Sydney
Quarter Sessions, last week, of malicious injury.
In July, 1884, Mulholland got 25 lashes for
assaulting a Chinaman. About a year later he
was again before the court for assault, and ever
since he has been continually “up” for such
offences. Nothing has had any effect on him. —
11. de S. [Flogging having failed why not try the
thumb-screw, and matches under his nails? — Ed. B.]
The benevolent and cheerfully pious
bootmaker is one of the latest products of civilisa-
tion—the optimistic bootmaker with a deep sense
of the uneertainty of life, and with one eye upon
the mansions in heaven and the other upon the
hoof-cases of this transient earth. A Sydney
medico has handed us a circular, printed in golden
ink on violet paper, lately issued by a Balti-
more (U.S.) dealer in clogs and bluchers, to his
customers: —
FOURTH ANNUAL GREETING,
Merry Christmas. Happy New Year.
J. B. BORIOTTI,
Artist and Manufacturer of
Ladies’, Misses’ and Gentlemen’s Fine Hand Sewed
Button Boots and Shoes,
419 E. Baltimore-street, Baltimore, MD.
In silent awe I tremble, O God, before Thy Omnipresence.
Gentler my heart doth beat, and my True Faith in Thee I
keep.
I feel, I feel, present art Thou also here, while I do wish,
to My Patrons Dear,
A Merry Christmas and A Happy New Year.
Kind Miss :
How brightly and serenely are the hearts of
God’s Daughters and Sons when they do hear the words,
Christmas is coming ! It is here !
Oh ! Holy, Merry, Happy Day, God’s promise has been
fulfilled, for His Holy word is imperishable. Whosoever
has faith in Him shall never perish.
Faith brought Salvation,
Faith brought Civilisation,
And Faith discovered America.
As my patrons, by Divine guidance have walked the
path of righteousness in the past, I shall ever pray the
Lord God Almighty to guide them on the same path in the
future, for great will be their reward.
Thank God and the noble Ladies, Misses and Gentlemen
of this lovely City of Baltimore and State'of Maryland,
also the following States, viz.; California, Georgia, Massa-
chusetts, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and
Washington, D. C., business in the past year has been fair,
although I regret having been unable to secure a con-
venient place for a moderate rent to receive my dear
patrons, nevertheless 1 hope the time is not far distant
when also that shall bo accomplished. With devotion I
most respectfully renew my heartfelt thanks to you tor
your benevolence of the past, and by Divine inspiration
imploring the same in the future.
With tenderness of heart and joy I repeat Merry
Christmas and Happy New Year to you and all.
Always praying for a bountiful harvest and a prosperity
in the future as in the past,
I remain as ever in God Faithfully,
J. B. Boriotti.
N.B. —Please, I pray! kind Ladies, Misses and Gentle-
men and their friends to send their orders for Spring and
Summer footwear early in January or February, so I shall
have ample time to fill their orders better and have them
well seasoned, the same to be delivered between April and
July at their pleasure. Also for the Autumn and Winter
footwear, early in July or August, and your footgear will
be ready before the frost will appear.
Meanwhile business will be conducted as heretofore by
sending me a postal card.


AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
DiRECTORS-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A.. Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; J. R. HILL, Esq.; A. W
MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Accumulated Funds: Ten and a-Half Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Royal Agricultural Society of KTew South. Wales.
29th MARCH to 4th APRIL, 1893.
EXTRAORDINARY SUCCESSFUL ENTRIES !
PROMISES TO BE THE “GREATEST SHOW” EVER ACCOMPLISHED BY THE SOCIETY.
GREAT ANNtfAL EXHIBITION!
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY.
RECREATION
PASTIME
SPORT
HORSES
CATTLE
POULTRY
DOGS
MANUFACTURES
MACHINERY
INVENTIONS
FARM PRODUCE
DAIRY PRODUCTS
ORCHARD PRODUCTS
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
EDUCATION
EDUCATION
EDUCATION
110 HUNTERS
In
ADMISSION, Is.;
and STEEPLECHASERS! 19 PONY JUMPERS!
Prizes JBSOOO In Prizes
CHILDREN, 6d. E. W ebster, Secretary.
Caution : Each GN U N Darling is branded
“GNU N.” Refuse all others.
Thc equitable
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS I
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. £l(>7,6S4i,:t<>6
New Business, 1891 48»5C0,319
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,45fi,81l
Apply for "TON Tl N E TRIUMPHS"
and Specimens of Actual Results.
SYDNEY BRANCH I
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society's perma-
nent building)
Junction of Huntor, Pitt & O’Connoll atroot#,
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre
■ (Late the GARRICK) Castlereagh Street.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
| Mr. II Altlt Y KICKARPB "
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
49 REAL GENUINE ARTISTS 49
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is.; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
startling and triumphant success
of the
Great English Sensational Play ,
‘ im: a. iest t o ivn .a. nsr.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE
yi
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d.; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 15a, £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 35a, £2 155., £3 15a £4105., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 35a, 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT’S (copy rich ted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure hook. The secret out. No pled .'e of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
“ Faust XJp to Date.”
SATURDAY, March 25-“ CARMEN UP TQ DATA.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
£49,460 worth for £l.
IMPORTANT.
TO the present and intending Shareholders
in THE EQUITABLE BUILDING
SOCIETY.
Sirs, Acting under instructions of the
Committee of Management, we have made—
during subsidence of water —a personal inspection
of all the various properties forming the Prizes
for Ballot of May 20th, with a view of ascertain-
ing to what extent any of same had been affected
by the recent unprecedented Flood. We have
to report as follows: —“Out of a total of 2,403
Prizes we found only 34 had been affected by
flood water, and most of these to a very slight
extent, 28 of them being unimproved allotments
upon which ‘back’ waters of flood only just
lapped. The First Prize, valued at £130,000,
was conspicuous as one of only four Bank Build -
ings in Brisbane well above height of flood.”
We are, gentlemen, Yours faithfully,
GEO. K. JOPP, Licensed Surveyor.
LESLIE G. OORRIE, F.Q.I. A., Secretary.
Anyone can obtain one share upon the payment
of ill. No Shareholder can be made liable for
any payment beyond the ill.
See advertisement in other issues of this paper,
or for full particulars, apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or OORRIE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win worth*
■i MH.-r
m
I
HIS
. - ' *
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Xow ready) post free Is Cd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M'hn. PANZA, Box 913
0.1*.0., Sydney.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
' PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
£49,460'
See Amusement
Column.
Amusements.
(SCHOOL OF ARTS,
COMMENCING
SATURDAY, Ist APRIL, 1893.
Admission—3s., 25., Is. and 6d.
Doors open 7 p.m., commencing 8 o’clock prompt.
Carriages 10 p.m.
Professor ALBERT RICHARD, M.E.
(Paris and Melbourne)
The FAMED
MEDICAL
ELECTRI-
CIAN is de-
monstrating
upon his
own merits
his skill and
unique ori-
ginal system
of Medical
Electric
Treatment
in the above
hall ; treat-
ing the halt,
-V
lame, par-
alysed, deaf,
etc., free of
charge every
evening, in
full view of
the audi-
ence; and
concluding
this demon-
strationwith
a refined
laughter-
provoking
and Electric
En tertain-
ment.
EVENING PROGRAMME:
First Part—Sensational Lecture, "Battle of Life.
FIVE MINUTES INTERVAL.
Part 2.—Searching the Professor in and out The
Ladies’ Electric Roses and Oranges. The Gentlemen’s
Electric Experiment. The Electric Sword Duel. The
Electric Water Cup. The Electric Pony Ride. The Boy’s
Wat-whoop Dance. The Sparkling Electric Tray, Sword,
and Revolver. The Electric Explosion. The Electric Gas
Finger Lightning. The Wonderful Charge of Electricity
through the Professor’s Body.
Special Notice The Halt, Lame, Deaf, &c., desirous
of being treated free of charge during the Electric Enter-
tainment and Public Healing Demonstrations, must come
provided with a letter of recoram mdntion from a Magis-
trate, to vouch that the case is genuine, and to receive a
free admission ticket.
All bad cases, such as those on crutches and in Bath
Chairs, &e., must be seated in the Hall by C p.m., to avoid
Ticket Box open 2 to Land re-open 7 p.m. NO FREE
List (Press Excepted).
(Melbourne Evening Standard, 31st December, 1892).
Professor Albert Richard, M.E., of Paris, who has been
effecting startling cures by means of his electric treat-
ment, gave a farewell electric entertainment at the Town
Hall, on the evening of 13th January. The entertainment
was under the patronage of His Excellency the Governor,
the Countess of Hopetoun, His Worship the Mayor, and
leading Members of the Legislature.
SPECIALIST FOR BOTH SEXES.
Paralysis, Rheumatism, Spinal Affections, Locomotora-
taxy, Sciatica, Gout, Epilepsy, Hysteria, Loss of Speech,
Eyesight, Deafness, Liver Torpidity, Dyspepsia,
Cramp, Varicose Veins, Debility, Neuralgia, Constipa-
tion, Writer’s Cramp, Exhaustion, Sleeplessness, Im-
paired Vitality, &o.
Melbourne Standard,
14th January, 1893.
" AND THE PEOPLE MARVELLED.”
Extraordinary Exhibition at the Town Hall.
The Electric Healer and His Subjects.
PROFESSOR RICHARD WORKS HIS WONDERS.
The Halt are made to Walk and the Blind to See.
In these days of scepticism, w hen even seeing is not
believing, and faith must be preceded by practical demon-
stration, no man can successfully lay claim to powers he
do?s not possess. The mountebank is soon discovered,
and however the public may have regarded the claims of
Professor Albert Richard when he first came amongst us
as an electric healer, it must be admitted we have been
given irrefutable evidence of the extraordinary powers
he lays claim to-evidence sufficient to satisfy any ordi-
nary mortal that he is not a mere pretender. He has not
laid claim to any unnatural gifts, to the ability to perform
miracles, yet he has accomplished cures in the presence
of hundreds of spectators that in other times and by
other people would only be regarded as miraculous. How-
ever we may have hesitated to accept his claims to extra-
ordinary healing powers, his exhibition at the T >wn Hall
on Friday evening last in aid of the Creche must satisfy all
who saw him operate on the subjects who presented them-
selves that he can accomplish great things. Amazed the
gazing public ranged around ; and stfll they gazed, and
still the wonder grew 1 .
The conditions under which the healer worked were
against all possibility of fraud or empty pretence. He
does not claim to work miracles, nor does he insist upon
faith as a corollary to his cures. Such palpable nonsense
he eschews; he is an electric healer, pure and simple, and
while he does not pretend to cure everything that comes
before him, from a hunchback to a wooden leg, there are
few cases to whom he does not give relief. The Town Hall
was well filled on Friday night last by an audience that
had paid for admission, that had come to see these
wonders for themselves, and on the platform were seated
several representative citizens. Mr. Zox, M. L. A., occupied
the chair, and beside him w ere Messrs. Taverner and Foster,
M.’sL.A. ; Dr. Maloney, M.L.A.;Dr. L. L. Smith, M.L.A.;
Dr. Woinarski, and several others equally well-known,
who watched every feature of the entertainment with
evident care. Every provision was made to satisfy the
spectators of the bona-Jldes of the oases. The sufferers
had to come provided with a letter of recommendation
from a qualified physician, surgeon, magistrate, minister,
or priest, certifying that they were fit cases for treatment,
and unis** «r« look upon hall tbs parsons of ths Mstro-
Amusements.
polls, a few members of Parliament, and the great bulk of
the suburban mayors as in league with the medical
electrician, we must accept all those treated last Friday
as “hopeless incurables.” They came up as such, but
they went away in the enjoyment of their lost faculties.
The first subject treated was a young girl who had
been almost hopelessly deaf for twelve years. She was
accompanied by her mother, and was recommended by
two well-known citizens. As the professor remarked, it
was like making a stone-wall hear. The operation of
making the deaf to bear was carried on in fall view of the
audience, with all the theatrical effect of slow music from
the orchestra in the background. The girl was nervous
and frightened, crying loudly while under treatment. In
less than five minutes the “stone-wall” heard and
answered all questions put to her in an ordinary tone of
voice. The spectators, thoroughly convinced of the
efficacy of chained lightning as a liealing power when
applied through the human system, applauded loudly.
The patient is touched with no instrument, the electricity
being applied through the hands of the healer, the current
causing no pain whatever. Case No. 2 was a blind man
from the Benevolent Asylum. He had not seen for years.
His eyes were in total darkness. Before being touched
by the healer he was critically examined by the medical
men on the stage, and pronounced as difficult a subject
as a doctor could care to deal with. Yet in almost no
time the man saw distinctly, distinguishing in form and
colour a number of articles held up before him. The
torrent of applause that greeted this feat told of the
undoubted satisfaction of everyone present.
The blind had been made to see and the deaf to hear,
and as the next case presented itself, and Professor
Richard proceeded to make the halt to walk, the keenest
interest was apparent everywhere. An old miner, the
whole way from Eaglehawk, and recommended by the
mayor of that place, was carried up through the hall on a
chair. His boots and socks were removed, and his
trousers rolled up to his thighs. As the old wreck sat
confronting the audience he looked a hopeless, pitiable
object, suggesting the idea of one who had been resur-
rected from the grave for the purpose of the experiment.
He was paralysed in both limbs—unable to use them in
any way. The healer set to work, running his hands over
the emaciated legs. In a minute or two they began to
show evidence of returning vitality, the healer working
them up and down like pump handles, sending the stiff-
ness flying out of the joints, and causing the owner to
grow white with amazement. He had not seen those
joints unbend for years, and he was so mute with
delight that he could not give expression to his gratitude.
The next case was a woman also suffering from paralysis
of the legs. As her predecessor walked down the steps,
she was carried up by four attendants, like an overgrown
Queen of the May. She was placed behind a screen while
her clothes were being adjusted for treatment, and when
the screen was removed and she confronted the audience
the spectacle was a strange one. Her legs were absolutely
bared. She had not stood for eighteen months, and was
recommended by the Mayor of Richmond. In a few
minutes she was walking up and down the stage, having
even put on her own boots and stockings. The next case
was also a paralytic—a most difficult subject. He, too,
had to be carried up, but he walked down a very different
man, cheering with delight.
The professor called on those who had been publicly
treated at the Athenaeum to ascend the platform, and
there was a rush for the stage of men and women, who a
few weeks ago ranked as “ hopeless invalids” and “in-
curables.” Some carried their crutches with them, as a
testimony of their marvellous cure.
The evening’s exhibition was highly interesting and
diverting, and closed with an electrical entertainment
that caused a good deal of mirth. At the end the pro-
fessor illustrated his strange powers by taking a charge of
24-horse power electricity through Iris body. A hearty
vote of thanks was accorded him for his entertainment.
Professor ALBERT RICHARD, M.E., may be CON-
SULTED FREE OFCHARGE daily from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
until further notice at his private consulting and treating
rooms, 193 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
QENTENARY HALL, YORK STREET.
The Return of the Old Favourites.
The Jubilee Singers.
For a Short Season Only.
m- FAREWELL APPEARANCE
commencing
GOOD FRIDAY NIGHT, MARCH 31,
with a
CHOICE AND SUITABLE PROGRAMME.
The Company still includes
Miss MATTIE E. ALLAN, the only Lady Tenor In
the World.
Miss JULIE C. WORM LIE, the Brilliant Elocutionist.
Madamk J. STEWART BALL, the (.'harming Soprano.
Mr. M. HAMILTON HODGES, the Popular Baritone.
Mr. ORPHEUS M. McADOO, the Celebrated P-oble A
flat Bassoi
POPULAR PRICES:
.esorvcd Scats, 3s. ; Balcony, 2s. ; Gallory, Is-
Box Plan at Messrs. Paling & Co.’s.
IB I T E R I O N 111* » R , ®*
J Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Uoucicault.
NORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS !
of
Harrv and Edward Paiilton’s Modkrn Comrdt,
“ Tia^IOBI3ES. ,,
Box Plan at Nicholson's, where Stall Seats may
isoursd Six nights In ad vanes.
“Pluck is bottled energy, opened by the
corkscrew of emergency.”
Joy in Capricornia ! Brisbane ruined the
Fitzroy by stealing the dredge. Now the flood
has silted up the Brisbane to such an extent that
large steamers cannot ascend. And now the
Capricornian journals chuckle under their breath.
“ Winton ” (Q.) writes thus :—“ For every
sheep washed down by the Southern floods there
are twenty out here dead on the banks of creeks
and waterholes.” Bananaland misfortunes may
be thus summarised : Floods in the South, drought
in the West, M‘llwraith returning, Griffith on
the Bench.
Dear Bulletin, — I propose, in short, the
affiliation of the Victorian Public Service with
the Trades’ Hall Council. The present Vic.
situation is simply this The country has been
wrecked by one set of unscrupulous politicians;
now it is about to be racked by another set, equally
unscrupulous. The primary and principal victims
of the rack are to be the public servants. Despite
the fact that they hold their present positions by
virtue of a contract between them and Parliament,
or the people, that contract is to be repudiated,
and the low-salaried public servants—that is, those
nearest the people—are to be sacrificed. Like
lambs, they are filing to the slaughter. Now, why
should they ? They work, and they receive wages.
There is, it is true, a strong strain of snobbery
running through them, which makes them call
their labour “duty,” “business,” or some such
pretty name, and their wages “salary.” For all
that they do work, and they do draw wages. This
is truth. Let them acknowledge it and affiliate
with Labour, precipitate a crisis in which all who
toil, it matters not how, will be combined, and
will fight all Labour’s enemies. If they will not
do this, let them file to the slaughter and be
slaughtered. —Paul Mkll.
A writer in Woman has a few remarks to
make :
As a rule, the articles on women which emanate from
the pen of man are intolerably exasperating to the gentle
reader. Could we but return to the days of witchcraft, I
should be tempted to make friends with the blackest
magician of them all, and persuade him to grant me my
heart's desire—namely, that every man who created a
feminine ideal, and wrote about her, should be haunted
by her for ever. For instance, there is Mr. Frederic Har-
rison, his Frankenstein should be a veritable monster.
She should pursue him round the world, waving a frying-
pan in one hand and a pair of half-darned stockings in the
other. Her feet should be shod in pie-dishes and her
bonnet composed of a hair sieve, decorated with pepper-
pots. Her mathematical horizon should be bounded
by the “ quarter of an hour to a pound ” roast-
ing problem ; her botanic knowledge to the stuffing
of the Christmas goose. History should, to her
domesticated intellect, be represented by the ripe-
ness of the family cheese, and geography by the
locality of the kidneys in the beefsteak pie. I will warrant
that Mr. Frederic Harrison would soon tire of his peripa-
tetic cookery book, and implore the Lord High Magician
to send his Frankenstein to Girton for a year. The Ger-
man women have, from time to time, been extolled by
different writers as the pattern of all feminine and house-
wifely virtues. The dear Fraus are very charming, I
know, and make most excellent cooks, but they wear no
collars. I once stayed among a family of them for a
month. There were five sisters in the house, and they
had one collar among them. It was handed about from
ene to another, and it was never sent to the wash. I
watched the development of this collar with great in-
terest. The writers who wish us to take an example from
the dear good German woman should be haunted for ever
by that collar.”
A New Departure in the Music Trade.
We are living in the age of cheapness, but the
record has certainly been beaten by that enter-
prising pioneer of music, W. H. Broome, of 15
Holborn, London, England. We have just
received a copy of one of his popular series, and
for the price, which, by the way, is only 3d., he
offers most extraordinary value. The paper and
printing are excellent, in fact it is absolutely im-
possible to distinguish between it and a 4s. piece.
Not content with retailing it at this ridiculous
figure, Mr. Broome offers to send a piece of music
gratis and post-free to any applicant in order to
prove the excellence of his goods, and we should
advise our readers to take him at his word.


Kaiser William smokes GNUN Darlings.
Real enjoyable smoke, G N U N Darling^
At Woollah'rayou can buy G NUN .Darlings.
Potts Pointers delight ih G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL’S
' GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
G N |U N Darlings. G N U N Darlings.
Darlings.
A home comfort —G NUN Darlings.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and I Os., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS — Messrs. Felton, Grimwaue & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ■ Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Adams on Davitt.
15ditoe Bulletin,— As you have thrown open
vour columns to Francis Adams for what
Mr Fitzgerald, M.L.A., calls a rancorous
attack on Davitt, and to Mr. Fitzgerald for a
defence of Davitt interspersed with attacks on
Parnell, his ancestry and his followers, I hope you
will allow me a brief space to deal with Mr. F.’s
letter and Mr. Davitt’s political gyrations.
* * *
To begin with, I may state that, though 1 am
not a worshipper of Mr. Davitt, I do not approve
of the opprobrious epithets used by Mr. Adams.
But I equally disapprove of Mr. F.’s methods of
refutation. Mr. F. informs us that Parnell told
Davitt that ‘‘he would be whipped back to the
gutter out Of Which he came,” and that this
bhrasb drew front Michael a “taunt which
has 4 bitter poignancy in Ireland,” viz.,
that Parnell Was the descendant of one' of Crom-
well’S swashbucklers. If Mr. F. has not very
tellable and definite authority for his statement I
ifiay be pardoned for doubting it because it baft
not the semblance of truth. Mr. Parnell vyas not
the descendant of one of Cromwell’s swash-
bucklers, and during all his struggle with Davitt
and Healy he was supported by the “ people of
the gutter,” and his virulent opponents were the
“ middle-class ” at whom Mr. F. sneers.
» * *
“The Irish people are,” says Mr. F., “by
nature and training cold and unbending in their
attitude towards the laws of sexual morality.”
Quite so ! Mr. F. But the morality of the
question stood in the very same light before the
Leinster Hall meeting as it did after the issue of
Mr. Gladstone’s famous letter, and yet the whole
Irish people and their representatives stood by
Faynell and looked on him as the “only possible
feeder’’till English canting “middle-class” dis-
sehtA’s got Gladstone to issue his threatening
*
No Irishman could ever, with truth, throw a
“ ppignant taunt ” at the ancestry of Parnell,
for their record in Irish history is stainless and
noble, and on this matter perhaps Mr. F. would
like to have the opinions of T. P. O'Connor, M.P.,
who is a friend of his friend, Mr. Davitt:
Sir John Parnell justified the epithet (Incorruptible),
for he steadily voted, against all the proposals for the
destruction of the Irish Parliament.
the Parnells became more Irish than the Irish them-
selves.
Sir 11. Parnell was fine of the sturdiest supporters of
the Catholic claims during the many years he was a
member of the Imperial Parliament.
Where is the force of the “ poignant taunt ” 4s
to ancestry ?
Mr. F., in his squeamishness, objects to the use
of strong langUhhhi bfit he does not hesitate t 6
talk Of the l< hired ruffians ” of Parnell.
“ There never was a rivalry between Parnell
and Davitt.” Is Mr. Fitzgerald quite sure?
WePe he a little more conversant with recent Irish
histOty fie would know that Davitt was always
cOnSUtfied with jealousy of Parnell, and if he
iifieW anything of the inner Workings of Irish
political life lie would know that on more than
6nfi occasion it needed the influence of O’Brien'
and others to pacify the irate Michael, and to
prevent him from forming a “cave” in Irish
polities.
“Davitt had no desire for parliamentary fame.”
Then why did he enter Parliament so soon after
Parnell’s death ? His ill-concealed jealousy kept
him out of Parliament during Parnell’s life,
because he knew that he could not be leader, and
that in the parliamentary arena he would cut
a sorry figure compared with the man whom
Mr. Asquith declared to be “as great a states-
man as Bismarck.’’ > ,
Mr. Davitt was once the darling of the Irish
democracy, and I can well remember how, in my
school-boy days, I used to idolise him. Some
years have passed since then, and he has not
improved on further acquaintance. What a thrill
of joy and pride used to pass through me when 1
heard Davitt proudly boast that he \Voilld tievef
sit in “an alien Parliament,” that he would
never entet, Parliament till Ireland had her own
ltduso iii College Green! That declaration re-
peated again and again won Davitt more popu-
larity than all his denunciations of landlordism,
because the Irish people believed that he had a
conscientious objection to taking the oath of alle-
giance.
“ Davitt was a staunch and tried revolutionist.”
He was a “revolutionist,” but as tip tjie.“staunch
and tried” there may be room for doubt., He hap
been so many things that one is hardly justified in
paying that he was ever “ staunch and tried ” in
anything. He was a physical-force man'and he
deserted his friends ; he declared again and again
that he would never encer an “alien,” Parliament,
and now he ,is a member of, one ; he was a land-
nationaliser and he is now a member of. a party
that is pledged to peasant proprietorship. Con-
sidering all these things, he can scarcely be looked
on as the consistent hero that Mr. F. would
have your readers believe him to be. Has
Mr. F. ever seen any of Davitt’s letters to
the Melbourne Advocate ? If he wants to
see rancorous language, I would respectfully refer
him to Mr. Davitt’s weekly epistles in that paper.
Has he ever seen his letter abusing “Tim” Healy
for his scurrilous language, and his subsequent
apology to “ Tim ” on a public platform in Ireland?
# » *
Mr. F. may be pardoned for rushing into print
to defend his friend, but in his defence he should
refrain from attacking Parnell and his followers
till ho is better informed on Irish politics. His
enthusiasm for Davitt might be very commend-
able had he not saturated it with insidious charges
against the latter’s political opponents. Mr. Fitz-
gerald should know that the politics of a country
cannot be mastered in the course of h casual
pleasure-trip. t ,
Sydney, March 7-, 1893;
JOSEPH GUNN.
The only living men to-day who have ever
been President of the United State's are Cleveland
and Harrison ! , .
It transpires that Captain O’Shea, the first
husband of Mrs. Parnell, absorbed the major
portion of '‘Kitty’s” money, and didn’t divorce
her until he was in a position to make money
'Out of the transaction. i ,
At a charity bazaar in Vienna, lately, ail
Englishman offered five thousand dollars for a
single kiss from the Marchioness Pallaviccinh
He got it, and planked down a thousand-pound
Bank of England note to pay for it.
A man’s banking-account is merely an
acknowledgment of how much other people have
done for him.
An Englishman, fined for assaulting an old
man, said he was sorry, but he had mistaken him
for his father. It is part of the ignorant Briton a
creed that he has an inherent right to thump all
his relatives.
In last Review of Reviews Stead charac-
terises a Ohinese-opiflm-girl yarn iii the Idler
nlagazine as “a detestable and disgusting tale,
which has no right to be published in the English
language.” this is pretty “ steep ” for the author
of “Modern Babylon” and Dilke’s biography;
but the sainted one lives on bluff.
Mr. Kimberly, hotel-keeper at Collector
(N.S.W.), was, when storekeeping, stuck up by
Gilbert and Ben. Hall. The former appropriated
a new pair of riding-boots, leaving a pair of old-
fashioned, well-worn “ square toes” in exchange.
These. Kimberly still exhibits as a souvenir of Mr.
Johnny Gilbert and the old bushranging days.
The , working life of an English vitriol-
worker rarely reaches two years. Muzzled, he dies
of chronic inflammation of the lungs and enlarge-
ment of the stomach; unmuzzled, his teeth and
intestines are burnt out by the inhalation of gas.
But as the vitriol-worker’s| wages are £2 weekly,
the supply is inexhaustible. The ordinary working
life of man is 30 years, and the vitriol-worker
should be remunerated in ivages for the 28 he loses
by serving two. But he isn’t.
He was a, broken-armed hospital patient
and the pretty nurse offered to write his letters.
He gladly accepted and began to dictate : “My
dearest love.” The nurse felt embarrassed, but
continued through the most intense declarations
of all-absorbing affection to the end, where he
wished to be subscribed an adoring lover for all
time. Then she folded the letter and slipped it
into its envelope. “To whom shall I direct it?”
she asked. The wicked rascal, amiably and even
tenderly : “ What is your name, please?” They
are married now.—Ex.
, One of the earliest settlers at Wellington
(N.S.W.) was a converted Hebrew—a kind-hearted
individual who spent much money in attempts to
.Christianize the local aborigine beiiea|th His gum-
ttee;. He met with much apparent success in his
mission, and the fame thereof was known among
the churches far and wide. But one day some
visitors came out to see the congregation, and put
the black disciples through an examination—
which they did successfully. When the examina-
tion was over, somebody wanted to see an abori :
ginal war-dance, and in an evil moment the ex-Jew
set his congregation dancing. As they leaped and
howled the old evil spirit came back upon thetri,
and their hew religion slipped away beneath their
feet. Some of them sneaked away and broke into
a store-shed; and night found the congregation
lamentably drunk on stolen spirits. When the
keg was eihpty they came and howled dismally
round the hohse for more rum, and the shocked
Visitors, looking out, discovered the congregation
naked and fuddled on the front verandah. The
demand fbr mote liquor was refused, and the
aborigines were shut Out. Then there came
through the keyhole the sepulchral voice of the
biggest disciple yelling, “ Oogh ! Who killurri.
God'?” That was the end of the aboriginal church
at Wellington. Next morning the converts had
gbne back to the gum-tree and the ’possum.
“Andy” Kelly, M.P. (N.S.W.), relates
that ho was at one time in the U.S. warship
Manhattan, lying at Key West, Florida, when an
English man-of-war entered the bay. The usual
invitations were issued to the visitors by the
officers and men of the American warship. It is
noted that the American sailors are better fed
than the English ones. Consequently, when the
Britishers boarded the Manhattan, and looked at
the feast prepared for them, tile foternoSt tat
turned to the others and exclaimed; fvith
power surprise, “Strike me dead, chaps; they’ve
got blanky pickles ! ” , , ' . i
It is cabled that the London Foreign
Bondholders’ Association proposes that Austra-
lasia assign her Customs duties to an association as
security for her public debt. Why not assign the
whole country ?
Since the passing of the (English) Tithe
Commutation Act of ’36, the “Church of Eng-
land by Law Established ” has rtjceiyed =£99 15s.
for every .£10(1 of tithes possible ; yet its hierarchi-
cal howl goesup because tithes have fallen. Esti-
mating the tithe-recpipts fpr ’93-,6 on the current
average, and calculating for the 60 years between
’36 and ’96, the church will have, during that time,
sucked out of the English people—mostly djs-
senters and heretics —<£420,000,000. With com-
pound interest these receipts would amount to
over a billion pounds sterling ! A smart bonus for
an unproductive luxury, which swallows enough to
speedily pay off the national debt.
Dear Bulletin, —I have seen it stated
that most of the drink “cures ’’ consist in disgust-
ing the patient with liquor by filling him with it.
I don’t know whether it is effective, but the
following is my case. When I was about eight
years old I one day went into my father’s paddock
When the hay was being nlowii; ahd whilst
jng about found a .bap of beerb 1 tasted this, M andi
thinking it rather nice, drank the Ipt— though I
don’t quite know how I managed to do so. I
became drunk, and was sick for a couple of weeks
after. Ever since then I have never tasted beer,
having acquired ah unconquerable aversion for it.
Is this an argument in favour of the Kee.ley cure?
I may state that I have ever since my birth lived
in hotels.—“ Shadow.”
Copy of a notification said to have oeen
published idmewhere in South Australia ;
Public Notice. A public lecture will be held at the
Pbrsters Hall Feb. 15 at 8 pH 1890 F W Casteen Esq MP
In the chair on State Bank and land reform will
endeavour To show its beniflts To the cbloney where gold
Silver and copper can be readley obtained for the Digging
he Will prove that a state Bank Will Bring in revenue of
300,000,000 in thirty years he will prove also that no man
realey requires money but simpley credit he will also
Demonstrate that 2£ per cerit. would be preferable To 4
per cerit. as at present To capitatSt if they i kre not share-
holders he will show that if it Were nessary wee could
biiild 4 railways front Adelaide To Port Daurwln on simple
credit he will also prove wee can give the working 8
Shillings per Day till wee place one man aVeradge To one
acre tinder the canapy of heven then Wee will leave it in
the hands of the Almighty. Dear Sir would you put this
notice in A inspections place and let all know that you
can you will grately oblige yours respectftiley .”
Let the Hebrew take possession, with his mortgages and
bills;
Hang out his gilded symbol on the high, eternal hills,
Bestride the shrinking nation, a Colossus and a boss,
And paint the name of Moses up above the Southern
Cross! ... ,
Bow down, and call him master, all submissive be and
meek ;
Not for the moneys he has lent or interest he may seek,
But in honour of his everlasting, superhuman cheek.


None better—G NtJ N Darlings.
Pure Havana fillers—G NUN Darlings.
Be a swell and snloke G N IT N Darlings.
In the train, smoke G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL'S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOUR.
Ail tobacconists sell Gr N tT N Darlings.
Never be without aGNUN Darling.
Pro bono publico. 6NUN Darlings.
Cool, mild and sweet. 6NUN Darlings.
*
m.
m
i
&
—
De Profundis.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Where shall we seek him, Lord ? When shall we
find him—
Him who shall guide us from woe unto weal,
Shall press etmr dil with the millions behind him,
Bis soil! full df love arid his heart full of zeal ?
When shall we find him, the itian to command us,
The riian who shall lead us from wrong unto
right ?
Round his high banner we straightway would
band us;
Our sinews are straining for stress of the fight.
Where shall we seek him, with hearts yearning
, for him ?
. Where shall we find him, for strait is our ken ?
Let us but know him, our souls shall adore him—
Grant us in mercy a leader of men !
Where shall we seek him, Lord ? When shall we
find him,
Whose eye through the cloud-banks shall pierce
to the sky,
Who shall strive for our freedom though earth’s
mists would blind hitri ?
Let us not madly be passing him by !
Witli the sweat of our working our bodies are
wasted ;
With the dust and the glare our dull eyeballs
are bleared ;
The fruits of our labour dur lips have not tasted ;
With the hell-fire our hearts in our bosoms are
seared.
The dome of high heaven for us holds no pleasure;
Sweet earth is become but a foul-smelling den ;
Of wormwood and gall we have drunken full
measure;
Grant us in mercy a leader of men !
Where shall seek hitti, Ldrd? When shall we
find him ?
, Frond the deeps We are calling in uttermost need
For him who shall flinch not though evil would
grind him,
But ever press onward till done is his deed;
Let him but come, and our slavery is ended ;
We are but helots of greed and of gold,
Whose backs to the thongs of oppressors are
bended,
Whose life-blood, down-streamirig, enorimsons the
mould.
Help him, Lord, help him to come to our aiding,
Who knows not the gospel of gold-greed, but,
when
Souls cry, lifts their burdens, though great be his
lading;
Grant us in mercy a leader of men !
Where shall we seek him, Lord ? When shall we
find him,
Him who shall teach to the people their might,
Him who is fit for the task now assigned him,
A Jesus in pity, a Michael in fight?
We cry for him out of the quicksands of sorrow,
We cry for him out of the depths of our pain ;
From the strength of his being new strength we
would borrow,
From the sap of his sdul we our souls would
sustain.
We know not the way that shall lead us to glad-
ness ;
No pillar of fire guides us out of the fen ;
♦Ve struggle and sink in the slough of our sadtaess ;
Grant us in mercy a leader of men !
Melbourne.
STEELE GREY.
The Lancashire cotton_lock-out was brought
about by the employers to bring down stocks;
50,000 men and women were locked out.
The Bulletin can forgive a great deal,
but to attach the untarnished name of Wilson
Gray, the pioneer land-reformer of Yictoria, to an
alleged gigantic land-lottery swindle is just a little
too much to ask absolution for.
During the Coalville (Vic.) miners’ strike,
still proceeding, a significant incident occurred.
It was Sunday, and some sixty miners and their
families were at the local church service. The
parson was in full swing when the mine-manager
entered. The whole congregation immediately
arose and left the building, leaving the representa-
tive of capital and the minister, of the church
together. Ever since then the manager has been
crying about more police.
Extract from South Sea labour-trade
“ Jottings of Captain John Mackay ” :
10 a.m. One of the recruits, a native of Espiritu
Santo, died, and was buried as usual.
There is a tone of regret about the “as usual.”
Could the cadaver have been skinned and stuffed
something might have been done to. cover
the outlay of 10s. on catching him. For in-
stance, he might then have been exhibited by
Griffith to visitors of the Miss Shaw type if they
hadn’t time to inspect the plantations; “Grey,
please show Lord Trotabout our stuffed Kanaka.
His Lordship is writing up the sugair-industry for
the Times ! ”
The case of George Southern, who Went
away from home and utterly forgot his own iden-
tity and his p'ast, is specially interesting in its
domestic aspect. After starting life afresh in
Melbourne gaol, he seems to have shown no - dis-
position to get married, but when Mrs. Southern
Came along and claimed him for her own, he didn’t
attempt to argue the point. Whether he had any
ideas at all on the Subject of womankind is not
stated. The evidence simply goes to prove that
he regarded Mrs. Southern as an interloper, and
the baby as an irrelevant reference to the blank
past. Then the warders and prisoners and Dr.
Shields explained to him that it Wasn’t good for
man to live alone (an excellent maxim from the
lips of a two-years’ hard-labourer !), and Southern
gradually reconciled himself, we presume, to the
prospect of being taken in charge by a strange
vision. Anyway, he wasn’t allowed the option of
making a fresh choice. Mrs. S. carried him back
to his own forgotten fireside in triumph, and
George’s married life was resumed in the most
prosaic manner possible. Presently both Mr. and
Mrs. Southern will begin to feel that they missed
a unique opportunity of repeating love’s young
dream in the orthodox way. Instead of being
granted a little time in which to take her for
moonlight walks and tell her the old, old story
and so forth, the unsophisticated man was popped
at once into his armchair and slippers and told to
nurse the baby. Under these circumstances, it is
more than probable that Southern considers mar-
riage, divested of its romantic preliminaries, a
complete failure.
N.S.W. Speaker Joseph Abbott must
derive much satisfaction from the fact that “Joe”
Abbott has been knighted. ■
The Orange (N.S. W.) Leader says that
“ the direct representation of labour is a mis-
take.” Meaning, probably, that the old style
wherein a man professed to represent all classes,
and in reality only represented one—the moneyed
class—is preferable.
“To apprehend danger from the educa-
tion of the people is like fearing lest the thunder-
bolt strike into the house because it has windows;
whereas the lightning never comes through these,
but through their lead framing, or down by the
smoke of the chimney. Paul.
The blackbirder Lochiel, Government
Catcher Hammond, lately arrived at Bundabcrg
with 143 recruits, of whom four are females and
25 missionary boys. “ The proportion of females
to the number of boys is noteworthy,” says a Q.
paper, “ but doubtless the Government will wink
its other eye out of consideration to the missionary
boys.” Much winking will also be done by the
managers and field overseers out of consideration
to the fair females.
The worst of trial by jury
The jury, passing on the prisoner’s life,
May in the sworn twelve, have a thief or two
Guiltier than him they try.
—Shakespeare.
The property or possessions of every
human being of the different Church-ridden Euro-
pean States is in pawn to the Jew ! Ha, ha, the
despised'raoe is in the saddle now. Christianity
is at the beck and call of the Hebrew !!! But, at
any rate, the people have enough to exist upon
even at that!! The Jew is kinder to the Christian
than is the Christian to the Jew. — London
P APEfii.
In Newcastle (N.S.W.) the minor sanitaty
engineers of the municipal collecting department
do most of their work in the forenoon. One of
these “day-men,” as they call them there, is an
ex-painter. Asked by the writer why he left his
trade, he answered, “Well, you see, it was this
way—the smell of the paint Was so vile that I
Could not stomach it; so I jacked it up.”
t)ear Bulletin, —“ Every man has a story
to tell.” This is mine. I was second mate on a
ship loading cotton at an Indian port. Our chief
was a Yankee of the cufse-kick-and-fell-with-a-
marlinspike order. We were working with
coolies, for whom the mate certainly made it hot,
until the Serang complained to the captain. This
brought up words between the Serang and the
mate, and the latter, losing his temper, knocked
the former down. The Serang took it like a
lamb —apparently. But that very day the mate
disappeared, and although the ship waited a
couple of days behind her time in the hope of his
turning up we had to start without him—as we
thought. We were unloading at Liverpool, and I
was standing on a cotton-bale whilst the men were
breaking cargo out when they rolled over a bale
and the mystery of the missing mate was solved.
The coloured artists must have got him down in the
hold, put a bale on top of him. and using the
screw jacks, flattened him out until he could have
been passed through a crack in the floor. —J.T.W.
Dear Bulletin, —Another argwmerii
against the sheep-shearing machine is, that it
tears the wool and thus inj ures the roots. The
shears cut clean. Some big stations in Queens-
land have returned to the good old-fashioned
method-Nive Downs, for instance.-K.
To accommodate consumers who think that
nothing made or grown locally is fit to use,
Californian fruit-growers put a portion of their
products in foreign boxes, give them foreign labels,
and stand by, tongue in cheek, while they hear
fche i r customers extolling the virtues of the
“foreign ” article,
. .
Spain npeils up. c orty llepublicarls re-
turned to the new Spanish Parliament, as against
25 in the last. France, Spain, and Portugal will all
assimilate, but the mischief is that the stronghold
of the monarchy and priesthood is in the Spanish
lower classes. This spoilt Prim’s noble attempt.
Melbourne Leader solemnly declares that
when the Brisbane flood was at its Worst, the
steamer Midge did the run from Indooroopilly to
Brisbane (12-miles) in 17min. It estimates that
the vessel was steaming 19 miles an hour, and
that the force of the current supplied the other
21 miles per hour. It also remarks that the Midge
did the upward journey against the stream, “ toil-
painfully ” We presume so. A 19-mile
a f amst a current is
tolerably painful. Any man who goes backwards
two miles an hour faster than he goes forward,-
will always find that he doesn’t go forward very
1 3,84 ' 1
Says “ Ouida ” :
The man who lives in a shanty built of empty meat and l
biscuit tins on the plains of Nevada or N.S. Wales, is by
many degrees a more degraded form of humanity than
brother who has stayed amongst English wheat, or
Tuscan olives, or French vines, or German pine trees :
many degrees more degraded, because infinitely coarser
and more brutal, and more hopelessly soaked in a sordid
and hideous manner of life.
Evidently the poor old lady is oblivious of the
fact that it doesn’t run to tinned meat and biscuits
in Western N . S . W .-, there are no
tin - ghe has never even heard " of the old bark
hufc) and tbe damper, and the slab cut off the
g aim t framework of the bullock, or the bit of the
anc i en t wether that has blind staggers oft the
pi abl- If “ Ouida ” could only be turned loose on
tbe p arcoo plains in the midst of an old-man
drought, what a snort she would Write when she
g o t home again !
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
kinds. Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges,
Adu ’ ts wUI Andsugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
R* reat P nee - For external use try Colemane and
g ONS Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
. „ A
THE TEE TH AND THEIR CONSERV ATION.
We desire t 0 call atten tion to the dental practice of Mr.
j. j. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (Qeorge-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fe f s- Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyomte, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are f re e. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address—Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*


Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
%
£ES£
HRAti
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE—
UNDERVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Or. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, send for List
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE W A RUNG.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Hot weather
A.T « EA.R
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
■»
**■
. /,
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
3a. 6d. & sb, 6dL.
3s. 6dL. & ss. 6c3L.
GK H. SMITH &; SO3ST,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY —
‘Price Warnng,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. lOd.
in stamps.
Watson'S
D
M
A\
1
f ft
Best ®n Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing & Wine Ss Spirit Co., Limited.
LADIES I
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
Hotel.
IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From I’ltt-street to
C'astlereagh-street),
Between King & Market Sts.
f
'//■■l
W'
IN THE VERY HEART OP THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
A la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
Manager,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
QM4
0
VATENT
PIUS.
u>
m
&
3S
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
rafferer Is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable'
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beechani’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and <*ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lsd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
CRQMARTf
CROMTY
GREENLEES BROTHERS
OUSCOWICNOONANO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
Whisky:
DRINK
SCDTTIE”
WHISKY-
-
Acknowledged to
he the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
A Goin Shinty.
PEIOE : TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
MdMMa&ld
Dr. LUTHER B. TYSON’S
VEGETABLE CURE
FOR
OPIU M HABIT
Drunkenness
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures Guaranteed. The Only Remedy which
can be taken at Home with Certainty of Success.
SANATORIUM TREATMENT
if desired, every comfort and Privacy. No padded
rooms, locked doors or restriction.
PRIVATE TREATMENT.
Our visiting physicians call at patients’ own homes
and give regular treatment. No publicity.
HOME TREATMENT.
For the convenience of patients living at a distance
we furnish Home or Self-Treatment, sent to any
address free from observation.
In all forms of treatment we place no restraint upon,
the patient, he is permitted to keep on using liquor
but the treatment Stops the Alcoholic Crave or
Desire in from 6 to 24 hours.
BOOK giving full particulars and colonial references
posted free. Address (Secretary—
X3C. Franlc 1 i xi,
Scott Chambers, 96 Pitt-street, Sydney .
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic
Injections Given.
ROSES
&
/
m
w\
ft
&
G
o!S
§jh|
LOTJ
B 5
S^T
v'
Hi
d
nPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
J- and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
JEC. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
j&.xxci Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms : 84 Bathurst Street. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A
VI
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
31s. to 15s. 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for tha
BOW -MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street— Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sen»
to any Address.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Load.,
Seamen's Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr.
M. PERRY,
M.R.C.S., Xi.S.A., &c.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given aS to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.rn. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address;
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN.
1
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT,
'ts
iv
■V\
Sr-*
A NEVER RAILING CURE EOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum- ,
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved j them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paving for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
V.
■A
rtj
o'
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and.
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


Free Freacriptiona
Are to be found in the " Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
"T^TOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
1 ’ cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s WliisKy.
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
0
Sydney Agents: ... ... CURCIER, ADET & CQ., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone 912.
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND —
CrCTTTJEOR^
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
XTOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling-—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
With a prefatory notice by
IMPERIAL HOTEL, WINTAKD 8 S E EY .
[Established over a Quarter of a Ckstury.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Terius-ios. aa. per Pay. falter (Sidney ( late of Newcastle), “£rop.”
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
Sj
o
c
O
*r
*
<RAckAroCK>
o
o
c*.
o
T"
o
A
V
K. A. Hervt-y, Agent, 144 «'litreuce-s,t. Sydney.
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Wliisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothin? else! ”
jgsf" Coupon with Every Case.
Iliiiillugton .11111.
c
KkomN's’ Pninpu.
PARKE & LACY GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&o. f &o.
187 & 188 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
'(Klim)
• :•£
•S.r-<
Rock Breakers*
Westtngtionse Engines.'
TANGYES “COLONIAL
Wood Burning Boilers.
o'llci > f l
'9 5 B I
•—J Eli
m
3l*
: ■
SIZES.— i to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.-SO lbs. per square inch.
BEST ' MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
iFire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes.
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street om "' Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
Bl
■■
0
Wolfe-street, Newcastle
Queen-street, Auckland.
U'.’S,
liill.lt
n i
“n: Aj:,iip
MKi
®Ssi
