

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
9
STER CONSULTATIONS
AT
5 EACH
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER 7th
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (Por Horses Only)
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
50.000 @ 5 Each.
20.000 10 Each.
Box 171 G.F.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
R. a WATKINS *SC- CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
tr
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
&
o
o
o
*
<RAc*ocH
<?•
O
O
o
ti
o
V
It. A. Hervey, Agent, a» . Sydney.
Free Frescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and I;ifc,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
s. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
XTOTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
*cannot be received LATER than 1 pan. on
TUESDAY.
rx.
~\j'}
O*
tHI
fOfiS
H
|H»
The Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietob,
'-THE-.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
IIIIK ..
CREAM ..
ICE
BUTTER
FISH
CAME ..
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac,
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Boultry, Baatry, etc.
Ist July, 1803.
11. PATESON,
Manager.
h
Sol
O .JSILJE£
in New Soutbi Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Shuttleworth.
. -v ;«
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
rient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, winnowers, rakes,
harvesters, reapers.
mmM
\fj9?
t / CLAYTONI & SHUT.I LLWOtUH UmiOLU
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
■B -
;; -
£V-h. ;
-, W|
:<:•
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., ETC.
ELECTRIC lighting engines, winding engines, traction ENGIN ES. US' Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & C. Howard, Pitt Street:, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 13.— N0. 716. J
[Saturday, November 4, 1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
Tho BrlEhton ‘ ’Wa.los.
A most Comfortable
Bitting Bedrooms,
3riglxton ox ww ‘
High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dming,,
!, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing I arties,,
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES. SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
TVT ra, JULUji ivtlivrS * JL"-fcJJrt
Proprietresa.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
h
The only TUBES used by all the Governments ot Australia,
n. J Maowmiam, *» OBOROE STREET. BYDNET_
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
je*. o. passa-u
HAVING succeeded to the Business of M/.A It I S A C'O., and their Scientific System of SIGHT-TESTING and
SPECTACLE MAKING, CORRECTS the most DIFFICULT CASES of DEFECTIVE VISION.
4 Practical Optician employed on the premise* for Cases of Compound Astiymatism.
Agents of the late Firm supplied with “ Spkcialitr ” Goods at Reduced Prices.
All Rights and Trade-Marks covered. Unauthorised persons are hereby cautioned against any infringement of same.
FRED. C. PASSAU,
OCULIST OPTICIAN, 494 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4(5 per Pair, Oculists’ Prescriptions executed in Dioptric measure.
Medical.
The First Step
v ' fob
NERVOUS MEN
m- APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING-
C'O C O A
/ ■
tw A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of ihes<t> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
rMpgnised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, tIIYTHKM Man*
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxfobp-bt., London. » & ur-
choscrs should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street. London, they are
•curious
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS aot INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., <fec. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., p.C.S., &c M Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROTAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
MANHOO D.
HEALTH. STRENgIH AND VIGOR RESTORE!
in Four Weeks by the use of
X>£ Rl CORD'S
f t-
The only Infallible Remedy for DKHTLITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Rieord» Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the. human frame.
In cases of ISs, or four quantities in one for Oils. Freight
extra,. Pamphlets free on receipt of Want pea addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry At Co., 70 Oertrude
Street , Fitsroy, MEL HO UHIV E.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney,
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
T
PR] CE- ON E SHILLING.
Men I Have Smiled With.”
tttß STAY at J 3 r -vl ±o*x * m 9
* ’ NHnainoe
BOURKE, Every Comfort at RALPH S
"UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
YNGAN. WINTERS’ TATTER-
SALL’S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms.
Warren.
Give FULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
BATHURST.
Treanor’s Grraixd Hotel
For
jJLJk : . _ m
EXCELLENCE and COM!OKI.
THE LANG-ll A M HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS; 30s. per WEEK.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
I
F you VISIT Brisbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
J-HMZHVCNT G-lES-A. JSTT-
SOTTTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
BRISBANE. _
Moxley’s “ British Empire Hotel ” is a
Central Cosy Lounge.
~ BRISBANE^
Mrs. F. L. Moxley’s “Metropolitan” is the
SPORTING TEAMS’ HOME.
T
SOUTHPORT, Q.
WEED HEADS COACHES
Start from Hanlon’s Pacific Hotel.
KNOWING VISITORS
From Southern Queensland to Northern New
South Wales, travel from Southport to Tweed
Heads by Dodcl’s Royal Mail Coaches, and
connect by STEAM LAUNCH with Stuart’s
Reliable Coaches at Cudgen, for quickest route
to Brunswick and the Richmond.
BRUNSWICK.
MARSHALL’S OCEAN VIEW HOTEL
Is the charming Half-way House between
The RICHMOND and The TWEED.
Miscellaneous.
V
K 1
R
p
□
o
w
T
m
t
-
m
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S !
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes 1”
He: “Ah I Dem that make me love.’
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Arotna, its strength, audits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E., ATKINSON
24, Old. Bond Street, London.
CAUTION I Only genuine with shield*
slid pc nine mv.i yellow label and usual
Trade .'iurk—a “ White Rose
and address in full.
Tales of the convict system.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
B-A-X.X33NTESSS
Cured and Prevented with
“ 3E3 XT ZE3C O R 3XT.”
It removes the cause, viz.: Congestion of the Follicles,
and provides food for the hair. 5, - per Bottle.
ħ
GREY H A I It,
Whiskers. Eyebrows, *te„
Quickly resum their own rich natural
colour with
Horn’s “ Acesma,”
Non-poisonous, free from grease and
smell, does not stain the skin.
2/6 and 5/.
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
‘‘Horn's Hair Solvent ’ (Reg.)
Letfv.es no mark.
2/6 and 5/- per Bottle.
Testimonials from Medical Men, Clergy .
men, and analytical reports and press
opinions with each bottle. These will emir
vince the most sceptical. Prepared by
Dr. O. E. HORN, Hair Specialist,
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne,
and the New Zealand Drug Co., Wellington, Christchurch,
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
or for 1/6 extra from the Proprietor. A valuable Treatise
on “The Human Hair” (illustrated), post free for Six
stamps.
NERVOUS MEN.
U
n
EUREKA
m
ELECTRIC
BELTK
m
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OP THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt bj
the wearer. It has great improvements over all othe
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved th
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts „.
mode for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three mon 11 '"
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt.
Book illustrated, containing full information and tt_.
raonials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persons how they may obtain these belt
without paying for them until they have proved then
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stam
for postage.
Address:- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 016, 0.P.0., Sydney. r
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beechaxn’s Pills
ou
&
%
PATENT
PILLS
$
Are universally admits
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
suoh as wind and pain m
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
mfferer la earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, an
bring about all that is required. No female show
be without them. There is no medicine to be foun
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they wi
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robus
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured y
their use < P
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few . ( '°® , .
be found to work wonders upon the most inip
organs in the human • machine. They strengthe
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost com P 0 .
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse . ,
tion with the ROSEBUD of health thei whole «L
energy of the human frame. These are “I' ACI& 1 ,
continually by members of all classes of irmWed
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and del -,
is, Beenbam’s Pills have the largest sale of any p
medicine in the world.
Beech am’s Magic Cough PiW 9,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma,
Affections, Hoarseness. Shortness of Breatr. » pills
uid Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, *°U . t 0 the
-tand unri vailed. They are the best ever offered to
public and ill speedily remove that Sense « » W the
and difficulty of breathing which nightly depr
patient of rest. Let any person give in »
1*11,1,8 a trial and the most violent Cough win
short time be removed. • Jag
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Ilelcns, * an( j
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 06 1 )>
to. !ki. (treble quantity). ne«lers
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine
everywhere. . ... .
N’.B. —Full directions are given with each do*.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT
Price—One Shilling.
SYSTEM
A CRUSHER.
Hk (after a long connubial wrangle) : “ O, yon think you’re the Queen o’
England, you do.”
Wipe ; “O, no, I don’t, John, ’ooa the Queen ain’t got no blessed ole man
to haggrivate ’er.”


Medioal.
Legally Qualified and Registered by tne Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Msdicine Sc Therapsutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
v and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, fn ligestion, Heavy Feel-
ing a'ter Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depenti
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
Weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday —9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
£2f Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and lias discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
HE" OXTJXTGr 3VEE3XT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely : —Frequent headaches ;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time ; irregu-
larity of the bowels; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure ; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart ; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thorouglily acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed, toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel.
fA
f
“ she Sydney (Coffee (Palace ” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, M.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
ui:s4Kinivi:.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
a ith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening’. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking 1 Powder.
nui.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
W. O- ZEXODIRIIDa-IE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders hy post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
USTo Cure, 3XTo Pay.
millS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
J- cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES.
Medical.
T/PTWfi fr\ ' I ''l' i v \ \ \\V
h
TESTIMONIALS
■Like the following are constantly arriving
from all pans of the -wor.d and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
dualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’*
■Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Bead the letters:
From Australia.
1 Mr. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. 8. W., writes as follows:
“To W. H. Soul & Uo., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Sirs;—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
Bay that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
theheltas soon asit isplacedon his body.forlfelttheeffect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, lam
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England. .
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston bt.. Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I h^ve feU better, a greiit
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Cham Belt, and I
thank you very much. X have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” From America.
Mb J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes— Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
cordd not do, for it has cured me of bciatio Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got up as i f nothing had happened, the back
troublednfe ever since until I tried your belt. For one year
now I have felt as I used to at 20 . .
S3-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr- Pierce s Belts
Calhor write forfree descriptive:* Pamphlet No.A ana
f lease mention th is paper when you ad drew -W ■ H. SOU 1 “ Vb*
158 Pitt St. Sydney! Elliott Bros., Brisbane, or, tne
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San FRANCISCO, U. S. A,
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, Loudon, S.W.
Woman’s Salvation.
The G reatest Discovery of the Age! His Treatise posted
FREE, undercover. Write. Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
England via America
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SKRVIUE. ; *
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited).
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OP SAN,
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
c ‘Sco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en rouft.
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to E ig-
laud :
SALOON £63 and $36,
Combination Ticket, £'s2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidfe books
showing all other information, apply ‘at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. \V. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSA6ERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES. —ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place. Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
bwmart
V.O. I
CROMARTY ||
Whisky:
WHISKY.
- - f
De Lissa & Phillips
SOLE AO ENTS |
"* ? S’:
FOR £
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
OHFOR0 H -
FOR
M O U S T A C II El.
Capillarlne!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. TEt
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions.and
a Moustache will result, aG surely as night follows day.
Capillarlne— los. 6d., Post Free.
CRAIG A AITKKN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
•THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG «Sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
PT’ NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


Business Announcements.
A Sweet Smoke is Bliaa Untold !*'
TAYLOR BROS.,
Pipe Mahers & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
T.M’V
The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking Pipes.
Needle Wood Pipe
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stem), 4 6
Myall Mood Pipe ditto 46
Yarran Wood Pipe ditto 4 6
Wood I*lpe, Silver Mount and Amber Stem, ? 6
The N ;edle Wood Pipe is seif-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
Pipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
Agents wanted for Australian Native Wood Pipes.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be forwarded (post free) at above prices.
Business Announcements.
A N U FAC T IfRE fill
mum
MERCER*;
PRIDDY’S
HATS
sit once
PROCLAIM
THE
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, ate Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
World.-ren.own.eci!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses;—
43S GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s),
AND 678 GEORGE STREET (Brick field Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
BBQjBHI
'bSS&* t
ct^BBST
o@vir(G
machine
Before purchasing any other
SIND FOR CIRCULAR OF ask yOUF
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
home
&
IJ.Wjohnston&Co.,
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Sheath.
Fitted with HUNTING KNIFE, and Handy
STEEL for Sharpening.
PLAIN, «/- each ; IMPROVED DESIGN, 13/- each-
ĥ
tar- POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of Money Order.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter-St., SYDNEY, Australia-
NEWTON & LAMB.
High-class Artistic Furniture.
pSt>rV. Z :r> f
-- * H imm m, , - -• • V-O
f . *
: '■ <* , c . j
;
O ,
o .
VV\ / .
■v-- s'v .y" *
If
'S
<* -*
ha, 1
r : . jgmwJ
-
■ars
- v^‘
v;
£f
c , <
m •
if.
r
FASHIONABLE DRAWING-EOOM SUITES, elegantly upholstered in rich Tapestry
and Plu<h, Cotaline and Plush, etc., .£8 10s., £lO 10s , £ll 10s., £l6 10s., £2l,
and upwards.
Cabinets. Overmantels, Cbeffonier Whatnots, Canterburys, Davenports, Sutherland,
and Occasional Tables Occasional Chairs. Wall Mirrors and Brackets, etc., etc,,
at Lowest Prices.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Linaite cl,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stectm DEI nglnes, Boilers, Gras Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MAOHINORY.
tST Write us with regan) to any and every description of Machinery prou may want i>artioulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Medical.
Teeth.-a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-street.- —Single Tooth, 2/6 ;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes:-“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
98 KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st.
Beeta Beeta.
mu’a iv rn i:\i it a< t.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
CERTAIN CURE
'—FOR—x
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
ETC., ETC.
To be had Retail from all Chemists and Store-
keepers ; and Wholesale from
FEED HEIM, GOTTI I ELF and CO., SYDNEY ;
J. HARLOW an Iv CO., SYDNEY;
J. W. JOHNSTON and CO., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers^
MASSEY & CO.,
746 George Street, SYDNEY.
Factory -YOUNG, N. 8. W.
SNAKEBITE AMIS NiISSI CASSS
(Made of Strong Polished Metal, lined with
Si'k Velvet).
mn m
For Dr. MUELLER’S suc-
cessful treatment of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
jection of strychnine, con-
taining; p a tent poison
sucker, best hypodermic
syringe, two hypodermic
needles, glass mortar and
pestle, two tubes ol strych-
nine tabloids, which will
keep for years, and full
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
I‘rlce, complete, £1 -Postage paid to all parts of
Australia.
L BRUOK, 13 Oastlereagh-st., Sydney
Banking.
—THE—
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
G 4 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,600,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Business Amouncements
CJgkffe
MARTIN
Moore
and Pitt Sts.,
I “City Dinner"
►> (A Specially).
M.4ICTI.V
('ll AMICE US,
opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
First-class Grill Eoom & Restaurant.
The Coolest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
in Sydney.
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-class Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE and TABLE SERVICE
N.B.—Advantageous Terras to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready—l/- to 3 «.
Public Banquets. Private Dinners. Smoke Concerts.
For Estimates, anply H. GARDNER, Manager.
The OALIGKAPH Writing Machine.
ff V WSf.
,ry
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which wr'tes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wa’es, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraph*
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS:— Sydney, J. E.Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
slreet (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street; Hobart, J. W.alch & Sons.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney.
la the Bottle Score all the Leading Brands of WINKS and SPIRITS may he had hy Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Board, and Residence at Moderate Charges.
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Poarders.
i
4
na w'am
INVLUS I V /: or SKPAIt A TE TA It I F /'. I S /> ESI It ED.
Luncheon, d la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D'Hote, ~ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s.
teST Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always rely upon
getting a First-class Meal.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by port as a Ifewspaper,
Vol. 13-W0.710.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1893.
Wwif t 6d.
h
/?n Cju/yf//?
•I
TH Jawj *jo> bijt, Ifc
_J)4»vftr«. 15\ jLM?-JU,O bird, .
A h 3 'shah framiouc I "
J - -41/ce /tj JVoyclert&ycf
ALICE IN BLUNDERLAND.
THE VERY FRUMIOUS BANDERSNATCH OF N.S.W. (to the M' Whannel girl) : "There, £15OO is quite enough for the leg of a common little person like you. Take it,
or beware of the jaws that bite, the claws that scratch."
(Vide “ Judge Made Law" [?] this issue of THE BULLETIN .


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISH KIT ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... • £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct Jn The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—wilh postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any A ustralian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. Tn that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to illtam Maoi.eod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable'),
Paragrapihs, Letters, or News paper-Clippings. All
communications tv ill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But tee desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, li.C.
Also in the Transvaal : —The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:- R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the-imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Neicspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. I Vales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscript ion be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
7?ie
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1893.
A Court of Appeal.
The Criminal Code Act, which was carried
through a few days ago by the Seddon
Cabinet, - is the last of many valuable
examples which Maoriland has set to the
slow, unprogressive provinces of Australia.
The Act is a definite attempt to write the
criminal law in plain English, to -abolish
some of its more glaring anomalies, and to
compress it into a single statute, so that it
will have a fixed address and habitation, and
can always be found when wanted. Except
in a very few respects, it is not an effort at
any serious reform in the law itself ; its
object is chiefly to translate the gibberish
and involved dog-Latin of the legal profes-
sion into some reasonably understandable
tongue. But it does incidentally include a
few notable changes. It enlarges the scope
of the perjury law ; it abolishes a vast
number of cumbersome distinctions concern-
ing embezzlement, theft, larceny, larceny as
a bailee, breach of trust, ai d the like, and
includes the lawyer whose trust-funds are
missing and the marauder who takes a
towel off a line in the same simple form of
indictment; and it establishes a right of
appeal in criminal cases. This reform alone
should furnish the Seddon Government with
a reputation good enough to ensure its re-
election by any democratic community,
* * •
Hitherto, according to the code which
Australasia so carefully compiled from the
worst features of British law, the convicted
-criminal has had a right of appeal on ques-
tions of law only. If there was any serious
doubt about one of the jurors having been
naturalised, or about some useless printed
form employed in the case having been pro-
perly filed, or about any other mouldy tech-
nicality which had no bearing whatever on
the question of the prisoner’s guilt or inno-
cence, an appeal, on that technicality alone,
was permissible. And if the superior court
decided that the formality in question had
been seriously outraged, then it was not only
empowered, but compelled, to quash the
verdict and set the prisoner at lib, rty. But
if there was reason to believe that the jury
was prejudiced, or stone-deaf, or utterly
ignorant of the question at issue, and that
the verdict was utterly erroneous, and that
the evidence was totally unreliable, and that
an innocent man had been sentenced to
hanging or imprisonment, there was no legal
appeal whatever. The law, which was so
profoundly anxious about mere ceremonial,
took no interest whatever in any trivial
question as to the possible hanging of the
wrong man—it only asked that the wrong
man should be hanged in due form and
according to precedent. This was the law
in Maoriland until a few days ago, and it is
the law in all the Australias even now, and
seems likely to remain so.
# # *
Yet the same code, which is so callous in
matters relating to human life and liberty,
is profoundly tender in matters relating to
property. In an action concerning a few
pounds’ worth of goods the number of
appeals and new trials which it is possible
for a wealthy litigant to obtain is amazing.
When a civil action once gets started there
is hardly any end to its possibilities. But
when the criminal law has successfully con-
victed the wrong man, and got him sen-
tenced to gaol or execution, it is done with
him. Even if the person he is convicted
of having killed appears before the Attorney-
General as one risen from the dead, and it
is proved that the crime with which he is
charged was never committed at all, the law
takes no cognisance of the fact. The
sentence can’t be cancelled ; there is no
possibility of a new trial ; the machine only
works one way and can’t be reversed.
When once a sentence is passed the only
chance of further consideration lies outside
the law. If a sufficiently loud note of public
indignation can be raised, or a sufficient
amount of social or political influence
can be brought to bear, the matter
will be “considered” by the Executive.
This body may be guided by the evidence, or
by its own prejudices, or by the necessity of
placating influential constituents, or by the
social.position of those who have taken the
matter up; or it may be too busy or too tired to
seriously consider the matter in any w r ay ;
but its deliberations are secret, and no one
knows why it acts, or why it doesn’t act. If
it discovers that a prisoner has been wrongly
convicted it “ pardons” him —for the crime
he didn’t commit. That is to say, it has
power either to pardon him or to let him
“ slide.” Altogether, regarded as a Court
of Criminal Appeal, the Executive is a
failure.
• * *
Under the Maoriland law, a prisoner
may apply to the Court of Appeal on the
ground that the verdict is against the weight
of evidence. This is a most novel feature in
Austi’alasian procedure ; hitherto, when once
a prisoner was convicted, the law cared not
at all whether his conviction was against the
weight of evidence or not. Also, he may
afterwards appeal to the Government for
clemency, and if, in the interval, further evi-
dence has arisen which creates a doubt of his
guilt the Executive may order a new trial. In
all these respects the system is entirely com-
mendable ; its conspicuously weak point is
that it leaves the prerogative of mercy still
in the hands of the Government as a final
resort. This is the one illogical feature in
an otherwise logical policy. When the
Court of Appeal is established in Australia
it should be itself the last resort, and beyond
it there should be no appeal whatever. It
should have power to make all allowance for
extenuating circumstances and to reduce the
original sentence, based on the letter of the
law, accordingly. It should also have power,
should new evidence arise, to review, alter,
or reverse its own decisions. All these
things would be done publicly ; the extenuat-
ing circumstances on which a sentence was
varied or remitted, or the fresh evidence on
which a previous decision was re-considered,
would be open to the press and the public.
And owing to this publicity it would be
practically impossible to release the in-
fluential embezzler because he was related to
someone in authority, or because his,relatives
could command so many votes in a Minister’s
constituency, or because his church or his
secret society had to be considered.
* • •
It has never been definitely placed on re-
cord that any Australian Minister sold his
power of interfering with the course of jus-
tice for money, and released the criminal
who could pay, while he kept the criminal
who couldn’t pay in gaol; or that he set free
his guilty co-religionist, because he was his
co-religionist, and left the less guilty man of
another creed to serve out his full sentence,
simply because of his creed ; or that he used
his authority to wreak vengeance on his per-
sonal enemy, or that ho traded off pardons
for political support, or social recognition, or
for the smiles of women, or for the benefit
of his personal friends, or for any other cor-
rupt consideration. But he has full power
to do all these things, and there is no evil
thing that man has the power to do which
some man Joes not do sooner or later. It is
possible for the Government to strain the
law in many ways to secure the conviction of
any obnoxious individual—what was done in
the case of Sleath and his fellow-prisoners
is only an example, on a very limited scale,
of what might be done. And when a politi-
cal or personal enemy has been convicted, no
matter how unjustly, the Ministry, or some-
times even an individual Minister, has full
authority to refuse him even a hearing, with-
out so much as giving a reason for his conduct.
The Executive is, to all intents and purposes,
a Supreme Court which sits in secret,
hears evidence, or refuses to hear it, in
secret, and arrives secretly at unaccountable
decisions for which no reason is assigned.
It is like the Israelitish idea of Jehovah,
who governed the world on no fixed plan,
but merely by fitful interferences with the
ordinary course of Nature at irregular inter-
vals. The very name of the Prerogative of
Mercy has become an offence ; even when it
makes its nearest approach to mercy it is
generally more akin to hysterics than to any
other mental phenomenon. The transfer of
the prerogative to a Court of Appeal would
at least make its workings much less erratic,
and would remove a long-standing suspicion
from the path of politics.
Judge-made Law.
New South Wales seems to have come within
measurable distance of tidal by Judge instead
of jury. The Bulletin has repeatedly pro-
tested against the tendency shewn by Judges
in superior courts to ignore the statute law and
override the verdicts of juries. A startling
illustration of this tendency was afforded by
the Full Court last week by its decision in the
case of M‘Whannell v. the Railway Commis-
sioners. According to the semi-official S.M.
Herald :
The action, tried in March last before the Chief Justice
and a jury of four, was brought by Mary M’Whannbll, a
child then aged about four years, by her father, Chris-
topher M'Whannell, to recover compensation for injuries
sustained by her owing to the negligence of the de-
fendants’ servants. It appeared that on 19th July, 1891,
the father was driving in a buggy containing his wife and
children, including plaintiff, and' while crossing a Govt,
tramline, a tram suddenly came along from the platform,
and the motor ran into the buggy. Plaintiff was thrown
out, and so seriously injured that one of her legs had to
be amputated. The jury awarded £3OOO damages, find-
ing specially that defendants, by their servants, were
guilty of negligence, and that Christopher M'Whannrll
was not guilty of contributory negligence.
Against this verdict defendants appealed and
applied for a new trial, on the ground of “ ex-
cessive damages !” Salomons, Q. 0., in making
the application, proffered the opinion that
£l5OO were adequate damages for what he
flippantly termed “a pure accident.” In this
opinion Chief Justice Darley cordially con-
curred, and, in giving judgment, delivered
himself of the following extraordinary obser-
vations :
He confessed that in the case now before the Court he
was astonished at the amount of damages awarded by ti e
jury. He thought, looking at all the circumstances of
the case, that the damages were out of all proportion to
the injury the child had suffered, and were unreasonable
and entiiely excessive. He thought that the damages
should be reduced to £l5OO, and if plaintiff did not con-
sent the rule must be made absolute for a new trial.
“ Unreasonable and entirely excessive !” Here
is a child of tender years, with a helpless and
presumably long life before her, permanently
crippled by the negligence of Govt, servants,
yet “looking to her position in life,” as the
Chief Justice distinctly stated he did {vide
Evening News), she and her parents are to be
told that £l5OO is compensation enough, and
that if they don’t choose to accept half of what
a jury, after fair and exhaustive trial, has
awarded them, they \Vill have to submit to the
costly and vexatious ordeal of another trial.
# * *
“Looking to the position in life” of his
Honor the Chief Justice’s children, we are
tempted to inquire what he would regard as
reasonable compensation for the loss of one
of their legs under similar circumstances ?
Surely a poor man’s child is entitled to as
much consideration as a rich man’s ; and many
“right-minded” people will think to a great
deal more, inasmuch as she has greater need of
ample damages to carry her through life.
But is Chief Justice Darley the judge of this
matter? No. Neither by law nor precedent
was he warranted in thus re-assessing the
damages accorded by a jury. Weighing
evidence and assessing damages are the peculiar
and absolute functions of the jury. If, on
appeal, Judges consider damages excessive they
may send them to another jury for revision,
but they may not do so themselves and lay down
a fixed sum as “ reasonable,” as Judge Darley
and his two learned brothers, Windeyer and
Foster, did in this case. Their action really
amounts to saying : We will ignore, or over-
ride, the verdict of the jury ; and, if you don’t
choose to accept what we offer, you will have
to submit to another trial. But how, if after
two years’ litigation, the parents of the plaintiff
have not the means of maintaining another
battle in the Courts for their child’s rights
against the powerful Railway Commissioners,
who have behind them the influence and
resources of the State ? That is a consideration
which does not, of course, concern just and
impartial Judges ; but this menace of a new
trial to the unfortunate M'Whannell family
looks very much like bringing almost irresis-
tible moral pressure to bear against the poor
suitor which would be ineffectual against rich
and influential folk.
# # *
Justice Windeyer even went one better than
his colleagues. While heartily endorsing all
that had been said against the jury’s verdict,
he proposed to make all verdicts in favour of
minors a pretext for interfering with the natural
and indefeasible rights of parents. He re-
marked :
As the law now stood there was nothing to prevent the
parents or next friend of a child, if they were dishonest,
from taking possession of the money and squandering it.
The only way to prevent that, in the law as it existed at
present, was by taking steps to make the child a ward of
court, but that was an expensive and a troublesome pro-
ceeding, and he thought some other plan might be devised
to protect the interests of the child.
To this the Chief Justice and Judge Foster
said ditto, the former observing “there was
nothing to prevent the child being made a ward
of court.” Thus prompted and encouraged,
Salomons, Q.C., counsel for the Railway Com-
missioners, coolly observed that “ the Commis-
sioners intended to take steps in the direction
indicated by His Honor, Judge Windeyer.”
The Bulletin ventures to affirm that the Com-
missioners will do nothing of the sort,
and that Salomons, Q.C., will be study-
ing the best interests of his clients if
he advises them to stick to the management of
railways, and not attempt to tamper with the
rights of parents and next-of-kin. Without
any circumlocution whatever, the Judges must
be told by Parliament, which is above them in
the interpretation of the law, that there is no
authority within the Constitution, or without
it, to warrant this usurpation of the functions
of juries and contemplated violation of the
primary and paramount rights of reputable
parents over their children while minors. Their
dictum or decision—if it be worthy of the latter
designation—is ultra vires for the four follow-
ing reasons :—(1) It encroaches on the constitu-
tional prerogatives of juries ; (2) strikes at the
discretionary rights of poor suitors by com-
pelling them to accept decisions by holding out
implied threats; (3) undermines parental
authority ; and (4) destroys the rights of parents
and next-of-kin as legal representatives and
heirs of deceased minors.
# * *
The manner in which the above decision im-
pinges on the functions of juries is too apparent
to need arguing. As regards the rights of
suitors, it is manifest that the observations of
the Judges were of such a character as to
bring moral pressure to bear on the plaintiff,
and to induce her to relinquish one-half of what
one jury has awarded through inability or fear
to sustain her rights before another. Besides,
it must be obvious that such judicial obiter dicta
delivered on a matter which may have to be
tried again, are calculated to prejudice the
plaintiff’s case before the second jury, and,
therefore, ought not to have been made. As a
matter of fact, the Judges have been guilty of a
contempt of court. Within certain very narrow
limits the courts have power to deprive bad or
incompetent parents of the custody of their
children ; but there is no law to sanction the
deprivation of reputable citizens of the sole
guardianship of their children or the adminis-
tration of their estates while they are minors.
To make a child a ward of court contrary to
the wishes of parents against whom no dis-
ability is proved or even alleged, would be a
cruel outrage upon natural affection, subversive
of one of the dearest rights of citizenship, and
of the best instincts of our common humanity.
If a law exists which authorises such a wanton
infringement of natural rights, it is as unnatural
as it is unjust. It is d priori a vicious class
law which never has, and never will be, in-
voked and enforced against the rich and
influential, but only against the lowly and the
poor. But, happily, no such law exists, and
the mere Jials of Judges cannot be made to
serve as a substitute among this free though
apathetic people.
* • * * #
Then as to the rights of parents or next-of-kin.
There is no law which would enable these to
be deprived as heirs of deceased minors.
Damages accorded to a minor, by a jury, are as
much private property as Judge Windeyer’s
salary, or the fees of Salomons, Q.C. They
may be bequeathed and inherited like other
private property ; and in cases of intestacy re-
vert to the parents or other nearest relatives in
the usual way. The dictum of a Judge cannot
divert it from the minor’s lawful heirs, nor
could any Act of Parliament' cause it to revert
to the State, because such an Act would not be
valid or constitutional, as it would be “ repug-
nant to existing laws.” And if such laws, accord-
ing to our Constitution, did not forbid such a
law as that suggested by Judge Windeyer, it is
certain that in the existing state of society no
Parliament would dare to enact one, or if it
dared, the effect of its operation would be to
cause its repeal within six months. The
rights of parents and next-of-kin, like those
of jurors and suitors, are inalienable, being
part and parcel of the fundamental laws upon
which our Constitution and that of the United
Kingdom, and of every other civilised country,
are based. This being so, the language used
by the Bench in this M‘Whannell decision
is all the more extraordinary. It exhibits in a
striking manner the ready audacity with which
the Judges set aside the letter and spirit of
the law in order to impose their own dicta.
With such persistency and immunity are they
doing this that the functions of Judges and
juries are fast becoming confounded. In this
manner a thorough judicial revolution is being
rapidly wrought in our midst. Were it
allowed to be fully consummated the citizens of
New South Wales would find that they had
acquiesced in the setting up of a species of
judicial tyranny worse than that of the French
juge d’instruction who, in a manner, combines
in the one person the dual function of judge
and jury. Frenchmen, still subject to those
enervating influences which have survived the
arbitrary and despotic regimes of the Bourbons
and the Bonapartes, may tolerate such a
system for a time ; Australians never.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Another Aspect.
The Judges of New South Wales Supreme
Court have assessed the value of a certain small
girl’s leg at £l5OO. Well; there are legs and
logs. The legs of a ballet-dancer, for instance,
are her most precious possessions. True, there
was no evidence before the Court to show that
the child was intended to become a ballet-
dancer ; on the other hand, there was no
evidence adduced that she was not, and it is
apparent that, with one leg absent, she cannot
now become one. The facts were that a Govt,
tram-motor carelessly ran down a buggy, and
as a result the child lost her limb. A jury
having awarded her £3OOO compensation the
Railway Commissioners moved for a new trial,
alleging excessive damages. The Full Court
shortly and bluntly asserted that, unless
plaintiff would accept £l5OO, it would order a
new trial, and practically fix £l5OO as a maxi-
mum of damages. In startling contrast with
the Leg case was the action of the Full Court
the very next day, in re a similar question ox
excessive damages. A station-manager had been
awarded £5OO for “ malicious prosecution ;
defendant appealed. As reported bv the S.M.
Herald (italics ours) :
The Court did not think that the £6OO awarded to a
gentleman in the position of Mr. Whittaker was too
much. ... If the jury had awarded £loog the Court
would not have interfered with it.
£lOOO is not too much for a judicially-accredited
“gentleman,” who was merely informed against
for “ illegally using a horse,” and the case
against whom was at once dismissed! The


Judges would even double the jury’s award.
But when it is the loss of a leg by a poor girl,
who becomes a one-legged deformity and cripple
for life, whose marriage chances as well as her
living-earning chances are amputated with her
limb, the Judges at once halve the jury’s
assessment. Yet, who knows? To a two-
legged girl, most things are possible, and the
child-plaintiff, had she remained blessed with
two legs, might have lived to marry a wander-
ing millionaire, or a leader of the Equity Bar,
or even a Chief Justice. Very high damages
have occasionally been awarded in cases of
common assault. As was approvingly instanced
by duel Justice Darley last week, a man was
once awarded £5OO damages because his hat
was violently knocked off—so, had he had his
hat knocked off three times running, the
Judges might have upheld the award to him of
the amount they now consider sufficient to
compensate little Miss M‘Whannell for her
sad fate as a one-legged woman. Finally,
would any of their Honors consent to lose a leg
for £l5O0 —equivalent, at the best absolute
security, to, say, 245. a week for life—or view
complacently such a solatium in the case of a
Judge’s infant daughter? And a girl’s leg is
much more precious than that of a Judge, who
is supposed to “ travel ” on his head.
• ♦
“ Tried Already.”
For purposes of legal quibble and learned con-
tention the Matthew Davies party fabricated
an idea that they have already “ stood ” several
trials. The statutes, according to lawyer
Gaunson, were specially fuddled up in order to
defend the Matthews and Millidges of
this world from malignant persecution, and
Gaunson begs the Court to suppress the fiend
who might wish to pass his existence in getting
M. and M. tried for the same offence over and
over again. Matthew also is in the habit of
referring to an imaginary number of times that
he has been discharged without a stain on his
character, and he makes a point of asking at
brief intervals, “ Will these prosecutions never
cease?” It is just possible that Matthew
Davies believes his own yarn. The fiction may
have grown upon him in the same way that
George the Fourth’s heroism at Waterloo be-
came a royal article of faith. Nevertheless, we
are confronted by the gaunt, grisly truth that
Matthew’s prosecution to-day is merely an
attempt to carry out an order made by a magis-
trate six months ago, and to enforce the sub-
sequent decision of a grand jury. That is how
the matter stands as regards Davies and Mil-
lidge, anyway. Six months ago they were
committed for trial, five months ago they were
committed for the second time, but on neither
occasion did they get there. The furthest
point they have reached thus far is Attor-.
ney-General Bryan O’Loghlen, for when
they seemed to have been pushed across the
struggling carcase of O’Loghlen to the True
Bill stage, it turned out that the True Bill was
a phantasy. Nobody desires to witness more
than one prosecution of Davies and Millidge,
but that one is the very thing that we can’t get
a look at. M‘Donald was persecuted, the
grand jury was jumped upon, the country in
general has been insulted by the Law for many
weary months, and all for the sake of Matthew
Davies, the dear old land-boom friend, bene-
factor and—humph ! —brother lawyer. He’s
the man they will not persecute.
“It Makes no Difference.”
Mr. Henry Copeland, New South Wales
Minister for Lands, is still another man
with a yearning after “ private enterprise.” It
is a recognised principle that when the State
sells public lands the minerals are reserved to
the “Crown”—the term the Imperialist poli-
tician loves to employ when he means the
people. Therefore, when mining is conducted
on private lands a royalty is supposed to be
paid to the “Crown.” Minister Copeland,
however, proposes that it should in future be
payable, not to the Stale, but to the private
property-holder—-who, by the way, will also
be compensated by the miner for surface in-
juries. In other words, the private pro-
perty-holder is to be recognised as the absolute
owner of the minerals, which simply means
that the nation is to give them away gratis, for
no visible reason whatever. Copeland’s main
argument in favour of this act of public self-
denial is a most remarkable one ;
So far as the miner is concerned it makes no difference
to him whether he pays the 2j per cent, to the landowner
or to the State.
Possibly it doesn't, but then it makes a con-
siderable difference to the State. Also it makes
a whole lot of difference to the landholder. By
the same method of reasoning, so long as Cope-
land performs the duties of his office satisfac-
torily, it makes no difference to the public, or
to the hangman, or to the Mikado of japkn,
whether he is paid his salary or whether the
money goes to the Benevolent Asylum. Only
in the latter case it would make a stupendous
difference to Copeland. And, seeing that
Copeland is one of the paid guardians of the
State, his callous announcement that it makes
no difference whether the State gets its due or
not, doesn’t look at all well. Further, if the
new arrangement makes no difference, the
heavy Minister for Lands might as well explain
why he introduced it at all. When the best
that can be said for a new policy is that it is no
worse than the old one, it is a very poor apology
for the change. If it could be proved, for instance
—as it probably could be—that it made no
difference to the bulk of the nation whether
Copeland was alive or dead, that gentleman
would probably decide to remain alive, simply
on the ground that, if his death didn’t make
Rny difference, there was absolutely nothing to
be gained by dying. The same argument applies
equally to the other case. When the only visible
reason for giving away even a small source of
revenue is that it makes no difference to some
outside party, the State might as well hold on
to it
The Bench’s Relatives.
At Bathurst (N.S.W.), the other day, a
curious libel-suit came on for hearing. Ihe
libel consisted in an alleged insinuation that a
local magistrate showed bias in favour of his
own relatives when they appeared before him
in a legal capacity—in short, that the side
which employed the magistrate’s relative
generally won. The case was “settled,” but
Supreme Court Justice Innes took occasion to
make some remarks about the absolute
absurdity of the alleged accusation. “It
might,” he remarked, “as well be said that it
was a reflection on a Judge because his son
practised before him, and an imputation of that
kind might be treated with contempt.” So,
undoubtedly, it might; but again, as The
Bulletin regretfully points out, it might not.
It may be only a coincidence, but almost all
the sons of Australasian Judges who are at the
Bar seem to appear at least twice as often
before the old man as before anybody else.
This circumstance leaves room for the un-
pleasant inference that some solicitors, at all
events, regard the Judge’s barristerial son as
having a better chance when his own pa is on
the Bench than when anyone else is there.
And so, as The Bulletin firmly believes, he
has. His advantage lies, not in any intentional
unfairness on the part of the Bench, but in
his intimate, or presumedly intimate, know-
ledge of the Judge’s mental peculiarities, his
likes and dislikes, his prejudices, and his modes
of reasoning. He knows the exact location of
his Honor’s corns, and can avoid putting the
hard end of his brief upon them more carefully
than anybody else; and he has a trigonometrical
survey of his fads, and humours them as no one
else can. This is the reason why the respect-
able solicitor so often prefers to employ the
Judge’s son. As for the solicitor of a lower
grade, he probably employs him because he
measures the Judge by his own mental stan-
dard, and suspects him of favouring his own
relative for the sufficient reason that he (the
hog-like solicitor) would do so under similar
conditions. And, unluckily, what the hog-like
solicitor thinks, a large section of the people,
untutored,"think also. The suspicion, so far,
is without the slightest foundation, but its
existence is a misfortune none the less. It is
not sufficient that justice should be pure, but it
should also look pure to even the most ignorant
and brutal. A Judge’s son doesn’t come sud-
denly to the front in his profession because of
the assumption that he has inherited the old
man’s intellect, for if so his business would not
lie to so great an extent in the court where his
father presides; besides, intellect isn’t sup-
posed to be infectious or transferable by mar-
riage, and yet the previonsly-briefless sons-in-
law of Judges begin to boom, as a rule,
immediately after their marriage. Moreover,
there is at least one instance on record where a
Judge’s son, who did a large practice in
his father’s court and a very small one
elsewhere, dropped suddenly out of sight on
his father’s retirement, and became about as
extinct as if he had never existed. The Lilley
scandal was another case in point, and is not
likely to be by any means the last of its kind.
The moral of it all is that either Judges’ sons
and other near relatives should not be allowed
to practise before them, or else that Judges
should not be allowed to have sons or near
relatives of any kind. The absolutely ideal
Judge is the one who belongs to no secret
society or religious or political organisation, and
who either never had any near relatives or
whose relatives all died very young—a celibate
with few male and no female friends, and with
no connections whatever at the Bar.
Thomas MTlwkaith, the big, burly, apoplectic
god of Queensland capitalism, has suddenly
resigned his Premiership, and the Ministry is
now in process of reconstruction. MTlwkaith,
who lives in constant fear of that sword which
hangs by a hair over every sedentary man that
wears a stupendous corporation, has been ill of
late, and goes to Canada to recuperate. He
retains and takes with him the Ministership of
Railways, ap that should any chance present
itself to help on the land-grant railway syndi-
cate business and give away a vast hunk of the
province as he goes along, he can act at once.
Meanwhile, that poor creature, Treasurer
Nelson, inherits the Premiership, and will
keep it till MTlwkaith comes back and
brushes him out of his road. MTlwraith’s
Cabinet was a one-man combination con-
sisting of one leading monstrosity and a few
ciphers; Nelson’s will he a commonwealth
with nobody in particular on top, and every-
thing in a state of transition and uncertainty.
MTlwraith’s absence, however, will produce
one good result. Nearly every member of the
Cabinet has long wanted to say several thou-
sand supremely foolish things, which the
Bismarckian Premier always choked off just as
they were about to find utterance. When he is
gone, his colleagues, not having the eye of their
master upon them, will get all these old re-
marks off their chests, and the result should he
interesting. MTlwraith’s supporters always
put their feet in their mouths at the earliest
opportunity when he wasn’t about, and then
took them out sheepishly when he came back
and fixed his awful, swollen optic upon them.
The Mercantile Bank Case.
FOUR HUNDRED AND NINETY-NINTH DAY.
(By an utterly unreliable “ Bulletin" reporter.)
The hearing in the new summonses re the Mer-
cantile Bank prosecution was resumed in Melb.
District Court yesterday before Mr. Nicholson,
P.M., and a bench of justices. Defendants took
their places with a fixed mechanical sneer, and a
halo of limelight was turned upon each of them in
succession, finally settling itself over the head of
Matthew Davies.
David Gaunson : Before the proceedings com-
mence I have to request, on behalf of my client,
Mr. Millidge, that any magistrate who doubts the
innocence of everybody will take his shameless
carcase off the Bench. Mr. Millidge is anxious
for a straight trial and a summary dismissal of
the charges against him. •
Mag. Edelsten : One moment, Mr. Gaunson—
I think Sir Matthew desires to speak. Ibeg your
pardon, Sir Matthew, you were about to ”
Matthew Davies : I was about to observe, as
usual, that this miserable business has gone
beyond endurance. My influential friends are
unanimous in saying that the prosecution must
now cease. , . , ,
Mag. Ckaib ; I think you explained yesterday,
Sir Matthew, that there wasn't a particle of evi-
dence against any of you ? (Refers to his notes.)
Matthew Davies : I did. And you doubtless
remember how I convinced you of my innocence
six months ago ?
Mag. Cbaib : Quite true, Sir Matthew —but, of
course, I bring an unbiassed mind to bear upon
this case.
David Gaunson : My oath ! yes. I’ll swear
vour mind is absolutely unbiassed.
Mr, Nicholson, P.M. : Are you ready, Sir
Matthew, to resume your cross-examination of
Mr. Clucker ? ( Matthew shrugs his shoulders, and
Mr. Clucker gets into the witness-box.)
D. Gaunson (excitedly) : Once more I order Mr.
Lorraer to leave the Bench.
Mag. Lormer : Why, what have I been doing
now ?
D. Gaunson : The question is what might you
do if you were allowed to go on hearing this case !
You can’t be trusted to perceive their innocence,
you can’t. I mention this so that you may have
fair warning of my intention to appeal to the
Supreme Court. I’m fighting this case on straight
lines, and I will hot tolerate your presence on the
Bench.
Mag. Lormer : I intend to hear all the evidence.
D. Gaunson : Evidence ! What has evidence
to do with it? ( Messrs. Davies and Millidge
laugh heartily at the idea.) This is the forty-
fifth objection I have made to you, and I shall
carry each objection to the Supreme Court. We
are fighting this case on straight lines, let me tell
you (shakes his forefinger at Magistrate Lormer). _
Mr. Nicholson, P.M. : Suppose we get on with
the case.
Matthew Davies : One minute, your Wor-
ship. I hold statutory declarations that 21 grand
jurymen conspired to find a True Bill against my-
self and Mr. Millidge (raises hat to M.) before
they were born. I mention the circumstance
casually to show that the £lOO,OOO deposit from
the Commercial Bank was properly included in
the balance-sheet. However, it is for you to dis-
charge me immediately without a stain on my
character.
D. Gaunson (with warmth) ; I beg pardon, Sir
Matthew, it is for you to discharge yourself and
the other defendants. I have ordered a burst of
cheering to be fired off when you say the word.
Matthew Davies (haughtily) : Tis a matter of
no consequence as long as I am discharged.
(Enter a policeman, bringing a black-edged missive
for Mr. Lormer.)
Mag. Lormer (breaking the skull-and-crossbones
seal of envelope and reading letter) : “If you com-
mit Sir Matthew or any of them you will be boiled
alive. Remember the fate of M‘Donald.— (Signed)
Simple Justice.”
D. Gaunson : Now, there you have unbiassed
evidence of my client’s innocence, if you like ! In
the meantime, get off that Bench !
Matthew Davies : That letter should convince
the court of my innocence.
D. Gaunson : If it doesn’t I shall object.
Mr. Clucker (mildly, from the box): How about
dismissing the poor witness? I’ve been waiting
here for two hours.
D. Gaunson: Never mind witnesses. I’m fighting
this case on straight lines and I want something
definite. Those magistrates in favour of a general
acquittal will kindly signify the same by holding
up the right leg. The others must retire from the
case.
Matthew Davies : Before resuming this
miserable prosecution I would like to point out
that the Right Honourable the Speaker met me
at the railway-station, a year or so ago, and
carried me off in triumph. Also, I may remark
that I have never been treated as an ordinary
defendant, which proves conclusively that I am
not responsible for the unfortunate position of my
banks that were considered sound after they
went bung.
Mag. Lormer (praying aside) : From murder
and sudden death, Good Lord deliver us.
1). Gaunson : Get off that Bench, d’ye hear !
Mag. Ckaib (having dozed off, murmurs in his
sleep): The balance-sheet was quite right accord-
ing to the hooks—hooks —hooks—what price Sir
Matthew for the Derby ? (Awakes icith a start'.
Mr. Nicholson, P.M. : I think, Sir Matthew,
that you had better proceed with the case, for the
sake of the defendants.
D. Gaunson ; What do you mean by that? It
sounds suspicious. Have a care, or I will object
to you !
Mr. N., P.M. (mildly): It struck me that some
of the defendants might wish to hurry matters up.
D. Gaunson: Well, well—but don’t let such
remarks occur again.
Mr. Clucker was still waiting for cross-examina-
tion when the Court adjourned until this morning.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“R.D. ’ (Bathurst) : The Bulletin argued (and
said) that it saw.no reason why all such persons should
not be treated as forbearingly as was Glasson. The
Advocate merely howls because the galling chain of
brutality was for a moment lifted off one of the sores of a
safely-caged captive. Again, The Bulletin does nut
“ want to see the lash laid across the buck of the larri-
kiuistic son of Fatman,” and never said it did ; The
Bulletin w'ants to see flogging abolished and laid on the
back of no Australian citizen. No Frencl man, German,
Austrian or Italian can be judicially flayed. Is the
Australian nation so beastly that it needs torture in
its code? “Expurgation” (Nelson Creek, N.S.W.):
Vague and distant denunciation “Theodolite ”: Come,
now, aren’t you as “ slow ” in the matter of your “ com-
plaint” as the Hay (N.S.W.) swagman to whom you gave
a lift the other day, and who, after a mile of silence,
said, “ I hear they caught Deeming; he’s a terrible
villain, ain’t he ?” “F.S.” (Ballarat, Vic.) : Amoious
drivel. It can only be poetry to the girl you are fooling
with... “F.U."; Adcock’s alleged “poem” certainly
spoils the aboriginal legend. To say nothing about the
metrical irregularities and the general juvenility of the
language, to rhyme “saw” with “wore” damns a piece
that depends only on the catch of its jingle “ Ponte” :
How can “things that are not” have an “echo”?
Might as well talk about the kernel of a vacuum
“G. A. Mason ” ; Women get along best when associated
with men. Just now, as woman does nob enjoy the
direct franchise, nobody wornes to politically court her
save a few miserable parsons and so on who chiefly depend
on her for a living. Women’s meetings are often, there-
fore, more ridiculous affairs than most men’s meetings
“ Loco.” : Ibis nigh impossible to be sporting and demo-
cratic in England ... “ Kelvinhaugh ” : He is still to
the fore anti makes a very occasional appearance...
“ Old Sub.” (M., Q.): The deal goes round in rotation
until “Kitty” is collared; then the winner starts the
next deal, as a rule. But any coterie can arrange the
dealing order as it chooses, beforehand, so long as all
understand it and agree thereto. Never saw any pern Uy
for revoking ; the “ nominator ” looks out that it doesn’t
occur so as to make him “pay,” instead of “reserve.”
.. “ Kate Smith ” : A much-used, more-abused strategic
idea clumsily crucified with impossible conditions
“The Pickier ” (Muttaburra, Q.): (1) A second time, we
refuse to extend sympathy to the Winton Debating
Society. (2) The discharged overseer gaggid “the
Cove,” sewed him up in his bedding, and bolted with his
female cook and four-in hand drag. Did he, now? Didn’t
he also bolt with the big waterhole? “J. Watson”
(Hobart, Tas.): Your yarn (generally credited to a nigger
and not a Chinee) is as old as the sin it hints at. And so
it really occurred at lastElwick race-day, you fresh young
man? “Nena ” (Warwick, Q.): In short, your town is
cursed with shoddy-genteels who call themselves
“sassiety.’.J. SeymourA very “broken dam.”’ .
“Yarrevah”: “Native Industry” will do
“As big a liar as a second-hand bookseller.” “ Colam”:
No, because we see there is no official record of the
burial at Ballarat of the diggers and soldiers killed at
Eureka Stockade in ’54 “Croton”: Your ideas are
young, it may be ; but they come to us in strait-jackets
all the same.. .“ E. H.W.” (Redfern): Please ca 11.,.
“Frank Or.” (Red.): Will print “Across 8.,”
although rather hazy,..." 0. Read ” (Tas.): Will print.
Please write again “C. Lindimn”: Tim Bulletin
W.P.B. is a sieve with a very big mesh. It’s only the
big nuggets which don’t get through.. “Stringy Bark”
(Parramatta): “Your” ballad of Queensland is an
impudent theft. The verses were written years ago by
“ Ironbark” for this paper. Please palm off your stolen
property elsewhere. It would have served you right for
us to accept and pay for the matter on your certifying to
itS originality— and then hand you over to the police for
false pretences “ J. 0.” (Dubbo, N.S.W.): (1) We don’t
pretend to know how best to polish bullocks’-horns;
some correspondent may advise. But we know a man
who can polish off whisky-horns. (2) Don’t worry about
the writers ; let the writings stand or fall on their own
merits.. ..“T.C.W.” (Canley Vale, N.S.W.): Yes,
poverty’s a crime'; but jig-jogging verse is an infamy.
Either is slow murder “Ohitty” (Hay, N.S.W.):
Thanks “Hugh Macdonald”: Your address, please.
We would write you ...“0. J. Creston ” : (1) Too long.
(2) “Station in life” is a nauseous doctrine under the
circs. When a man or woman is (say) 60 or YO years of
age, the Judges might reasonably talk, like so many Eng-
lish squires, of “the station in life ” to which it has
pleased God to call Mr. Smith or Mrs. Jones (whose life-
career had practically closed) ; but why, in a free country,
should the law talk of “the station in life” of a little
girl with all her unpredictable career before her ? Why,
when it is an open question whether the little girl whose
lost leg was to be paid for in damages w r ould have ulti-
mately become a washerwoman or the wife of a
Judge, should she net get the benefit of the doubt?
The Bulletin regards the action of N.S.W. Full Court in
declaring that the girl M'Whannel! could, under no cir-
cumstances, be entitled to over £l5OO damages, as a most
arbitrary interference with the rights of juries... “ A.D.”:
Unusual, but neither captivating nor forcible... “ Dublin
Man”: The world, not so blind as it used to be, sees
right through the self-advertising business... “G. H.M.”
(C.): Yes, but we couldn’t print it A correspondent
asks Tub Bulletin where he can get a copy of a pamphlet
containing a report of a certain farcical “ trial by juiy ”
in wl.ich the late W. B. Dailey took part. The trial hap-
pened at a Sydney College, and the prisoner was charged
with the murder of the late William Shakespeare. [Many
replies held over.]
The Year that Penance
Won.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
One morning in the fickle spring
Of nineteen fifty-four.
Old Jonathan sat gossiping
Beside his cottage-door.
“Well, well,” he wheezed to Charley Prince-'
“ Go down and see it run.
I’ve kept away from racing since
The year that Penance won.
“ Before your time, you truly say—
’Twas eight-een nine-ty-three;
Yet only like the other day
To me, my lad, to me.
We had some goodish horses then ”
He scratched his aged brow —
“ And probably the sporting men
W ere rather worse than now.
“ I used to gamble on the race
A s boys will ever do ;
I backed them for a ‘ win and place,’
And ‘doubles,’ 1 doubles,' too.
Each year I cursed my ‘ shocking luck ’
(That’s still, I think, the rule)
But could not raise sufficient pluck
To think myself a fool.
“ So betting ate my savings up—
Your case is much the same—
The pounds I kept for Melbourne Cup
Were squandered when it came,
Until ’twas time to take a wife ;
I loved a likely lass,
But when I spoke of married life
Her father mentioned ‘brass.’
“ ‘ You don't get on,' says he to me,
‘ You mean all right enough
But still without the L. s. d.
You can’t keep bits of stuff!
November month is coming round
When all you have to lose
You’ll take to Melbourne, I’ll be bound,
And throw it at the Jews.’
“ ‘ I’ve never found the winner yet,'
Says I, a trifled riled ;
Poor Mary’s pretty eyes were wet,
Old Mickey grimly smiled —
* I’ll strike a bargain with you, Jon.,
A bargain hard and fast;
Have one more go at Flemington,
One flutter for the List
“ * And then give up the foolish game
For ever, understand ;
And Mary here shall take your name,’
He offered me his hand.
I took it, and I clasp t it tight,
And by my love I swore
That, let this ‘ tip’ be wrong or right,
I’d never bet no more.
“ They saw me off to Melbourne by
A Cup excursion train ;
‘l’ve got a bird this time,’ says I,
And Micky roared again—
‘ The bird they mean to pluck is you,’
I think I hear him shout.
That prophecy came very true —
They pulled my feathers out.
“ Camoola seemed the public’s nag,
Though thousands went for ‘Tim
I dropped some money in the bag,
And had a ‘ bit of him,'
A host of names I quite forget
(I’m growing old, my son),
But ‘ calculations were upset
The year that Penance won.
“ Sternchaser was my fancy horse —
On him I ‘ put the pot,’
For he was sure to ‘stay the course,’
And all that kind of rot.
I can’t say if he ‘stayed,’ or no,
I’m certain he * got done,’
And people said, ‘ I told you so,'
When little Penance won.
“ They said it when he galloped in ;
They liked him all along ;
On ‘ form ’ he couldn’t help but win,
All other tips w ere wrong.
I tore my tickets very small,
My card away I threw,
To Gups and,betting, once for all,
I bade a soft ‘ adieu.’
“ And back I went that blessed night,
Contented to be chatf’t;
My pockt t and my heart were light
When back I went to graft.
And to my promise tight I stuck —
No more of racing ‘ fun.’
Dear Mary proved my stroke of luck
The year that Penance won.” ,


Hlpticd to Quit all ||ightd.
r
Fitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
6/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10,'6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS.
JKWKttKRY Showrooms,
•3* HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
FROSSARDS SWISS.
■A- GloodL and. Claeap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
h
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
rAVEItNR (Switzerland).
a nv^ e rL?n^ ity n n(^» Wor l Cm f nsh J. P ob M nab . ,e ‘ Thp y arf ‘ 10,1 Bi er > better filler! and heavier than
J i , ' tbetn by bundles of 25 —they cost yon less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle. * g
TKe Old B lead
Edinbur
tK
\Hv
■ t eHOR
1 Cel i
<7
mntPT trr.'A oistii.ee;-
always r»ir; S/.me riiitr. Mr.'.t
AAATUtt<.I> SCOItM MiUT
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ Romany Rye.”
Lyceum ..... Italian Opera Co.
Theatre Royal “ Arrah-na-Pogue.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Brough-BoucioauU Co.
Buou “ Private Secretary."
Theatre Royal “Skipped.”
Alhambra Variety Show.
Alexandra John Wallace’s Benefit.
(Derby Night.)
Renewed acquaintance with the “Romany
Rye,” revived on Saturday at Sydney Her
Majesty’s, doesn’t add much additional co-
herence to the old drama. It is a spectacular
effort, staged with all the wild gorgeousness for
which George Rignold is famous, and the general
effect is like a great red sun setting behind a
large quantity of tomatoes and boiled lobsters.
As for the story, it is a delirious whiz of maddened
incidents rushing'down a steep place into the sea,
and a general stampede of untamed circumstances.
Mr. Rignold makes a large and energetic re-appear-
ance as Jack Hearne, and fills to advantage
the entire foreground of the drama ; and Mrs.
Rignold is the Mother Shipton of the story—the
first hag in a piece which is mostly hags, except
the parts which consist of mouldy cellars, and
dank dog-stealers and sinking ships and the like,
Mrs. Rignold is a hag of note, and her acting—
which is particularly good—makes Mother Shipton
a great and horrid reality—a wormy object-lesson
on the horrors of bad drink and the awful manner
in which it flies to the nose. Mr. Sterling Whyte
—who is probably the weepingest stage-drunk
this side of the line—is the same tearful stage-
drunk as usual; and Albert Norman’s pot-hatted
villain is an unnaturally shiny individual as of
yore. The legend that the ladies of the co. use
Mr. Norman’s bell-topper to look at their hair in
is probably unfounded.
* » * *
“ Arrah-na-Pogue,” an Irish drama which
is a good way past its first youth, was revived at
Sydney Royal on Saturday. There is nothing to be
said about it—the informer, and the praste, and
the whisky, and the colleen, and the pig, and the
brutal Saxon being all ancient history—except
that it is a respectable performance with no points
that stick out far enough to hang any violent criti-
cism upon. Miss Maggie Moore’s colleen is a
bright Irish girl, weighing several stone,
and both her pathos and her brogue are
all that can reasonably be desired. The beauti-
ful Mr. Roberts —lent from Her Majesty’s for the
occasion—is too lovely and too serious for the
part of Shaun, and he .can’t make his feet look as
if they were accustomed to be out in a potato
field in all kinds of weather, and his pretence of
wearing an agricultural aspect is altogether too
thin. The base informer—perpetrated by Mr.
West —is a traditional stage informer in a good
state of repair, and the balance of the show main-
tains an honourable mediocrity, and is quite as
good as the old Irish drama requires. The Bul-
letin makes no disguise of the fact that it is
tired of old Irish drama, and would gladly
hear that the colleen and the informer were both
at the bottom of the Pacific.
* * m *
That old baritone favourite, Mr. Edward
Farley, re-opens Sydney Opera House next Satur-
day. The company includes Mr. W. Walshe and
Misses Cecily Staunton and Edith Moore, and a
chorus of 50 voices is to scare the ghosts out of the
long-deserted structure. “Fatinitza,” an opera
containing a mysterious Turk with three wives, is
announced for the opening night. If Sydney is in
a position to support two operas at once, the new
venture ought to pay, if only on the strength of
Mr. Farley’s reputation,
* * « »
An air of barley-water and “one in the
morning and two at night,” in a manner of speak-
ing, hung over the seventh performance of “ La
Mascotte,” at Sydney Lyceum, for two principals
were under the doctor’s hands, Vernon, hastily
pitchforked into the rdle of Rocco, owing to
Courtneidge having temporarily succumbed to the
green dye in his stockings—was haunted by the
“book.” Every chance he gob he must have
spent glued to his “spokens,” for on one hurried
entrance he flung the paper-covered part from him,
and it bounded into view of the audience; and on
bowing to Laurent in the last act the baleful lines
fell out of his hat. In fact, Vernon’s cues
weighed too heavily on his soul to make his Rocco
a starry part in his own particular theatrical
firmament. Ryley, suffering, bub strong, played
Pippo against the advice of his medicine-man
and acted him very well, bub his warbling was
simply vocal talking, owing to the influenza. The
rest of the caste improved upon their first night
performances (if Lauri could improve upon his
altogether successful Laurent), but while the
gifted Nellie Stewart remains to face the band,
the co. can afford to ravel a little round the edges,
as it were.
* # •
“La Mascotte” finished the operetta
season, and the co. go to Brisbane, where
“ Dorothy ” is the first opera. On the return
season in Sydney “Princess Ida” and “Pirates
of Penzance” will be produced; also, “MaMie
Rosette,” for which Miss Stewart has imported
some altogether paralysing dresses. Meanwhile,
“ I Pagliacci ” and the Turquoise ballet go up at
Sydney Lyceum on 6th prox. to console those who
haven’t gone to “ the Cup.”
“ The Amazons ” have prospered at Melb.
Princess’, because they represent a fanciful idea
in fancy costumes, and are more or less of a
variety-show with a motive attached. Their
grouping is effective. They smoke—an excellent
thing in dramatic heroines ! Also, they execute a
bright, unpremeditated dance which threatens to
become kiss-in-the-ring at the moment of their
mother’s appearance on the scene. Over and
above all this towers the charming vision of Mrs.
Brough plying a pair of Indian clubs with facility.
To say that the lady gets through tins piece of
business well is to understate the case. She is
now a brilliant performer, whose handling of the
weapons would compare favourably with many
professional exhibitions. Cecil Ward, on the
horizontal bar, proves that the old aristocracy can
still do weird things with its right leg, and Bouci-
cault helps to strengthen a suspicion that the
company could, at a pinch, blossom into an intel-
lectual circus of the highest class.
* # #
B. and B. have drawn up a quick change
programme for Cup week. “The Magistrate”
is billed for Derby night, “The Idler” is suitably
arranged to follow the Cup, whilst “ Niobe ” will
be there on Oaks night. When the Steeplechase
has been run, and the “ Carnival ” is played out,
and the public, having been shorn by the book*
makers, are disposed to resent anything with a
joke in it, they fall back upon “A Village Priest.”
** * *
At Melbourne Royal the last hopes of a
fresh young management were crushed by a steam
roller. It was a hollow mockery of a roller-engine
with a pen’orth of fireworks fizzing from a card-
board funnel. So utterly irrelevant seemed the
presence of this enormity on the stage that Edwin
Kelly_ had to look at it, and wonder what next
they intended to place in his front garden. A
camel in a tram-car would have been easier
of explanation than the thing intended to
pulverise Miss Maud Williamson after she
had fainted for that purpose. Miss Williamson,
however, took care to swoon on the safe side of the
apparition, and only her feet run any risk of being
knocked against by the roller when a stray mad-
woman failed to make it roll. A capable company
played “Is Life Worth Living?” and partially
dissembled their scorn and loathing for the outrage
in which they had become involved.
££
On Derby night, Goutlay and Walton will
revive “Skipped” at the Royal. This is a farce
that breaks out from time to time in Melbourne,
and having established a claim to appear when
least expected, it may be well received at the pre*
sent frivolous juncture.
*# * »
“ The Private Secretary ” goes somewhat
dottily at Melb. Bijou for reasons already stated,
but he will stick to the track for a few more
nights. On Wednesday, partner Arnold gives
“ Hans the Boatman ” another trial, and anew
musical comedy may follow close on the heels of
its stable companion.
* » sif *
Melb. variety shows at the Alhambra and
Gaiety have lately been entrusted with a fair
amount of money, as the sporting papers say.
St. George’s Hall also intends to start for the
Derby and Cup, whilst the Exhibition concerts,
cycloramas, etc., are all certain to be ridden out
for a place.
** * *
Old friend, John Wallace, the Bambini of
brighter days, takes a complimentary benefit at
the Alexandra on Saturday night. There is seat-
ing accommodation in the “ Haleck ” for a vast
multitude, and a programme calculated to give
pleasure to all has been carefully prepared.
Operatic selections, two or three ballets, anew
topical farcial comedy, the second act of
“lolanthe,” &c., &o. In the course of the even-
ing, too, John Wallace will doubtless make a
speech, and probably impart the name of the Oup-
winner, by special permission from the jockey
and trainer.
** * *
Coogee Aquarium announces that “ the
Continental Bathing Season begins on November
7,” and if the bathing season is only sufficiently
Continental it ought to draw. Also, some
extra talent is being laid on for the popular
Sunday concerts, a quadrille assembly takes place
every Wednesday evening, and many other
attractions are always in full blast.
Three figures grace a woodland “set.”
Lord Willy sings a chansonette—
Sing, pretty bird ! tweet-twitterly.
Lord Noel’s thoughts, with sweet regret,
Revert to “stranger,” strangely met
(Her long-lost cousin, Utterly).
Lord Tommy puffs a cigarette;
How manly is the maid ! and yet
Her sex she does not quite forget
When Noelinc weeps bitterly.
The picture haunts our sleeping eyes j
It acts upon the sympathies—
An influence magnetical.
The “ scheme” of lights—the boy-girl guise—
The smoke-wreath curling to the “flies’
The singer’s pose sesthetical—
The subtle tints of Noel’s sighs—
The “ hits ” that blend and harmonise.
Hats off to Art! it never dies ;
It—er —makes a cove poetical.
At Poverty Point.
Bob Vernon, actor, brother of Howard Vernon died at
Hawthorn (Melb.), Oct. 23. As a family mafl, he had a
full share of the bitters of this awful time. His last
engagement was in the “ Heart of Midlothian.” He was
a sound actor in heavy character parts, taking great pains
to individualise them—but, ctd hono!
“Bartho has flown.”— Melb. paper.
Who can wonder—who that’s seen her
Floating down in airy rings,
Like a snowflake in an eddy—
Bartho has developed wings ?
The Argus is very curt in its criticism of Cecil Ward’s
splendid and never-to-be-forgotten caricature in “ The
Amazons”: “Mr. Ward courageously endeavours to im-
part an air of probability to the character.” The character
is that of a semi-imbecile scion of the Old Nobility, a
walking hospital of mixed hereditary and other diseases,
and, of course, it looks like blasphemy to the Lord-loving
Arous.
About the most honest of late Australian theatrical
criticisms had reference to a recent ben. performance, and
was effected by a small transposition, whereby a one-act
play was described as a “ one oat play ”
It is melancholy to trace the after-careers of Lyster’s
splendid old chorus. One, though, has done remarkably
well, and is a Collins-street magnetic healer, rivaling
Lurz, and more solid than Oeismardo. Two fat songsters
used to be prominent pom-poms, and one hawked fish.
When Coppin put up for Parliament, his election de-
pended on whether Harry Taylor or Harry Collier was
sent to report him, from the Aob. Collier was known for
his Coppin-worship, whereas Taylor was bitterly sar-
castic on the sacred cause of charity and what not.
Taylor got the job, and opened Coppin’s speech with
“ Here we are again Collier, to his dying day, swore
Coppin never uttered the words. The result was the loss
of his election. The pious world, much stricter than now,
said, “ Ah, you.see—the old clown 1”
There are no strong girl parts in “The Other Fellow,
and Pattie Browne has to content herself with shining in
the back-ground as a sauey servant-girl. They ought to
see Pattie play the name-part in “Jane " or “ Betsy.”
A visitor to one of the Melbourne shows of a few
weeks back tendered half-a-sovereign at the d.c. box-office
and was compelled to wait until the management sent
across the road for change.
The Italian Opera Co. played in Melbourne on Friday,
and Adelaide on Saturday 1
Violet Varley has met two accidents rather recently.
At Albury she fell between the train and the station and
thought her last hour had come ; and the other day, at
Coogee, a most unmannerly pony put her over his head
by propping at a familiar gate. As the fair Violet shot
through the air her first thought was, “ I will never play
again !” Then she counted her ribs.
Who is the lady in walking-costume who holds Charles
Ryley’s guitar for him while he’s waiting to go on as the
saltarella proprietor? Everybody wants to know.
Silver speculations ruined Lucy Chambers.
Adelaide thinks the big ballet a bit blue.
The receipts during the long London run of “Charley’s
Aunt ’’ averaged £230 a night, with a cheap co.
The unclaimed property at Melh. Princess Theatre, for
the quarter, includes three valuable articles of ladies’
jewellery.
The “Turquoisette ” dresses (in the Firm’s ballet) cost
£2OOO.
Musgrove was before Gus Harris in securing “Pag
liacci.”
Lottie Collins, the original “Ta-ra-ra,” has a baby now.
They say now that the philosopher Ibsen is an elderly
johnnie, in shiny stove-pipe hat, velveteen coat, fawn
trousers, patent leathers, and exquisite gloves.
Gounod’s “ P aust ” w r as the work of a man floating
midway between Heaven and Earth.
Mrs. Sohrade, of Adelaide Black Horse Hotel, a veritable
mother to the “ profesh,” has, after a 33 years career,
sold out and retired.
David Lee, Melbourne city organist, is drawing big
audiences now. Mascagni’s celebrated intermezzo “fetches
them ” every time.
Italian opera prices in Adelaide were 7s. 6d., 65., 4s. and
2s. In Melbourne, 65., 45., 2s. Sydney should feel in-
sulted, as W. and M. are not asking 10s. there.
Tilly Salenger is to marry Phil Branston, the tenor at
’Frisco Tivoli.
The novitiate actress has to be careful she is not
ensnared, by stage - glamour, into marriage with a
scoundrel.
Wybert Reeve did at least as well as anybody out of
the Adelaide amateur opera, “ Iramomeena.”
“ The rare man who constructs a good play can find
any number to write the lines.”— Crane (actor).
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
November 1, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The Spring Show of N.S.W. Horticultural
Society at the unaesthetio Exhibition Building,
was not all the programme painted it. Lady
Duff—in a pink silk with a melon-pip spot in black
and trimming of black lace, black and pink toque
—opened it in a dumb show, a male proxy doing
the talk, as usual. Coming after the loquacious
“M.E.J.” the unvarying public silence of Lady
Duff is a distinct novelty. Mrs. Bowden-Smith,
in mingled silk and satin, accompanied the
goyernoress, and two vice-regal daughters and
Miss Bowden-Smith were the rest of the pro-
cession.
After observing these things, I turned my face
to the show and wept. For one thing, the ex-
hibits were only staged for front-viewers, and
behind you saw pickle-bottles revealed by flapping
ends of silk that ought to have been decently
pinned together. The spray of edelweiss gown at
“Elystan,” Woollahra, was’a notable exception.
It was dramatically fixed among white cotton
wool (to represent the eternal snows) behind a
magnifier, and you looked through and felt your
nose getting frost-bitten, if you had any imagina-
tion at all. At the same time, a bit of tame edel-
weiss, grown under glass in a fashionable suburb,
is about as soul-stirring a circumstance as a bit of
Saint Somebody, a.d. 12, made in Brummagem.
There were one or two showily-adorned dinner
or swell luncheon-tables. One had trails of
bristly moss that would hook on anywhere and
lead to Bridget carrying the whole plan of adorn-
menfc away with the first change of dishes. The
decorated fans and breast-knots were insipidly
pretty one-flower arrangements, but there was no
olever harmony visible in any of them. To mix
yellow flowers and green ferns doesn’t show
“taste”—it only proves that the genius who tied
them up together is aware that a yellow flower
harmonises with a yellow. flower, and green must
be all right. This is safe and steady floral art—
but what an awful world it would be if the florists
made up ball-bouquets on the same principle?
The pansies at the show recalled the little boy
from Manly : each was set in a pinked-out paper
collar—and a “non-competitive” departure was
a darkling sort of oil-painting of a track through
the tree-ferns draped in yellow and gorgeously
framed. The artist was a lady, of course.
A cou Plo of itinerant society people, stopping at
iitipu’s svvellest hostelry, gave a kettle-drum to
the well-dressed brigade, and, conscious of early
strawberries in the menu, confidently invited the
Proconsul and his wife. But, far from attending
the lavish entertainment, the astonished dignitary
didn’t even deign to refuse the honour in cold
terms. Which makes “Society” wildly ask it-
self if this is another form of the ever-varying
etiquette of pasteboard or merely proconsular
license ?
But the same vice-regalities are most conven-
tional in their ideas as to how their own invita*
tions ought to be answered. They suffered ex-
cruciating agonies over one man (on a very
friendly footing at Govt. House, too) who would
receive a card worded in the fashionably-freezing
manner and would cheerfully reply: “ Dear
Blank (the secretary),—Sorry I won’t be able to
turn up on the fourth;” or, “Dear Lord Dash
(the Gov.), —Expect me in between 10 and 11, but
1 can t stay long.” His unexpectednesses oast a
gloom over the mail-bag until a common friend
gently hinted to him that he ought to restrict
himself to the vocabulary of the etiquette-books,
and then the fun ended. By the way, I am told
of one vice-regal guest who replied on pink paper
embossed a foot deep with roses and cupids and
things, and the acceptance (I don’t know for cer-
tain, but it’s safe to bet that it was an acceptance)
beautifully written with fish-tail flourishes in the
exact centre.
. Sydney Articled Clerks’ Association broke out
mto amateur theatricals at the Royal Standard
1 heatre one night recently, under the patronage
of leading local horsehair. The bill began with a
one-act piece, “Eventide,” in which Mr. Frank
Martin took laurels for a robust impersonation of
a Lancashire lad whose dialect was evenly spread
rrln' 111 didn’t only occur in spots. Miss
Edith Hixson was energetic and boyish as the
heroine in the lighter parts, but she made green-
apple grimaces when sorrow overtook her, and the
rssult was inartistic. Shakespeare tells us to
smue at grief, not to make monkey-faces at her.
MTntosh made up into a courtly
Mr. Rivers, and Mr. Aubrey Phillips seemed to
e (U°y part of the brave, courageous stage
villain who has the pluck to be engaged to two
™ en , at once - The second piece was the eternal
Woodcock’s Little Game,” in which Mr R
Roxburgh played the artful hero in a Terry-
haunted manner, but crisply withal, and Mrs.
Morgan was a success as Mrs. Colonel Corner.
During a pause an unknown youth came and told
me that Schnapper and Co. had lent the furniture
—in case I should entertain unworthy suspicions
of how they had come by it, I suppose.
The story goes that when a certain military
potentate arranged an invitation garden party it
was understood that his officers should subscribe
£lO apiece towards defraying expenses, and that a
week later, when settling-day came and only three
cheques were in the hands of the hon. treasurer,
the General said : “ Return those cheques—here
is mine for the full amount ” (over .£100).
1 l lc ?' r la * l that Governtnentouse trouble
founded on a young lady’s innocent flirtation, has
been [patched up to the extent that her ma has
again entree as a reporter, but the doors remain
barred agamst the girl guilty of the hideous crime
of smiling upon an already-engaged lordling.
Sydney Womanhood Suffrage League elected
Mrs. Wolstenholme to be its Presidentessasthe re-
su t of a (so the newspapers say) largely-attended
poll-meeting. In face of the statement that the suc-
cessful lady got 28 votes, the second 18, and the
third (the lady whose faithful Darby entered her
for the occasion) three, this is most interesting as
proving what a great horde the womanhood suf-
fragists really are! On 28 votes the favourite got
home! b
Mrs. Wolstenholme ought to fill the trying posi-
tion of final authority of the Womanhood Suffrage
League to a marvel. She is the principal of a
fashionable suburban ladies’ school, and the dog-
matism that usually characterises a woman whose
word is Law and whose will is absolute to a crowd
of juniors, is absent in her case. Endowed with a
winning personahty and a wideness of intellectual
views, Mrs. Wolstenholme seems eminently quali-
fied to fill a position inevitably requiring tact,
level-headedness, and comprehensive sympathies
if iST.b.W. Woman Suffrage League means to
outgrow its present aimlessly-cackling spirit and
gilded-drawing-room dimensions. Fancy a Uni
versa! Suffrage League in which the attitude of a
little clique of members is—or perhaps X may ven-
ture to say, was the pose of the Society Person-
age who glares through a gold-mounted pince-nez
at the pettieoated unknown and faintly enquiahs
—“ Aw ! who is she?”
If women get votes will the Y.M.C.A. candi-
date inevitably top the poll, I wonder ? He may
V?? a , use IlloS f women are hypocrites who
publicly applaud virtue for the social value of the
row they make, and what better plan of showing
your inward leanings to tea and tameness than
by plumping for Joseph ? And yet Solomon him-
self (who knew a thing or two) could hardly tell
which way the feminine vote would go.
Take, for instance, a certain teetotal, tame-cat
bachelor philanthropist of Sydney, who, from a
churchy point of view, seems the very exact
figure for a woman’s politician. “If you get the
vote,” said somebody to an interested Sydney
woman, the other day, “ yon are sure to ebot Mr.
Blank (the bachelor saint in question) “b< cause
of his poodlesomeness,” “ No, indeed,” said she,
we can forgive him for abjuring wine, but
never, never for abjuring women !” From which
it is clearly evident that George Eyeglass Reid
has sacrificed his liberty in the nick of time.
Ihe Ihirlmere Hospital for consumptives is
taking the hungry place of the horseleech-like
Women s College among society benefit-mongers,
lam pleased to see. All sorts of shows are being


“ The hearse of the living soul— Black
For 15d. in stamps will ho posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System, by 1 rice
Waning.”
“Be Twist." What does it mean?
Messrs. Innes & Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Head brand of Wines, inform us that it is old
Saxon, and means “be true.” As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines w uc i
are gold at all grocers from Is. per bottle upwards.
Their invalid Port, at 3s. 6d. is a wonderful wine,
full of health-giving properties.*
the old ORDER CHANGETH !
gone, the companions oE his la terl ! £ r ® ”° Thia ’ little story illustrates the necessity for change. Nations must
m ' 1 m “
CHANGE A NECESSITY OF EXISTENCE,
TtTTSIN'ESS Flit MS are not exempt , they SERVE THE PUBLIC,
~ , „ mIIBF varv their wavs and change their bill, in accordance with the people’s cir-
and if they would be successful taste. Arguing thus
Re-Model
BECAUSE
A small
Wo
our Prices,
Profit
SUITS
a Large Business.
> 1 „„„ in the nasi and much as those of other firms have lost by comparison, our selling
Low as our prices hat *J^ n £ operation of this desirable change QUALITY does not suffer deterioration,
rates are now lower still. In tn P RICEg on , y are on a LOWE R SCALE.
TT.-cicrht to anv Railway Station or Port in New South Wales on all
We pay Tralnage or SWPPi»« Furniture, Ironmongery. Crockery and Glass,
Parcels of the value of £2193. amj and Bc ddi 1 “**•“ *
wu iii•a nmi Howards executing FunUlure, iromiioiijiviy ( vi vcivca j
Grocery, l Toys! Harness*. Floorcloths, Bedsteads and Bedding. and other heavy and 1 ulky
ANTHONY IIOKHUKN & SONS,
II AY MARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY,
XJ IT IYEESAL PBOVIDETJS.
CClose to the Railway Station.)
To Prospectors. —The advertiser, who has ample capital
at command, also long mining experience, invites offers
of good gold-mining prospeoters, to be toorked for the
mine, not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic-
sluicing claims. Send offers, with fullest particulars, to
“ Oro,” 2 Pirie street. Adelaide.
worked up to aid this deserving institution, A
suburban bazaar in a private house at which a
table, done in poker-work and paint by Lady
Duff, was the gr.-at raffle of the day, and where a
“cafe chantant ’ (?) was among the side-shows,
drew very well, and Miss Pedley’s artistic concert
in the Town Hall —which I missed by an accident
—was so generally attended that the Hospital
must be a large gainer. Also, I am told that an
amateur theatrical show was recently held at
Thirlmere for the same good purpose. A farce,
written by a local celebrity described as “ Slim
Jim” —I don’t know the rest of his name —and
called “Johnson’s Dead,” was given on the occa-
sion, and the local hall, which holds 50 people, was
crowded. Another (recently-floated) institution
which deserves support is the free hospital and
dispensary for women at 207 Hay-street, Belmore
Park, Sydney. Midwifery assistance to poor
people is its speciality.
I have of late been thinking that it must be a
position of extreme difficulty to be the parent of
an infantile prodigy. You must either sacrifice
your prodigy to your friends, or your friends on
the altar of your prodigy—which usually Jiappens.
Creation groaneth under the tyranny of bladder-
headed babies, set up to do puppy-dances in
public, precocious infants who totter in their
open-work socks to slow music and call it a pas
seal a la Lethbridge, and who spend the hours
when they ought to be wrestling with the alpha-
bet learning hackneyed comic songs, which they
pipe shrilly and sadly to a disgusted public.
What can be the future of a baby who makes
the acquaintance of rouge at five years old, and
who has no more improving task set him than to
shuffle about like a monkey on a barrel-organ,
while his proud parent tinkles cheap tunes, and
wonders if the scramble would pass as a “ Serpen-
tine Dance, by Baby Button,’’ if the wretched
infant were dressed in a quarter-of-a-yard of
mosquito-net ? All prodigies are drearily hideous
—from the infant who earns odd money at six-
penny shows, to the tutored brat of the private
individual, who is dragged into drawing-rooms to
recite “The Stately Homes of England” for the
benefit of bored adults, who probably can hardly
ait out Snazelle. Legislation to protect infants
from adults ought to include a clause dealing with
the protection of adults from children.
While even one woman arches her neck over the
fact that her gown is tailor-made, woman’s
alleged belief in the superiority of woman is a
mere pen - and - ink sentiment. For instance,
Collins & Co., whose large establishment is in
Pitt-street, near Market-street, Sydney, make a
great success with their holland, drill, and pique
suits, because they are cut by a tailor especially
employed. And I must confess that a linen coat
hackee! out by a dressmaker hasn’t half the cachet
of a similar garment cut by masculine shears.
Collins & Co. are marvellously inexpensive. A
cotton gown, trimmed with guipure insertion
and well-made to order, for one guinea, is simply
a gift, and their millinery is certainly jaunty and
less than moderate in price.
What do you think of the new belts to squeeze
the waists of maidenhood? Shaped—l mean the
belts are—like an iron fence with a rail round the
t o p_but it’s the name that amused me —“The
Unbreakable.” Happy look out for Adolphus,
who otherwise might have been frightened of some
of the railings breaking loose and sticking into
him.
Of two wealthy Australians who lately died,
one left ,£200,030, and cuts his widow off without
even a shilling if she re-marries; the other left
£50,000, and does ditto. The enterprising British
peers who (as per cable) wrote to the pretended
Australian merchant ” masquerading recently in
London, inquiring as to the price, looks and
temper of Australian heiresses who were anxious
to marry into the nobility, needn’t take the
Messageries steamers to this country on account
■of these two wealthy widows.
The penalising of wives in the wills of rich men
in the event of the former marrying again plainly
shows that philosophy teaches the married man to
■disbelieve in the eternal-love theory. They all
have firm conviction, evidently, that the very first
thing a widow thinks of doing when her husband’s
life-policy “ matures ” is to buy a nice young man
with the money.
Which recalls the story of the Northern relict
who bought a very pretty youth, who (though he
was battling with his pap-bottle when she was
marrying No. 1) became No. 2 all the same. Jhe
■devoted bride settled thousands on him, but,
in spite of all, he ran off with the governess,
who was an old and hopeless attachment. Ihey
had been too poor to marry, so the self-sacrificing
youth sold himself temporarily into the bondage
of Mrs. Blank. Everybody must admire the lover
who was so devoted that he sold himself to one
woman in order that he might secure another.
The world has no sympathy for the love-troubles
of the shady side of forty. Not a soul pitied Mrs.
Blank, who acted the part ot a more deeply-
hocussed Katisha than the Japanese heroine in
this drama of real life.
Sea-bathing, is becoming general again, and
easily-shocked old ladies who keep marine teles-
copes to detect mermen with may congratulate
themselves on having the usual scandalising ex-
perience ahead. I don’t mean to say anything
about the clergyman with the field-glasses, or the
pillar of the church who comes innocently round
the corner in a boat when the mermaidens are out,
for to tell the truth none of these make any pro-
tests, but the old ladies ring another chime, i
heard of a bevy of Christian scientific virgins, who
were very neatly taken in the other day at a
Sydney watering place.
It was ’orrible ’ot, and these dear creatures ob-
served a man—not two hundred yards away-
beginning to take off his coat in the shade of a
rock After the coat came the vest, and after the
vest the collar—the disrober throwing his wearing
apparel over the boulder (for they couldn t actu-
allv see him). When the tie was also thrown over
the damsels arose and-fled? No, egged on by a
sense of moral rectitude they hurried to catch and
caution him ere he got to the water. But when
they burst around the rock there was the depraved
creature sitting coolly and modestly in his shir
sleeves, reading a novel. 1 hen they fled.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition, No. 7.
The above competition closed with 2536 entries,
and 55 successful guesses. The dividend for each
winner is, therefore, £2 6s. Id. The subject of
the competition was the Carcoar tragedy, The
Bulletin giving an eloquent warning to bank-
managers and others never to go with a light in
search of a burglar, but rather to lie low and pot
him when he strikes a match because “ You know
your own house better than the does.”
The word to be filled in was “ visitor,” and, as
already mentioned, 55 people discovered it. The
majority panned out on “intruder,” and there
was also a great run on “stranger” and “tres-
passer,” and a smaller demand for “ burglar,”
“malefactor,” “other” and “former.” One
genius recklessly filled in the blank with “ tommy-
hawker,” and the wildest competitor of the lot
suggested “light-housekeeper” as a reasonable
solution of the mystery. This latter has evidently
a great future before him.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition,
No. 8, will be found inside the red cover at the
end of the present number.
The names of successful competitors are as
follows :
Mrs. JR,. W. M‘Gowan, Deloraine, Tas.
Mrs. R. Bruce, Park-street, Toowoomba, Q.
Graham Waddell, Kandagh, Darling Point, Sydney.
W. H. Parr, Port Pirie, S. Aus.
James R. Reid, 25 O'Connell-street, Sydney.
G. D. Mitohell, Caltowie, S. Aus.
Eliza Maxwell, 223 Darling-street, Balmain.
R. Doyle, Herries-street, Toowoomba, Q.
Alt. G. Chapman, Public School, Woonoona, Illawarra,
N.S.W.
W. J. Holmes, 239 Macquarie-street, Sydney.
W. J. F. Rogers, c/p Mrs. M'Lennan, Langtree-avenue,
Mildura, Vio.
Emily W. Nolan, Moon Moon, via Booligal, N.S.W.
Win. Hughes, Young-stveet, Annandale, Sydney.
G. M‘Dougall, Hillston, N.S.W.
C. Dillon, Hay, N.S.W.
Ebenezer E. Gostelow, Public-school, Condobolin,N.S.W.
J. W. Horan, Railway Station, Redfern.
William Minter, Porcupine Gap, Molong.
Muriel Mason, P.O. Hurstulle, N.S.W.
A. G. Bailey, Murwillabah, Tweed River.
H. J. Aylvvard, Lands Dept., Sydney.
W. J. Corbett, Porcupine Gap, Molong.
E Rayment, Cowl Cowl, Booligal.
Donald Brown, Yackandandab, Yio.
P. F. Hennessy, Qrong Grong, N.S.W.
W. J. Jenkin, Short-st., Kogarah.
S. Devenny, 30 Rose-st., Souib Sydney,
E. B. Davis, Sunny Corner, N.S.W.
S. Clissold, Bingera Plantation, B’daberg, Q.
N. Chalmers, Molong.
Dr. Martin Doyle, Newcastle.
E. L. Cooper, Oharles-st., East, Petersham.
Francis J. Gallagher, Pilt-st., Crookwell.
Mrs. Larkin, Forest Road, Hurstville.
E. PI. Juergens, Rouse-st., Tenterfleld.
P. J. Purcell, 123 Sussex-st., Sydney.
W. H. Bradney, Station Buildings, Temora.
H. Edwards, Condobolin.
H. M. Davis, Cowra.
O. Berg, 108 Phillip-st,, Sydney.
Ambrose Hayes, Lower M'Laren-st., North Shore.
Eveline Melbourne, Mornington, Gregory Terrace,
Brisbane.
Paul Delves, East Shellbourne, Victoria.
F. W. Jonson, 21 Elizabeth-st., Sydney.
Bess Becke, Fort-st., Sydney.
A. Mugg, Enterprise Hotel, Evans Plains, N.S.W.
H. B. Yowles, 211 Pitt-st., Sydney.
C. Dyett, Broken Hill, N.S.W.
J. K. Black, Tarlo, Mercon-sb., Stanmore, Sydney.
Fred. D. Inmxn, care of Martin and Medcalf, B. Hills.
Pierce C. Morrissey, Cooyal Public School, via Mudgee.
Harry Quinn, Box b 96 Q.P.0., Sydney.
H. J. Paddock, Porcupine Gap, Molong.
Samuel Bassett, Rose’s Boot Fact., Hill End, S. Bris.
Duncan Cameron, Borambie-st., via Forbes.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The Melbourne papers don’t notice the Pall
Mall Gazette's remarks on the subject of Matthew
Davies and his “trial.”
• * »
In answer to a large number of inquiries, The
Bulletin desires to state that it is not in a position to ab-
solutely guarantee the bona fides of any of the numerous
land lotteries now advertised in the Australian Press.
But, at the Same time, it believes in the genuineness of the
great majority. As to the “Mutual Freehold Distribution
Society of Sydney,” conducted, apparently, under the
auspices of “R. Hope Atkinson, J.P., of 25, Imperial Ar-
rcade, Sydney,” there seems to be no information obtain-
able on which to base a deliberate opinion. Almost all the
other schemes have attached to their prospectuses the
names of a number of well-known and apparently affluent
citizens, but the Mutual Freehold concern, on the other
hand seems to have consisted from the first—so far as
the advts. showed—of R. Hope Atkinson and nobody else.
• * *
The Bulletin knows nothing about Mr.
Hope Atkinson-Save that he formerly occupied a
position of trust as Sydney manager for the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the U.S. The people who send
him their money have to do it on the assumption that he is
guaranteed by himself. So far as is known he holds all the
money himself, and is the sole guarantor of its safety ;
and the value of the prizes, or the fact that they are his to
distribute, depends entirely on his statements. VVhether
he couldn’t get any well-known citizens to join in
the speculation by way of further security, or whether he
ran the affair on a lone hand as a matter of choice, is
probably known only to himself. The money received is
understood to be lodged in the City Bank of Sydney, and
how that matter stands is fully known to Mr. R. Hope
Atkinson. He doesn’t state definitely that the money is
all in the City Bank—he merely mentions that institution
as his bankers. The bank itself takes no responsibility
in the matter, and Mr. Atkinson can deal with the funds
as he pleases, just like any other customer. The first
prize—a large and valuable building at the corner of
Park and Castlereagh-street, Sydney—is the sole property
of the Mercantile Building, Land and Investment Co.,
and whether any binding arrangements have been made
for acquiring it seems to be chiefly known to Mr. Hope
Atkinson. All particulars about the other prizes are also
chiefly known to him. The man who takes a ticket in the
distribution has Mr. Hope Atkinson and practically noth-
ing else to rely on.
* • •
OE late, by the way, it has become a matter of
doubt whether he has Mr. Hope Atkinson or not to rely on.
On some recent “ads.” the person to whom money is to be
sent is described simply as The Manage • ...
quently, after being for a long time dependent wholly on
Mr. R/ Hope Atkinson, it would now appear, so tar as
the public announcements go, that even that support
is uncertain. Further, the preliminary announce-
ments used to read: “The date of the ballot
(which will be supervised by a committee of re-
presentative citizens) will be pGsitively aimounced on
31st July.” That date is now anment history, yet up to
the time of writing the drawing seems to be still unfixed,
and the names of the “ reprcsentative cit zens con
tinue to be unknown. Altogether there is a lack ol
positive information about the Mutual i
tribution Society of Sydney.”
• * # .
The reconstructed National Bank of Australasia,
which successfully bluffed off its creditorsandgotafloat
again on 28th June, publishes its balance-sheet i p
end of Sept. The net profits for the three months amount
to £25,303, and out of this the board has dec * ded J? n arv
5 per cent, on preference, f nd /^ e f , o o t Th s t'urning
shares, absorbing in all about £16,000. *
anxiety to pay a div. just three months after a particularly
suspension, and'while the bank;, are un-
paid, and £400,000 out of the half-million resene is held
In suspense to meet anticipated losses which somehow
didn’t appear in the old bank s balance-sheet, s < J
means promising circumstance. #
The Q.N. Bank presents a balance-sheet to
June 30, which has sent the shares downwith a dull thud
to “ sellers 6s„" and no buyers. For months of the
half-year the bank was a going concern—the closing omy
took place on May 15-and the net profits, after deducting
note-tax, are a little over £4OOO or rather more than 1 per
cent, per annum on capital. And this ghastly ■
not apparently owing to the expenses of reconstruction,
for these, so far as can be gathered from the directo 8
report, have not yet been charged The available cash,
bullion, and Treasury notes are about 12 per cent. on
liabilities, which is by no means a brilliant figure. Also
the auditors go out of their way to state that
tors have not thought it necessary to incur the expe se ot
having the securities held at the head office valued on this
occasion,” which is a remarkable statement, seeing
that “ this occasion,” even more than any otner
occasion, seems to be the one when the securities
ought to be valued. Further, the same auditors wind up
with this other equally significant clause; We further
cenify that, in our opinion, the balance-sheet is a full
and fair one, exhibiting a true statement of the affairs
the Bank as shown by the books on June 30,1893. m
our opinion” doesn’t read like a bald-headed assertion
of accuracy, and the mere fact that the sheet accurately
exhibits the state of the books is not quite what the
public want to hear. What is needed in these times of
distrust is an auditor’s certificate which wil! say, in a
tone of absolute certainty, that the balance-sheet exhibits
with cast-iron exactitude the state of the bank. And tne
auditors, in the present instance, don’t seem to say so
much about the state of the Bank as might reasonably be
expected. • _
# * •
The reasons assigned by the auditors for not
overhauling the Q.N.B. securities are remarkable in their
way. The whole clause dealing with the subject reads as
follows: “ The directors have not thought it necessary
to incur the expense of having the securities held at the
Head Office examined on this occasion, for the reason, we
are informed, that these securities have practically re-
mained unaltered since the last inspection by the bank s
solicitor, and that they will be submitted for examina-
tion again in aboutthree months’ time.” In other words,
the auditors pass bv far the biggest item in the account
the one on which the solvency of the bank entirely de-
pends—because they have been told that it remains
“practically” the same “practically ” is an elas-
tic term in any case—as it was some time ago, when
it was alleged to have been looked at, not by them
but bv someone else. And as they don’t even state that
they know, or have heard at second hand, that the other
person found the securities all right when be did look at
them the mere fact that they have heard they were
look-d at doesn’t seem either definite or especially valu-
* * *
Another clause in the report begins : “ The
several items detailed in the balance-sheet agree with the
balances in the general ledgers at the Head Ofhce. But
here again the auditors don’t take any responsibility for
the solvency of the balances in the said ledgers. In fact,
barring the fact that they “counted the cash and
examined the bills at the Head Office ” they don t seem
to certify, of their own knowledge, to anything in parti-
cular. _ _
# « *
The B.N.S.W. shows a net profit for the half
vear of a little over £83,000, and pays a div. of 12J per
cent, per an. This absorbs £78,125, and the remaining
£5OOO goes to swell the balance at credit of profitjand
loss. There is nothing specially brilliant about these
fiu-ures but the enormous amount of cash and liquid
securities on hand shows that the bank has wisely been
sacrificing profit to considerations of present^ safety.
Ships arc being loaded with good round coal at
Newcastle (N.S.W.) at 7s. atom Many years ago it was
14s. The enormous profits made then all went in divs.,
and only naturally the workers demanded and won big
wages Had the coal-companies applied a percentage of
these divs. in building big vessels, they would now be in-
dependent of foreign traders and their trade would have
remained. Up to a few years ago, Newcastle afforded
every opportunity for a coal-trust which even Jap. labour
could not have broken up.
* * *
The idea of a gigantic N.S.W. coal-trust, to
regulate prices, has not been abandoned. The thing is
being incubated, and may assume definite shape before
New Year.
• • •
Wanted—a list of the Sydney daily newspaper-
men who hold shares in the Colo Valley Grab.
# * *
The trouble between the wool-buyers and wool-
brokers, which was reported some time ago as being
settled in Melbourne, still rages, at time of writing.
The whole difficulty may be summed up in a
sentence. The brokers formerly delivered the
wool on receipt of the buyer’s cheque. If the
buyer’s cheque—which is probably for many thou-
sands—goes bad, the wool is irrecoverable, and the broker
must make good the loss to his client. No buyer is
known to have gone seriously bad in the past, but the
present is a period of suspicion, and the brokers decline
to take any more risks, and want cash instead of paper.
The buyers, meanwhile, refuse to have their gaudy little
dignity insulted by any suspicions as to their solvency,
and the dead-lock keeps very much as it was. The
most logical way out of the difficulty seems to
be for the buyer to bring the money along in notes on
a special settling-day, then he and the broker to grab one
end each of the money and the delivery-order, and when
each buyer and broker has got hold, someone to bang a
big drum and all parties to let go simultaneously. Any
person who doesn’t let go on the instant, or any person
who makes a snatch too soon and tears the delivery-order,
to be fined £lO, which amount will go towards reducing
the National Debt.
« • •
Another way is for the buyer’s cheque and the
delivery-order to be both deposited with Bishop (Is.)
Smith, of Sydney, as the only man in that city who is
absolutely above suspicion, the bishop then to take a cab
at a maximum cost of a shilling, and cash the cheques,
and hand over the money and the documents—a nominal
commission of ss. per £lOO to be paid, said amount, after
deduction of cab-fare, being a donation towards an hospi-
tal for demented curates. The third alternative is for
the buyer’s cheque to be made legal tender by Premier
Dibbs, which would probably suit both parties as well as
anything else.
• # *
Among all the two or three hundred companies
which started liquidating in Melbourne within the last
two years, not one, so far as Tub Bulletin can find out,
that has any assets left with which to pay a liquidator,
has been definitely wound up or seems likely to be wound
up this century. The liquidator is paid by salary at the
expense of the shareholders. If he winds up the 00. his
salary stops; therefore it is his interest to keep the
dreary, ruinous process going on and on till the
last great liquidator, conies along and winds up every-
thing. A liquidator in a reasonably good way of business
may be drawing six or eight good salaries at once, and
the idea of wantonly stopping all this income is not to
be entertained for an instant. Therefore The Bulletin
advocates a stupendous lottery, under Govt, supervision,
of all the assets of all the busted companies in Victoria,
so that several hundreds of thousands per annum of
liquidation expenses may be saved, and the country may
pay something in the £ and get its discharge. And, so
far as concerns those companies which have no assets to
liquidate, and where the blessed official simply makes
calls to pay his own salary, the best way would be to
abolish liquidation altogether, and just sell the books and
documents to the paper-mill, and drink the proceeds at
the shareholders’ meeting, and then lynch the board on
general principles, and give the office furniture to the
poor.
# * *
That another year is drawing to a close is
brought forcibly before us by the advertisement of the
Australian Mutual Provident Society, which appears in
another column, reminding those who are contemplating
life assurance that the next division of profits will take
place as at 31st December next, and that all policies
issued before that dale will participate therein. Accord-
ing to the liberal conditions of that popular Society, a
policy now issued, and upon which a yearly premium is
paid, will be entitled to a full year’s bonus at the end of
the year. If the premium be paid half-yearly, then a
half-year’s bonus will be added, and so on. All bonuses
vest when a policy has endured two years. The amount
divided last year was over half-a-million sterling.
• * *
The cable announces that a Co-operative Colonial
Stores Co. is being formed in London. The information
contained herein is positively nil. What’s the idea?
# # *
Manly Town Council has finally decided to
grant the P.J.S.S. Co. no further lease of the central
wharf unless the co. reduces its single and return fares to
fid. and Is., respectively. Should the Council stand to
its guns communication between Sydney and its most
charming watering-place will soon be revolutionised for
the better.
# • •
The old Balmain Ferry 00. is making a
desperate effort: Sixteen tickets for a shilling, now, with
a proportionate reduction in the price of season tickets.
But the New Co. booms merrily. The local population
fear that the old co. might do something if it could but
smash the new one.
* * *
The removal to Brisbane of the head-quarters
of the B.N.Q. was communicated to the Secretary of
State by M'llwraith as an incident proving that Separa-
tion was discountenanced by the “ substantial men ” of
the North. Anybody who knows how the game of finan-
cial shuttlecock is played in Australia will see in
MTlwraith’s communication a fresh evidence of that
politician’s ability to use any kind of stick on an ob-
noxious dog.
# * #
Amusing to see the number of “ and Co. ” signs
ruled out in Victoria—as a consequence cf the operation
of the “Registration of Co.’s Act.” Even a big news-
paner has had to alter its imprint.
# # «
“ A Poor Depositor ” on the horrors of liquida-
tion (Premier Permanent Building Society):—“lt is now
close on four years since it closed its door on our deposits,
and not one penny has been paid. How many of its
depositors have gone since to the grave ? Are the re-
mainder to go there without receiving a dividend? Ah,
sir, many poor creatures have placed all the savings of
their lives there, and have since stood sadly in need of
some of their money, and surely it is not unreasonable to
expect that a little ought to be given us before this. Four
long and weary years, and no payment been made. Is the
whole of the deposit-money to be wasted in liquidation ?
Christmas is now close upon us, when the fourth year of
liquidation will be completed.
The “Thrift” brigade in Vic. Parliament
opposes the clause in the Unclaimed Moneys Bill, em-
powering the State to annex unclaimed funds in banks,
etc. The alligator objects to being robbed of the man
when it has got him half-swallow'ed.
* * *
Rumoured that a Sydney newspaper pro-
prietary, which already publishes a newspaper every day,
has a penny Sunday paper on the stocks.
How long, The Bulletin wonders, will it be
ere the Sydney morning papers print Sunday editions?
If one of them started Sunday-publication, the other
would, presumably, have to follow suit.
The Spa manager’s letter to chairman Wallace
reveals several blunders on that mine. Perhaps the most
serious is thatHhe fall allowed for debris is insufficient;
consequently, a layer of sand on the boxes let the gold
pass over. A greater fall necessitates a new tail-race, foi
even with the present small fall the lower layer of wash
cannot be sent away. He prospected the tailings, and
got gold everywhere. But why wasn’t this discovered
and remedied ere sending away tens of thousands of yards
of drift 1
• • •
David Sytne, of the Age, has gone to the Spa
to see to things. The new manager, Wyllie, has been
summoned to Melbourne.
» • •
Peak Hill Proprietary mine reported as im-
proving ; last amalgam yield much above average. In a
few weeks the 35-head should be running.
* # #
Another fair crushing from the Baker’s Creek
Consolidated—72 tons to 860 z., got by tributors, who
always seem to gouge gold where companies fail to find
any.
* * *
Z. Lane, late manager of Block 14, is on the
road to Coolgardie, cancelling a proposed trip to England.
Lane carries weight and much money. lie has a cool
head, and has had long experience of gold-mining on
Bendigo. If he enthuses over Coolgardie the boom will
magnify.
* * *
Mt. Morgan jumped from 30s. to 455. because
of the recent development, and then receded to 40s.
« » •
Cashrnan, one of the lucky Coolgardie claim-
holders, said.it was madness to go there now, as there is
not likely to he any rain until the end of March. He
never saw a mine at Charters Towers or Croydon to equal
Bayley’s, which he describes as the richest, in Australia.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 18.)


u w w' V
•vw rvw-. r-j\ s'..
Go to HCXiHa-
-IGOLANI) for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Cd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
yratis.
D. A. VINDIN Sc CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.B.W.
h
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston Si Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
“ IMITATION
is the
SINCE REST ELATTERY.”
The articles most imitated are
CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS,
BECAUSE they have the best reputation and
are-most in demand by the public, consequently
every dishonest trader tries to trade on their fame
and renown.
It is really wonderful that the Australian
people are so slow to see the truth as regards the
unscrupulous quacks and charlatans who prey on
the credulity of the Australian public. Scarcely
a week ever passes but what the press exposes the
barefaced and shameful practices of some of these
harpies, yet in face of all they seem to thrive,
and the paper who_ hounds them down most
thrives fattest on their advertisements and cracks
champagne ovvr each balance-sheet. Clements
i onic and Fletcher's Pills have never yet stooped
to deception and misrepresentation. They aro
scientific therapeutical agents, and evidence as to
their value can bo found in every district, and
such being the case it is unnecessary to furljn t
extol their virtues.
Personal Items.
K.O.M G. (sometimes): Knavery Cleverly
Missing Gaol.
“Jack” Want, Q.C., got 100 guineas for
defending Glasson.
JL.n2KSJffi‘ nowrunsaßoulke-
street (Melb.) boot-shop.
One Demosthenes got six months’ hard
last week in Sydney. “Shut up ”at last.
An Australian Supreme Court Judge is
landlord of an hotel, leased to a brewing co.
“ Dane ” 0 Hea is the only Melb. parson
who drives in a carriage and pair-these times.
e 1
A well-known and much-advertised Aus-
tralian medico has three wives living-two of
them divorced
‘
Dailey has been dead five years last Satur-
day. What has become of the subscription raised
for a statue to him ?
Millionaire Elder gave £5OO to help in
bringing the skeleton of a diprotodon from Lake
Mulligan to Adelaide.
A London rumour has it that Douglas
pr , , T „ . , ~
Editor Arthur Leslie Boucicault, an old
Gytnpie (Q.) identity, and brother of the dlnstrious
Dion, now runs a broadsheet at Burwood, N.S.W.
Miss Walker, the N.S.W. bi-millionairess*
who inherited most of the wealth of her father,
the late “Concord” Walker, is but 26 years of
age.
Premier Dibbs regrets having taken to
trade and afterwards to politics, instead of stick-
ing to the military business he entered on 40 years
ago.
Who savs that Blank nf tbn An«H a lhn
FIZ i Ilnfli O ,1. S i f v
W h ? On the day he left Sydney
Ift her h beh' d an “ ° “ arned a W,fe and
ivni. Wf ‘ ’ WO T 1S - n ° longer , llbr f nan f , at
18 r W empl ° yed ° n the
loom in the cloth-mak.ng shop. _ _
iwo or the subscribers figuring in the
appendix to Marcus Clarke’s volume are serving
long sentences in Pentridsre. A third is not long
released from that “ institution.”
Mr. Arthur Galton, of Government House,
Sydney, and Mr. Curnow, of the S.M. Herald,
admire one another. Each refers to the other as
a “distinguished man of letters.”
° ....
Perpetual-insolvent Adcock is said to be
preparing for publication a Frenchy sort of novel
which he has written during the tedious hours of
his confinement in A'h-hiide (S.A.) gaol.
A lady of 73,
who earns her living
by gold-mining in the
vicinity of Buller
River (M.L.), has
been unearthed and
photographed. She
appears in male attire,
with a long shovel
in her hand and a
stumpy clay pipe in
her mouth. The male
attire, of course, is
a matter of necessity,
for no woman could
climb up and down a
shaft in skirts with
any semblance of com-
fort. This aged dame
has been raining, with
very little success, for
over 30 years, and
most of the people
thereabouts have
practically forgotten
by this time that she
is a woman. N.S.
Wales also has a lady
gold-miner. She lives
in Golden Gully, and
while at work wears
trousers. When out
of the hole she covers
these with a coarse
skirt. She was asked
by a stranger, the
other day, how much
gold she had got that
week. “ I’ll show
you,” replied she
raising the hinder
part of her skirt over
her head with a sud-
den jerk that she
might get at the
little match-box in her
trousers-pocket. Her
questioner nearly
fainted—men are
much more modest
than women—for he
hadn’t up to then had
the remotest idea that
the underwear of the
fair lady—who wore
a short cutty in her
jaw—consisted of
a pair of digger’s
moleskins.
The author of the world-famous London
Punch mot—“ Advice to persons about to marry :
Don’t!” is living in Melbourne. He is no less a
person than the veteran journalist, J. B. Stiffe.
That ingenuous gentleman who told the
Melb. Court that he was only the channel for the
charitable donation put down to him, and not the
real giver thereof, was “ General ” Booth’s enter-
tainer. ;
Smiths of the Melbourne press : Literarian
rococo James, with his sons, Charles Lamb and
Tennyson ; G. P. Smith, of Supple fame ; Henry
J. Smith, a heavy swell of ability, who began life
as a Dunolly baker; W. Jardine Smith, the
Brilliant Berry-Blight Argus leaderist; Gervase
Smith, from London ; and G. G. Smith, from
India.
The obituary of ex-Premier Parkes has
been lying in Melbourne Evening Standard
office ever since the old man’s historical cab-acci-
dent. _ As the type couldn’t be spared for three
years it was stereotyped.
James Williams, sec. of Melb. Hospital,
is the only one the place has ever had. The first
stone of the hospital was laid in 1846, the date
which saw the laying of the foundation of old
Prince’s Bridge. Williams was made sec. when
the hospital was opened.
J. H. Bagster, who died at Unley (S.A.),
17th Oct., had a potful of mixed luck. He
began poor and acquired wealth, was a M.P. for
nine years, and, losing his seat, lost his pile. But
winning a racing-sweep on Melb. Cup set him up
again in time to die well-off in his prime.
David Ferguson, the rising barrister en-
gaged in the Hard Cash appeals, is, like two
other coming Sydney legal lights, Messrs. Blacket
and Bateman, a young ex-journalist. Mr. Fer-
guson was formerly a Queensland Hansard
reporter, and is unexcelled, anywhere, as a phono*
grapher.
Major Horatio L. Williams, the first Staff-
Adjutant of S.A. Militia, has just retired—to a
little sheep-farm. Years agone he served at,
among other places, “The Neck,” where the
bloodhounds were kept to guard the Port Arthur
convicts; at Eureka Stockade, and in two or
three Maoriland campaigns.
The N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges are
about equally divided as Kilburnites and Anti-
Kilburnites. Hence, should a legal question
materially affecting that Sisterhood come up for
consideration in the Supreme Court, the Judges
who have advertised their sentiments pro and con
would be delicately circumstanced.
D. D. Wheeler (officially retrenched as a
sexagenarian) is back on Melb. Argus staff, after
an absence of 20 years on Hansard. Only two of
the men who were on the paper with him .30 years
ago are still there —James Smith, the art and
dramatic man, and “ Timotheus ’’ Willoughby,
the political prophet (Wheeler’s brother-in-law).
Poor old Parkes, who just now can’t be
worth more than a couple of millions* was the
other day offered .£5OO a year to nominally edit a
new paper. He declined, contending that it would
detract from his dignity as a statesman. The old
man is a past-master in the art of “ keeping a stiff
upper lipthe poorer he is the stiffer becomes his
backbone.
The Rev. J. Law r son-Forster, who preached
at Chelsea, Eng., in Sept, last, on Mrs. Knorr, nee
Thwaites, assumed her straightway guilty of the
crimes for which she is still being tried at Mel-
bourne, and described her as an example of the
“ vile sinners who go from bad to worse.’’ This
once more illustrates how closely the ethics of the
pulpit resemble those of the average newspaper,
when suspected criminals belong to the “lower”
orders.
HONOUR THY LANDLORD IN THE DAYS OF THY YOUTH.
FIRST MELB. MAN : “Well, sir, I know a man on Bourke-street at this
present moment paying £700 a year for his premises, and that
man’s father is in the Benevolent Asylum. Now, what d’ye
think of that?”
SECOND MELB. MAN : “Think? Why I think he has quite enough to
do to support his landlord!”
H. B. Higgins and Frank Duffy are now
making perhaps the largest incomes at the Vic-
torian Bar. The former is the son of a clergy-
man, and is the recognised leader of what (ere the
Judicature Act passed) was the Equity side of the
Court. The recent bank smashes must have
brought thousands to his mill. He aspires to Par-
liament, and is a strong Land-Taxer. Frank
Cavan Duffy is a son of Charles Gavan Duffy, and
his successful bout with Purves, Q. 0., in the
Parker v. Clarke affair' has made him in great
request in jury-cases.
Gov. Hopetoun’s son and heir is not the
proper Lord Hope. There’s an adult Lord Hope,
who, it is said, recently married May Yohe, an
expensive girl he had “brought out” in comic
opera.
Cnly a lawyer and the multi-millionaire
himself are believed to know the contents of the
will of Australia’s richest man. And that lawyer
is like a father to a niece of the money-burdened
potentate.
Lormer, J.P. u is threatened with sudden
death in the event of his daring to commit
Matthew Davies. “ You will be sent to join Mr.
M‘Donald,” say the letters that greet Lormer at
breakfast time. Now, are the late Air. M‘Donald's
friends quite sure that he died of cancer in the
stomach ?
Rowland Ed-
wards, the English
evangelist who lately
lectured in !Sydney,
engaged a well-known
shorthand writer to
report him. After
his first lecture he
canvassed his audi-
ence to see if they
were “saved.” The
reporter made for the
door, but was inter-
cepted by the holy
man who, not recog-
nising him for the
moment, clapped his
hinds on his shoul-
ders and tenderly
breathed in his ear:
“ Are you saved, my
dear young fellow ?”
“Saved! why I’m
your reporter. ” “Oh,
ah —yes, yes —don’t
forget my lecture at
seven sharp to-mor-
row night.” There-
after, the reporter got
off scot free—perhaps
as one privileged to
grin behind the altar.
Dr. John Wil-
liams, when a surgeon
at Melb. Hospital,
reported a nurse for
persistently “looking
at him.” The nurse’s
defence was that he
was a good-looking
young fellow and she
couldn’t help it. Ac-
quitted.
Has anyone forgotten that Matthew
Davies, the burly attorney pleading his cause so
vigorously at Melb. District Court, is the same
gentleman who recently sailed for Colombo in an
alleged state of mental and physical collapse? At
that time his medical advisers wouldn’t answer
for the consequences of keeping Matthew in
Melbourne to be harassed, but they must have
misjudged his constitution.
Editor Short, of Melb. Leader, started,
in conjunction with other ambitious penmen,
several years ago, a little journal which, after a
fevy issues, prepared to disappear. Mr. Short, as
prime mover in the venture, wrote the farewell
notice and set down the apothegm : “Short was
its life.” But a fellowdabourer, now in Sydney,
destroyed the pathos of the valedictory by add-
ing : “And Short was its death.”
Concerning a certain much - advertised
individual who is anxious to be discharged with-
out a blot on his character, The Bulletin is
more than half-inclined to think that his craving
will be gratified. That is to say, it is half-
inclined to think that he will be discharged, and
it is dead sure that there will be no blot on his
character. Even a blot needs some place to stand
on.
Cicada: “Mark Lemon’s son may be
an original, but he doesn’t come within cooey
of Douglas Jerrold’s brother. This worthy used
to surprise Australian bush-editors, as a veritable
Rip Van Winkle, in a ragged blue shirt and
broken billycock hat with something like a clothes.-
prop in his hand. ‘Can you give me a job?’
‘What?—cut wood?’ ‘No—edit, sub-edit, re-
port, compose, canvass ’ —and he could do it all.”
Some literary critics discover the pen of
J. Brunton Stephens in the vigorous and un-
compromising official despatch on New Caledonia
cable matters transmitted lately by MTlwraith to
Ripon. But MTlwraith himself obviously sup-
ported the spine of the despatch. His contentions
are absolutely unanswerable, and constitute a
savage slap in the face for the Colonial Office, and
its obsequious barracker, Vic. Premier Patterson.
Professor Harper's statement that 50 per
cent, of his schoolmates at the Scotch College,
Melbourne, have died of drink, flickered awhile
with sickly brilliance and then, like almost all
teetotal figures, was blown out. Investigation
showed that 75 per cent, of his schoolmates live,
and that all of the balance are not known to be
dead. Governor Gormanston will, no doubt, add
the Professor’s statement to the list, wliich he
heads, “ Lies, D Lies, and Statistics.”
In a late number of the Y.M.C.A. Maga-
zine, Sydney’s barrister-evangelist tells the story
of his conversion. The converting agent was a
serious windpipe-growth which he believed to be
cancer. “ For a time I could not speak nor even
breathe with comfort, and I expected to spend
only a few months in a cancer-hospital and then
go into eternity.” Well, it fortunately wasn’t
cancer, and Mr. Field still lives. Had it been
cancer, he would now be dead. Heaven never
interposes in true cancer.
Parkes, in alluding the other day to an
Australian squatter-magnatl (Tyson, no doubt)
whose identity is only thinly veiled by trans-
parent allusions, described it as singular “ that the
man who had succeeded more eminently than any-
body else in practical operations, and also in
amassing wealth, had sprung from the position of
a working farm-labourer, and had never had the
assistance of any banking institution, and never
traded on borrowed money.” Adding—“l
believe, at the present moment, he is the largest
owner of horned cattle on the earth.”
Gowan Evans, the autocrat of Melb.
Argus, said 20 years ago that Marcus Clarke
should write no more for thal paper because lie
bad been contributing to the Evening Herald.
No one who had worked for the Herald, he said,
should work for the Argus, as the “evening
penny ” had violated all the canons of journalism?
One of the things objected to was “interviewing.”
. . . The other day the Argus interviewed
bookmaker Alf. Josephs. Times have changed,
and so has Gowen Evans ; also, the price of The
Argus.
A certain N.S.W. know-all Stipendiary
was neatly taken down the other day. Whenever
a solicitor cites a case decided by the courts he
“I DO NOT LIKE THEE, DR. FELL.”
FATHER X : “And how do ye loike Dr. Arr-r-r?”
HOSPITAL PATIENT : “Oi don’t think much of him, yer Riverence.”
FATHER X : “Well, thin, ye ought to; for he made a foine hand o’ that
fut o’ yours.”
makes either this answer, “Oh, yes, I know that
case well, and I don’t agree with the Judges or,
“ I ve studied that case since long before you
began learning law.” The other day he attended
two courts, the same case was cited at each and
the former answer was made at one court, the
second at the other. In each instance the case
was purely supposititious, and in the latter the
solicitor citing it was ten years older than the
Dogberry.
Johnson, of Wandiligong (Vic.) Rising
Sun Hotel, lately dead, once met bushranger
Morgan and refused to “hand over,” claiming
that he had worked hard for his money, and would
not easily “part.” Morgan : “I could help my-
self.” “Of course you could, but you would have
to shoot me first! ” So they had a talk, and, as
Morgan was leaving, he shook hands with John-
son as “ a plucky man.” “As I took his hand,”
said Johnson, “ I felt I could have pulled him off
his horse and captured him, but I could not act
treacherously to any man who held out to me the
hand of friendship— not even Morgan the bush-
ranger.” Perhaps Johnson lived a while longer
for not trying.
A Melb. visitor to the meetings of the
Science Association in Adelaide distributed broad-
cast, upon the slightest provocation, cards thus
inscribed:—
W. SMITIIERS-GADD, J.P.,
Ex-Mayor of the City of Fitzroy.
He sat at the metropolitan police-court and patro-
nised the local magistrate. He occupied a seat
at the right of the mayor in the corporation
chamber, and spoke words of encouragement to
the civic fathers. He filled a distinguished
stranger’s bench in the House of Assembly, and
beamed blessings on the Legislature. He took a
loan of the newspaper-reporters, and when he
departed a halo appeared round the locomotive
smoke-stack.
Old crier Davidson, for a quarter of a
century one of the identities of Melbourne
Supreme Court, once took Judge Redmond
Barry and a whole table of lawyers out of a diffi-
culty. A criminal case was on, and a seemingly
strong and novel point was raised for the defence.
Oh, ’said the pompous Judge, “that question
was raised on behalf of a prisoner 30 years ago in
England, and decided against him by the Court
of Queen’s Bench. I can’t remember the case
now. It was a very celebrated one; a man had
murdered two gentlemen at Norwiuh.” Well,
the Crown Prosecutor didn’t know anything about
it, and, of course, counsel for the defence didn’t.
Old Davidson presently whispered to the associate,
who rose and whispered to the Judge. “Now!
I hank you, sir ! ” said Barry, turning and bowing
to the crier, “ Amicus curios I— l am informed by
an intimate friend of the court that the case was
one of Regina v. Bloomfield Rush, for the murder
of the Messrs. Jenny, at Norwich, in ’49. The
point was decided against Rush, and he was
hanged.” The report was sent for, and the
prisoner on this occasion was potted on the
strength of the Queen v. Rush.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Messrs. CHAELEMONT invite the Public to
inspect their fine display of High- Art Portrai-
ture, which cannot be surpassed.
For removing dandruff, Ayer s Hair Vigor
has no equal. It restores faded and gray hair to
its original color, stimulates the growth of the
hair, and gives it a beautiful, glossy, and sdken
appearance
HEADACHE, „ -■ V ■
BACKACHE,
INDIGESTION, .A
FIiATITEBNC!fe;&|-
SOUK ST.IWAGH and
LTVER COM IT. VI NT,
promptly cured by ,
CLEMENTS TONIC.
TIRED NATURE’S GREAT RESTORER,
EVIDENCE FROM I
Mr. Alf. Ji Clarke,- Ravenswood-atreet, Bega,
N.S.W., wlio writes bn April 22nd, 1893 -.—Shave
much pleasure in testifying to the efficaey of
your Clements Tonic. I have been using lit in
my family for-some time back. My wife* like
thousands of others, has been subjected to severe
attacks of indigestion, with loss of appetite.
Hearing of Clements Tonic she resolved to try it,
and 1 am happy to say with the most beneficial
results, and would recommend it to anyone. I
do not believe there is a better remedy than
Clements Tonic for the above symptoms 1
recommend it at all times. —Yours, etc., Alf. J.
Clarke, Begs, N.S. \N .
POLITICAL
POINTS
No longer Graham Berry. He is in the
past tense—Graham Berryed.
John Haynes, M.L.A., entertains sanguine
expectations of being called to a portfolio in the
next Parliament.
By 31 votes to 18 (in the minority all ten
Labour members), S.A. Assembly has decided not
to stop the sale of Crown lands in fee simple.
The proprietors of the two Adelaide dailies
are railway “deadheads,” holding each a free
railway-pass (first-class) over all the Govt, lines !|
Bent retires from the Vic. Speakership,
and Parliament, at the end of this session.
Gillies, Wrixon, Duffy, and OLoghlen in the
field.
The 40th clause of Magna Charta : —“ To
none will we sell, to none will we deny or delay,
Right or Justice.” How does this read in Smell-
bourne ?
Ex-Premier Shiels predicts a Yic. deficiency
of <£500,000 at the end of the current financial
year. So far, the revenue returns support his
prophecy.
The Victorian Income-Tax Bill, on which
the Backbone Ministry, not so long ago, staked its
spine and its political existence, has been finally
abandoned.
“If the men who intend to abolish the
House of Lords mean to give women the vote,
they had better do the former first.”— Pall Mall
Gazette writer.
Parkes has resolved, if he ever returns to
power, to school himself to repress ebullitions of
temper such as that which gave the N.S.W.
Treasury-bench to the Dibbs party.
Dibbs is resolved to stand aloof from Pat-
terson’s opium-prohibition crusade. The annual
importation of that drugmtoN.S.W. is 23,0001 b.,
and the Customs duty is 20s. per lb.
The £4O deposit made by parliamentary
candidates under the N.S.W. electoral law, now
abolished, was forfeited to the Treasury m 60
cases (£2400) during the past 12 years.
Resolution of N.S.W. Labour members :
“That we appoint Joseph Cook, Esquire, in whom
we have full confidence, to be our chief. What
enemy hath done this to friend Joseph !
A return laid before S.A. Parliament
shows that Railway Chairman Smith generously
grants a first-class annual pass to Mrs. J. H.
Smith and family,” over all S.A. railways.
The Argus, on a tax on land’s unimproved
value Asmredly if any class is to be exempt,
that class should be the land-owners, who have
in the long run to pull the colony through. (.)
Parkes has pointedly exercised his influence
on a couple of recent occasions to save the
M‘Millan-Wise combination of whilom mutual
admiration from permanent political and social
disruption.
Grainger, M.P., as| it has been proved
that three Judges are not needed cal s upon the
S.A. Supreme Court Judge with the deepest
pocket and the most loyalty to resign his billet
and forego his pension.
N.S.W. Opposition-chief Reid has, within
the past couple of months, declared so many poli-
tical questions to be outside the sphere °f party
that soon the only question inside will be VV tiy
does such a party leader exist.
N.S.W. shearers’ secretary Toomey may
contest Burrowa against Minister Slattery.
Toomey, an experienced Labour-organiser, be ye .
that quite 30 Labour members will be returned
by the country districts next tune.
JOSEPH COOK.
(Leader of N.S.W. Labour-party.)
Foster, M.L.A. (Vic.), objects to male
teachers. “I don’t like to see a six-foot man
putting three figures on a blackboard while his
delicate sister is outside the school nailing up the
fence to keep the cow out of the potato patch."
Parkes is now making a desperate effort
to undermine Reid as N.S.W. Opposition leader.
He is being assisted in the underground engineer-
ing by Nancy Cullen, who, when Parkes forms a
Govt., is to be appointed Minister for Cold Tea.
Every time ex-Ministers of the Crown
disturb the order of argument in important
debates in N.S.W. Parliament by tu quoque re-
criminations as to their official conduct in the
past, the leader of the Labour-party should request
the Speaker to rule them guilty of tedious irre-
levance.
An interesting Home Rule item : Out of
76 Irish kings—not counting sub-kings amd
subordinate monarchs -who are recorded as having
reigned between the years 4 and 1172 a.d., three
I were killed by lightning and 49 by battle or
murder. The old Irish king was evidently a first-
class lightning-conductor.
The N.S.W. tobacco-manufacturers are
much incensed at the amount of raw leaf which,
as a consequence of the depression, is being bought
and privately “made” up in small quantities
without payment of excise. The custom has
grown enormously during the bitter days through
which the country has passed.
Singular that the Vic. Parliament was not
at all disturbed over the Katoomba going to
Samoa. Again, one recalls the sensible invention
of the Vic. flag, by Francis, to prevent the
Cerberus being hustled away. The loyalists
fairly frothed, but the solid Liberal, who refused
a title, insisted on the danger.
When the late T. T. A’Beckett, 20 years
ago, submitted a bill to Vic. Parliament to flog
larrikins and mischievous boys, public meetings
of protest were held all over the province. One
speaker at a Melb. meeting said that he’d shoot
the man who flogged his son. A’Beckett with-
drew his bill ere it went to a division.
Parkes says he is a Parliamentary leader
“ by virtue of having been a far longer time than
any one else at the head of a Govt.” Which is
not logic. Having been for many years such a
head of such a Govt, is rather a reason why he
should go away and conceal himself in some waste
place, and be seen no more by human eye.
JiMSHHmOEa
(Ttron&£■ '■ —
4/CCS S/* ngu/r* .
ħ
THE TWO DIBBS.
“ As the outcome of an interview which lie
had with the Hon. Mackenzie Bowell and Mr.
Sandford Fleming yesterday, Sir George Dibbs
expressed his willingness to join in an inter-
colonial conference with regard to the construction
of a Trans-Pacific cable.”
The drink question (which, thanks to the
women, will practically be the question) promises
to be the rock ahead of the Maonland Liberal
party at next election. Stout (and the women)
will be violently anti-liquor, while beddon (who
held and is believed still to hold stock in grog) is
suspected of strong leanings to the other side. _
g Licensed Victuallers’ Association
offers to appoint a committee to confer with a
Temperance Alliance committee on the practical
bearings of the questions of local option, prohibi-
tion and the general administration cf the liquor
laws Nothing like this has ever been heard ot
since, in the days of Job, Satan waited upon God.
A politician named O’Regan, while stump-
incr the West Coast of Maoriland, lately delivered
an° eloquent address on the Wages Question.
After the address it was announced, that the
candidate would be pleased to answer any ques-
tions Then somebody rose and asked, in a
serious tone, ‘'What is the speaker’s idea of
female beauty?” and the meeting closed abruptly
Several members of the noisy company
called the National Ass—an association of capita-
lists and their toadies formed to Keep Down people
who work —admit that the abolition of paid
political representatives must be logically followed
by the abolition of paid political secretaries.
Which provides a cheering outlook for several
People. .....
M‘Millan, M.L.A., whoops patriotically in
N.S.W. Assembly
Where will you get a country on the face of God s
earth with the population of N.S. Wales, which sends
away £17,000,000 of produce every year ?
M‘Millan’s question is easily answered. IN.h.
Wales is the third exporting country in the world
in proportion to population.
Garvan, M.L.A., in N.S. W. Assembly,;—
“ If there is to be no more borrowing, what is the
reason for the sinking fund to increase the coun-
try’s credit in the English market Jhe idea
that a sinking fund might be intended for the pur-
pose of wiping off old liabilities, instead of paving
the wav towards contracting new ones, is evidently
so unprecedented that Garvan never even thought
of it.
The explanation of the alleged massacre ot
the Matabeles by the Company’s forces, given by
a member of the police, does not tend to extenuate
the behaviour of the “civilised party We
came across some stragglers, he coolly observes,
“ and killed twenty-five of them When one
side loses a hundred killed, and the other only
one the “fight” is about on a par with a
“ battle” between an individual in hobnailed boots
and a pathful of garden snails.
Parkes, senr,, vigorously denies compen-
sation to publicans who will fall victims to local
option. In the same breath, however, he says ™
is prepared to allow them a three-years license
from the time local option pronounces their doom.
What is this, but compensation under disguise
Parkes should be driven into one camp or the
other. Compensation of any kind is opposed to
anti-compensation. He who does not stand by
cold-water Clark must take , the hand of brewer
Toohey.
The organised attack on the Matabeles
simply amounts to a ruffianly act of briganf age on
the part of a company of land-thieves headed by
members of the British peerage. It is as ”* ora p
indefensible as the. deportation of King Mataata
from Samoa—or tlie onslaught made upon the un-
fortunate Carcoar bank-manager ami his wife and
child by the axe-armed murderer Glasson. lie
curses of every truly white man will go after the
South African Chartered Co. and their gang ot
red-handed hirelings.
The rumour about that insane peer who
was brought out of his peaceful lunatic-asylum to
vote against the Irish Horne Kule Bill, keeps
afloat. It is now openly asserted that he was
brought down on the chain by his keeper, w 10
waited for him outside, and, when the division was
over, ran bis demented Tovvzer home again to ns
place of confinement, there to be kept until ns
vote is again wanted to suppress the beastly
Democracy. The vote of an insane peer in a mad-
house is as good as that of a sane peer elsewhere,
and he is a lot easier to find when wanted.
“ Where there’s a will there’s a way. ” In
reply to Premier Kingston, who importuned for a
conference to restrict Chinese and other undesir-
able immigrants. Premier Dibbs said that press o
business and “ the change about to take place m
our system of parliamentary representation
made it impossible for N.S.W. to take part in any
intercolonial conference at present. Ihree days
after, at the instance of Messrs. Bowel! ami
Fleming, of Canada, Dibbs arranged for the hot
ing of an interprovincial conference on the su';
“ A great press of public business and
the change which is about to take place in
our system of Parliamentary representation
render it impossible for N.&. Wales to take
part in any intercolonial conference at the
present time. Dibbs, re Chinese exclusion.
of a trans-Pacific cable at “ as early a date as he
can bring about —probably next week.”
Editor Bulletin, —We, of Maoriland, are
to have a general election in December, and the
women are to vote. None of the papers here
agree that the women’s votes should be counted
separately from the men’s. What owls we are, to
try so big an experiment, and then omit the very
simple matter of observing the result! If we
knew how many men and how many women voted
for each candidate, what sweet statistics could be
compiled ! Will women go for looks, brains, vol-
ubility, integrity, teetotalism, or what? Will
they practically reverse the effect of the men s
votes, and if so, will the mem stand it? All these
things, which are the only interesting ones, we
are not to know. —Yours, in disgust, W. F.
Howlett, Makaretu, Waipawa, August 18, 1893.
The Rev. Osborne, Presbyterian minister
of Hastings (M.L.), has come down heavily with
several texts on the Woman’s Franchise Act,
which he stigmatises as contrary to Scripture,
lie is quite right. If the women of Maoriland
were regulated according to the Scriptural plan,
they would still he liable to be burnt as witches
(when old and ugly enough), and such of them as
become widows would have to marry their
deceased husband's brothers, and when these
died, marry some more deceased husband s
brothers, and so on until they had exhausted the
brotherhood, to the end of the chapter. To be
consistent, Osborne ought to insist on the women
of his flock adhering strictly to the Biblical way
of living.
Dear Bulletin,— Pilcher, Q.C., at Sydney
Yaflit Fizztivity :
It was a great check upon impetuous and sometimes ill-
considered legislation vviiioh was someiimesforced through
the other Chamber in order to pander to the wishes of a
certain section of constituents. Members of the Council
h id no responsibility to any such section, and, therefore,
th w could check it And he knew from experience that
the check applied by the Council received the sanction of
men who were compelled to support the legislation to
which the check related. He hoped the day was far dis-
tant when the Legislative Council would be abolished.
Officially explained at last—Premier Dibbs’meek
acceptance of mutilations and rejections of Govt,
measures by the haughty lat Man s Chamber
which checks, and by Pilcher’s own showing,
without responsibility, the wishes of a “certain
section ” (say 807’) of the people.— Hates of
Hybrid Politicians. 30 Oct.
An “Australian Reciter.”
In deference to repeated solicitations, Tim Bulletin
proposes to issue a volume of Readings and Recitations,
consisting entirely of prose and verse which originally
appeared in this paper. The Editor will feel obliged for
any suggestions as to selections deemed by readers suit-
able for incorporation in a work of the kind, and it will
facilitate matters if, whenever possible, each adviser gives
the date of the issue in which the item appeared. Special
c inside ration should be given, in selecting specimens, to
their elocutionary possibilities.
Tom Glassey, the first leader of the Q.
Parliamentary Labour-party, was born at Market
Hill, Armagh, Ireland, in 1844, and first learned
to appreciate the alleged “dignity ’ of labour at
eight years of age, when he was billeted at Is. a
week. At nine years he became a factory-
messenger at 4d. a day, his working-day being 16
hours. In that capacity, he learned the dire
necessity of hiding with other boy-slaves under
heaps of hay whenever the Govt, inspector came
round, if he wished to retain his billet. At 10
years of age he left home to keep himself. At 13,
he was working in a coal-mine, taking regular
“shifts” with the miners, and he stuck at this
underground slavery for years. He soon began to
devote his spare time to politics and labour reform
TOM GLASSEY.
(Ex-leader of Q. Labour-party.)
movements, and at 19 he acted as chairman at a
meeting in Scotland addressed by Macdonald
\I P a miners’representative, ihe sixties tound
min ’with the coal-miners of Northumberland,
where he lived for 16 years. He declined an invi-
tation to stand for Morpeth and secured the
return of Burt. Such a dragging-up as he had
explains Glassey better than any analytical
treatise could. His nature cannot compromise
with the foes of labour; his hates are strong, and
he is cordially hated in return by the capi-
talists as well as by would-be compromisers.
He believes in the legislative redress of the
workers’ wrongs. He is evolutionary, and thus
has been often misunderstood by his own side.
His impeachment of the Griffilwraith-ctm-Tozer
Government’s action during the great shearers
strike was historically dramatic, his previous dis-
tribution among members of printed copies of the
actual telegrams that had passed between the
Government and their hirelings raising a scare
and evoking a fury that were appalling while the
scene lasted. Even the cold-blooded Griffith
ramped with rage, while other ministerialists
foamed like unloosed devils. was why it
became a Tory necessity to keep Glassey out of
the next Parliament. Glassey first arrived in
Queensland so lately as November, ’B4. 111-health
is the main reason for his present visit to America,
public subscriptions having been forthcoming as
a grateful testimony from the workers of Queens-
land.
Joseph Cook, M.P. for Hartley, the
lately-elected leader of theN-S.W. Parliamentary
Labour party, vvhoselportrait is given on this
page, was born to hard toil. He is a native of
Silverdale, Staffordshire (Eng.), and 33 y-ears of
age. When 9 years old, young Joe was sent to
work in a coal-mine, and, this being before the
days of the present British Education Act, only
saw the sunlight once a week. When 12, Ins
father was killed in the mine, and Joe became
chief breadwinner for a family of sevtm. He
married and emigrated to Australia eight years
ago. He is an old trades-unionist, and has had
severe experience of strikes, believing now in the
moro effectual potency of the political invasion of
the legislature. Until his election to Parliament
he was general secretary of the Lithgow Miners
Association, and earned his living also as check-
weighman for the men at one of the Lithgow
mines. Mr. Cook is self-educated, and holds thel it-
man certificate for ability to write shorthand at
the rate of 150 words a minute. Touching his
election as leader, his own words are “ I never
sought the position. I took it at the solicitation
of both sections, and deemed it my duty to do so.
We have simplified the programme. We under-
stand each other better, and, with a little luck,
will yet give an account of ourselves.”
Dear Builetin, —Apropos of the first of
“ J. B. Carpenter’s ” whaling-yarns you published
two weeks ago : There is an island called Wangi
Wangi in Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.) as well as in
the Moluccas. Should not’thisbe included among
the facts that tend to prove philologically that the
Australian aborigines are of Asiatic origin?
Yours, &c., Ponte.
J. S. Mitchell, of Darling Point, Sydney,
erstwhile of Tooth & Co., leaves ,£.363,935 -mad.
out of “ tanglefoot.”
An English syndicate some ago
bought wharf-frontages at Port Pirie (S. A. )j now
the port of the Broken Hill trade, for <£B. They
are now worth <£l6oo each.
The Hawaiian ship, John C. Ena, lately
arrived at Port Pirie with a cargo of lumber from
the Pacific Slope. Her log shows that for 47 ror -
secutive days she averaged 232 knots— which. I« i
long-distance sailing, would be hard to beat.


m
■ trl
i vf 8
mri
Sr
, -JtLloi /-
Mr. Copeland
“ It would give me the greatest pleasure in
life to grant special leases for bathing purl 1
poses. * i
,J I would have baths established.in ever} 1
bay in the harbor.”
“ I would be glad to pass a bill to compel
every boy and girl to learn swimming.” /
'Mi
} Ww/// 7/
) tpfntitl/j r
Lot us have national baths. I wouIJT
suggest Fort Denison as a site.” -
Cjooct 2>&s/^es 3 / *•' f?
Ajr GH.Ia ?c ( yy/^jfe]-yif Sarfs
..'<4 :\\\%\-
<V ° %. 9. 4. iC
\ s%\%
SS« % -i %
'iuWVAA
■■Whv^Wv;
,% *«. * *% * % y//
•S-% a^Q 1 ' ® %>*T<itf//'
% v%%°^o
"cr "v 'A ?» °
< » b. r> <; % «*.
% <% % ■* *
VA* •
'V^
XC b
x*
USM
| I The Chief Justice : I seemed
I absurd that an entry might be illegal if a
window were closed, but that if it were open
only to the extent of half an inch the bailiffs
would be acting legally in it up
I further, and so ejecting an entry.
*Jp£l
A (T/js/cov W«/--
4/> y
(fy" FAKTy ' O^'J^
Pl’it/C.ijidllij oj Jtxfl^Q.
O^tpcC
J > arso'-?
»x
Jr,a i
'IU-
WW'PJf-
lt will, fiowcvor, bo s me'
lime before Mr. See will be sufficiently well
jo resume his departmental and Parliamen-
tary duties. The Minister for Justice, Mr.
O’Connor, is, we are informed, Improving in
health, but it is not likely l hat be will be
able to come mto town this week. The?
Attorney-General, Mr. Barton, is, we regret
to say, indisposed, and has been unwell since >
Saturday last. 'Mr. Barton hopes to bo well
enough to rctc.uae duty either to-day or to-
morromT
pMty
V v
l o<is.
I
S tJtOUjfj 'fit!cl's £)^ a * s
(
’(Ifl
j£saf
!3Yjif u Ji. “S
HERE AND THERE.


h
€
IvP
v
\nT
V/
X^A,
(Al
Oi\
Ol
Uj
ft:/
A* 1
v*
r
c D 1
ĥ
ħ
&
/ay
Jy
r,
<2?
*
. sla~tion. / Ti'-me
PROROGATION OP PARLIAMENT.
Mr. WYNNE informed hon. members that
the Government proposed to prorogue Patlia*
inent on the Gth November, and he trusted
that hon. members would endeavour to havo
Vie business completed before that date. (
"//ere
ju t-tc C- * oi 4
75fe V , • n
UY ' <Ue
w
"Ofel
It may comfort you to know that every step i
of yours is dogged, and every action watched
and commented on by the "faithful few.”
liven yonr most private business is known.
Bemember, we have no personal dislike to
you ; that is why we have warned you j but
if its month’s after yon shall suffer for it,
God is our witness.
(imMnrnhmr.mS MV TEOTH. J
tat*
**- A tS* jSo.eAf'"
/A e r7-u*. /„ -?/ 7 e. Same /nTeresfZuf-
J’rK Stisee,S~ oyt . ZotA. of
e Sfi/ntoA Caw»i/(no Wci.~t&Aes
d ' cr -ke. C/7y: •
ryia-jT*. e~r.
IN MELBOURNE AND THEREABOUIS.


Gold- discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in [trice, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 30!) Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
.£10 each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for str aight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
Wonderful (Discovery /
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
BYE LOTION.
rjIHIS Lotion cures Saadi inr/ and Saudi/ lllii/ht,
* Inflamed L'.yc.s and Lids, Dhnnoss of Sh/ht.
Very beneficial to those who have Ufa/; Kyistt, as it
. streni/thrnu the slf/ht. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
ESf” Manufactured Sdely bv 11. A. 1(0 *K, (licuiisl,
631 OKOBGK STREET, SYDNEY.
h
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
THE
“Won’t be happy
until he gets it ”
or
Every Enlightened Man
and Woman in the
Universe.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
RESIST CONTEMPTIBLE IMITATIONS
Society
Sydney Daily Telegraph, which, when
the Carcoar murders were committed, was hot on
the theory that two assassins were concerned,
now tries to make out that Rev. F. W. Clarke s
horse, which the convict Glasson “soldiered,
carried two people from Carcoar to Cowra 60 or
70 miles. Just think of a parson’s horse carrying
two men 60 miles !
# # *
But little over a year ago the public wene
appalled at the number of deaths resulting from
the administration o' chloroform at the Sydney
hospitals. Since the outcry by press and public
death from over-administration of chloroform has
either ceased, or such deaths are not reported.
What seems wanted is a strict law compelling sur-
geons to administer ether in cases where an opera-
tion is likely to last over a very few moments. A
study of the text-books on the subject will show
that deaths from chloroform are more than four to
one as compared with those from ether._ The fact
appears to be that no doctor is justified in adminis-
tering chloroform for an operation of any moment
when ether can be used.
m * *
Quasi-editorial “A.8.C.” of the S.M.
Herald objects to its being reported that the
murderer, Blantern, hanged lately in Queensland,
“ made his peace with God.” Flora M‘Donald,
the girl whom he murdered, had not a moment,
the writer points out, to make her peace with God,
and why should it be sent forth that he had done
so? Further, the writer intimates that if God
would take over a murderous wretch like that, on
the terms stated, He is almost as great a sym-
pathiser with criminals as those who want capital
punishment wholly abolished. There is no doubt
that “A.8.C.” has stumbled over the threshold
of an idea in this particular paragraph, but it is
not clear yet whether he will iu the end give up
■apital punishment or God.
*
CONKY HAD BEEN IN THE BUSINESS.
BILL: “See here, Conky! suppose we was to break into a bank and
collar the Reserve Fund. My word! that ’ud be a find.”
CONKY (with scorn) : “You innercent chicken! we might as well go ’unting
for the chairmain’s overdraft.”
That well-known viveur, Mr. Edward
Wrench, of the firm of Richardson and Wrench,
the standard land-valuers of Sydney, has died,
aged G 7. He had long been failing, and had for
years carried on his face conspicuous marks of
heart-disease. He married late iu life the hand-
some widow of the late Mr. Throckmorton, erst-
while a Melbourne wharf-owner. Mr. Wrench
was once an A.J.S. bank-manager, and iu that
capacity was so unfortunate as to be “had” by
the notorious and successful swindler, “Count”
Miranda, for many thousands of pounds.
Miranda, who, as aforesaid, greatly vie- i
timised the A.J.S. Bank, Sydney, operated most 1
methodically. In June, ’57, he stayed at the 1
Charing Cross Hotel, London, where his business-
like habits and punctuality of payment were
remarked. While there his correspondence was i
voluminous, and the porter who posted some of
his letters stated that he wrote to distinguished
people in all parts of the world. Letters were
received by the A.J.S., Sydney, from Messrs. Baring
Bros., the then wealthy London bankers, men-
tioning that Mr. Miranda was likely to call at
Sydney, on his tour, and asking the bank to assist
him to the best of its power, at the same time
enclosing letters of credit in his favour to the
amount of .£15,000, and bills on a house in Hong-
kong amounting to £5OOO. On O it. 12, ’57, Don
Antonio Anom de Ayala, Spanish Consul at
Sydney, was called on by Miranda, who (in the
absence of a Portuguese Consul) presented to him
his passport, duly signed, sealed, and vised at
several places, and asked him to introduce him to
the bank-manager, a request at once complied
with.
* * *
Miranda, “ having determined on pur-
chasing an estate in Australia,” decided upon one
near Melbourne, and having instructed the bank
to cash his bills drawn on Hongkong, he got a
letter of credit from them upon the Bank of Aus-
tralia, Melbourne, and left for that place, where
he drew the whole of the amount (upwards of
.£19,000) out of the bank in gold, and on January
30, ’5B, sent his trunks to the Castlemaine coach
office. Arriving too late, his trunks were not
sent on, and he applied at the office for permission
to leave them till next day. Next day he called
for them, and from that day Francisco Miranda
was seen no more. The Spanish Consul, who had
formed a high opinion of him, was under the im-
pression that he had been murdered for the sake of
the gold ; but the Melb. police found out that a
French gentleman, named Monsieur Le Prairie,
had sailed for Callao in the Good Intent, some
few hours after Miranda had removed his boxes
from the coach office, and from the description of
the gentleman there was no doubt that he and
Francisco Miranda were one and the same person.
Letters from England were soon after received by
the bank, stating that both the letters of credit
and bills of exchange were forgeries. His swindles,
both in Australia and at the Cape, were on the
most magnificent seale, and the account of his
doings, if read in a novel, would be deemed gross
exaggeration.
* * • *
Advfcs. are now, it is said, commonly taken
by some Adelaide newspapers on commission—
commission according to sales effected through
such advts.
• *
.. hen Sam.
Griffith, as Queens-
land Premier, some
time since visited
Thursday Island, he
found the local
“prisoners” all walk-
ing gently round —in
fact, when they
wanted to get back
into gaol they had to
knock at the door,
and when meal-time
arrived the dinner-
bell rang for them
and they strolled over
to “quod.” “It’s all
right,” explained the
officials, “ they can’t
get away; the place
is an island.” But,
awkwardly enough,
just on that very day
a prisoner, noticing
that it was an island,
got away by boat.
* * m
Relief works
were recently started
in a S.A. town, and
were paid for out of
private subscriptions,
the local Mayor being
Treasurer. Enquiry
showed that, in res-
pect to one job of
painting, ,£6 bad been
paid in wages and
,£lO for material, the
l itter being sold by
the Mayor. There
is no local unem-
ployed fund now.
* * *
The “old man”
kangaroo that used to
be kept in the public
parkatHay(N.S.W.),
where he Relighted
afternoon spectators
with a catoh-as-catch-
can wrestle with the
keeper, inetan ignoble
death the other day
at the teeth of a few
stray curs that got
into the park.
The Bulletin hears that the real object
of a recent abort! ve prosecution down South was
to get a very rich man and his wife into the same
dock. More may yet be heard of this adroitly-
hushed-up case.
* * *
The Sydney Water Police Court Bench
has decided that the feeding, even occasionally, of
an unregistered dog renders the feeder liable to be
summoned as owner under the Dog Tax Act.
How does this strike those societies which
zealously inculcate kindness to dumb animals?
Further, what about the man who occasionally
kicks an unregistered dog ?
# # *
A reporter of a Sydney newspaper was
ordered lately to hustle around and make up a
column of matter on sweating in some of the
trades in the metropolis. Next day he handed in
a sketch of what he called “ A cruelly-sweated,
starved and underpaid Wretch.” It turned out
to be a truthful description of himself and his
current work and pay.
mm*
A special attraction, advertised by word of
mouth, at a forthcoming Melb. sectarian bazaar,
will be the exhibition of the dress in which the
wife of an authorised boorner-in-chief of the pro-
vince was presented at court during the late visit
Ome. When will the groveller touch bottom?
# # •
Evelyn Liardet, chemist, blown up at
Elsternwick (Vic.) last week, was a man to be
envied. He was an enthusiast in explosives, and
had spent months in compounding one of supreme
destructiveness. His labours were so successful
that a co. had practically agreed to_ give ,£30,000
for the new invention, and his friends describe
him as having been overjoyed with this success.
He loved his invention, and was alvvays trying
new experiments, in the hope of making it more
complete. In the midst of one of these, one of hi s
/He. SUM WA£) JE.ST A ‘atTTiH, /y /
I S.VV /
I wijcto -V, I
/“vti- t<v a»iy in TAt
new combinations blew up, and the inventor ——*
Well, if he had the thousandth part of a second
in which to realise what was coming, that
was all. All the pain and apprehension com-
pressed into that space of time was probably less
than would be experienced by the man who knew
a single hair was about to be pulled out of his
head. Liardet’s body was driven through the
wooden wall of his laboratory, leaving a jagged
orifice behind it, but his soul probably preceded it
through the wall, and the rest of him was but a
senseless missile whirling in the atmosphere. He
had no time to be troubled about his bereaved
wife and children, to be worried by visits of con-
dolence from well-meaning friends, to be harassed
by doctors and by parsons wanting to know if he
was “ prepared,” or to make pathetic death-bed
remarks of the “little Eva” description. One
moment he was inexpressibly happy over the
success of his life’s work; the next he was obli-
terated. An ideal death.
# m #
Dipsomania is becoming much too common
among the seniors of a certain Sydney State
Department.
* * *
Barnum Hutton promises another N.S.W.
war-circus more magnificent than the last.
* * m
While Bishop Goe was preaching in Melb.
Town Hall, Hospital Sunday, a little knot of
radicals argued with his coachman outside, on the
text, “ Six days shalt thou labour.” Coachee is a
fine fellow, with a Tommy Corrigan “m 0.,” but is
selected rather for manly beauty than theological
acquirements. The brougham is the nattiest in
Melbourne, with a very fine brown cob, fat and
proud as a Bishop.
* * *
At a Sydney suburban Church of England
the other Sunday evening, the incumbent read an
anonymous letter he had received, threatening
him with a horsewhipping for his recent attack on
the Kilburn Sisters, whom the writer accused the
clergyman of having described as “ those abomin-
able women.” The parson waxed warm over the
incident, and excitedly declared himself quite a
match for the fellow with the horsewhip if the
latter would but reveal himself like a man. The
congregation laughed heartily.
mm*
Matthew Davies: “I have no desire to
impugn the honesty of the late Mr. M’Donald,
but I owe it as a duty to myself and my wife and
family to repeat that Mr. M‘Donald was biassed
when he committed me for trial.” Matthew owes
a good many things, and this slander upon the
dead is noteworthy as about the only one of them
he has paid up to date.
m * m
Sydney Corporation magnates are sensi-
tively anxious re the health of their late City
Solicitor, G. Merriman, against whom a police-
warrant has been issued because of alleged
defalcations. Nobody wants to see an actually
sick man harried, but Alderman Fowler was
well within the lines o' “common-sense” when he
urged that “it would not have been any more
dangerous to remove Mr. Merriman to the gaol-
Ooi.D M i-aiMi Aim Kiel vi. Tbktii, full sols £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Clas or Cocaine,
consultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
reel Arcade (George-struet entrance.)
hospital at Darlinghurst than to a private hospital
at North Shore.” Furthermore, it is a brutal cer-
tainty that, had a common Corporation-labourer
stolen a shovel and then taken to a sick-bed, he
would have been dragged from the latter by the
ungentle arms of a bobby, and handed over to the
official penal authorities and their medicine-man.
* * * ; 1
The canny Gov. Kintore pays special
court to the proprietors of the Adelaide dailies.
Hence the pars, which state the public joy, of
which no manifestations are visible to the naked
eye, at his decision to draw another year’s vice-
regal salary from debt-burdened S.A.
• # #
Is the Mount Morganaire entitled to a
morganatic spouse?
# * *
Percentage of books issued from Melb.
Lending Library: fiction, 60.4; religion, 1.07.
Heaven and hell!
.it At
Says Cape Ar-
gus ; “No one coul 1
throw a brick down
Adderley - st., Cape
Town, without knock-
ing do wn half-a-dozen
clerks who are lo k
ing in vain for situa-
tions.” In this respect
the Cape is evidently
like the rest of the
globe. 'There is no
secure, abiding-place
on all its ba-
the cheap clerk. His
business is the most
hopeless in existence,
and unless he bolti
with the cash when
he is young he is
fated to add up long
columns of figures
with a palsied hand
and a filmy eye, all
- his life long, while
the tails of his faded
black coat, bang! ig
over the seat of his
high stool, are the
mournful symbols of
his poverty and de-
gradation. The hope-
less, middle-aged
clerk can always be
recognised by the
greenish-black extre-
mities of his outer
garment. A merciful
Govt, should send
around an expert to
inspect the coat-tails
of all office employes,
and when he recog-
nises the outward
signs of the ink-
leprosy within —that
incurable ink - com-
plaint which comes
up m every ch re
sooner or later—he
should be authorised
to put the wearer out
of his misery.
* *
At any sporting
event, said a Sydney
caterer the other day,
Australian wine will not be asked for ofteivr
than two or three times iu a day. In fact, the
bars seldom keep it.
* • •
Two of the "Victorian Judges—Holroyd
and Chief Madden-had “doubts” as to whether
Matthew Davies and Co. could be legally sum-
moned before magistrates “twelve months after
the date of the alleged offence.” Oddly enough
they were the two Judges who divided the
responsibility of the famous grand jury fiasco.
Holroyd quashed the protest against the inclu-
sion of an alien in the grand jury, whilst Madden
quashed the True Bill because the aforesaid alien
had been included.
* * *
The protesting Gaunson has received, at
least, one nasty smack on the “ bluff box ” during
the Mercantile Bank fight. He essayed to knock
out a magistrate, whom he deemed “ unfriendly,”
by stating that the aforesaid gentleman (Mr.
Davies) had not attended the Court every day.
“ I have heard the depositions read,” remarked
Mr. Davies. “Hearing the depositions does not
entitle you to decide,” snorted Gaunson. “It did
for the nolle prosequi,” replied the magistrate.
Whereupon Gaunson fell back upon the ropes
shrieking. “Did it! O! well, I am not dis-
cussing that now.” David G. came up rathei
“ groggy ” for the next round.
Editor Bulletin, — How De Quincey would
have revelled in such an immortal quartetteof mur-
derers as Deeming, Makin, Archer, and Glasson !
Also in the legally-sanctified butchery which
broke the necks of the Mount Rennie children !
What an equably-distributed blood-lust ! How
absolutely it permeates every shade of the society
of “ Convictoria ” ! Yours, &c., D. W.
• * •
lb severely shocked a N.S.W. anti-camel
politician to learn that the Mormons, in their
sacred books, provide that there shall be ten
camels everlastingly in their paradise.


Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OE PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none hut thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBEL AND LECH LETTER, CARL EC KB,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos hy all Good Makers.
ESIEY ORGANS, ROOSEY’S RAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
Nearly one-half of the ground-values in
Rosina-street, Adelaide—the chief abiding-place
of the demi-monde —is owned by the Church of
England. By the way, the rents of a very pro-
minent Adelaide saint are almost entirely derived
from similar sources.
* * *
The N.S.W. Education Department has,
by a recent regulation, provided that Jewish chil-
dren shall not be obliged to attend the cookery
lessons in the public schools when these lessons
deal with articles of diet repugnant to Jewish
principle.
• * *
The banks, in closing branches and con-
solidating their central business generally, have
inspired a clerical reformer to urge the shutting-
up of non-paying churches in the interior, and the
temporary dismissal of three out of five of metro-
politan ministers. Altogether he favours conduct-
ing the business exactly as if it were a large soft-
goods concern.
* # »
Justices Stephen and Poster, who, in
scarlet and ermine and full-bottomed wigs, opened
the last term of the law year in Sydney last week,
are said to have expressed astonishment that no
ladies attended the court to look on them on the
occasion. At a murder-trial up the country about
the same time, ladies were rebuked by the Bench
for crowding into court to look at the accused
murderer.
• • •
Queensland Government has had one lucid
interval in its feverish pursuit of “economy,”
having heroically determined that it shall be no
longer incumbent on a judge to go to a circuit
town where no one is detained for trial.
* * *
The Presbyterian-, alluding to a religious
festival to be held in Sydney Town Hall in the
interests of missionary enterprise, and wishing to
whip up a good attendance, mixedly remarks :
“ The missions always appeal with force to hearts
on fire with the love of Christ. An additional
attraction will be the presence of vice-royalty.”
Christ—and Duff! Just consider the dismal
humourlessness of the clergy !
* * m
A genuine klep-
tomaniac, it is said,
seldom steals money.
His diseased mind is
attracted principally
by bright colours, and
he almost invariably
annexes the brightest
red or yellow object
in his vicinity. He
would sooner go off
with a glaring crim-
son rag, or a politi-
cian’s inflamed nose,
than a «£5-note.
* #
In “Wild Jus-
tice,” Miss Braddon’s
last short story, which
has been sold to over
50 papers and which
a syndicate is push-
ing into Australian
offices for “ whatever
you like to give,” the
hero is described as
a “vulgar Australian
from Queensland.”
This gentleman
drinks brandy by the
half-bottle and suc-
ceeds in perpetrating
a real raw-bone mur-
der, carrying himself
all through as a man
of true Australian
grit and quite the
sort of person to bo
found “down there.”
* *
A Wellington
(N.S. Wales) juror
begged to be excused
on account of an
“affection of the
jaw.” Judge Docker :
“You may go home,
although the best
thing for an affection
of the jaw is not to
stay at home.” How
the legal paralytics,
as in duty bound,
cachinnated and
wagged their bodies !
* #
Professional short-
hand-writing is at low-
water in Sydney. The
rates have been cut so
much that shorthand-
writers are almost
brought down to the
level of typewriters.
WELL BRED.
“Isn’t he a well-bred dog?”
“Well, yes—I should say every hair on him denotes a different breed.”
S.M. Herald prints four and a-half
columns (including a column and a-half extract
from Gibbon in solid nonpareil type!) of Mr.
Arthur Gallon's purely “booky” recent lecture
on “The Military Art of the Romans.” The
Herald rarely gives more than a few lines to
valuable papers read at the Military Institute by
leading officers. But, then, Mr. Galton (private
secretary to the Governor) is credited with being
one of the Herald’s reviewers. The low-neck-
dress brigade was much in evidence at Mr.
Gallon’s lecture aforesaid. Government House
supplied the mamiet
*‘ # *
Professor Anderson-Sfcuarfc denies chemists
I* - . . ~ ~ .
. credlt of being able to manage . loir own
affairs. In the N.S.W. Pharmacy Bill he pro-
poses to reduce the members of the Pharmacy
Board by four and to substitute members from
tlm Medical Board, the Education Department,
; l i l .' e , r ? lb Y’ a ? d bls own department. he ra e
shigldy niiiignant, and will have the question
ug it cut-in the #
. , ™ . , TTC , . ,
Ambrose Bierce, in Frisco (U.b.A.)
Examiner, styles woman-suffragists: “The women
who have discovered Woman and taken posses-
sion in the name of God.”
* # *
On one very large bank-owned station in
Cobar (N.S. W.) district, the manager, a very able
inan, only gets £125 per year, and has to buy his
own pickles and jams !
ta "" m Ti 7 it-
f KAt ,'U A tlentleuianwhocuredhiinself
ofDeaf.iess and Noises in the Head after 14 years
u eimg, will gladly send lull particulars of the
Sag
minster, London, S.W.
Coolgardie.
BY ONE JUST BACK.
ħ
Bear this fact in mind, the province is being
well and craftily advertised. The farmers of Nor-
tham and York are getting dream prices for horse-
feed, for, between Doodlekine and Coolgardie, you
could flog the proverbial grasshopper. No Wes-
tralian would say a word in depreciation of the
goldfields, yet, as a rule, he does not go there him-
self, but “talks big” about the “other-siders”com-
ing there; meantime, he makes them pay. The
difficulty at present disturbing the minds of the
Westralians is, how to make as much as possible
out of the Eastern Gentile, and yet proclaim to
the world that he is an intruder and an annoyance.
Doodlekine (pronounced Dood-lekine), the pre-
sent terminus of the railway, is somewhere about
109 miles from York. Most travellers are familiar
with the appearance of the temporary termini of
railways in course of construction. Doodlekine is
like all others, only a little worse.
The horse-teams carrying between here and
Southern Cross make this their depot. Asa rule,
the teams are good, and the road, since the people
of this part are at last leaving off the time-
honoured custom of driving six horses tandem,
are in fair order. The wise man puts his swag on
a team, trusts to his legs, and finally arrives at
his destination. The foolish man trusts to the
coach, which probably breaks down and is
stranded half way.
The surroundings of a bush-road in Western
Australia are of one uniform pattern. Dingy
scrub, parched bushes, wild flowers, and a camping-
place at some brackish native well which civiliza-
tion has opened out and enlarged. At times a
naked dome of granite rises above the sea of scrub
and it is at the feet of these rock-hills that tlie
native wells are usually found. At Southern
Cross there are a very passable hotel, five quartz-
batteries, and the dregs of a fast disappearing
community. Whan the railway is completed to
Southern Cross it will probably be found that
there is no one living there. Beyond Southern
Cross the “ patient ” camel comes on the scene.
Between the Cross and Doodlekine grow poisonous
shrubs, hurtful to his system, so the patient one
does not carry there.
The camel in Western Australia is an ill-condi-
tioned, mangy horror, with a temper as short as
his coat. At any period of the day, if he can
safely bite a piece out of you, or kick you in the
stomach, he does so at once. At dawn he com-
mences to whine and curse profanely in his own
language, and continues his blasphemy all through
the process of loading. Put a postage-stamp on
his back over and above the load he usually
carries and he would sooner die and give
you the trouble of disposing of his corpse
than get up. It is only when you become
acquainted with a camel that you appreciate the
loveable qualities of horse, bullock, or dog.
Coolgardie proper (meaning thereby the nucleus
of the township where there is some semblance of
a street) is about three-quarters of a mile from the
famous Bayley’s Reward claim. The storekeepers
and water-carriers do a fairly good trade; the
publicans are not so lucky. One policeman repre-
sents law and order, and he has not yet been able
to run-in a single “ drunk.” Most old miners will
gauge the prosperity of the place from this fact.
Living is bad. Flour, tea, sugar, and tinned pro-
visions are fairly plentiful; but wholegome, eat-
able meat (fresh or salt) is scarce, and the
detestable quality of the priceless water ruins all
attempts at decent cookery.
Everything is salt. The land is impregnated
with it throughout. One can easily imagine that
Coolgardie was but lately the bottom of an
extremely salt sea. The water struck at Bayley’s
at the 160-ft. level, which strike was telegraphed
widely and triumphantly, is salt, and a condenser
is at work. All around are strings of salt-pans
and chains of salt-lakes, and if gold were as
plentiful as salt, the most exaggerated accounts of
the country would not attain the true state of the
case.
And the gold ? Bayley’s, as the show-reef of
the country, naturally comes first. There are here
good comfortable buildings for the men, a modest
machine capable of putting through two to three
hundred-weight per day, which stone has, up to
now, averaged 500 oz. to the ton. It is a ball-mill,
worked by means of wood-fuel. The mine is no
doubt a phenomenal one. On top there is a
big outblow of white quartz ; the reef, averag-
ing 7ft. in width, can be traced for about half-
a-mile. The underlie is to eastward, which
is a peculiar feature of this part of vVestern
Australia. Where the reef has been opened up
there is little change in the formation visible, only
veins of ironstone are found along the outside,
and patches of the same intrude in places. This
now world-famous reef has been opened up by
means of an open cutting, and there is gold show-
ing plainly in all the faces in some places of almost
marvellous richness. Still, the accounts wired east
have grown rather in transit. The statement that
thereislOOO tons at grass is absurd, and anyone who
would venture to say that there was J>109,000
worth of gold in sight would be—of a confident
disposition. There are about 34 men at pre-
sent employed on it. At Tindall’s, two and
a half miles from Bayley’s, there is a rich reef
being worked, and at Hannan’s Rush three reefs
are being opened out. The rest of the country is
simply pegged out, and the owners of the claims
are fossicking around with sheath-knives waiting
to sell. This is Coolgardie.
Right away to Oashman’s, 45 miles distant, to
the shores of Lake Barlee, 90 miles to the north-
east, the, more or less hard-up and thirsty popu-
lation are distributed. That gold is there cannot
be gainsaid, but the prizes are small and the
blanks infinite. It has been commonly asserted
East that 2oz. and 3oz. reefs are lying idle, waiting
for someone to come and take them up. In reality,
there are more men there hanging desperately
on to poorer reefing shows than are to be found on
any other field in Australia. There is actually no
alluvial wash, properly so-called, throughout" the
country. The gold is shed about the surface
uninfluenced by the action of water. All the
alluvial work is done by dry blowing. A man
with two dishes, a strong wind and a cloud of
dust, has usurped the old conventional picture of
the prospector panning out at a waterhole.
The formation of the country and its contour
differ greatly from the ordinary run of Austra-
lian fields. It appears to have been a low table-
land covered with cement; the denudation
caused by the scanty rainfall has been
only sufficient to hollow out shallow valleys
in which there are neither creeks nor water-
courses ; the drainage of the country is simply
represented by saline bogs. Away to the north
of Coolgardie is a great expanse of flat granite
rock, all over which are circular hollows, some-
times three feet in diameter and eight or ten in
depth, in every way resembling the wave-worn
holes on a rocky coast. In fact, everything about
Coolgardie suggests a later submergence than the
rest of Australia. Throughout the gold-bearing
belts, clay slates with veins of hornblend
schist mark the formation. The question of water
supply during the coming summer is just now
the Vital one. Even at one shilling per gallon
there is no certainty of procuring it when you
want it, and W.A. Government officials move
with more than the usual exasperating apathy.
To this there is one shining exception in the
person of Mr. Renno, the chief hydraulic
engineer. He has tackled the water question
heart and soul, and vows that if all else
fails he will erect condensers on the shores of the
salt lakes. The difficulty is no ordinary one, for
the water got by sinking is salt, and to form
reservoirs for possible showers would probably
result in the water so caught soon turning salt.
However, Mr. Renno has had a Queensland train-
ing which has lifted him above the jog-trot of
W.A., so he may strike out something.
Socially, the field has an originality of its own.
As beforesaid there is no drinking, and the common
attraction of gold has drawn together men from
all parts of the world, so that the chances of meet-
ing an acquaintance you last dined with in London
or Samoa are favourable.
The rich but patchy nature of the deposits, and
the absence of any wide dispersion of the gold
point to the fact that the field will be a stock-
brokers’ and not a miners’ field. Phenomenal
crushings, specimens such as that found at Tin-
dall’s—Mb. in weight with only one small speck
of quartz in it—will boom particular reefs; but
the fortunes will not be made on the field itself.
Let no man dream of going there who has not
enough money to keep himself going for 12 months
and pay his passage back. For such a one who is
content to sacrifice a year of his life in putting in
as rough a time as it is possible to experience any-
where in Australia, there is a fair chance ; for the
poor and destitute there is nothing but lingering
starvation.
Whatever hardships men have had to endure on
other gold-fields are accentuated at Coolgardie.
Every bite of horse-feed and every drop of water
has to be carried many miles, for the earth there
yields nothing but salt. The mining regulations
are more lenient than in the other provinces, and
this, alas! will probably only heighten the gamble.
Protection can be obtained on nearly any excuse,
which accounts for the great absence of work
done. This is the staggerer which greets the
stranger. What cause is there for this rush ?
Apparently none, when you get there.
A “ Globe-trotter ” from Sydney to
Modern Society (London)
The point which struck me most forcibly in Sydney
society was the extraordinary purity and transparency of
the complexion of the ladies. To tell the truth, I had
founded my ideas mainly on the Australians one meets in
London, under the wing of the various smart ladies who
repay hospitality or carry out the marriage settlement by
taking Antipodean damsels about, and 1 expected that
the bush type of beauty, or what we call the dairymaid
style-i.e. brilliant colouring, luxuriant, but rather coarse
hair, exuberant health, and abundant strength - would
prevail. And, in tact, considering that very few of even
the best people in Sydney can go back three generations
without reaching the bush, it might be expec'ed that
such would be the o.vse. On the contrary, however, I
found that the majority of the fashionable beauties
had peculiarly delicate complexions, languid expressions,
fragile physique, and a die-away look in the eyes,
which was more suited to the enervated temperament of
an old civilisation than the active vitality of anew world.
So far, moreover, from seeing the magnificent chevelures
which I had expected, it was easy even for a novice to
detect that these ladies owed a good deal to their perru-
quier.
This was the case even among the young women, and I
have noticed one lovely 7 creature who is well under 30,
but who obviously wears a well-frizzed toupee lo hide the
deficiencies of home production in front, and has rein-
forced the defences at the back with a very considerable
draft of extraneous matter. But for her hairdresser she
would look as if she had been tonsured. The mystery of
this curious combination of premature baldness and un-
usual delicacy of complexion was explained to me by one
of the older ladies. She said that these women were
arsenic-eaters. They 7 ate arsenic in order to produce the
pallor and languor which I had noticed, and found to
their horror that another effect of the drug was to make
their hair drop out.
Valuing their complexions above their hair, however,
they sacrificed the one to the other, and in this, from
their point of view, she thought they acted wisely,
because the deficiency of hair can be artificially supplied,
and in the long run beauty depends mainly on the com-
plexion. What a woman will endure for her complexion
may be estimated by 7 this, and also by the fact that these
arsenic-eaters rarely live past forty-five. There is no*
p.ensure, moreover, in the consumption of the poison, as
there is in the case of morphia and opium. On the
contrary, it is nasty to the taste, and produces slight
internal pains and cramps which increase until they cause
death.
The arsenic is made up in dainty-looking caramels
which fashionable dames w ill produce from precious little
bonbonnUres and suck quite openly, just as the American
girl chews gum, or the English girl chocolate. These
insidious little sweets are, like a good many other bad
things, “made in Germany.” The old lady told me
further that the arsenic question was becoming quite a
burning one in the Antipodes. When a man married a
young-looking, lovely creature adorned with luxurious
ringlets, he w 7 as disgusted to find after the ceremony that
she was really a semi-bald, prematurely-enervated w oman,
who was shortening her life to please her own vanity, and
was incapable of fulfilling the duties of a mother to the
debilitated children which she brought into the world.
Moreover, the suffering which she would go through in
any attempt to overcome this pernicious habit was quite
enough to make her break down ; if, indeed, she could be
persuaded to begin at all.
You must go from home, &c.
Colemane & Sons, Limited, of Coofca-
mundra (N.S.W.), have received the Gold Medal
at Chicago tor their Eucalypte preparations— viz, ,
Eucalypte Extract, for coughs and colds ;
Eucalypte Special Oil, for external use; Eucalypte
Honey, for children specially; Eucalypte Rose, for
dysentery and bleeding, etc., etc.
Should Bachelors be Taxed?
This subject is now exciting public attention,
and opinions appear equally divided for and
against the proposition. On the one hand, the
liberty of the subject is attacked, on the other
the degeneracy of our national life is brought into
prominence—-both are equally vital interests. It
is a matter for surprise that young Australia should
ignore the contentment and felicity of married
life. Our climate is responsible, in a great
measure, for this state of things ; but this is no
excuse, and, to condemn the large numbers of
marriageable women to single blessedness is mons-
trous and unnatural, and the stigma of reproach
for selfishness and personal gratification, rests
with the colonial unmarried man. In any case,
the nerve-power must be deficient, for if it were
not, what is so eminently natural and productive
of happiness, would be eagerly adopted. If the
timid and bashful young man were to take a
course of the great Australian remedy for nervous
weakness, “Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,” a revul-
sion would at once take place in the marriage
market. It is a vitalising, strengthening and in-
vigorating medicine. It cannot fail in its results
and is within the reach of all. N.B.—Dr. Ewing-
ton, who has been practising in this colony for
about 30 years, writes: “ Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine is a most efficacious remedy in the treat-
ment of nervous debility, and I have found it
superior to all other tonics with my patients.”
An excess of animal food and a partial closing
of the pores of the skin, during the winter
months, cause the system to become filled with
impurities. These are removed and the blood
purified by taking Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.


Furniture, etc.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for <619
19s, 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£5O.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for J6lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAlRS—Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFA CTU HERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 66.] [Established 1860.
Publications.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
Retail Booksellers and Stationers,
363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Smith (Goldwin), United States, 1492 1871 8/6 posted 10/-
NEW SERIAL VOLUMES.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
NOW HEADY, POST FREE is. 6d.
£5
mHE BALLET
GIRL: Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giviigan account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
oracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
6e had only of Madams Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
CHE A P MUS I C.
New Song, “ After the Ball,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes,
Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON.
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
h
WHAH
cupifi
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
" Uusli Tor the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each ;
by post, 2 - Mysteries
Court of London, by O.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
post, 26. Secrets of
Nature revealed 1 Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
(ions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 36; by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7,6. Mrs. Beiant's Law of Population, 3/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 36, post 4/-. Maria Monk, 16, post
1/9. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should be, by
Annie Besant, 1/-, by post 12. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 16. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 16. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1 6.
‘The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1,6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1 3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Rollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 6'-,
post free. ]R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
ENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
it and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Di.able,”
“Crown Diamonds.” “Luc.izia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Hallo in ila«chejn," “11 Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. fid. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swanston Street. MELBOURNE.
*-THE-
Wentworth Hotel
ĥ
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Tariff: Bs. 6d. per Day.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee ... Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
of
The Romany Rye.
Interpreted by the most powerful and numerous cast ever
presented to a Si'dney audience.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets):
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
“LA MASCOTT E.”
MONDAY, Noverber 6,
Grand Italian Opera & Spectacular Ballet.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
QIHEATRE ROYAL
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of Maggie Moore in
“ -A. rrah-na - P o g u. e.”
Or THE WICKLOW WEDDING.
POPULAR PRICES —3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Business Manager, Mr. J. E. Moore.
rp HE CRYSTAL MAZE.
A REVELATION ! A REVELATION !
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of this NOVEL and DELIGHT-
FUL EXHIBITION,
The most extraordinary and unique spectacle ever
witnessed in Sydney.
Location— THE ST ISA \I) (Pitt Street Entrance).
ADMISSION—One Shilling; Children, 6d.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
W. MACMAHON, Director.
<£1650 pmZEB! <£1650
HIBERNIAN SOCIETY
Grand + * Fete
—AND
ART UNION!
Otfi NOVEMBER,
EXHIBITION BUILDING. MELBOURNE
Ist. —House and Land, or Property, value £650 nett, to be
selected by the winner in any of the Australasian
colonies; or 12 months’ trip round the world, First-
class and all expenses paid, and £2OO in cash for one
person, or eight months for two.
2nd. —Fruit and Poultry Farm, irrigated, value £150; or
a complete Outfit and First-class Ticket, value £BO,
for the West Australian goldfields and £l7O in cash. ,
And 138 other valuable Prizes.
ISP?” Tickets, Is. each, give you a chance whether present
or not. Buy from Local Agents, or forward £1 direct to
the Manager, Hibernian Hall, Swanston-st., and 22 will be
sent you. As there is an unprecedented run upon the
tickets, intending purchasers should buv early.
THEO. W. HERDE, Manager.
‘ - J. M. RYAN, D.S., Hon. Sec.
Medical.
Jk*.
'Aiyceme
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Coon and Refreshed in the Hottest ►
Weather. ►
Entirely removes and prevents all >
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, fic. ►
And preserves the THE SKIN from the effects of >
exposure to the i
SUN, WIND. OR HARD WATER, ►
More effectually than am- other preparation. >
Itis delightfully Coomno and Refreshing if applied to .
the Face or Hands after beii * ont in the Son, Tennis-
playing. Yachting, Sic. It removes all Heatand Initation '
caused by the Son, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts ►
that soft velvety feeling to the Skin, which is so delightful. >
Price io England, Is. & 2e. fid. Sole Makers: a
M. BF.ETHAM fc SON, Chemists. Cheltenham. England.. .
VVTSVVTVWV vvrwvrrvvrr'rwWv*
PHOFo
Ss\i
life
'Ok
Ok
VitELline.”
Latest GERMAN
REMEDY.
Produces the above results in Thirty (?:’ ')ay*.
Developes small shrunken parts of Yen../ and
Old, and CURES Debility, Sleeplessness, Pams
in the Back, Loss of Memory, Dizziness, etc., etc.
Instant Relief—Never Returns.
Full Cure sent in plain package on receipt of £l.
B. MULLER, 11 Francis Street, Sydney. Cure
Guaranteed. Register all letters containing mouer
N.S.W. Government, which has spent
many thousands of pounds in attempts to exter-
minate rabbits, discourages the trapping industry
in Riverina by charging 3d. for every rabbit
trucked from Hay, or other railway sidings, to
Sydney.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Wm. Larmour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6 a.m.
till 10 p.m. For LADIES Daily from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Public Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesday Evening.
Prince of Wales Birthday. An Immense Programme.
Business Announcements.
ħ
r-
>>> .
h
1° 5“ V
Tt>t N£w j
WAIt R B<*s>(
p ° Ifowije
The new Wa~
terbury watch has a jeweled
movement and is cased in
coin-silver, and gold filled
cases.
American machinery and
brains have added beauty
and elegance to a watch that
was always noted 3S 3
Good time*keeper.
It is still a low-priced watch.
No cheap Swiss watch-
made by the foreign labor
system—can compare with
it.
.Any jeweler sella It.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER • SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
Lancet.
(the cel
L
S SWEET)
tO Jk
A
St. John’s Works, London, W.C,
ECZEMA,
SALT-EHEUM,
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when
i the remedy taken is
i } A yer’s Sarsaparilla.
Read the following testimonial from Mr. E. H.
Stahl, a respectable citizen of Dee Moines, lowa,
U.S.A. He says: “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
ĥ
ClfUd
j{olad.a.ckv
Ctlfisij sic
iAS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The V.R.C.’s over-ruling of the Tim Swiveller
verdict is a nasty jar for the V.A.T.C. stewards. But
public opinion was on the side of Sainfoin and Qxide, and
the Caulfield stewards may be said to have rendered their
decision farcical by taking three hours to arrive at it.
There was a bare matter of fact to be settled. The
stewards had seen the race for themselves, the jockeys of
Tim, Sainfoin and Oxide could tell all they had to tell in
15 minutes, yet for three mortal hours the “ authorities”
were trying to make up their minds on this simple point.
Naturally, several things are inferred.
# • #
The Y.R.O. Derby, usually an easy race to
prophesy about with some show of good argument, is
“ open ” this year. At time of writing Pulvil is equal
favourite with Sailor Prince, who beat the syndicate’s
colt fairly and squarely in the Caulfield Guineas, whilst
Patron, the actual winner of that mile race, drops back
in the market. Of the three, Patron is least likely to win
over the 1J mile course, but nobody can show cause why
the Sydney Derby horses, Trenchant and Solarium, should
not beat these more recent performers. Budgeree is
another with fair credentials, whilst Carnage, if sound
enough to stand hard training during the current week,
should be as well worth backing as any of the Victorian
horses. The winner of the Sydney Derby almost invari-
ably proves himself a good one, however. Trenchant, by
Trenton, has breeding and performances in his favour,
and strikes one as being the one horse in the race whose
chance defies criticism. Why shouldn’t Trenchant and
Solanum finish first and second for the Derby at
Flemington ?
# # #
Miorite is such a fine, handsome youngster that
a 141 b. penalty leaves him still a most probable winner of
the Maribyrnong Plate, and in one or more of the minor
handicaps at the V.R.C. meeting Moscow will give punters
a little fun for their money—all going well meanwhile.
* # *
Last year’s Melb. Cup-experience rises up like a
ghost to warn the man who professes a knowledge of any-
thing likely to happen next Tuesday. A fine day and a
course in a fair condition for the Cup race have to be
assumed recklessly, at the outset. A heavy discount is
claimed for intermediate breakdowns and accidents to
horses’ livers. Some horses go “all to pieces” within 48
hours, or a circumstance may occur to annoy the animal
in its stable on the morning of the race, and thereby a
“ certain winner ” is made to walk in with the crowd.
These are but ordinary business risks to turf prophecy.
Loyalty is practically first favourite for the Melbourne
Cup, at time of writing, yet if Loyalty be actually the
best three-year-old of the year he would not appear a
very “good thing ” for the two-mile race. Where Strath-
more, Admiral, Australian Peer, Trident, Nordenfeldt,
&c., failed, Loyalty is not at all certain to succeed, even
though he will carry a few pounds less than those
“ cracks.” Perhaps the Derby winner may turn out to be
superior to Loyalty, and the aforementioned were all
Derby winners that got beaten in the Cup. Any-
way, it is more satisfactory to form a fancy for
one of the older horses. The handsomest of the good
performers starting (bar accidents) next Tuesday are
Brockleigh, Camoola, Malvolio, Lord Hopetoun and
Vakeel, the latter not a very good performer, after all.
Vakeel isn’t built on the lines of a long-distance horse,
and may be dropped out of this narrative along with
other S.A. competitors, all of them nice-looking, but
none of th«m very dangerous “on paper.” Brockleigh is
undoubtedly the “swell” of the whole crowd, but he is
comparatively light about the rear, and seeing that the
Newcastle pet has never won over a longer course than
nine furlongs it is safest to regard him as a non-stayer.
Moreover, his mishaps at Randwick have made him
nervous, they say, when bumped and jostled. Camoola
is lightly handicapped on his best form. If brought to
the post with a polish on him and backed heavily by the
“Syndicate ” the champion winner would seem bound to
get a place. At Caulfield, a fortnight back, he looked
jaded and dull, as Abercorn often looked during
his fourth year, for which reason The Bulletin
sorrowfully discards Camoola on this occasion, instead of
plumping for that tip-top racehorse. Neither did Mal-
volio look very tempting at Caulfield. Last year We
believed in the hero of the year before, but beliefs wear
out in time, like boots. Twenty-four months have passed
since Malvolio won a race. He ought to have done great
things after pulling off a Melb. Cup, and he hasn’t done
them in all this long while. The Redfearns pampered
their horse, hugging always the notion that he could win
when they told him to. They must have been disap-
pointed with Malvolio last year, and more likely than not
the son of Malua is fat inside, or turned slow for want of
racing. If Malvolio wins this Cup The Bulletin will
merely blow a trumpet in honour of last year’s “ tip.”
Lord Hopetoun, fit and well, is going to run up with the
best of them. He is a beautiful horse, despite his name,
and better worth backing on “form” than Sainfoin,
Oremorne, Jeweller, Newman, Fortunatus, Pippin, and a
lot of them. Lord Hopetoun went very near to winning
last Newmarket Handicap. Realm (leaving out all con-
siderations of Sam. Hordern’s luck) has solid preten-
tions to a chance, yet they haven’t backed him up
to now in an encouraging manner; ditto The Admiral, a
horse that is probably not quite as good as the doating
owner imagines.
# * •
Tim Swiveller swerved at the finish of the
Caulfield, and in the Melb. Cup he may not, it seems,
have as clever a jockey on his back as he had then. An
awkward horse to ride, Tim is more likely to interfere
with the result of the great race than to win it outright.
A light-weight again will bring a second-rate horse to the
fore at Caulfield, though it goes for very little in his
favour in the longer handicap. The Bulletin protests
against the idea of giving the Melb. Cup to a horse with a
record like Tim Swiveller’s. Even on the Caulfield run-
ning, Oxide should be as good as the larger horse, whilst
on some previous form the little black should lose him in
Melb. Cup. The safest of “ place investments ”is Oxide.
Two other small and sturdy horses who can be trusted
to go all the way are Portsea and Penance. They are both
of them reasonably weighted, and Penance is one that
may have a bit up its sleeve, speaking allegorically. Last
year the offspring of Grand Flaneur-Penitent ran third in
the mud struggle, and was known to be better in the
ordinary way than Ronda, who finished second. Since
then Penance has been a “dark ” horse. For the reason
that “tipping” is a dark art, and because this “tip” is
almost black in the mystery of its surroundings, The
Bulletin takes Penance to beat Oxide, Lord Hopetoun
and Portsea. It is better to place four horses, lest the
winner should happen to get disqualified. But on general
principles, this journal doesn’t believe that anything will
win the Melbourne Cup.
• • •
And now that Penance has gone wrong, and
been scratched, The Bulletin tip must stand as applying
to the other three horses named, and the enthusiastic
verses on page 5 (printed ere the news came to hand)
must be regarded as cancelled.
» • #
Lord Hopetoun is not Lady Hopetoun’s fancy
for the Melbourne Cup, they say,
» # •
Taking the Melbourne Cup quotations of Oct.
24th, it appeared that the wily Hebrew could then get
fairly “ round ” on his book by laying against 32 horses.
Of those 32 not more than 20 may start lor the Cup, whilst
among a probable 15 other starters there may be several
eleventh-hour favourites. The Hebrew could lay them


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Head Office: 07 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors- The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman: JAMBS B, HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq. J A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; J. T. WALKER, Esq.;
and ROBTERT J. KINO, Esq.
i-W All Policies effected from now till the end of the Year will share :n the Division of Profits as at Slat December, 1£93. Amount of CASH BONUS Distributed amongst Policy
holders for the One Year, 1892, exceeded HALF-A-MILLION STERLING.
All Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of two years. Intending nronosers should note the above carefully, and send in applications early, either direct or through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of
the Profits for this year.
General Manager and Actuary- RICHARD TFFCF, F.1.A., F.F.A. ItOBEBT li. CAMFHON, Secretary.
T ATT URS ALL’S
Queensland Cup — December LI. 50,000 at 5.
Summer Cup — December 36. 10,000 at 10.
Carrington Stages. 25,000 at 10.
{
“ TAITKRSAU,”
Care of George Adams,
“ The Telegraph ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Uiisbaue, Queensland.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
ħ
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
h
a3HJ
ISOd
AVMV
N3AIO
grsnittsawooaa
INTO TUB COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15, Kolborn, London, Eng.
£lOO
GIVEN AWAY
in Presents.
rOR GUESSES ON THIS REBUS.
Which represents, when properly arranged, the
■lame of a prominent Australian City. To the First Five Persons sending us correct answer on or
before December 20th, 1893, we will give to each, A. Oennlne Oolcl Hunting Ca»e I«rer
Watch. Vain© t To each of the next Six we will give a Sterling- Silver Hunting- Case
l ever Watcli, Value H i lOs. To each of the next Ten we will give a « eniimo Nickel
Silver Review Watcli, Vain© Cl. To each of the last Five sending correct answer we will
give 4 Pennine Oold Hunting- Case Lever Watch, Value r T ° ea< i.,°U»
next Six we will give A Sterling Silver Hnnting- CascAever Watch,
To each of the next Ten we will give A Genuine Vickel Silver ICe.vless Watch, Value *1
This Rebus admits of only one answer and does not convey a double meaning. It is no catchpenny
Advt hut a Genuine distribution of Christmas Presents to be faithfully conducted as above stated.
Competition Closes at 5 p.ra., December 20tb, next. With your answer we require you to
sen ,l pipy. pi\j PFNNY STAY PS for aboxof ‘‘ Star Antihilions Pills,, the Best Liver,
Kidnea and Bowel Regulator ever used, made from choicest medicinal Herbs, Sugar coated, they act
gently, yet promptly’ without griping, 24 doses in box. List of Names and Addresses of Prize winners
J r ’ * 1 A A..t- mm fa nt mirtn A TiTCO V C!C iltlOllili llnig'
will be posted to each person answering this Advt., write at once.—Address
Com nan v, Itunneil Street, Ulelhourn©
■
ADAMS’
I TATTERSALL’S HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
•A- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings , Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hdte DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Fitt Street, Sydney.
linfffiffloißoir
irrr
i
in
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KINO STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. CEO. W. ELMS.
ĥ
ħ
m
h
miL
r^
h
,\V.«
V
RENTAL VALUE
//VS ’ •////'/ tsA/lfS'' ■*■ /
£s
lit
ĥ
p */
‘VALUE
30*000.
SAfi/y
0/V£
q A/\/
£I,SOO A YEAR.
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
ħ
h
,r/iai
s/'cri
ĥ
FOR SHARES AND ALL
PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SECRETARY ALBERT ST
OR CORR IE & CO, QUEEN ST
BRISBANE . OR
|||e66f6. fficrce Sf go.,
126 PITT STREET,
SYlDltsnS^r.
ħ
ISte
h
ĥ
ħ
Clothed with Air.”
Cellular Cloth
■*fl| re 66 ■ s f||hirtA
WITH
Linen Fronts & Cuffs.
6/6 & 7/6
Just Opened.
Cellular Cloth Shirt*.
French Print Fronts and
Cuffs: 3-stud ; various
patterns—6/6.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention s ; ze of neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents:
BRAHAM Ss MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
M. a. MOLONEY,
134 u PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
IS" Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events :
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup-
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5-
V-R-0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this "DOUBLE.
THREE CHANCES.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
Telegraphic Code —“ Westbrook, Sydney.”
f
vYill attend at Flemington during the Cup Carnival.
Business as Usual in Sydney. All Telegrams, &0.,
must be pre-paid, and no Commission must be con-
sidered executed until a reply is received.
5. EACH.
GALAS
5. EACH.
h
ĥ
ħ
260 Consolations at 2 each, 600.
Less 10 per cent.
425 Extra Cash Prizes 425
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November.
At 10 each. 20,000 At 10 each
(For Horses only.)
Less 10 per cent.
Register and Address Letters to
“GALA,” c/o H. Alexander.
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
THE BRISBANE
Commercial Syndicate .
MELBOIFKNE OlJl*—-Flemington, Nov. 7, 1893.
At 10 Each 50,000 ssr At 10 Each
h
ĥ
Less 10 per cent. Pro rata if not filled.
Enclose two stamped envelopes with application, one
for each, share and result. All money received fully
secured by Trust Account in Union Bank.
Address: COMMERCIAL, o/o Hr. White & Cor..
Mercantile Brokers,
EAGLE STREET. BRISBANE.
. all (and make a certain large profit on his volume) or
stick to his 15, or more, chances of “a skinner." No
wonder he wears diamond rings.
# * •
Events show the V.R.O. made a big mistake
When they ahertd the fixed Melb. Cup penalties to re-
adjuslment of weights. To raise Swiveller’s weight a
Stone and Brookleigh’s 71b., whilst Sainfoin is left as before,
has naturally “ raised Cain" all over Australia. In place
of letting Sainfoin alone, Mr. Dakin should have handled
him sev. rely, if but in recognition of the horse’s in-and-
out running in N.S.W.
# # #
A capital instantaneous photo, of the Caulfield
Cup finish is shown in Collins-slreet. There is Moore,
with both arms extended, shaking up Swiveller, while
Oxide, on the rails, and Sainfoin, are clear, and parti-
cularb so is the beaten Moscow. A few years ago, such
a picture would have excited the utmost astonishment.
« • *
An instantaneous photo, of the Y.A.T.O.
stewards viewing the Tim Swiveller “jostle ” Would have
been just as interesting as a photo, of the jostle itself.
• • #
Robert Law, F.O.S , Yic., proposes to suspend
a camera between the winning-post and the judge’s box, to
work automatically and take “ 20 photos, in a second.”
This apropos of the Tim Swiveller disqualification.
# * *
The funniest story of the Caulfield Cup
“ objection ” concerns Mossy Isaacs. Everybody knows
Mossy—clean shaven old party, with wild eyes and a
stove-pipe on the back of his hoary head, who rushes
along this vale of tears for the fell purpose of “ laying
the double.” Tim Swiveller suited Mossy right down to
the ground, so when the V.A.T.O. dismissed the protest
against that unexpected animal Mossy offered up thanks
in the market-place and rejoiced in a manner terrible to
behold. Mossy was seated on a sofa in the Victorian
Club, musing over Heaven’s mercies and his little
“ double ” book, when a messenger brought in the news
that Sainfoin had been adjudged winner by the higher
tribunal. A strange gurgling sound came from the sofa
—a white hat rolled helplessly along the carpet. Good
old Mossy Isaacs had fainted.
# • •
The sensational Jeweller and the rather incon-
sistent Harris are likely to prove an expensive luxury to
the public. Backed heavily in the Phoenix Handicap at
Moonee Valley on Saturday, he ran third.
« • •
Dr. Slate did well in backing out of the pro-
posed series of trotting matches with Mr. Buckland. The
latter’s gelding, by Van Cleve, Fritz, trotted his two miles
at Kensington last week at a 2.41 J gait, going from first
to last like a piece of machinery. The best three-year-old
Australia has yet bred.
» * *
The Hill family have The Bulletin’s sympathy
in the uncertain running of some of their stock. Mr.
Frank Hill’s Ariel, who won the Free-for-all trot at Ken-
sington last month, ran nowhere in the similar event last
week. Frank’s Ariel seems as uncertain as papa George’s
Marvellous Marvel.
# # *
M lb. Herald tipster claims to have given the
Caulfield Guineas winner 12 times running— and, of course,
strfight out, with never a cockboat.
* * «
fjord Chesterfield rules the roast in the Melb.
Racing Clubs. A jockey was cautioned for striking
ano'lmr with his whip, hi a trial. Going out, he swore,
wtv reupon he w as called back and “got two years."
» * •
The V.R.O. has thought it necessary to erect a
. convalesc' d's’ ref real at Flemington for disabled jockeys.
Who says we are not civilised ? In brutal Mexico the dis-
abled bulls arc slaughtered.
• • •
J. Boland gave a =£2s cheque for Flirt 111. after
a Melb. sell!it iace. Finding the pony blind, he stopped
payment. He must pay, rules the Law.
* * *
\t !b. police are falling heavily on the “ totes.”
80, when an excite d man yelled at the door, “ Police 1”
one “spieler” went through the window, taking the
sash with him, and several lacerations. The joker is now
being blood-thirsti'y sought for.
Mr. Jack Murray, member for Warrnambool,
has abandoned his second attempt to legalise the Tote in
Victoria, and Ikey Mo will enjoy the blessings of Protec-
tion for another year, anyway. There is little hope for
the betting machine that lays honest odds and doesn’t use
bad language.
* # •
Brisbane (Q.) Courier excuses its gambling
advertisements on the ground that, though, “editorially,”
it disapproves, “ the Jaw of competition makes it im-
possible for a newspaper proprietor to refuse income from
any lawful branch of his business ; ” also, because “ racing
and betting are permitted by law."
# # •
Mr. Lassetter, of F. Lassetter and Co., Limited,
George-street, Sydney, offers a prize-bat for every player
in the “Electorate Cricket Matches” who scores a “cen-
tury ” in any one innings, provided that no player is
allowed to win more than one of these prizes during the
season. Lassetter and Co. is a septuagenarian establish-
ment for cricketing materials of all kinds.
# * *
Darley : “ I have not met one Melb. man
satisfied with the Swiveller-Sainfoin business (Not Sain-
foin’s backers?) The fact is, we are this year going
on a Puritanic racket, which will be followed by a
reaction, like Charles 11. after Cromwell. Oxide was
interfered with, rather than Sainfoin, and Moscow is now
third horse, without getting placed. It is an upside-
down affair altogether, causing the Melb. Cup to be
looked forward to with a sort of disgust. How many
more serious protests have been dismissed ?”
* * #
W. G. Cole will compete as representative of
Sydney A. A. Association in. the hurdle-race and high-
jump contest at the Melb. sports, 9th Nov. Cole is a fine
specimen of the natural athlete ; he never gets really out
of condition. Last year he got off a sick bed just a fort-
night before? the Sydney A. A. sports, and there jumped
sft. 4in. off wet grass. Jumping, he says, does not affect
his body or legs, but, oddly enough, causes soreness in
the muscles of the hands and forearms. Cole is the pre-
mier hurdle-racer of N.S.W., and should set the Melb.
hurdlers a dance.
* # #
Joe Goddard has received his certificate of dis-
charge from Melb. Insolvency Court. The creditors
knocked out 9s. 6d. in the £.
* # * «
J. B. O’Hara, Australian author of “Songs of
the South,” &c., has been elected Captain of Port Mel-
bourne Cricket Club.
# * *
The secretaries of football clubs in and around
Sydney estimate the number of footballers playing on any
fine Saturday afternoon at 3000.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
16 of this issue.
M‘Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool.— The dispute between the associated wool-selling
brokers (of which we are not members) and the buyers is
still unsettled. The rest of the brokers, however, held
sales this week, at which there was a very large attend-
ance of buyers, every section, local and foreign, competing
freely. For the better classes of greasy fleece the com-
petition was not so active, owing to the lack of American
orders in view of the uncertain state of their fiscal policy.
For the medium qualities and for bulky bellies, puces
and locks there is a strong demand at prices nearly on a
par with those ruling this time last year. Good scoured
wools also sell freely. Prices current may be summarised
as follows: —Merino, good greasy fleece to Bd, medium to
7d, inferior to fid per lb., crossbred to BJd, pieces to 6|d,
bellies to sd, locks to 3d per lb. Scoured fleece, superior
to 16d, good to 14d, medium to 12d, pieces to 12d, bellies
to IOJd, locks to B£d per lb.
Hides.—At the sales to-day there was an active demand
for all classes of good conditioned hides at prices equal to
those ruling last week. Best extra heavies sold up to
3Jd ; heavies, 2d to 2|d ; medium and light, Ijd to l|d ;
dry to 2d per Jb.
Sheepskins are in good demand. Full-fleeced dry skins
to 4Jd ; superior to 5d ; medium, 4d to 4jd ; pelts, to 3d
per lb. Butchers’ greenskins to 56d for tops; 40d to 45d
for medium ; and to 14d each for sound pelts.
Tallow.— Market firm at last week’s rates ; best mutton,
£23 to £23 10s; medium, £22 to £22 15s; best mixed,
£22 10s to £23 5s ; best beef, £22 10s. to £23; inferior and
trade parcels, £l6 to £2l 10s per ton. We offered 60
casks.
Hair, Horns and Bones.— Horns were slightly easier
last week. Shank-bones £3 10s to £4 10s; common
bones, £llos to £2 ss; knuckles, £3 5s to £3 15s ; Horns,
large 20s. to 30s, medium 10s to 18s, tips 3s to 6s per 100.
Horse hair, 9d to 13Jd per lb. Cow, off stumps, 7£d to
9Jd ; on stumps, 3d to 5Jd.
Marsupial Skins.— The market for marsupials ruled
about the same as last week, large grey kangaroo selling
to 50d ; medium, from 25d to 35d ; small, from 2d ; large
red from 20d to SOd; small to medium, Id to 19d.
Wallaroo, from 2d to 20d. Wallaby, swamp, from IJd to
16d ; rock, from Jd to 3d; scrub, from Id to 15d each.
Rabbit, to 7jd per lb. Bear, Jd to 3d each. Opossums
slightly easier, best greys, to lls.; medium, 6s 6d to Ss ;
rumped and small, 6d to 3s; reds, best 7s 6d ; medium
and small from 3s ; blacks to 17s 6d per dozen.
Sydney, October 27, 1893.


gg
1 47
PILL RUACE
Sr,V BlOODsKtm DISEAS
Vi
tm&'A...
Herr Rassmussen’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-street, Sidney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFA LINE
VITA LITY PULS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
say that his-Remedies have cured more than al 1 others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALTAIANE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how' caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. US 1- A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WARNING. —Imitators will be Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT,—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
AIiFAIiIWE
VITALITY PILLS.
~ i«.mii!tivmas
m
\
S'- '
ALFA LINE PILLST
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD u NERVES,
} AWARDED.
TWO GOLD
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d,, posted. Ordinary Course, 235. (id. Poxes, 6s, and 12s.
Registered, and Rurely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree ns to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fidfs of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading p ople of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktows
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxt s, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12, - and 23.6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair r and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3/- and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautilier.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1,6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/-; posted, 1/6 and 26.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/8.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLCCC
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOIT DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS,
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEM
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS.
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD;
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. Gd.
Special Powerful Course. 435. 6d.
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders,
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Post <1
One Shilling.
Herr RASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
ħ
h
ĥ
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide. (91 Lambton Quay, Wel’ton, N.Z.
The people of Queensland, in
Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Brlabanel,
where the FINEST STOCK in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts. Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockeryware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low-priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES ! ! This can be proved in the
mostsatisfactorv manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the only reliable test. Everything
in their line can he had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S excepfshoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
ion of what is required, and remittance to cover
mount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c.. payable to FINNEY
ISLES & CO.
Samples, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for men’s or
women’s clothing, Price-lists, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will'be immediately forwarded
on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers),
Brisbane, Maryborough <6 London.
Carter & Co?
!^WlWUPWH l| tH^^Tnn>nr , TTnTitm':
NON REVERSIBLE
rpniS Ingeniously Constructed nil i.UKI) I»IM\(;-
-L T 1 1(1. K is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-atlraction, Billiards have no equal, oombin-
inggentleexercise with an eh gant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—2S to W'/> Guinea*, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
CASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAYAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Kestorative.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
CAPSULES
Full directions.
All Chemists.
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s- Pure Copaiba Capsules.
At Mount Margaret out from
Hungerford, the tucker-bill per shearer for the
first week’s work was over ,£5 ; and the average
right through the shearing was over £2. The
men employed would not refuse travellers to cut
down the quality in order to feed their mates out
of work.
The country about Barcaldiue, Mutta-
burra and Aramac, writes a correspondent, now
supports five times the population it did ten years
ago, and the small sheep-owners are doing well.
There is much artesian boring in that part of the
world and with splendid results. But a few years
since Aramac was regarded as the extreme never-
never ; now, a man must go to the S. A. border be-
yond Bouliaere he reaches the “back-blocks;” and
when he reaches them he finds that the ad vancing
tide of progress meets him from the Adelaide side.
Ten years from to-day the country surrounding a
central point located between Win toil and Bar-
caldine will support a large population of pros-
perous and contented people. The country that
is too rough to carry sheep will be fenced with
marsupial netting and subdivided into paddocks
for the purpose of breeding kangaroos—an in-
dustry that, the writer predicts, will yet be one of
the most profitable of Australian pastoral pursuits.
Who will make the start?
Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Before undergoing operative or other
treatment for.Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharpen the
new and successful “Cannalin” treatment, 257
George-st., close to Bridge-st., Sydney.
It is notorious that illicit distillation is a
most profitable industry in N.S. Wales. The
vigneron, who is allowed by law his little still for
the purpose of distilling a permitted quantity of
spirit yearly, has the freest chance; but unlicensed
stills are everywhere—a few in the very heart of
the city, more numerously in the suburbs, within
a day’s travel almost anywhere along the coast
country, and spattered about promiscuously in
the inland back-blocks. Few N.S.W. publicans
owning business heads dream of purchasing all
their grog in the legitimate markets. Very little
of the “ strike-me-dead ” of the cheap pub. ever
sees “bond,” or has any true relationship to its
brands or labels. Alleged spirit, of such over-
proof strength that the duty on it would
amount to 16s. per gallon, is openly hawked about
Sydney at 12s. per gallon. A Sydney D.T.
contributor mentions two instances where, in
separate lots, 12,000 gallons and 80,000 gallons
o.p. were offered to individual importers at the
price named. From information that The Bul-
letin has received from time to time, the state-
ment is one that may be accepted as the record' of
a cold, commonly-occurring fact. The sugar-
growing districts of N.S.W. form one natural
hotbed of illicit distillation. Not only is the
“ white spirit ’’distilled in all partsof the country,
and recovered from rejected wines, but it is for-
warded in convenient bulk under various disguises
all over the land, to be made up, by the aid of a
miniature “ medicine-chest,” into the delirium-
provoking “brandy,” or whisky, &o., &c., that
engulphs the bushman’s cheque and soul. The
authority who places the loss to the N.S.W.
revenue by illicit distillation at £500,000 a year
is, we believe, very little, if at all, over the mark.
This phase of the liquor question, if properly
considered, with all its horrors of brain-poisoning
insanity, should prove the best argument of which
the teetotallers can at present avail themselves.
Sound grog—and there is such an article, if one
only knew where to get it—takes several genera-
tions to kill a really live man.
N ESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
F rame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cycloptedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VIL
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Prof. Wit. O.
Lkubk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROF ULOSIS. —Vol. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”-Prof.
Birch- Hieschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Cold?
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on Ids part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes : ,
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly notioi able when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
£59,401 worth of Freehold Property!
Australian Building Society.
YARRABANDINI & TANBAN
Monster Freehold Property Distribution.
Comprising 10,652 acres of the well-known farms am.
agricultural lands of Sydney Verge, Esq., of the Macleay
River, and several valuable TOWN LOTS in Kempsey and
the suburbs of Sydney, and a valuable GRAZING FARM
at Kingston and Loganlea Railway Stations, close t >
Brisbane, all of which have been purchased by the Society
for its members.
The Macleay Properties have been valued by Mr. Jam' s
Johnston, J.P., Auctioneer and Valuator, of Kempsey,
and the Queensland Properly by Messrs. Arthur Martin
and Co., Ltd.
The above Properlies will be distributed amongst the
members of the
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY
(Incorporated accou nig to Act of Parliament.)
proposed (Issue of 59,401 (Shares
At £1 Each.
Committee of Management.
C. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in N.S. tt'ales.
F. CLAHKE, Esq., M.P. for the Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBERT HAIES, Esq., Kempsey.
Hankers.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, Limited.
Solicitors.
Messrs. THYNNE akd MACARTNEY, BRISBANE
118 PRIZES, asunder:
FIRST PRIZE, 1606 acres, valued at £11,64T.
ħ
r
Total Value of Prizts, £59,401.
Each Shareholder, for every Share held by him, will
have Eleven Separate Chances, or a possibility of
winning prizes to the value of £!i0, 430 1 On.
Payment of the sum of £1 will secure One Share in the
Society, upon which there will he no further liability.
The Drawing w ill be by Ballot, according to Hubs of
Society, and will be announced as early as possible.
Transfers will be executed in f ivourof successful Share-
holders immediately after the Ballot, free of all mortgages,
rates, taxes and encumbrances.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must he made to
the Secretary, BARRON L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24
Imperial Arcade, Sydney ; or “ Secretary,” care of .1.
RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any
further particulars may be obtained.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes; add exchange if cheque sent.
Register letters.
The Committee invite the attention of intending Share-
holders to the value of the Properties for distribution, and
also to the Auctioneers’ description, which may be seen
at the office. Should the Lists not be tilled, the Com-
mittee reserve the right to withdraw one or more lots,
according to the amount subscribed.
(N RAND NATATOKIUM HOTEL, 396 to 402
I|" Pitt-atreel, Ha\market, Sydney. These extensive
Premisi s offer every home comfort to visitors. Attached
to the hotel are the grandest sea-water swimming baths
in the world ; 1400 tons of warm flowing sea-water; a per-
fect luxury, free of charge, to our visitors. N.B.— The
Pltt-street Railway ’buses pass the door evi ry few minutes


The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893.
NAMBROK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of &1 each.
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments !
“ NAMBROK.”
(15,000 Acres)
. Schedule of Properties:
WSEmm
m i •
c
: mmm a
t.u ;
“Melton Park.”
(7,000 Acres)
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated value £l2 000
Also, 59 Properties ~ each 1,050
5 ~ ~ from £560 to 990
l „ „ 340
]\r£im.t>rolt House (Included In I’ropcity No. 1).
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representatives of the Press) is t° fake plac q without
fail in NOVEMBER. P. P. LABERTOUCHE. Esq., Melbourne; Major 0. M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Capt. J. WHIINEY Auck-
land, N.Z. SW The FIRST DRAWING will be from the “ NAMBROK” Estate , which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 280 Properties of the best selection
(out of a total of 351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
The Only
Agricultural
Property
Distribution.
h
On July 15, only
£26,700
additional was required to
include Property ]S T o. lin
its entirety.
EARLY
XECESSARY.
VIEW OF DAM ON WINDMILL CREEK, RUNNING THROUGH CENTRE OF PROPERTY.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS:
“ One of the soundest investments just now in the small speculative market is, without a doubt, the scheme of
the above-menlioned company to settle the people on the lai d by the modus dperandi set forth in their advertise-
ments. When such well-known and reputable gentlemen as the following identify themselves with the scheme afore-
said there need not be any hesitation or suspicion on the part of wary or wavering would-be investors. Major C. M.
Officer, Melbourne; Mr. P. Labertouche, Melbourne; Mr. Christopher Wade, Adelaide; Captain J. Whitney, Auckland,
N.Z.; Messrs. Alex. Wilson and Company, Sydney ; Mr. J. H. Astrop, Sydney ; and Messrs. R. Newton and Company,
Brisbane. The first ballot will in no case be later than Novtmber, at which shareholders and members of the press
will also be present. Nearly every resident in Gippsland is a shareholder (this is where the splendid properties are
situated); and what speaks better for the probity of the Columbian than that fact? The investment can be recon
mended as a thoroughly good one, so hesitate not to try your luck.”—Evening News, Sept. 22.
“ From enquiries made, this is a thoroughly genuine affair, and will do more ‘ to settle the people on the and '
than the complicated schemes that have been so much talked about and little acted upon.” Sunday Times tS) dm j ,
21st May, 1893.
“ This latest proposal for land sub division and settlement has ever) thing to commend it to the public, ami
certainly no better scheme of a similar nature has previously been placed before the people of Australia.”-The
Australian Agriculturist (Sydney), 30th May, 1893.
Complete Schedule for First Drawing.
NAM B 1(0 K ESTATE.
£150,000.
Property 1: Namhrok Estate.
A superbly built mansion of 15
rooms with all necessary domestic
and outbuildings (cost £10,000),
together with 2000 acres of mag-
nificent agricultural and grazing
land, and adjoining the Heyfield
and Kilmaney Park Estate. Esti-
mated value, house and land,
£30,000.
Property 3: Namhrok Estate.
A comfortable house of 9 rooms,
together with 500 acres of superior
land, mostly rich river flats. Esti-
mated value, £7OOO.
Property df ; Three hundred acres
of superior agricultural land, ad-
joining Property 3. Estimated
value, £3OOO.
■ ■
i,
ills i - I mm :
>■. ■
«m»:
■
■ ,
Tmc
& . ,
-V „>•/ *
i ‘"'V* * ■• - **r *:
fr. ”
'■
Property 5: 200 acres of land
similar to Pioperty 4. Estimated
value, £2OOO.
Property G : 150 acres, similar to
Property 5. Estimated value,
£l6OO.
54 Properties : Each containirg
100 acres of rich agricultural laud,
ready for the plough. Estimated
value, £lO5O each.
4 Properties: Each containing over
50 and under 100 acres. Estimated
value, from £560 to £990, accord-
ing to acreage.
120 Properties ; Each containing
50 acres. Estimated value, £550.
2 Properties : Each containing
over 30 acres and under 55 acres.
Estimated value, from £495 to £540,
according to acreage.
Properties 252 to 351: Each
one acre township allotment,
valued at £24.
HOME PADDOCK, SHOWING No. 2 DRAFTING YARDS.
The Title Deeds are granted by the Crown, are in perfect order, as will be seen from the attached letter received from Messrs. Blake and Riggall
C. M. OFFICER, Jun., Esq. . William Street, Melbourne, SOth September, 1593.
Dear Sir,—We have to inform you that the Title Deeds to the Nambrok Estate and the Melton Park Estate are in order and complete, and there is no obstacle to the immediate
transfer of these Estates to a purchaser,—Yours truly, JiLA.EE and RIGQALL.
Clear Titles will be transferred to successful Investors free of all cost, and all moneys will be held in trust until the Ballot has taken place. Should the winner of any Prize so desire, the Promoters
have arranged with the late owners to act as agents for the working, leasing or sale of any of the Prizes for a period of three years without any charge.
APPLICATIONS for PROSPECTUSES, SHARES and all Particulars should be made by
Le ‘the COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY,
c,o K. Newton & Co., BRISBANE (Q.).
PROSPECTUSES, PLANS, and all PARTICULARS can also be obtained on
Application to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY.
c/o J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two addressed envelopes with 4d. in stamps for reply and
result. Do not attach stamps. Add exchange if payment is made by cheque.
N.B.—ln case the <£2(5,700 is not subscribed by November, the best value of property for the
amount subscribed will be included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate percentage of
bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per cent, short, the Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed the Shareholders.
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
lBO3.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
Name
£ i :
A ddress
#
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co. ■
tS" MORE THAN ONE PERSON, but not exceeding FOUR, may bold a Joint Interest in a Single Share, and Coupons representing one-fourth of a Share will be issued to each individually, the names
' and addresses to be given in full. No Shareholder is liable to any further payment on Allotted Shares,
Important Notice : A Cash Bonus of £l5OO (for stocking purposes, &c.) will be paid to any Shareholder winning Property No. 1. A Cash Bonus of £375 will be
paid to any Shareholder winning Property No. 2. A Cash Bonus of £l5O will be paid to any Shareholder winning Property No. 3. The Promoters having received a
fuaranteed offer to purchase the whole of the Township Allotments, are therefore prepared to pay winners of these Properties their estimated value, as set out in the
'rospectus (viz., £24 per allotment), in cash if preferred.
CLOSING DATE : NOVEMBER 27. 1893.


ĥ
JOSEPH ABBOTT.
Shipping Manager.
LESLEY HERRINO,
Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
—AND—
Station Agents.
STORES:
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
Remgro CATION
ows
m
M
m
©
1/
TS
X SOLO jfV^
‘\EVERY,WHERE'i
h
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin‘doctors
fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
ire absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
* CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the mo*-
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skii
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
Jfg- “ All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
too Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure,
50c.; Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
r
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap, Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi-
cated toilet soap and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most complexionaldisfigurations. Price, 25c. *
What odds that increased payment
members won’t be a Govt, measure next session
Q. Parliament?
Headlines from a Melbourne daily ; ;
“Marine Engineers’ wages reduced by 12| per
cent. Satisfactory termination of the conference.”
“ Wages reduced.” “Satisfactory termination.”
You need read no further.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
ħ
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOB
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
& L ,
X>* £RY
°v
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
ILOXOTIS OPOPONAX, 1
A FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/J
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
* p v V°
<~°od Streep
Beware of imitations. Thege nuine is signed
TRADE MARK;- MUSK DIES,
ŕ
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OB
MII.K FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climale.
To be obtained from all Druggists A Stores.
i
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
. WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS"
Velveteen
Rich and rare
now colours for
present wear.
♦♦♦♦♦
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BiAiX.
~ The World Renowned
T GUIS”. VELVETEEN has this in its favour,
I 1 besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ Louis ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-U-LS', and in no other way,
and is stamped with a guaranteeof v ear.
Ladles should reject all substitutes.
Ned Vesey.
ANY news of his RECENT or PRESENT
ADDRESS will bo most gladly received
by bis Friend, DICK WEATHERBY:
G. V. HELLICAR, Solicitor,
BRISBANE.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, October 31,1893.
LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15.
Bridge, Belabula River, at Regan’s Crossing,
road Carooar to Trunkey
Bridge, Marshall’s Creek, road Wagga Wagga to
Gregadoo
Erection of Pavilion, Benevolent Asylum, New-
ington
Erection of Caretaker’s Cottage, Rushcutters Bay
Park (Railway Construction Brank)
Alterations Delivery Room, General Post Office
Construction of Timber Punt, Tabulam Ferry,
Clarence River
Construction of Main, Eastern Branch Sewer,
Western Suburbs Drainage
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29.
Bridge, Gibben Gunyah Creek, Main Southern
Road
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Bridge, Wollondilly River at Lacy’s Crossing
Bridge, Wybong Creek, road Merriwii to Muswell-
brook
Bridge, Glennie’s Creek at Camberwell
Bridge, Murray River at Hawksview
Bridge, Yarramumnun Creek, road N'ovvra to
Y alwal
Bridge, Wilson River at Ballingai ra
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
English owners are nob yeb satisfied that the
bonanza concern known as the Australian Consols has
uunered out. Their representative who lately visited and
inspected the mine was satisfied with its possibilities, and
told the men it would be worked until it was known for
certain it would not pay. He said there was no reason
why it should not yield large quantities of native silver.
A threadbare truism.
• • •
Secretary Curley, of the Newcastle (N.S.W.)
miners, struck a pathetic note of their distressed
condition at the recent eight-hour “ f6te,” by saying that
many were ashamed to walk in the procession as they had
not the money to pay at the gates.
* * *
Murchison Miner (W. A.) records the appear-
ance of a large flock of black swans passing over Cue, and
wants to know what has driven them from the coast.
Perhaps the arrival of a large flock of sharks, also bound
for the goldfields.
* • #
Risen from the mining dead —the Ophir Amal-
gamated, Tas. Shares, quoted in Sydney at 9d. Time was
when it boomed there, and many swore by Ophirs.
* # *
A serious drop has occurred in the Princess
Dag-mar (Bendigo)yields. It is now given out that it will
take to the end of the year ere big cakes and divs. can be
resumed.
* »
#
Rich silver returns from Mb. Lyell have ceased
awhile, but more awful still, it is cabled that Knox has
delayed placing the mine because of the market uncer-
tainty. ,
» * #
After an unusually long innings many anxious
shareholders would like to know if the Star of the Easb
has given out. Last crushing, a crusher— 1984 tons for
640 ozs. 6J dwts., a fall of nearly 300 ozs. on the
previous fortnight. The market slump was great. Bal-
larat would have preferred an earthquake.
* » *
The price of gas in Sydney to be further reduced
—to 4s. 9d. per 1000. The electric light comes.
* • »
Last quarter’s Yio. mining divs., £169,758 —
increase, £52,260.
• • •
Vic.’s gold-return for last quarter, 178,719 oz.,
an increase of nearly 20,000 oz. on preceding quarter.
Bendigo gave more than half of the increase.
* * *
B.H. Proprietary shareholders should inquire
what will become of the experimental plant for tho
treatment of sulphides erected on the mine by Metallur-
gist and Assistant-Manager Schlapp, lately resigned.
# * #
Schlapp received .£2500 per annum. Ib musb
have been a very acute disagreement—or series of them—
which induced him to “ clear.”
• * ■
B.H. South has a sulphide-concentrating plant
almost completed. The one smelter still in blast cannot
be kept going much longer now, and then the mine will
have to exist on its sulphides or go under.
• • *
The Govt, has made a grant of £7OO altogether
to allow a cross cut from the 1330 ft. level of the B.H. Ex-
tended shaft to be put in to look for the lode, subject
to the Central Co. granting permission for the
proposed cross-cut to enter their property. The work
cannot, however, be carried far without assistance from
the companies interested—Block 10, Central and Pro-
prietary, all of which have been hanging back con-
siderably.
• • •
A leading Jewish “ financier ” of Melbourne got
rid of liabilities amounting to £lOO,OOO the other day,
by paying his creditors Is. in the £. Another man “ did
likewise ” in a little matter of £300,000.
* # #
Attention is drawn to the portable crushing and
amalgamating plants just brought out by Messrs. Parke
and Lacy Co., Ltd. One —the stamp battery plant—is a
model of portability; the battery frame is entirely of
iron, the side standards being made of heavy donble-
headed rails. The bottom ends cf these rails are fitted
into cast-iron foot pieces which are bolted to the founda-
tion timbers, and cast-iron cap pieces receive the top ends.
These cap pieces at top of rails also form the bearings for
cam shaft, and both are secured to cast-iron bracket pieces
which carry the top stamp guides. Another leading
feature of this battery is the improved sectional mortar-
box, any section of which can be easily handled and so
arranged that the box can be put up at the mine without
the least trouble. The plant consists of one No. 3 Dodge
rock-breaker, one Challenge ore feeder, one 5-head stamp-
battery as described, copper-plate table with wells and
agitator, and a percussion table. The whole can be
operated by a 6-h.p. portable engine, and has a capacity
of about 10 tens per 24 hours. The weight of each stamp
is 7261b5. In another plant, Messrs. Parke and Lacy Co.,
Ltd., substitute a 3£ft. Huntington mill for the stamp-
batrery, the other machinery being the same; and they
will be pleased to forward illustrations with particulars
and prices on application. Both these plants are ex-
ceedingly well suitid for prospecting purposes, and their
portability should make them most valuable for remote
districts such as Western Australia, where carriage is an
rnportant consideration.
• * *
M'Oulloch, an American silver-smelter, is on
the road back to Ooolgardie. His first venture there
boomed prodigiously; £25 syndicate shares went up to
£5OO. Each share then cut into twelfths, which are
selling at £5O. He declares there are 12 or more Cool-
gardie claims out of which gold is dollied, and 50 others
within the radius of 10 miles which would pay by battery-
treatment.
“ Women give fcheir hearts to Grod when
nobody else will have them.”
John M‘Kenzie, M.P. (M.L.): “Handed
in the country 37 years ago, with little more than
the proverbial sixpence and the clothes I stood up
in." Buekland, M.P. (Maoriland-born, going one
better) ; ‘‘l am three years short of 50. I came
into this country stark naked, and just look at me
now! ”
JACK KNOWLES’ FORTY FRIENDS.
A friend in need is a friend indeed, says the
old saw. Quite so. Fair weather friends are
plentiful enough, goodness knows ; the kind that
drop in on you, talk to you, bother you, and
borrow things from you; the kind that never
hr, ng back that five shillings, but ask for five more
“just to make it ten,” that breed of friends, I
say, are as thick as flies over a sugar-bowl. But
the sort who stick by you when you are down on
your luck, who put their shoulders against j our
cart wheels at a nasty spot in the road—why, you
want to hunt for them with spectacles and a
lantern. ¥et, after all, such friends do exist, and
forty of them turned up, without any hunting,
when Mr. Knowles needed them badly. How it
happened he tells us in the following statement.
I, Jonathan Knowles, of Lotton Fen, near
B unsey, Hunts, do solemnly and sincerely declare
as follows : —I was always a strong healthy man
tip to April, 1889, when I began to feel ill. At
i rst I felt dull, low-spirited and had no energy.
I had a poor appetite and for days and days
could eat nothing. What I did eat laid like lead
on my chest. I had a gnawing, sinking feeling
at the pit of the stomach, and was constantly
sick, vomiting up a green fluid. At times the
heaving and straining was so great that blood
came up. My hands and feet were always cold,
and clammy sweats used to break out all over me.
I never felt warm even when I sat before the fire.
Next a hacking dry cough, with severe pains at
my chest and lungs, began to trouble me, and my
breathing became short and hurried. I soon got
so weak that I had to give up ray work, for I
could only walk a few yards without stopping to
take ray breath. The cough and shortness of
breath got gradually worse and worse, and I
began to lose flesh rapidly. At first a doctor
from Ramsey came to see me, he gave me
medicines and cod liver oil, but held out no hope
of my getting better, and after attending me
three months he recommended me to go to the
hospital. I got a recommendation from my
master, Mr. David Oorney, Wellington House,
St. Mary’s, and went to the Peterborough In-
firmary. I had to be taken in a trap to the
railway station, such was my weak state. The
doctors at the Infirmary had me stripped and
sounded my lungs, and said one of my lungs was
almost gone, and that I was in a consumption.
They gave me medicines, also cod liver oil, bub
nothing did me any good. After being under
their care and treatment for three months I was
discharged as incurable. My wife and relations
now lost all hope of my ever getting well again,
and everyone who saw me looked upon me as
being in a decline. My cheeks had sunk and I
had wasted away until I was only a shadow of
my former self, you could even see the sinews
through my flesh. I was nothing bub skin and
bone, having lost three stone in weight, I gob up
every day but had to sib in an arm-chair all day
long. I could only move a few yards and that
with the aid of a stick. In this half-dead, half-
alive state I continued for nearly two years, and
was looked upon as doomed. During the latter
part my wife did not think I should live from one
week to another, and friends who came to see me
used to say, “Poor Jack will never come out
alive again.” In December, 1890, when I was at
my worst, a neighbour of mine, Mrs. King, True
Briton Inn, told me of a medicine called Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup and gave me half a bottle
of it. I had no faith in anything doing me any
good but I took it. Having been so long out of
work I could not get money for more of the Syrup.
So strongly were my friends convinced that the
medicine would do me good that a subscription
was started and over 40 people subscribed to enable
me to get a further supply. Mrs. King got the
Syrup from Mr. J. Freeman, Chemist, Ramsey,
and kept me supplied with it. After I had taken
three bottles of the Syrup I felt benefit. I kept
on with the medicine and gradually got stronger
and stronger, and got back to my work. Of
cour-e it'took a long time before I properly gob
up my strength. I can how do any kind of work,
and feel so strong that I often walk 14 miles a
day, for which I thank God and Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, Everyone in the district is astonished at
my recovery. I tell them all that Seigel’s Syrup
has Drought me back to life. I wish others to
know of what has done so much for me, and I
give permission to the Proprietors of the medicine
to make what use they think fit of this state-
ment ; and I make this solemn declaration con-
scientiously believing the same to be true. By
virtue of the Statutory Declaration Act, 1835
(Will. IV., c. 62).
Subscribed and declared at'
Peterboro’, in the County
of Northampton, this 29th
day of January, 1892, be-
fore me,
(Signed) L. J. Deacon, f.
A (’ommissioner to ad-
minister Oaths in the
Supreme CourtofJudicature
in England. .
(Signed)
Jonathan Knowlbs.
You take notice, of course, that Mr. Knowles
makes a solemn legal declaration to the truth of
his remarkable story. It is so full of suggestive
facts that I could write a book about it. Bub
there is no time nor room now to do that. The
points to remember are these: —If the doctors
thought “ Poor Jack ” had consumption they were
mistaken. The fact that he gob well shows he
had no consumption. A man who can now walk
14 miles a day lias gob two good lungs. Doctors
have no business to make such blunders and scare
fatients out of all courage and hope. But there !
gnorance is ignorance, no matter where you run
across it. What ailed Mr. Knowles was in-
digestion and dyspepsia—nothing else. The
cough and loss of flesh were symptoms of that,
not of the destruction of lung substance. Next,
keep bearing in mind that all our common
maladies signify that our machinery for digesting
food is out of order. It is so when it doesn’t look
so, the same as when it does.
That is the secret of the success of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. It cleanses the cistern and the
pipes, and then the water of life runs clear and
sweet. Those 40 sensible friends believed in that.
Mr. J. Knowles is a very respectable hard-
working man. He ista farm labourer ami has a
small allotment of land which he cultivates. The
persons who subscribed to get him the Syrup are
principally farm labourers and farmers residing in
the district of Ramsey. Tho case is well known
to all the people round about where Knowles
lives. Mrs. Knowles, in speaking of her husband’s
long illness, stated that she never for one moment
expected his recovery. She could see him gradu-
ally dwindling away, and herself and children
could not take their meals for tears when they
saw the dreadful condition Mr. Knowles was in,
for theV expected losing him every wet k.


WOOL
M BUENEY, WALLIS and CO.
(N. M'HVRNEY \
E. S. WALLIS j
A. HENSON J j
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Liberal Cash. Advances if required..
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Eaoli Department nxanaged. toy a irrenataer of tHe
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY I
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
h
ĥ
ASTHMA
CURE
WRITE TOR
/ D»
/ HAIR’S
! TREATISE
«N
ASTHMA w
9>.W
ħ
EIBOURWE
Rocke.Tompsitttl.
Sydney: Dliottßros I
Brisbane: £ffiolt Bron(? /
Adelaide .TOSuldingir(•
WEUINCTO
AuckUnd: Sharland »C* ,stxs>.
TruHie tr/J Testimonials frets'
Reuter’s Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, al o
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
h
wards constipate but by their general action please all vl. .■
ure them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Prof's-
■on. The smallest ami easiest to take, - Forty in a plual.
Ji Perfect Food,
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
ĥ
\
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
for travellers.
[MALTED MILK is made from tin
[ richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestif It
} parts of wheal and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked.
I 111 no milk is to be added ; it is quick h
I and readily prepared for instant use
I by dissolving in water.
) MALTED MILK is the best food for In
\ fants. “ The composition of Mailed
I Milk resembles that of human milk.
| — Lancet. April 4, 1891,
► MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
► valids, surpasses all other light diets.
► Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. - “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents ;
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
| MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
Coleinane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Barry’s Tricopherous
ħ
FOR THE
HAIR
AND
SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald'
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
; Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
BROU’S INJECTION,
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
LUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J, P’ER.RB
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
es Electric & Steam Launch C®
&
ELECTRIC LAUNCH "GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, cither with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour ; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Hart our or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m i m e.,
M anager .
ammm
i.i
THE COSMOS APOTHECARIES CO. |
Physicians, Chemists & Dentists,
G 74 GEORGE STREET (BRICKFIELD HILL), SYDNEY:
| RELIABLE IMCEDICAL ADVICE, 2s. 6d. |
By l>r. ISAIJMVIV, Licentiate of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, Edin. Regislend by the
Medical Board of New South Wales.
CONSULTATfON DAILY from 9.30 a.in. to 8 p.m. Personally or by Letter.
ARTIFICIAL TEETH-Perfect in Fit. |
Unexcelled in Strength, and of beautiful life-like appearance, by Dr. BETTS, from the Philadelphia College of
Dental Surgery.
UPPER or LOWER SETS, from kZ 2s. ... FULL SETS, from 4*4 4s.
No Extra Charge made for Medical Attendance in Extraction under Gas or Chloroform.
| THE CHEAPEST HOUSE IN 3ST.S. WALES |
For PURE DRUGS, CHEMICALS and PATENT MEDICINES.
Barry’s Tricopherous, Is 2d ; Beecham’s Pills, lid ; Clements’ Tonic, 3s 9d ; Cutioura Soap, 9d ; Resolvent, 3s 9d ;
. Jacob’s Oil, 2s; Scott’s Emulsion, 3s ; Seigel’s Syrup, 2a Id ; Mrs. Allen’s Hair Restorer, 4s 6d ; Warner’s Safe
St,
Cure, 3s 9d, etc., etc.
| Fuss’ Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure, 2s 6d,
An INFALLIBLE CURE for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys, Costiveness, Indigestion, Bilious Headache, etc.
LADIES WILL FIND IT AN INVALUABLE PREPARATION. (See Pamphlet.)
Send, for our Erice - List and Save Money.
A NEW DEPARTURE~!
A. flare Opportunity -fco Country Residents.
J Y. COLLINS & CO. (late Summerfield’s)
Are now forwarding, CARRIAGE PAID, to anv Seaport or Railway Station in the Colony,
MEN’S, YOUTHS’ and BOYS’ COMPLETE OUTFITS at HAIiF USUAL PRICES. '
Read Carefully the following Lists, and send us a TRIAL ORDER.
Our Special 30s. G-ent.’s Outfit
Comprising SEVENTEEN ARTICLES, viz., I Tweed Sac Suit, 1 White Shirt, 1 Coloured Shirt,
1 Straw or Soft Felt Hat, 3 prs Sox, 3 Collars, 2 Scarves, 2 Undershirts, 1 pr Braces, 2 H’k’chfs.
Boys’ and Youths’ 225. 6d. ( T rouslrs) Outfit-
comprising TEN ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Sac Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, 1 pr Braces,
2 Collars, 3 prs Sox, 1 Straw or Felt Hat.
Boys’ 12s. 6d. Outfit ( ta to “)
Comprising NINE ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, 2 Collars, 2 prs
Stockings, Ipr Braces, 1 Straw or Felt Hat. Send age of Boy, and say whether stout or otherwise.
TAILORING DERA.RTME3XTT,
We are MAKING GENT.’S TWEED or SERGE SAC SUITS TO ORDER from 50s.
TROUSERS TO ORDER, 12s. 6d.
PATTERNS and MEASUREMENT FORMS Free on Application. This is an exceptional
opportunity of purchasing your Drapery and Clothing at less than Sydney Prices, carriage free.
J. P. COLLINS & CO..
(Late SUMMERFIELD’S),
235, 237, 239 PITT STREET (near Market Street), SYDNEY.
IFMTAim’
THf
Plum*
mmS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has over been offered to the public.
1 ure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them*
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price-! l! azor > ! a strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21a.
(.single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post I 1 ret to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
AKonf.i CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
"Two to One, Bar One"
(A Reminiscence of a Melbourne Derby).
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Two to one, bar one,” was the prevailing cry
when the bell rang to saddle-up. And it did
indeed seem a certainty. The Melbourne Derby
is not a very difficult race for a really great colt
to win, and if ever a colt bad evidenced greatness
this wns the animal.
His rare breeding bad exhibited itself in every
line when he was paraded in the sale-ring as a
yearling, and the “four figure ” total was long
passed before bidders were “all silent.” His two-
year-old form had amply justified all expecta
ti ms ; starting eight times, he had not been asked
t > race. The winter had only served to mature
his somewhat early growth ; and his owner,
unwilling to throw away any chance of the big
double, had wisely kept him out of the earlier
Spring Meeting at Rand wick. When he appeared
at Flemington, some three weeks before the
eventful Ist November, the touts conceded with-
out reserve that such a three-year-old bad never
before been seen on the coarse. Thus, breeding,
appearance, performances, and proper manage
meat were all on bis side, and now, as the bell
rang “ saddle-up,” the betting was “ two to one,
bar one,” in a field of seven.
Amongst the variety of “gloriousuncertainties”
that lend a slight colour to existence that of the
turf is perhaps the most charming. Its causes
are many and its effects various. Amongst the
latter may be enumerated : embezzlement, suicide,
forgery, bookmakers and large fortunes (when
somebody loses somebody else wins, unless at shil-
ling pool, where the table gets it all). The causes
of the turf’s glorious uncertainty are probably
exhaustively known by no human being. It may
be that the horse is not quite himself, “a little
short of work,” “a little too fine,” “the going
was too hard for him,” “the going was too soft
for him,” &c., &c. ; and how often has a horse gone
out for a big race burning to emulate Balaam’s
ass and acquaint bis trainer with the fact that
there is a little screw loose of which he alone is con-
scious? Then theovvnermay have preferred to make
an absolute certainty of a large sum by laying
against his representative (though this is never
done in Australia). Or the trainer, who is but
mortal, too, may consider that a good name is not
wholly preferable to riches. Or the jockey (who,
like the owner and trainer, is also mortal, but a
little more so) may have reasons of his own for
preferring to run a brilliant second. Instances
liava been known (at all events, on tbe stage)
where reasons of this nature have not been wholly
unconnected with the other sex. And, finally,
though the administration of a heavily-backed
favourite may be unanimous in desiring his suc-
cess, it may (and generally must) happen that
other people would be delighted to see him drop
dead before the course was half completed. Con-
sequently, horses have been known to start in a
race with the sole object of banging against the
favourite, knocking him on to the rails, galloping
over him, spoiling his chance, and risking his
rider’s neck in any way that the marvellous re-
sources of the art of jockeying can suggest.
I fear that this digression has shewn our hand,
and caused leaders to anticipate that this story
deals with the manner in which the greatest cer-
tainty that ever stripped for tbe Melbourne
Derby found circumstances too strong for him.
As a story with an anticipated denouement is
many degrees worse than any other kind of story,
L shall refrain from telling this one. To avoid
misconception, I may, however, remark that the
circumstances occasioning our hero’s defeat were
neither romantic nor sensational. He was simply
beaten out of a place by three much better horses.
L.F.
At the Antwerp exhibition, to be held
next year, an attempt is to be made to outdo
sensationally the Eiffel Tower of Paris, and the
great Perris Wheel of Chicago, by means of “a
monster aerial castle,” which, if named after its
inventor, will be known as the “Tobiensky.”
Two captive balloons are to hold up, at altitudes
varying from Gsoft. to KiOOft., according to atmos-
pheric conditions, three cylinders provided for
the cavorting of adventurous sightseers who will
lie floated upwards and groundwards by means of
two small service balloons capable of carrying
from 10 to 15 passengers each time. The “castle”
will be moored to the earth by four stout
cables, and will weigh, when fully peopled,
about 3G| tons. The passenger service will be
laid on at 12-minute intervals. The “castle” is
to be electrically lighted with thousands of lamps,
and will have “weather’’ communication with
the Imperial Observatory. In the event of a
threatening storm, it is to be possible to haul it
down within half-an-hour. Its construction is to
be of steel and bamboo pipes covered with Chinese
silk and surmounted by a metallic texture, the
whole being estimated to withstand a wind-
pressure of 2201 b.
Germany has tried railroads on three
plans—viz., private ownership and conduct of
road and outfit; private conduct and ownership of
outfit and Government ownership of track, and
Government ownership and conduct of the whole.
The last was found to work best, and there are
now none but entire Government roads in Ger-
many. It is no use fooling with anything short of
that in any country where the Government is
really for the people. Prussia, a poor country
naturally, with no great resources, has made a
successful financial experiment with State rail-
roads. Her railroads, built by the State, paid in
1889-90 the interest on their cost, the interest on
the State debt, and a surplus of .£7,000,000. This
annual surplus has diminished, but last year it was
over d!4,000,000. In addition, the railroads have
paid off £27,000,000 of their debts, instead of con-
stantly adding to their cost, as all railroads do
here. The railroad system of Prussia includes
15,530 miles. There is not in this country any
group of 15,000 miles of railroad which distantly
approaches the financial results of the Prussian
roads under official State management.— S.F.
Stau.


Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypto Tills stir one up.
Thus a writer in Fortnightly Review :
On the shores of the Persian Gulf, which enjoys the pro-
tection of the British flaw, at one place they found a most
imposing sight in the Sultan’s palace, where was a caged
lion who devours criminals of the deepest dye ; and oppo-
site to it. was a probationary cage reserved for prisoners
who are compelled to watch the man-eater at his meals
by way of deterrent and warning.
“ The cat must be reinforced ! ” says the Sydney
daily press. Why shouldn’t Govt, buy a bigger
cat—a tiger—or Fitzgerald’s lions?
dears
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
1:1
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince * Wales.
“Roasting Hot at Pente-
cost.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Tliere was a row in the focsle of the
Queen Caroline, barque, of Sydney, and the hands
were discussing ways and means upon two sub-
jects—making the skipper give them their usual
allowance of rum, or killing him, burning the
ship, and clearing out and living among the
natives.
Half of the crew were white, the others were
Maories, Line Islanders, and Hawaiians. The
white men wanted the coloured ones to knock
the skipper and two mates on the head, while
they slept. The natives declined—but they were
quite agreeable to run away on shore with their
messmates.
• * *
The barque was at anchor at one of the
New Hebrides. She was a “ sandalwooder,” and
the captain, Fordham, was, if possible, a greater
rascal than anyone else on board. He had
bargained with the chief of the island for leave to
send his crew ashore and cut sandalwood, and on
the first day four boat-loads were brought off,
whereupon Fordham cursed their laziness. One,
an ex-Hobart Town convict, having “ talked
back,” Fordham and the mate tied him up to the
pumps and gave him three dozen. Next day, he
started the boats away during fierce rain-squalls,
and told the men that if they didn’t bring plenty
of wood he would “haze” them properly.
At dusk they returned and brought word that
they had a lot of wood cut, but had left it ashore
as the natives would lend them no assistance to
load the boats.
The spokesman, on this occasion, was a big
Maori from the Bay of Islands. Fordham gave
him three dozen and put him in irons. Then he
told the men they would get no supper till the
wood was in the barque’s hold —and he also
stopped their grog.
“ Well,” said the captain, eyeing them savagely,
“what is it going to be? Are you going to get
that wood off or not ?”
“ It’s too dark,” said one; “and, anyway, we
want our supper and grog first.”
Fordham made a step towards him, when the
whole lot bolted below.
“ They’ll turn-to early enough to-morrow,” said
he, grimly, “ when they find there’s no breakfast
for ’em until that wood’s on deck.” Then he went
below to drink rum with his two mates, remarking
to his first officer: “ You mark my words, Colliss,
we’re going to have a roasting hot time of it with
them fellows, here at Pentecost!”
• • •
At daylight next morning the mate, who
was less of a brute than the skipper, managed to
get some rum and biscuit down into the foo’s’le ;
then they turned-to and manned the boats. At
noon the second mate, who was in charge of the
cutting party, signalled from the shore that some-
thing was wrong.
On Fordham reaching the shore the second
mate told him that all the native crew had run
off into the bush.
The chief of the island was sent for, and Ford-
ham told him to catch the runaways—l 4 in num-
ber —promising seven muskets in return. The
white crew were working close by in sullen silence.
They grinned when they heard the chief say it
would he difficult to capture the men ; they were
natives, he remarked—if they were white men it
would be easy enough. But he would try if the
captain helped him.
» • •
An hour afterwards the chief was in the
bush, talking to the deserters, and taking in an
account of the vast amount of trade lying on
board the barque.
“See,” said he, to the only man among them
who spoke his dialect—a Fijian half-caste from
Loma-loina —“this be my scheme. The captain
of the ship and those that come with him will I
entice into the bush and kill them one by one, for
the path is narrow——”
“Good,” said Sam, the half-caste, “and then
ten of us, with our hands loosely tied, will be
taken off to the ship by two score of your men,
who will tell the mate that the captain has caught
ten of us, and has gone to seek the other four.
Then will the ship be ours.”
* # «
“ Halloa !” said the mate of the barque to
the carpenter, “here’s a thundering big crowd of
niggers coming off in our two boats, and none of
our white chaps with’em. Stand by, you chaps,
with your muskets. I ain’t going to let all that
crowd aboard with only six men in the ship.”
The men left on board watched the progress of
the two boats as they were pulled quickly towards
the ship. They hardly apprehended any attempt
at cutting-off, as from the ship they could discern
the figures of some of their shipmates on shore
stacking the sandal-wood on a ledge of rock, handy
for shipping in the boats.
“ It’s all right,” called out the mate presently,
“ the niggers have collared some of our native
chaps. I can see that yaller-hided Fiji Sam,
sitting aft with his hands lashed behind him. Let
’em come alongside.”
• • #
“ Cap’en been catch him ten men,” said
the native in charge to the mate, “he go look now
find him other fellow four men. He tell me you
give me two bottle rum, some tobacco, some
biscuit.”
“Right you are, you man-catching old canni-
bal,” said the mate jocosely, “come below.” As
the mate went below with the native at his heels,
the latter made a quick sign by a backward move
of his arm. In an instant the ten apparently-
bound men had sprung to their feet, and with
their pseudo-captors, flung themselves upon the
five men. The wild cry of alarm reached the
mite in the cabin. He darted up, and as he
reached the deck a tomahawk crashed into his
brain.
No need to tell the tale of the savage butchery
on deck in all its details. Not one of the
men had time to even fire a shot—they went
d >wn so quickly under the knives and tomahawks
of the 50 men who struggled and strove with one
another to strike the first blow. One man,
indeed, succeeded in reaching the main rigging,
but ere he had gained ten feet he was stabbed and
chopped in half-a-dozen places.
* • *
And then, as the remaining members of the
crew sat “spelling” in the jungle, and waiting for
the skipper’s return, there came a sudden, swift
rush of dark, naked forms upon them. Then,
gasping groans and silence.
There were many oven-fires lit that night and
the following day ; and although the former ship-
mates of the “long, baked pigs” were present by
the invitation of the chief, their uncultivated
tastes were satisfied with such simple things as
breadfruit and yams.
That was the “ wiping-out” of the Queen Caro-
line at Pentecost, and the fulfilment of the uncon-
scious prophecy of Captain Fordham to his mate.
LOUIS BECKE.
Gladstone’s demise would pass Home Rule;
Victoria’s retard it.
Old Marshal MacMahon, ex-President of
France, died the other day aged 85. In recent
years he was only the shadow of a great narmk.
Over fifty years ago MacMahon began to
be first heard of in Algeria. Then he rose to
sudden prominence in the Crimea, where he per-
formed the greatest and grandest act of the whole
muddled and blundered campaign—the storming
of the Malakoff, which was, to all intents and
purposes, the capture of Sebastopol. He won the
battle of Magenta against the Austrians, and
thereby made Italy free and independent—-in
gratitude for which she now belongs to the Triple
Alliance, and waits for a chance to attack the
nation to which she owes her deliverance. In the
Franco-German campaign MacMahon fought
what was probably about the most desperate
battle of the war—that of Woerth—and lost it
with a magnificence which was the next best
thing to a victory. All through a long
summer day he L. ,J his ground with 35,000
men against 70,000 Germans; he broke the
German line eleven times, and came with-
in an ace of winning, only to be defeated at
last through the supreme idiocy of General de
Failly, the prize fool of the French army. If he
had won the battle of Woerth, which was practi-
cally the turning point of the war, there was just
the shadow of a chance that the campaign might
have ended, after all, at Berlin instead of Paris.
MacMahon got away with 18,000 men and the
reputation of being about the hardest and the
most unlucky fighter in Europe. He found
a new army waiting for him at Chalons a
motley, disorganised, undisciplined assem-
blage, with no commissariat, no fixed plans,
and with this dejected mob the fatal Napoleon
despatched him on a hopeless errand for the
relief of Metz. Metz, however, was past
relief, and principally through the ghastly in-
competence of the same fated De Failly, Mac-
Mahon’s retreat was cut off, and he was hemmed
in by threefold numbers at Sedan, where he and
the army and the emperor and the empire
all went down together. De Failly was
MacMahon’s evil genius just as the awful
Clarn Gallas was that of Benedek, in 1866. The
Marshal made an elaborate and industrious failure
as President of the Republic a few years later,
and then dropped out of public notice. He was
a somewhat dull-minded man who tried hard to
be honest, about the best leader of a forlorn hope
in Europe, an individual who lived in a chronic
state of impecuniosity and financial hopelessness,
and in a general way a Gallicised copy of the fine
old Irish gentleman of days gone by.
Curiosity Killed a-?
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Out of respect for that decent old saw,
de mortals, due., the title of this story is left in-
complete.
From the windows of a front office in the Old
Treasury Building, Melb., we clerks slqwly became
impress d With the fact that the opposite corner
was haunted. Whenever any of us looked across a
familiar figure variegated the view. It was that
of a man who was always well-dressed, but not
aggressively so, and generally carried a neat
“compactum” umbrella, lie was prematurely
white headed, and wore a black moustache., At
first he merely had about him a waiting-for-a-
friend look ; but as the days went by he waxed
strange, peculiar, eccentric, and finally lunatic.
He would aimlessly walk from corner to corner,
would gravely bow to pedestrians, 'or grimace at
them, and sometimes he violently gesticulated
before the lamp-post, waving his umbrella wildly.
Of course we commenced to speculate as to his
complaint.
A practical proposal came from Green, the
poetaster and romancist of our crowd. He deter-
mined to interview the ghost. Being a surrepti-
tious scribbler to the press we suspected that his
main object was “copy.”
* # *
On the afternoon fixed by Green for his
venture, the ghost was at the corner as usual.
Green went forth in fine fettle. We watched his
jaunty swagger across the street; the windows
were full of faces, even the offices on the next floor
turned out. It was like a play, the audience being
so remote from the players.
Green lounged coolly up to the ghost. We all
laughed, and waxed facetious. Then suddenly
there was a cry of dismay. All intent upon the
rencontre, not a feature of it escaped us. We
saw the umbrella waved, and almost . imme-
diately Green fell prone upon the footpath. A
crowd collected ; the shiny helmet of a policeman
bobbed about prominently in its midst and was
soon joined by another. Then came two cabs, into
one of which a limp form was carried and hurried
away ; while a gesticulating mass was more
leisurely and less gently huddled into the other.
An excited rush of some of the fellows across the
way, quick questionings of bystanders, and “the
cimedy was finished.”
• • •
The ghost had driven the sharp point of
his “compaction” through Green’s eye and into
his brain, causing immediate death.
• » #
Later on, the history and mystery of the
ghost were told. He was only a lawyer’s tout,
who had land-boomed himself into independence
and insanity.
Curiosity killed a ?
PAUL MELL.


“THE BULLETIN’S”
Missing Word Competition-No. 8.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Wednesday, 29th
November, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltu.
" The Bulletin's ” Missing Word Competition Coupon*—Ho* 8.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon,
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, *
Sydney, in time to be received by Wednesday, November 29th, IS . .
Maoriland Assembly is closing its last session, and the next Assembly will
be elected by both sexes on a One-woman-one-vote basis. And now the question,
whether woman has a mind of her own in political matters, or is a mere.
nohentity in a spring bonnet, should at last have a fair chance of arriving
at a settlement.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The verson who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
reeled- no behuction whatever eking made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
v*. v;:V v.
“ Bulletin” Series, UNTO. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SIECOInTID editiou
' ' . OF
“A Golden Shanty”;
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
By “ BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Price. ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“Bulletin.” Series, Wo. 3.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Roldrewood ,
Opinions ojF tlxe z
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a par. The
, , h 0 is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in these faraway
a c ’ A afrnno- vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are fond of
SthTvSklSunm wiH prove attractive reading. ”-S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893.
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc, and the secret of this is that
h has bv many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any other writer.
5? f trreat descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given us some of
his’best’work? That they will be widely read is certain. ’’-Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893.
“They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
i t Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild places
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men. ‘ The Last of Six ’is a terrible
tnle of cannibalism treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr. Favenc makes of
thrilling interest ‘The Haunt of the .linkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved from the
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, Mr. Favenc here and there approaches Poe. This
characteristic is especia ly noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written. ‘ A Cup of Cold Water’ is, perhaps, the
best talc in a collection that should be widely read, and which forms a worthy addition to , purely Australian literature.”— Daily Telegraph,
July 15,1893.
“‘The Last of Six and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: The Bulletin Newspaper Co.) This is a collection of short but
pranhic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories here are good,
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the third of The
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences.” — Australian Star, July 15,1893.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy,
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World,
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as One Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
chan half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior .to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely now
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the * finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct pause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the elabns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, r l HE
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of iorres
Straits, and the digger in the Maonland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact
easily ascertainable from any postal official that,
of all journals issued in iHB t>UL-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
-straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial commum-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Box um, ci.p.o,
Telephone 073.
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
CTJTILIEIR-Sr
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED—
Insect Destroying Powder
KILLS— W
Fleas, Flies, Fugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer—R. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
161 King Strbet, SYDNEY (late Rigney’s).
Tins, 1 /-; Boxes, 16. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1,9.
rjl ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
Scale of
“ THE
Advertising 1
—IN—
BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year „
Paragraph Advertisements
An EXTBA discount of 5 per cent, allowed
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
... 40 ~ ~
... 10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
cash in advance.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Bs. &3dL.
h
/|enry Heath'S
TRADE MAR*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. od..
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n£trlig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finestfclled
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
GK H. SMITH & SOHNT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Look Out for
“THE LAST OF SlX;’’
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d,
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
OLIIMIITIEID),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY op EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tla.es “ Pioneer 99 Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
ĥ
E/^r
ħ
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
Your attention, please, to the Fashions which*
bloom in the Spring.
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coming season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists ot fashion are
being , opened up with all speed.
Great is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MTLLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES I—One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard. Square, SYDKfBY.
[Established over a Quarter ok a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
83T Terms—lQs, mi. per Pay. Walt QT 813.1167 (lat ° ° f NeWCastle) ' ‘ ‘ Pi OJ. ’ ’
-PRIVATE HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN HOUSE , Milson’s Point , SYDNEY.
iiutit
I;:’ ii
Resident Medical Officer-Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-R-O-S., Ena, etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical Officer, Brisbane, etc
EXFBRIEISrCBID NURSING Sk*3? AJE'JE*.
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYNECOLOGICAL CASES.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
