

o
ri*
n
CO
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST,
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS * T 5 EACH.
GRAND NATIONAL STEBPLECHASK, 15th JULY
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER .... ....
MELBOURNE CUP. NOVEMBER (Fob Hokses Only)
20.000 5 Each.
30,1)00 &i 5 Each.
30.000 5 Each.
10.000 10 Each.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose —one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
“ GAEA
” c/o H. Alexander,
67 OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB— . .
ivr-irHncf and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
® /itoudat. ivr r»NflE;R.Y. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ì
FRY’S
COCOA.
M‘Arthur’s Hote
(Late Miltuori’s’),
Corner Work >V ki. '«<«•.-(*, *l’2»\l3¥.
Splendid Accommodation. The best Brands of Liqitp?
and Cijrara-
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON, 1 h
BOBT. M‘ ARTHUR, Proprietor
/&r* Look Oik ton
“ THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
.a
rr;
©x
r Hi
sxf°S
fM£
rsH. ->»?•&
pm
■
WtaaVS*
Tlxe Oxford Hotel, K:iM.g s y dney '
H. THORPE Proprietor.
THE-^
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED),
Have pleasure in advising receipt of Invoice for
PNGLISH I- ISH & Qame
To arrive by the s.s. OPHIR.
The Shipment will be for SALE on the 20th inst.
The List comprises ;
SALMON
SOLES
TURBOT
FRESH HERRINGS
HALT BUT
SMELTS
BLOATERS
KIPPERS
PI N DON HADDOCKS
PHEASANTS
BLACK GAME.
PARTRIDGES.
The quantities being limited, we shall be pleased to
place your orders.
As to prices, we are not yet enabled lo fix them, but we
can give the assurance that they will be in accordance
with the times, and so permit lh< native-born Australian,
as well as the “old colonist,” to compare the “Home”
T'ish and Game with that of our colony.
Address, 25 Harbot Street. ) IS. |‘ \ ( l.so
City Depot, 135 Kina Street, f Manager.
film’s WIMT. ILLSOPf'S ill
JoB;I g WALKED, 24 BOISTO STREET,
W: i
_ T w south W«.X©3 for Mesa'S. Clayton a,*xcX
Sole 111 3XT©w Soutn
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Tunes.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
milnnliiiismn . •“
WITH HANDLES,
OH DIN ARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
in T?,i dillfi'.
r
-V/.-r; | cuvtcn Js»'jni‘TOi‘i'" i-
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
i
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built, to suit the requirements of N.S. VV.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all Kinds.
Portable Ttirashinp: Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Sigh ness in Draught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
,
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for Gd. each.
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
c LIGHTING ENGINES,
J. & C.
WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. m
Howara, 280 J
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on
Pitt Street, Sydney
.[•plication,
vh M ' ■
The Bulletin
Yol 13.—JNo. 097. J
[Saturday, June 24, 1893.


I
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element ot success, from any cause whatever, and
Suffer from basbfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
■eadnche, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
ger.d for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
URDUS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen's Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,"
Greenwich
Invite# every investi-
gation aa to
Mb
Qualifica-
tions,
M. PERRY,
L>S.A>, &o«.
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.B.W.
Send tor
>r. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
'Glandular Enlargements
Hl-t extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURB.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
Bio4 enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly kklt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
roR INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
We have examined.” —Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., «fec.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGES ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
HT A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There Is not a country in the civilised world where
sating virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their bouedoent notion is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 7ti Nhw Oxrotui-BT., London. ffJW” Pup
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourlous.
i
P O W DER
s
T
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S! ”
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He; “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
The bank or new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability , 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
í
TALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “ PRICE WARUNG.”
H
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
j
. e
rrtrrc
WHY LIVE
WHEN You CAfi
J
BE RUME D
DECENTLY Foi<
IE 10.0
i
i
ir
It s£/VV*rys \
¥
A GEELONG- ADVERTISEMENT.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of Uew SoutH Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIMSTER. ... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand
i
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager kor Australia-T. JT. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
n
1
mi
Is fHE Best
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“THE EAST OF SIX ”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
—BY—
i
EEHEST F A VEUC
ì
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Boldrewood.”
Rays the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm. „
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike ettect tne -Urania ot tlie Waste.
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


Business Announcement.
53
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w.
O- ELDBIDG-E & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
YOHK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
40
:
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG «5c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 683 George Street, Sydney.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
! .11*1!
RADE
m ■ MARK 1 . 1 ; 1 '
a**
: «
w
MO -
SKIN
W
TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s. 6d., nr, three bottles together, Ul 12s. Cd.
Valuable new Book on “NATURAL BEAUTY,” sent
free, 4d.
Head Offioe-89 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australas a
153 STEAM, SYDNEY.
Hotel.
m
w\
liiiiii
Kl
“she (Sydney (Coffee palace” Hotel,
Sir John Young's Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
tariff.
SINGLE ROOM.
, Per week.
Without Board
With Board
15s
30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging; from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
m commercial.
SITTING and MUSH
Rooms, baths, &c.
uisritirm i:.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlook! no - Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies 7 Tea Rooms.
T HE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
Jjas just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It vi 1 great boon to Business
w Th' /be vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, e mbined
«itn a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating,
rjIALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE ~ ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
D'JECKELL VINES
(F.R.C.P., M.R.C.S., etc.),
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of Ne w South Wales,
Prof, of Electro-Medicine Ss Therapeutics,
S Ucllßge in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on Consumption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
yanons specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
llealth (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English’ Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
„ em 'nent Specialist (whose experience of
Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted ease, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
'Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions :—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
i Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing a f ter Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send '
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper, free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vinos
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. - As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
1 CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be yon ever so
poor, yon may have tha benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours ol‘ Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3p, in. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noou.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
£2T Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
ì
Shipping.
E
INGLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
find Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
cwcmtiuie iui 1.4 xuoncns, ana oaioon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract witi
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, anc
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Steamer
Commander iSydney
Noon
July
POLYNESIEN L. Boulard June 27
Arm. BEHIC Vimont .. July 27July
AUSTRALIEN G. D dier . Aug. 27 Aug.
V.deIaCTOTAT Chevalier .. Sept. 2710 ct.
Dates of Departure,
Melbourne j Adelald
1 p.m. j 1 p.m.
1 July
31 Aug.
31 Sept,
1 Oct.
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O t(
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, a
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters mee
the passengers for Lordon and give them every assistan •<
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus
toms, etc,, and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N-B. Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost H
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
gTEAM TO CAPETOWN AND LONDON
Fast full-powered Steamship
PORT PIHIE,
Will be dispatched on or about JUNE 30, TARIM
SALOON and THIRD-CLASS PASSENGERS to
CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Quickest Route to the Goldfields.
DIRECT RAIL COMMUNICATION FROM CAPETOWN
This Steamer is fitted with a Refrigerating Chamber,
ensuring a plentiful supply of fresh provisions during tiro
voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
For rates of freight or passage money, apply to
GibTs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents in Australi;
or to
THOMAS COOK and SON, Hunter Street,
Miscelia neous.
WOMARfI
v.o.
CROMARTY
Whisky
Greenlees Brothers
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA-
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. 6cl.
H
\N
v
jsO#C I'd'OOb
(|enry HeatHS
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH
Price 9s. 6d.
A Splendid Hat for Bearing, Yachtin'?, Lawn Tennis
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier
They fall into two or three ndgligd shapes at the will of
the weaver. Unlike many so-callofl pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet
Gr. H. SMITH & SOW,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


Bb
\
-
W/,
ZPI
1
Vl
Wtb
vm
■V
V>
•fTNC
ab*£*> to
tsiS p*v/ for
U
bi
only rtn)(du is to put
further S((untyAi?d
at of 1)1$ ClulctxS;
lion tf)UXd.(t tltl}f t)to (OTTJt t>U rt|U
tUfeURY* O PfiWRATE AUSTRALIA;
r
Ssr
m.
wM
ft.
m
d»
CfeaptjTTHtogrf
?//
ID
mmnmmxmeu'siyi
nq HtodiCuco) pjioMCpj
jQj.fl - -
jamdnS
iM|WNU3Ae9 qvina i m
jmoajQiDQv D)iaaoDtin si Aiuojj
Aimoa jcijpa 1 !? p?jqnopan si murms,
jQj. p? (re mwijUoj e Qjim pin?
m
22
a
ttyt ai)d Ut u>corpijnr
-ci&l rpipigtrptpt ipd coipfxtiliop wife
p<w lii)s; wifecl]ea.p rata frorp tlje interior, 50 feat
iurop(M)J%irkets rpau be rcwntd dnd 1t)(
gold taKfp out o| fpe oroaod rtfurota to .


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER,
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade & Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
School-Teacher Idyls.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
II. —THE SHATTERED IDEAL.
Deodatus Giiekn was the only son of his father,
a widower. The perspiring little elves who make
souls out of fog and sunbeams were hard pushed
for a week before the birth of Deodatus ; and
there was no soul found for him. So his mother
resigned hers, and died, seeing nothing better to
do. The father was crazy, or nearly ; and the
minister named the child Deodatus. “ May the
life God has given,” he said, “compensate for the
life He has taken.”
It was a pious wish ; and, as Deodatus grew up,
he did his best to fulfil it. His-mother’s soul
hampered him somewhat, for it had been made by
an apprentice elf, and contained too much fog for
its sunbeams. His father’s training hampered
him more ; for it comprised instruction in the
rudiments of cobbling, and nothing else. The
minister lent him “ good books ; ” and ho bought
others which, as they were nothing akin to
these, must have been bad ones. He out such
a queer figure in his father’s curtailed vestments
that the other children hooted him into shyness
and solitude.
Add his hereditary tendencies to his habits, and
you will not be surprised to find Deodatus at
twenty hovering on the border-lino between genius
and insanity. He painted pictures out of drawing
and perspective, which haunted you with a sense
that they were alive. He wrote poems without
rhyme or metre, which gripped you with Shakes-
pearean flashes of, insight. And all day long he
cobbled to support himself and his father, who
,had gone crazy quite. Customers used to remark
young Mr. Green’s broad forehead, and his
wonderfully soft, brown eyes. They did not
, know his mother’s soul looked through them.
Deodatus’ hobby was the cultivation of butter-
• cups. His little garden contained nothing else,
and, by dint of years of care, he had improved them
■ out of recognition. Their resplendent blooms, of
. all shades from the palest straw to the deepest
orange, bore as little resemblance to the buttercup
of the meadows as a butterfly to the original grub.
There was one blot on Deodatus’ past, and when
he looked back at it he shuddered. At 16 he had
; a touch of brain fever, and for a week his butter-
- cups were not watered.
Watering was a work of the greatest importance.
It occupied an hour night and morning—the
■ happiest hours of Deodatus’ life ; and he wAs
miserable when a shower of rain made it unneces-
i sary. The buttercups were his friends; his
imagination gave them soul and individuality;
he recognised in each a hundred distinguishing
i peculiarities. He would listen for the slight
sound with which the buds burst into blossom,
and it struck his mother’s soul with the signific-
. ance of a babe’s first cry. The death of a
favourite flower saddened a day. T n sadness,
j Deodatus was exquisitely happy.
One morning he had almost finished watering,
when, chancing to lift his eyes, he saw a figure
passing the gate. A dainty figure in white, with
: fluttering ribbons, and a face like—like a butter-
■ cup, Deodatus thought; like the ideal buttercup
■ whose perfect proportions he had always in his
mind’s eye, but which his selection and crossing
had not yet been able to produce to the eye of the
’ body. Deodatus was fascinated. As his glance
, fell again on his garden, the flowers seemed coarse
and common. Contrast with the ideal had
abstracted all the grace from the real, Deodatus
dreamt of the ideal all day.
Next morning he was on the look-out. Again
the figure tripped past. This time she was dressed
in blue, and Deodatus thought her ravishing.
Why were not buttercups blue? At the gate she
looked over, and their eyes met. He thought she
smiled. Then she was gone, and the sunbeams in
Deodatus’ soul were again obscured by the fog.
But he went on watering the buttercups.
IShe was the new teacher at the provisional
school; but Deodatus did not know that. He
never thought of trying to find out her name.
But it did occur to him that regularity in passing
oneway implied regularity in passing the other,
and he spent the afternoon in the garden. Mrs.
Murphy’s servant, coming to ask if the boot was
done, saw him there, and returned with a nega-
tive. But, about four o’clock, his expectations
were realised. She passed. This time he was
sure she smiled. Deodatus’ soul shone. Mrs.
Murphy’s servant, having made her report,
returned to demand the boot, and took it away to
the opposition cobbler. Deodatus sighed. The
fog closed over his soul. But he went on watering
his buttercups.
Two days passed, and Deodatus basked in
morning and evening smiles, but there was no
speech. The third evening, for the first time, a
sudden shower of rain illuminated Deodatus’
soul. She was hurrying past, bedraggled, when
he placed an old umbrella in her hand, and
faltered something. She thanked him. The ice
was broken. She returned the umbrella in the
morning, and shook his hand. They talked about
buttercups, and Deodatus opened his radiant soul
to her. She could not understand, but she was
flattered. Every day after that Deodatus plucked
his choicest buttercups, and she wore the nosegay
at her bosom.
A month passed—six months —a year, and they
were firm friends ;or Deodatus was. The pretty
teacher’s acquaintances rallied her on her con-
quest, and then she would toss her head and make
fun of Deodatus. But she always smiled on him
and took his buttercups. She even assisted to
water them. Deodatus wrote a poem for Sylvia
—she had told him her name was Sylvia. She
read it to the family with whom she lodged,
and they shrieked with laughter. He carried
home a block of sandstone, and carved it into the
likeness of his goddess with infinite pains and a
broken chisel. It was to be a birthday gift.
One by one the customers ceased coming, and
there were evenings when the crazy father com-
plained of hunger. Deodatus gave him his own
share; he was too happy to feel hunger. And
Deodatus sang all day, and his eyes glistened as
he watered the buttercups.
The day before her birthday she did not pass,
though Deodatus waited in the garden all day.
At night he put the finishing touches to his statue.
It was a work of genius, though he did not know
it. It seemed to breathe. Yet Deodatus was dis-
satisfied, he knew not why. He was anxious, too,
though on previous days he had missed her, and
the reason was always trifling. She would cer-
tainly come on the morrow.
Yet, on the morrow, he had watered his butter-
cups, and his heart was heavy, for she had nob
passed. As he lingered, wistfully watching, a
gay equipage dashed lay, then another and another.
The neighbours ran out and stayed to exchange
comments over their fences. One kindly woman
spoke to Deodatus. “ Did you see the wedding.
Mr. Green?” Yes, he had seen it. “ She was a
great friend of yours, I thought; how is it you
weren’t there ?”
Like lightning the truth struck him. His face
went ghastly, and he staggered. The woman ran
to help him, but he waved her off. “ Poor soul !
he’s hard hit,” she muttered; and left him. He
tottered inside, and lay down before the statue.
He could not think—the weight on his brain was
too heavy ; but every nerve in his body thrilled
with pain. He lay for hours —voiceless, motion-
less, Gradually his wits came back to him. In a
sudden access of rage, he leapt up and hammered
the statue into fragments. Thcji lie threw up his
arms and fell headlong, and every tiling was blotted
out.
There is a new tenant; but the buttercups are
never watered now.
S.
The Late David Wyllie, M.P.
The late David Wyllie, M.P. (Vic.)—-tin-
smith and tribune —will not soon be forgotten.
To the world, he was “ born to blush un-
seento his own circle, he was a star to “light
and glory born.” Few men entered Par-
liament more heavily handicapped than he.
Living from birth in a small house up a small
street; known as a barefooted lad in his native
North Melbourne ; as a man, often out of employ-
ment, even at Ids humble calling; winning his
election-fight without any funds to assist him in
getting votes —his career is an object-lesson.
Always a true and practical friend to his own
class, his unremitting industry and his large
braininess still left him a workman to the end,
though he had all the mental qualities that, had
they been wedded to the selfishness of that
“thrift” which has been so much extolled,
must have achieved for him monetary success,
David Wyllie died worth just .£30—J625 of whict
was represented by a month’s Parliamentary
salary, while the balance was locked lip in a
“reconstructing” bank. His short purse, and
consequent inability to relieve all the destitution
that appealed to his sensitive sympathies, had
much to do with his death, which, however, was
specially hastened by a severe physical strain he
underwent about a fortnight before he finally lay
down. An old man, working on a roof next dooi
to Wyllie’s, slipped and rolled towards the spout
ing, to which lie clung desp. lately. Wyllie
climbed to the rescue and held the mat! by the
hands for some minutes, until help arrived. The
reaction was the prelude to death. During tht
strike of ’9O, Wyllie devoted all he had to the
relief of indigent fellow-unionists. Less 10s. pet
week for his own uses, he gave all his Parliamen-
tary salary for 13 months to the cause of humanity.
And now that he is dead, the paltry jealousies and
dissensions existent among the workmen result in
the return, not merely of a capitalist, for that
might mean a good Democrat, but of an advocate
of capitalism to the vacant seat in the Assembly.
The use of cocaine, as an alternative to
nitrous-oxide gas, in dental operations, is daily
practised by J. I. Marshall, dental surgeon, Kim?-
street Arcade (George-st. entrance), Sydney. Mr.
Marshall has gained reputation as the author of a
popular treatise on “ The Teeth.”
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A Mood.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Is life so sweet that in its golden haze
Thy dreams of Heaven itself may seem less fair’
Is life so full of dark and weary days
That Hell is not so deep as thy despair?
Strange vivid contrast greets me everywhere.
O, child of chance, where all seems incomplete,
Is life so bitter, or is life so sweet ?
See how the shadow ereepeth o’er the light,
And all thy joys are touched with taint of pain!
Hark! where the shout goes up that might is right,
And strong men fall before the lust of gain 1
The worthy perish and the false remain.
See! Merit hath no foothold for her feet 1
Is life so bitter, or is life so sweet ?
Answer who will; but now, if rest there be,
My soul is weary and I fain would rest.
The shadows men pursue may pass for me ;
Ambition hath no power to stir my breast,
For 1 have learnt that peace, deep peace, is best.
Set thou the crown of oblivion on my brow
Sealed with death’s seal and let me slumber now.
O let there on my languid eyelids fall,
Soft as the shadows of a fairy’s wings,
The sense that this sweet silence endeth all,
That I no more am part of living things,
Passions and hopes and fears and sufferings,
And love and laughter, and the fire of strife,
And all the splendour and the curse of life!
G. ESSEX EVANS.


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife*
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
I’LAIN, «/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
í
|ag~ POST KIIEE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
mmmm
î
ï
ĩ
i ì
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Special Designs in Dining-room Furniture.
h£ c<-? ".o^ia&a^oh*
ms 3 • —miuUWSl 11'UiLuaiii "< c I - - • - ✓Va
CJ'CJ
i- rv
O? n
S3^-
;o»
'A
0
v
*2
or
r s
<f?l
&
\0
£
r*
<vJ
'v"
■s
rc
W.
<'
cs
%
»=a
~ • -
w
G'T!
CO-
Lddr
<£9
<£l9
SUITE, comprising SIDEBOARD with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK,
DINING TABLE, SETTEE, two ARM CHAIRS, and six SMALL CHAIRS.
SUITE, comprising SIDEBOARD with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK,
DINING TABLE, SETTEE, two ARM CHAIRS, and six SMALL CHAIRS.
COTTAGE SUITE, in WALNUT, comprising SIDE BOARD, with BEVELLED
SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK, EXTENSION DINING TABLE with
SPARE LEAVES, SETTEE, two EASY CHAIRS, and six DINING-ROOM,
CHAIRS.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Cleaverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect!!
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to,
FELDTIETM, GOTTHELP &CO •• SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C S.
THE
Plum*
i
THE
‘Plum*
TH t S brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
p • ( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
1 rice |Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra ,
i
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
‘TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
dm
m
m.
m 1
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS”
Velveteen
Rich and rare
new colours for
present wear.
♦♦♦♦♦
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK.
The World Renowned
T GUIS” VELVETEEN has this in its favour,
I i besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine “ Louis ” Velveteen
bears the name (spelled L-O-U-I-S', and in no other way,
and is stamped with a guarantee of wear.
Ladies should reject all substitutes.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
ic:
tSS" The only thorough! 3
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
Bronchitis
A"TD
INFLUENZA.
It can nciv be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles;
Sole Proprietor;
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st.
Wholesale of Elliott Erotluaa, Limited
ses Maiglockchei
LiijofHieVaHej
IOHSE
a t«l« M.ia
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKDHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'perfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
í
ì
í
î
ï
ĩ
i
í
î
i
i
ì
í
î
ï
ĩ
ī
į
i
i
ì
í
i
î
ì
ì
i
í
FDR (OQKSEY& (05 [eLEBRATED IONDON HATS
When ordering number or hot will be sufficient
SAYWELL & CO.
/^oepot^\
(MARVEL)
\r o b a c co/
s t
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stea, m IE! m ginea, .H oilers, Gr- a s 33 ngines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEER'S’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
t3T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars oh
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
lIVJSTIIUMEINrT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Pent A xis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
Richards and Darke’s STEAM INDICATORS, Speed Indicators, Counters.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Hhistrated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments Jor Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ments and arc highly recotnmended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, < Src., are easy 0/ access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—No. 697.
SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1893.
Price, ea.
J^eytal
r ”7 V £*e
a /
0%
C. v>
Oar arfp reso^s
H;/5 c pp o ''
Jo/> Oy i Pp
%nrflr G p'T A Ll ji - Lrfy
see-; Stall I i *) p Wcist-p-
-papet bastf rO/ !?fip «[ P
Seij - denial PjP •
\
5 i
M
H
t
r
a
}
_ ' Js°f]
Sailirn always J«y( af'Wdrii.
iJoZ.Lv Tah - Siwq!
I Ofly ' Ijad Squid cinjoylf 19
{ltd J tyilderot) j OUL ‘d Mi/t /
Qllj/Ci' hrtoillj to Cp&sjw
j
' S as^J faitcfa/qq ejdf -cfrv/s/ ars
y° U fao/j/g fyjy po£/ f S/J/jc/ h/^a/'
f / ss fa?ft/vy &??/ -
7/// a fo/ tf? tffrrtf- / f a, y ■
<rS°"'g' fa S'/fa fat tty Cfaz-rf
"Cfiffa-fautfar/s "
\ /fau< fcufrd. fa
mfaf,r*r
f >»
‘Cl A
%-
\%
\
NI
/ 1
I
VI
J) 4<?AN Nf -
/
se
(qy* %K
V~
W: o
St, •-* 0 s
'■!> % s
O. Q~
w
ft^
'premier
[MO MORE Doqs
WANTED.
Brit AuJt'ra lian
/ n rk*^
HORSE-MEAT
Factory
CLOSE 0 ' j
«cv&jav )
ftecQHsr/fvfn'/vj
/a/ a*amy
/nt/?oduc/a/g /l<ysr/?/u-//iA/mfat
/A/~ro C£-/?/vA/vy A/VZ> TMAaicat
SOME TOPICS OE THE WEEK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the Australian!;”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.. Lr.inr.ri.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUB SORT HERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... d d
Half-yearly 0 1.26
Quarterly... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
ivhich you niay jxiy by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every weekfof
ti year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
City The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with Whom vie do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald;
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
tWhether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Perse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tioo columns in
length, or say 3000 icords, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin tvill return all unavailable MSS
When the address is specified and stamps are enclosedi
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
topics of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each ni ail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. >
Also in the Transvaal The Standard and Diggers
Reivs Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
in consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
Outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d-,
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid; There will be no exception to this rule,
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
+
Notice to Agents in Tasmania,
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launees-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania; Newsagents can obtain
Supplies direct from this office;
SATURDAY, JUNE 24, 1893.
More “Private Enterprise.”
The New South Wales Parliamentary session
has died, not in the odour of sanctity, bub
in that of the mephitic skunk. Its last act
was the rejection of the Menindie Irrigation
Bill, a measure which was expected to fur-
nish employment for some 600 or 700 men
during the worst months of the most dis-
tressful year that has visited New South
Wales. For many weeks and months past
the capitalistic daily press has complained
bitterly that the want of employment is
intensified by the conduct of the Parlia-
mentary democrats in blocking certain shady
private jobs and monopolies of the Austra-
lasian Rights Purchase description, whereby
the State was to give away concessions of
great value and get nothing whatever in
return. But, in the present case, the
opposition did not come from the democratic
party. The Menindie irrigation scheme was
almost the only one of all the private
measures that have come before the House
for the last ten years which promised, not
only to furnish permanent employment for
a large number of people, but to do so at an
absolute profit to the State, instead of at a
loss. And the aggregate Fat Man promptly
fell upon it and slew it because the idea of a
private enterprise where all the profit
doesn’t go to a syndicate is abhorrent to his
soul, and might establish a precedent which
would in future spoil many profitable raids
on the public estate.
# * *
The Menindie fiasco is one of the most
remarkable affairs in the records of a Legis-
lature which is altogether remarkable. The
original proposition set forth that a private
company was to buy, at 255. per acre, 26,000
acres of State land in the neighbourhood of
Lake Menindie, with a view to irrigating the
soil and re-selling itto small farmers at a profit.
At present the Menindie country is empty,
desolate, and practically useless, and the
Legislature viewed the proposition with
enthusiasm. * It was a scheme for “opening
up the country,” for “providing work for
the unemployed,” for “settling the people on
the land,” and for doing various other things
which the Fat Man alleges are very near and
dear to his hypertrophied heart. But an
amendment was proposed whereby the land
was to be leased instead of absolutely
alienated, and then trouble arose. The
Assembly accepted the amendment by a
Very large majority. The syndicate.
Which, presumably, knew its own busi-
ness, accepted it likewise. The measure,
in its amended condition, would “open
up the country,” and “furnish work
for the unemployed,” and “settle the people
on the land ” as effectually as before. It
offered an advantageous bargain to the State,
inasmuch as the w r astes and wilds of Menin-
die were to be made fertile without the out-
lay of a single penny from the Treasury, so
that they would yield a steady and eternal
rental. And, presumably, it also offered an
advantigeous bargain to the syndicate,
else that body would not have signi-
fied its assent. But several solid Conserva-
tives—notably Premier Dibbs and Minister
for Works Lyne —furiously opposed the pro-
position, and demanded that the syndicate
should take the more expensive concession
or none at all, their position being practi-
cally the same as that of the man who
assaults another to make him take £1 when
he only wants ss. And, though they failed to
extinguish the measure, their friend, John
Davies of the Three Hats, did that kindly
office for them in the Upper House. The
yearning to find work for the unemployed,
and the alleged desire to settle the people on
the land, and to start an irrigation system,
and to open up the country, all vanished
together. If the Menindie settlement were
commenced on the leasehold principle, so
that the unearned increment went to the State
instead of to the private speculator, its success
would not only be an ugly stumbling-block
in the way of many future jobs by that same
joint-stock desolator but it would also be a
brilliant advertisement for Land Nationali-
sation, for State Socialism, and for various
other things which “private enterprise”
holds in utter loathing. Therefore the daily
press doesn’t seem so indignant over the
callous selfishness and brutality of the whole
business as it did when the Democratic-
party looked unkindly upon Simpson’s Rail-
way.
• # *
Minister Lyne, the consistent friend and
advocate of every kind of monopoly, is the
incurable Jonah of the Dibbs Cabinet. Also
he is a dull, bull-headed, slow-witted, and
hideously clumsy Jonah, with a matchless
capacity for blundering. But when he broke
out into the following yell of insensate rage
at the prospect of the State making a better
bargain than had been expected for the
Menindie lands, even his constant political
patronage of syndicates and “ private
enterprise ” seems insufficient to account for
the vastness of his fury
I am absolutely against leasing the land, and would
rather see the bill defeated than see any provision fur
leasing inserted in it by about 20 members, or one-
Sfventh of the whole House. One of the most vital prin-
ciples in connection with our land legislation ought not to
be decided by a handful of members at 3 or 4 o'clock in
the morning. 1 am no advocate of leasing, I believe in
selling the land, and letting people make homes for them-
selves; not have people living on the land, not knowing
when they ina}’ be turned out at the whim of Parliament
or any set of men in power. A’o country ever has
leased Us lands, and no country worth calling a
country ever will do ir. 1 have taken a great deal of
trouble with tins bill ; but had I known that the pro-
moters were going to accept the land on such terms as arc
now proposed, I should have taken the same amount of
trouble to prevent the bill from, getting to its present
stage. I do not see how it is possible to amend the bill
in the way in which it will have to be amended to carry
out the proposal to lease the land.
# # »
There are so many noteworthy points in
the above deliverance that it ought to be
printed in letters of brass and read over to
Minister Lyne by a bull-voiced demon from
the Pit every day for the balance of his life.
One half is gross inaccuracy, and the other
half bigotry of the most melancholy type.
There were not “about twenty” members
in the House but thirty-eight, so that, instead
of a mere “ handful ” of legislators being
present, there was a good average late attend-
ance. Moreover, out of tjj;ese thirty-eight,
o.dy five—Messrs. Dibbs and Lyne being
two—persistently upheld the principle of
selling in preference to leasing ; the objec-
tionable handful which wanted to settle a
vital principle by deciding in favour of laud
sales being thus, in a great measure, Lyne
himself. The assertion that “no country
has ever leased its lands ” is such ignorance
as would be unpardonable in the smeared
infant at the bottom of the class in any
public school, considering how many millions
of acres are let on lease by the State all over
Australasia. And the prophetic assertion
that no country worth calling a country ever
will do so, can only suggest that Minister
Lyne has gone off his head and mistakes
himself for the Omniscient upon the great
white throne in Paradise. These things,
howe.er, are merely stray examples of the
ignorance of a dull mediocrity to whom
language was given in order that he might
put his foot in his own mouth at every
possible opportunity and with it steal away
his brains. The arrogance and the callous
brutality of Lyne are much more remark-
able. At a time of hunger and distress and
unutterable want, that iron-mouthed advo-
cate of syndicalism would, by bis own
assertion, rather procure the rejection of an
equitable measure which promises work for
hundreds of sufferers and bread for their
wives and children than see the great prin-
ciple of “private enterprise” brought into
disrepute. So, apparently, would Premier
Dibbs, who not only supported Lynb,
but endeavoured to scare the Assem-
bly into submission by threatening the
rejection of the whole measure by the
Council as the inevitable consequence of
the amendment. The leasing principle
having been affirmed by an enormous
majority of the Assembly, Premier Dibbs
practically invited the Council to overrule
the popular Chamber, and the House with
the unhinged intellect did so in the most
obliging manner. It would probably have
done so without any invitation, but Dibbs
went out of bis way to make doubly sure
that there will be no work this year at
Menindie, and that the people will not be
settled on the land unless “private enter-
prise ” makes a sufficiently large dividend
thereby.
# # #'
The Menindie irrigation scheme is a smalt
thing in itself, but its fate points a great
moral. So far as Messrs. Dibbs and Lyne
are concerned—for Ministers St iron, Core-
land and Kidd voted mostly against the
“private enterprise ” gang—the New South
Wales Cabinet, by its own showing, cares
nothing about the popular distress, the need
for irrigation, the urgent necessity to settle
the people on the land, or anything else of the
kind. The two politicians in question, if their
words and actions are reasonable evidence,
sympathise with these public wants, in so far
as they afford openings for syndicates and
private monopolies to fleece the nation, and
no further. Their only coherent objection to
the leasehold principle was that it did not
fleece the nation sufficiently. They regarded
the Menindie syndicate as an unprotected
company let loose among designing Demo-
crats, and they rose to protect it from itself.
Also they probably had a fear that the
Treasury might make a beast of itself with
the rentals of the Menindie lands, and they
desired to protect it also against itself. An
almost forgotten novelist has written a
romance about a land of upside-down located
somewhere by the Antarctic Pole, where a
strange people called the Kosekin seize upon
meek and unsuspecting strangers and un-
lawfully foi’ce money upon them, and where
piracy consists in stopping a ship on the high
seas and forcibly putting valuables on board,
and where the highest public honour-one
that everybody seeks but very few attain —
consists in being starved to death on a deso-
late island. The spectacle of Dibbs and
Lynb seizing a joint-stock company by the
throat to compel it to accept a valuable free-
hold which it didn’t want is the counterpart
of this fiction in real life.
Labour and the Lash.
One unevadable duty, distinct and large, con-
fronts the New South Wales Labour-members
of Parliament. They must join forces with the
humane intelligence of the Legislative Assembly
to blot out the flogging clause in the Disorderly
Conduct Suppression Bill of the Hires Govern-
ment. When next the brutal and brainless
head of that proposal appears, they must be
there to hit it, every one in his turn, every one
with all his strength. They must watch for its
coming and stand leady, If this abomination
becomes law, the Labour-member who pleads
absence while it was being discussed and
sanctioned, should never again dare to look
Democracy in the face. The man who fails to
lift his voice in denunciation of it, or to swell
by his vote the number of those who condemn
and reject it, is an enemy of the people. The
professing social reformer who supports it
should thereby become a branded Gehazi before
the electors of Australia.
# # #
There is good promise in the debate on this
infamous proposal which look place during the
second reading of the Bill, that it is doomed
and would drag down any Government clinging
to it. The arguments advanced against it
rang true, but necessarily touched only one or
two aspects of the matter. Time was limited,
the minds of members, as is usual at the end of
a session, were occupied with many other con-
siderations. The only hope of getting the
measure through was that it might be taken as
read and bolted whole. Because this was not
done, because there was a general disposition
shown to closely scrutinise the Bill, which
ultimately relegated it to another session, a
section of the capitalistic press declares that
the larrikin has triumphed over the law, and
that henceforth nearly everybody will be
trampled on and bashed in every suburb.
This section of the press seems to think that
the “pushes ” have been breathlessly scanning
its columns to ascertain whether Government
will abolish them like “consultations,” or grant
them an extension of time like Broken Hill
mine owners when a strike is on. And the
Right Thinking Person, who invariably looks to
the scourger and the hangman for the protec-
tion of his kind, writes letters of approval.
# * #
If it were true that special punitive legisla-
tion is necessary for the suppression of larri-
kinism, it would be better for larrikinism not
to be suppressed yet awhile than that the Bill
should have been carelessly passed through the
one House of Parliament in which the people
have some kind of representation. It would be
better that a few Right Thinking Persons
should beyelled at and pursued by “pushes” and
even killed outright, than that such an iniquitous
measure should have been hastily agreed to.
New South Wales has had a few examples of
Government bills forced through against
time, and they are about the worst
specimens of class legislation on the statute
books. To have hurriedly agreed to this Bill
as it stands would have been to add another,
the worst and most shameful of all. It would
have armed the professional torturer, an im-
measurably lower criminal than the worst fight-
ing larrikin, with the power of converting
young boys into outcasts and criminals by the
social ban of the lash. It would have thrust
into the hands of LEOREE-hearted magistrates' a
horrible instrument of pain and degradation,
whose use has long ago been abandoned as
worse than the crimes it had been employed
against by most of the world’s countries. No
proposal that ever came before Parliament
more imperatively needed close examination
and discussion, unimpeded by any thought
outside itself. Yet there is an out-
cry because it was not immediately
adopted. Those who questioned the justice or
wisdom of it, are called “ defenders of lawless-
ness.” Law; in the mind of the Right-Think-
ing Person of to-day, means what it meant to
his dominant progenitor under the System—the
maintenance by force of conditions most suitable
to himself. It means retrogression to the
triangle and the gallows; the differentiation of
the community into governors with a whip, add
governed under it.
# # #
The claim that aiiy alteration of the present
punitive laws is necessary to the repression of
larrikinism, as far as it can be repressed under
prevailing conditions,’ is a false one. A suffi-
cient police force, and an efficient administra-
tion of the laws, wmuld do all that is to be done
that way. Tote-shops rage throughout the land,
and racecourse gambling goes on in defiance of
the statutes, but it is not because the penalties
against these things are insufficient.’ It is
because they are not honestly enforced. If any
one proposed to abolish these evils by flogging,
it is those charged with police administration
who should be sent to the triangle for faithless-
ness to the trust given them; And if flogging
were to be inflicted on gamblers; an occasional
tobacconist might be triced up, or an un-
influential Evening News boy flayed. No
minion of the law would penetrate the clubs j
no chappie in moonlight-coloured boots would
be divested of his tailor-made togs in the prison-
yard. The proposals of the Government refer
admittedly to the larrikin of low degree, the
larrikin who has been manufactured by sur-
roundings that would demoralise the cherubim
and seraphim. What chance is there that, if
they became law, they would be applied to
the larrikin who has become so in spite of
his environment, in defiance of his training, and
by special cultivation of his worst propensities ?
The same chance that His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales has of being run in for what
in the racecourse spieler is a crime. In this
country the workman, driven to resistance
by the bloodsuckers who would starve him, is a
dangerous ruffian, but the bank-manager, who
assails a labour leader with a murderous
weapon, has “received extreme provocation.”
Mr. Sleath, as a labourer inciting his fellows
to some kind of revolt, is imprisoned for a long
term ; the Queen’s Counsel, as a shareholder
wiring congratulations to Mr. Sleath’s assail-
ant and inciting him to “ hit the brute with its
thickest part next time,” is applauded instead
of being gaoled.
# # #
It is in this spirit that the revolting flagella-
tion law lately established here to our disgrace
has been carried out. There is not one instance
on record of a member of the wealthy class
having been flogged for offences against decency,
or crimes of a worse character. The horrifying
screams of the half-demented wretch who hap-
pened to be afflicted with some unclean mania
for doing what no rational person would con-
template without a shudder, and with poverty
at the same time, have been heard. So have
the moans of the miserable creature in poor
circumstances who, in drunken irresponsibility,
did something for which he should have been
pitied. On the certificate of a gaol surgeon as
to sanity, men have been tied up for official
mutilation, whose offences were in them-
selves absolute proof of mental derangement.
But these men have never had money or in-
fluential friends. The same abnormal otfend-
ings have been committed by many others of a
very different social grade, but not one of their
backs is cat-marked, not one of them lias re-
ceived the torture which carries with it irre-
claimable degradation and ostracism.
# • #
The sentiment that shields the wealthy and
privileged offender from the thongs which stripe
his less culpable brother-criminal of the ragged
coat is a proper and merciful one. The stigma
of the lash is even more dreadful than the
savage punishment which it inflicts. The
flogged man goes from the triangle under sen-
tence of social annihilation, which embraces his
wife, his sisters, his daughters. It stamps him
and them with irreparable shame, such as no
fine or imprisonment involves ; shame which he
and they would buy off with all their material
possessions. The poor man, and those who
are outcasted with him at the triangle,
cannot buy it off. They have no friends of
high standing to whisper in the ear of Justice
and stay the stroke of the lash. “See how
your Justice rails upon yon simple thief. . .
The usurer hangs the cozener ; tlirough tattered
clothes small vices appear; robes and furred
gowns hide all.” The same is true of large
vices. Among notorious “flogging magis-
trates ” we have had some whose infamous
celebrity as perpetrators of the offences for
which they had others tortured, was known to
half the country, men whose every glance at a
female was a lecherous desecration of woman-
hood. We have had, in Sydney, the instance
of one of these scoundrels, while seeking
another like-minded guardian of public liberties
with a view to ordering a flogging to
somebody, being kicked out of a hotel for
foully insulting a barmaid. Magistrates
who have lived and died drunk ; magistrates
patently ignorant of law and unfitted for their
position ; bulbous-necked, wallowing hogs of
lasciviousness —into the hands of men like these
the law has put the lash. With them it has
rested to apply a punishment which is the woist
remnant of barbarism lingering in our epoch;
to pronounce a sentence more bitter to most
men than death.
» # »
There is not the remotest possibility of
flogging being administered otherwise than as a
class penalty. For that reason alone, those who
have been sent into Parliament as a popular
protest against class legislation, must fight
determinedly against any extension of its


use. It is an obsolete horror of cruelty
which has been spewed out of the mouth
of civilisation, and is unspeakably repugnant
to the modern idea of criminal administration.
It involves an offence against the human body
instinct with the spirit of cold-blooded
vengeance, and more vile as a crime per se
than almost any outrage of man against man.
To order the infliction of this, if it must be
inflicted, is a responsibility not to be entrusted
in other hands than those of a jury. To invest
with it a couple of politically-appointed magis-
trates is to play with fire from Hell. The
harm that such a punishment does in any case
must be greater than the possible good. It
brutalises the public heart and damns the
public victim. The conception of applying it
to mere boys as a reformative agency is worthy
of a coalition Government of fools and devils.
Nothing is more certain to turn thought-
less and ignorant juvenile offenders into sullen,
desperate beasts. Therefore, the Labour mem-
bers must range themselves against it in
unbreakable rank with the clean-souled,
human-hearted men of every party in the
Assembly,
# # #
The larrikin is a product of bad laws. He
cannot be abolished by torture while these laws
remain. While there are slums and sordid
purlieus in which the real producers of wealth
must herd together miserably, food for the lash,
the brothels, the gaols, and the gallows will be
grown. It is the children of the gutters who
recruit the pestilent army of the Rocks and the
suburbs, not the progeny of Rose Bay or Potts
Point. The Right-Thinking Person who gener-
ally thrives at the opposite end of a. system
which crowds his wage-slaves into sties, doesn’t
trouble about bow they fare, or how their
children’s minds and bodies are being cared for.
And if, when these children grow up, the males
of the family occasionally land him with a half-
brick, the proceeding is not utterly,devoid of
poetic justice. The way to abolish the larrikin
whom the Fat Man wants to scourge, is to re-
form the conditions that breed him. This
would also abolish that other and more consum-
mate blackguard, the well-to-do larrikin of the
clubs and private bars, who spends other
people’s earnings and can break laws with im-
punity. It would likewise abolish the Fat Man
himself, and is therefore a job which somebody
else must undertake, and should start ou at
once.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“ Jack” Want Also.
When the red firmament rolls together like a
scroll and the sea gives up its dead, several
things may be explained which are now dark to
human comprehension. It may become known,
for instance, why some people play the goat by
publicly interfering in things they don’t under-
stand and couldn’t realise after careful explana-
tion. Why did Gladstone advise English
tenant-farmers who couldn’t pay the rent to
take up “ spade husbandry ” and discover for-
tunes in the growing of strawberries and
cucumbers ? Why did Egeson predict droughts ?
Why did H. Heylyn Hayter and G. H. Reid
publish poems of their own ? And, lastly,
why did Barrister Jack Want write to
the" papers the other day about the Commercial
Banking Company of Sydney ? In all the long
series of rot-containing articles and twaddle-
burdened letters on financial questions which
the present pawnbroking predicament has
evoked, no such bull-voiced lion of Judah as
Mr. Want has risen and roared. What he has
to say is worthy the principal up-to-date cham-
pion of boy-flogging. It is just “miserable
hounds ” over again, but in a leonine voice of
thunder. Mr. Want gets mad when he thinks
how people have the brazen assurance to require
a bank like the Commercial to pay up the
money it owes them when that money becomes
due. “As an Australian born, educated, and re-
sident,” he chortles, “ the name of the Commer-
cial Bank of Sydney has been to me a household
word, and its progress and prosperity a source
of ever-increasing respect and admiration.” The
closing of its doors came to him as a startling
and painful shock, and he felt “as if some near
friend in the first vigour and strength of life
had been stricken down with a dangerous
illness.” Probably a good many of those who
had first paid in their weekly takings to current
accounts felt even worse, i.e., as if they had
been personally taken down for hard cash
which they sorely needed in business engage-
ments. “Can anyone doubt,” raves this un-
expected barrister, “ that the closing of these
doors meant the suffering of most intense pain
and mental anxiety by both Mr. Knox and Mr.
Dibbs ? Can any right-thinking man fail to see
that nothing but the keenest sense of honour and
loyalty to their trust compelled these gentle-
men to inflict upon themselves this mental
anguish and adopt the course they did ?” Any-
one may at least be permitted to doubt
whether more abject slush was ever penned by a
human being, and most people will. But it is
almost excelled by the same hand further on.
“ The depositors and current-account holders
who now remain are the remnants of an army,
and, like all remnants of armies, they are the
loyal and faithful portion.” They are very
largely those who would have had their “stuff ’
out within a day or two if they could have got
it, or, at least, were credited with being so
when the shutters were run up between them
and the big safe. For our part, we think more
keen suffering and mental prostration is usually
felt by those who can’t get back their own
money than by those who can’t pay back other
people’s. Such maudlin drivel over the sorrows
of the reconstructing banker isn’t going to
count for much. Mr. Want, Q.C., is altogether
too effusive a witness —a very Mrs. Clupfins of
a witness—with a great deal to say and nothing
to tell. He can eternally stand down.
The Irish Home Rule Bill appears, at time of
writing, to be practically lost, owing to the
foolishness or treachery of the Gladstone
Government. Last Friday an obscure lory
member named Balfour (not the late Irish
Secretary) moved an amendment to the effect
that the Irish Parliament should not be ern-
powered “ to pass legislation affecting life and
property unless it was in accordance with Im-
perial precedent.” The Government accepted
the amendment, and it was adopted by a
majority of 180 votes, whereupon a yell of un-
speakable joy went up from the Tory ranks, and
the Irish party rose in revolt and execration.
This fatuous device reduces the Home Rule
Bill to waste-paper. When the Irish Legis-
lature is allowed to legislate only according to
“ Imperial precedent ” it means, in effect, that
it can only pass such laws as are already in
force in Great Britain, and as these laws are
mostly in force in Ireland also, the Parliament
at Dublin is merely to sit down officially and
look at things as they already are. If it wants
to do anything new it must wait till the Imperial
Parliament leads the way, so that it can have the
necessary precedent to go upon, therefore Ire-
land will be in precisely the same situation as
before. The Irish Parliament is to be a mere
copying machine for the transcription of British
Acts of Parliament—save, of course, in matters
which do not affect “ life or property.” But,
as “ property ” covers everything from an
estate to a postage-stamp, and the term “life ”
embodies nearly everything else in the whole
range of politics, there is practically nothing
left for the Irish Parliament to attend to. By
the strict letter of the law it can’t impose a
land, house, or absentee tax, a protective cus-
toms duty, or any other duty, and it can’t
abolish any ancient abuse whatever unless the
Imperial Parliament leads the way, for every
abuse affects “property ” in some shape or other.
The Home Rule Bill, under its latest aspect,
simply declares that there shall be a debating
society on College Green, Dublin, and that it
shall be allowed to adopt any existing English
law which it may think fit-provided the Eng-
lish Ministry, which practically retains the
power of veto in its own hands, allows it to
do so. Which means that it shall be the Irish
shadow of a British shade so long as the latter
is agreeable ; if it is not agreeable then it will
not be even a shadow or anything else what-
soever.
♦
The just-furnished annual report of New South
Wales Womanhood Suffrage League makes a
special cackle, as if a strange egg bad been
laid :
The adventurous pioneers who are shortly going from
Australia to form a communistic settlement* in Paraguay
all sign articles of association which will give the women
equal rights with the men in the “New Australia.”
Of what value are these “articles of associa-
tion ? ” Who is to enforce them in Paraguay ?
Who is to punish any breach of the articles ?
If “ the adventurous pioneers ” signed articles
of association to give every woman four hus-
bands and ten lovers, there would still be no
compelling force anywhere to give effect
to the articles. The “good faith” of any
irresponsible co-operation rests solely on the
ability of the atoms of that community
to enforce their individual rights and claims.
If the “New Australia” women can compel the
“New Australia” men to give them “ equal
rights,” they’ll get them ; if not, they won’t.
If the “Now Australia” male atoms can
compel their masterful leaders to act always
with the impartial, machine-like fatalism of a
Providence, and the Paraguayan Government
to do likewise, they’ll get all they sign for ; if
not, they won’t. And, outside of that argu-
ment, there is absolutely nothing worth saying.
“ Main force ” is the fundamental arbiter of the
“New Australia,” as, indeed, it is of every
human institution.
; -» ...
The appeal of British depositors against the
“cheeky” Commercial Bank scheme was ulti-
mately condensed into a legal nutshell—-“If
the bank cannot put all creditors on the same
footing, then it cannot be as strong as other
similar institutions, and if it is not, the result
must be that long-date depositors will not be
paid at all. Either this bank is quite strong
enough to carry out the arrangement which
other banks have carried out, and which does
not force depositors to become shareholders, or
it is so weak that the best thing would be to go
into liquidation at once.” After Mr. Duffy
had fired off the argument aforesaid, the Mel-
bourne Full Court scratched its learned wig,
and Justice Holroyd said: “That brings us
back to the old point. No one knows exactly
the position of the bank.” For the first time
in the history of “ reconstruction” the fact that
financial confidence is based on ghastly ignor-
ance was officially commented upon. What is
the position of this particular concern whose
chair James Service has so nobly consented to
fill and whose manager’s ideas on the famous
Mercantile balance-sheet, together with the
Daviesian speech appertaining thereto, came as
a revelation to man? What sort of security
have the long depositors (mostly thousands of
miles away) got for their confiding coin ?
—
The Melbourne Council of Churches, the
Y.M.C.A., the apostle Balfour (who would
be much better employed in urging the Premier
to enforce the law against bank-breaking), and
the Committees on Public Morals, are grieved
in their joint and several spirits at the desecra-
tion of the old musty Sabbath by an enter-
tainment. People are attending a “ play-
house ” on Sunday evening attracted by a show
which, on week days, would be considered
suitable only for the class of pietists who object
to it under present conditions. Compared with
a comic opera it is almost as solemn as a church
sermon. Compared with a sermon it is a bright
and cheerful change. The hypocrisy and
stupidity of professional religion manage to
develope themselves very clearly in this
crusade. No two members of the sanctified
crowd that waited upon “ the Government ”
last week could agree exactly as to their reasons
for being there. The Christian law was
infringed ; the law of Victoria was broken ; the
gate leading to the Goo-forsaken “ continental
Sunday” was left ajar; anything and every-
thing was happening except the one thing to
which professional religion specially objects—
viz., the making of money on Sunday
by an unclerical performer. The Lord
Bishop of the Diocese did indeed argue, with
pathetic avtlessness, that the Law was specially
interested in forcing folks to church on the
Dav of Rdst, and that till opposition shows must
therefoie be illegal, inasmuch as they tended to
“ draw people away from the house of Cod.”
But even the Bishop’s evangelical prattle had
an appearance of radiating from that same
money clause. He hinted at the fact that a
charge for admission was made at the theatre,
such charge being abominable in the sight of
Heaven. Others of the deputation either hung
on to this point all the time or got to it by
degrees. After receiving the Government’s
assurance that no charge should be made at the
doors of the house of Belial, they went away
hugging the hope that collections wouldn’t pan
out well enough to keep the show going. If
this blessed hope is disappointed there will
assuredly be the Devil to pay presently,
♦
Certain loudly-applauded daily press utter-
ances have advocated the exclusion of bank-
rupts from Parliament. Now, a bankrupt
commits no offence until the court pronounces
his act an offence, and is under no suspicion
until his case has been sent for trial. To dis-
qualify a politician from Parliament merely
because of his financial distress is to put into
the hands of his political enemies power to
destroy him at a time when, perhaps, they can
financially profit by so doing. The debts of
members would constantly be bought up by
syndicates with a view to driving the debtors
into insolvency, and then out of the House.
One can suppose such questions before the
Legislature as the sale of the railways and
tramways, or the institution of land-grab rail-
ways. The men in the present Parliaments
most likely to oppose the designs of plutocratic
rings are, in the main, those least able to bear
a converging onslaught of creditors. The pur-
chase of their debts would thus become the first
concern of the speculators, who might find time
to legislatively consummate their plans before
a member could obtain his certificate of dis-
charge. The danger may be remote, but yet
it exists and calls for consideration when a
change in the law regarding bankrupt legis-
lators is so loud-mouthedly advocated by the
“ private enterprise ” press.
If the next Victorian Railway Commissioner
takes warning by Speight he will write no
letters to politicians, and when a politician
writes to him he will burn the missive and
throw the ashes into the street. In the Speight-
Syme libel, the case for the Age consists to a
large extent of 950 odd letters written by the
ex-Commissioner to various members, in reply
to all manner of requests for nearly everything
under the sun. Speight was supposed to be
free from all political influence, and was paid
on that understanding, therefore this mass of
correspondence is rather hard to explain
away. And the horrible ingratitude of the
affair lies in the fact that most of the
letters expressed Speight’s willingness to
oblige his correspondents to the utmost
of his ability, and then each correspondent,
having got ail he could out of the department,
apparently handed the documentary evidence to
Speight’s enemy, to be used against him. The
next Commissioner should, for his own safety,
keep a list of the men whose letters thus
appeared in evidence, and when they call on
him to ask for a siding or a new station should
seize them by the hair without comment and
rush them into the street. The reason why he
should do it without comment is that otherwise
the comment will assuredly rise up in evidence
against him when his turn comes to be a bounced-
out and slandered wreck pottering round the
law courts in quest of damages.
*
After the close of the Indian and Colonial
Exhibition in ’B6, the officials, the semi-officials,
the demi-semi-ofiieials, and the hemi-demi-semi-
officials who had for years been living sumptu-
ously on exhibitions, collectively felt that a
crisis had arrived, and that some new public
carcase had to be invented. The Royal Colonial
Institute suggested an idea. The Colonial
Institute is a blend of club, museum, and
literary society, and has been manly enough in
its semi-uselessness to support itself. Its in-
come last year was nearly £7OOO, and its mag-
nificent building in Northumberland Avenue,
W.C., was built out of its own funds. “The
Kensington Gang ” (the Sir Somers Vine swarm
of drones) devised an imitation. Wales (Presi-
dent of the Colonial), fat, short-winded, vain,
and good-natured, was easily persuaded that
the Imperial Institute was his own original idea
of celebrating mamma’s jubilee, and, after six
years’ stumping of the globe, the gorgeous mon-
strosity was recently opened with barbaric din.
Donations towards this Tory toy have amounted
to £400,352 ; the buildings and appurtenances
to date have cost over £280,000 ; when entirely
finished the building will have cost £360,000.
No matter what people were made to subscribe
to these funds, the Imperial Institute is going
to be run solely for the club benefit of its
fellows —who, it seems, may be either male or
female. A rigid Tory ballot is followed by
beautiful Tory rules, only admitting on four
evenings of each week such of the public as
choose to pay whatever tariff the executive
imposes. Thus, this costly ‘ ‘ silken bond ”is
to become a luxurious club for a privileged few,
with an odds-and-ends museum as an annexe.
Admission to the opening show was by ticket
only, the original price being kept a dark secret.
It is said, however, that the fee for seats ranged
up to £lO 10s., and that some of the coveted
pieces of pasteboard afterwards changed hands
at much larger sums.
Horae Secretary Asquith has abolished
irons and other mechanical punishments in Eng-
lish prisons.
A Waipawa Maori chief, who had pur-
chased a coffin for the convenience of a near rela-
tive, “borrowed” from a white undertaker a
handsome black velvet pall—to imitate the pakeha
in some of his funeral arrangements. When the
undertaker called, a few days later, for his pall,
he found that it had been buried along with the
dead Maori—all articles used in connection with
Maori burials being tapu, or untouchable by the
living. The pakeha swore that he would dig up
the pall, and, at latest, the chief was sitting in
front of his relative’s sepulchre, wrapped in a
blanket, and with a loaded shotgun between Ins
knees, while a wild-eyed undertaker, with a spade
up the back of his coat, was waiting for ids
adversary to move off for a drink.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken oj communications ivhich arrive
at this ojjice insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Ponte ” : A reeking, clammy horror, green and
dank with the decay of the tomb—a horrible thing with
leprous toe-bones pointing at the stars,... “J. Carpenter
(Hobart): Good sentiment, but verse tottery... “Q-
-(Fremantle, W.A.): Doggerel. Besides, no one really
cares whether England’s saint is Peter, the fisherman, or
George,theAsialiodecayed bacon-contractor... “Wirrah :
“ Reading maketh a full man.” Yes, and when a man is
too full, what happens? “ Portia” :As we understand,
you send us your poem because your other poem was pub-
lished by a man who once wrote another poem that
appeared in Tub Bulletin, the inference being that if the
man whose poem was good enough for Tub Bulletin
thought your poem good enough for his paper, then this
poem is as good as his poem. Unluckily, it is too
long. The drunkard’s wife can’t run to 26 verses....
“J.M.” (Kempsey); The fall of a policeman into the
water isn’t a very wild adventure “Watchman
(Adelaide): Require more facts to go upon... “Frank
Oroson”; You perorate with “So much for womans
forgiveness.” Yet, apparently, it was the man who for-
gave his wife and then beat her in her forgiven state,
Seems to be mixed somewhere ... “B. J. Boss ” : Good,
will use “Cyrus Ninkluyt”: Matter old; rhymes
unspeakable; metre simply paralysing “Polype”:
Esoteric madness.... “True Art ” : Picture of a bob-tailed
cat in fits duly received. Allan Beaumont”; The
dying Australian who maunders in his last moments about
kangaroos and wattle is too depressing “P.L.’ :
You seem to have been recently jilted, or else you have
been betrayed by a siren with an artificial leg
“J.J.K.” (Newtown): No, ..“Iris” (Sydney): Please
deposit £150,000 to cover law costs and damages and your
libel will appear after we have got a fair start in our
chartered steamer....“ W.8.M.” ; The descriptive verses
are good, but the incident is very feeble....“ Pebble ”
(Beeac, Vic.): A depressing tale about nothing except a
man and woman playing chess “G.H.A. (Penshurst):
We ask, coldly and practically, what was the landlord
doing while the murderer shot the barmaid and set fire to
the hotel and then “ leaped into the flames? ” And how
did the burnt hotel become a “haunted hut? ....
“ Riverine Bushman ” : The negotiable fixed deposit re-
ceipt (No. 2) is probably the least objectionable. Don t
sell at present prices. You will get full value some day
in the dim future....“ Charles Paton ” : The lady with
the four twins is regretfully declined.. William
Smith”: Regret to say your verse is just the kind of
verse that a man with a name like W. Smith always
writes. There is a Smith and a Jones variety of verse.
Yours is the Smith variety “ C.S.”: Many thanks...
“Bess” (Sydney): Thanks.. . “ L.L.” (Gunnedah): The
bushraan who has been 40 years on one station doesn t
grow in Australia. There’s no such person— “C.A.N.
(Melbourne): Why do you send us one wild execration in
the middle of a sheet of foolscap ? ...“Henry Martin I
When tolls were abolished general taxes were levied
instead. You seem to imagine that the Tasmanian roads
pay for their own repairs.... “ Girondin ” : Algerian epi-
sodes are off our track... “ E.G.8.” (Adelaide): Why not
take proceedings against the bank directors for larceny
as a bailee-or as a lot of bailees? They are the respon-
sible parties.... “A Ballarat Man ” : Kipling, in verse,
may be generally a Jingo driveller, but in prose there is
no one just now to take his place—“F.”: Prosper En-
fantin did not “found a faith in 1850.” Enfantin’s reli-
gion was simply the St. Simonianism of which Ids name-
sake, Enfantin —the first advocate of the Suez Canal was
a disciple, like David, the great composer, Blanqui, and
others “M.A.0.” (Wellington, M.L.): Unsuitable....
“J.H.”: Drawings and ideas unsuitable—“M.”: We
don’t print “Failure” because we have read W. W.
Story’s “Hymn of the Conquered.” “Belyando”:
You see it was over the range, and in winter “H.J.B. :
Thanks for suggestion. Indicated course already adopted.
“G.N.B.” (Geelong): Not original “Bosso”: To
hand .. “T.P.R.”: Everybody knows the advt “Out-
cast”: “How Criminals are Made” does not tell how
criminals are made. Your autobiographical hero is a
born criminal. As a narrative (if better suited with a
fresh title) the first part is weak, as there were, to a man
in his position, a dozen easier ways of raising £lOO ; the
last situation is rather good. MS. returned.... “ Will H.
Bland ” : Declined, partly because too padded, and ] a tly
because of an impossible Chinese-aboriginal half-caste,
who speaks an impossible blend of broken bullockdiiver-
ese, pigeon English, blackfeller-patter, and dog-Freuch.
“ Fly” : You create a new kind of Joseph—a Joseph
wlio is almost a Don Juan, and who suicides rather than
yield to Mrs. Potiphar. No, you don’t.... “ 6 and 8” :
Dougan yarns of no account. Paper asked for, forwarded.
....“The Vagrant”: Paragraphed... “P.J.0.”: Shake
together 10 words from Browning and 100 from a treatise
on conic sections; throw them out promiscuously, and
that’s your sonnet.... “Yankee Bill”: The doubtful
situation too evidently manufactured—“R. de S.” : A
true lie, eh? “J.J.8.”: Good, usable incident
“The Mopoke”: Unalterable is our standing opinion
that parodies are a disease..., “ A.M.Y.” :A ou call three
deaths and an incestuous marriage “a drama.” What
makes a tragedy ? ... “J. J.” : Write on one side only
“ Reg. R.” : Don’t see why your rabbiter need be “ a sad-
der if wiser ” man. “Herbert Calthrop”: “Two Pic-
tures ”is past redemption. “Out Back” is nondescript
conglomerate. And, by the way, wherein Australiaare there
any “ shadeless ranges?” Leave this exploited land, at least,
its shadows “J.A.C.”: Common usage makes the
verb “practise,” the adjective “ practised,” and only the
noun “practice.”.. “Mooney”: This saves you:
“Don’t curse to Bad I am going night shoool before I
write agian.” “ E.H.” (Hobart, Tas.): A placid, spirit-
less little yarn “ Amorker ” ; The newspaper which
used up pages of its space with undigested stealings that
have been said much better in crystallised paragraphs is
idiotic—if you want the truth “ Wannon Tin Miner ” :
The fact that favoured persons could tell hovv every vote
was cast at many of the out-back Q. elections is now
notorious and stale. Take courage; even the Fat Man
can’t live for ever.. “Vera” (Lane Cove, N.S.W.): (1)
“The River” is artificial and ooreless. (2) “Sydney
Harbour” is weakly better. (3) “ Northwood ” is no
good. N.B.—A thin brown snake never glares. We
would prefer (at a hazard) the leer of a wicked white-ant.
“Seymour” (Vic.): Of no general interest. ...
“ H.W.1.”: Thanks, but we don’t even allow an M.P. to
rise from the dead and marmalade The Bulletin in
its own columns “Ex-Medical Sudent L.” : We
well remember your fist. O advt., O advt. 1.. ..
“ H.E.Q.” (Urana): No, thanks “A. J.” : See a
qualified man—one whose name is on the Medical
Register... “Alfred M'K.” (M.): Thanks “ Parra-
matta ” (N.S.W.) : Don’t know when the raffle will ccme
off ;it has been adjourned from first fixtures “ D.H.”
(Welcome Pocket, Cairns): Accepted.. . “ Hy. S.” :
Thanks for general letter ...“X.Y.Z.”: This time your
story is not well written “Sub Rosa” (Q.): Verse
under consideration. It patched and used, do you wish
full signature to appear?....“ C.T.” : No hope of ever
getting such a law passed.... “ Caleb ” : Send your diary
to a humorous paper. A humorous paperhanger will do
as well, ..“Maori Bivalve”: The needy knife-grinder
could have told a better story “ A.M.” : The worst of
horsewhipping is that it proves nothing “ Vat.” (Ad.,
S. A.): By all rules of honour, T. has lost to G., and should
pay. Had the event gone otherwise, T. could have (and
probably would have) called on G. for his stake. If T.
was not satisfied re G.’s ability to stake, he need not have
booked the transaction; having booked it, without de-
manding cash, he is bound by it “D.R.A.”: The
country isn’t interested in the question “Bunny
Snapper”: Last week .. “Mat Murray”; “If deemed
worth publishing, it is well; if not, it is well.” Well, it
is well. How are you? . . “Geo” (Coolgardie); No
“ T.J.1.” (Bedfern, N.S.W.): “Retribution” jig-jog is
cataleptic “ Narranghi Boori”: Rejected with en-
thusiasm. The doggrelist who inferentially styles him-
self a Byron deserves “to oblivion take him hence.” By
the consecrated comma 1 Byron did learn to parse...
“ M.E.L.” (Brisbane, Q.): Unintelligible “ Berserker :
(1) You only emphasise our statements that it was as
much a tactical mistake for Central and Northern Labour-
candidates to place Separation before Electoral Reform,
as it was for the Central Q. Labour Executive to dictate
to distant nominees on questions of local interest.
Electoral reform is the Alpha of all Democratic needs.
(2) Have used your other letter.
George Perry, of Sydney Domain oratorical
notoriety, was once a police-constable.
The Broken Hill strike executive received
.£27,956, of which ,£25,212 went in meat and
groceries. In addition, .£7519 was raised for tin
unemployed fund, which is now heavily in debt.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
June 21, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Ladv Duff’s first “free-and-easy,” the other
Tuesday, took place, not on the Government House
carpets” but in the garden, although the ground
was very wet and the crowd hadn’t clogs on. The
hostess was horribly gloated over, I thought. At
one time she sat in a sort of cleared space, and the
crowd stood round, goggle-eyed, looking as if it
wanted to swallow her whole, or as if it had
brought her to bay and would commence to worry
her in another minute. ,
The vice-regal dressing was very festive. Lady
Duff sported a melon-pink silk dotted with an
exceeding black dot and trimmed with black lace
and velvet —airy bonnet of black lace and pink
velvet, and a corsage-bouquet of roses and winter
leaves, and {in view of the pump-handling) black
gloves. Pretty Miss Duff wore pearl-coloured
silk with a floral line and a floral hat; and Miss
Heather Duff, a tennis dress of white serge
trimmed with white braid, and white sailor hat.
The two younger girls <vere arrayed in the same
simple style. But all vice regal children are,
somehow, turned out after the same pattern -
they all dress exactly like the pictures of the
“ Wales girls ” in their sprout days.
Gov. Duff didn’t pump-handle every bundle of
fives that was thrust upon him at the reception,
but coolly bowed to half the people. I am nut
here to give lessons either in etiquette or in diplo-
macy, but I submit that his Ex. made a mistake.
The reception being an official one, he could easily
have treated all alike—taking more or less of a
line from a certain wily American President of
whom I once read. “ Gentlemen,” said he to the
5000 men who awaited him with pump-handling
intent, “ I am a bit tired to-day, and don’t pro-
pose to let you shake my hand. But when you see
me raise my right hand in the air, just elevate your
light hands, and when you see me shake, you
shake too. And then we’ll have it over.” And
they raised and shook accordingly.
One dame ran up to Sydney's brand-new Social
Destiny with outstretched hand, but His Excel-
lency simply looked at it as if he was trying to tell
her fortune. This sort of thing ought to make Sir
Robert popular, because it’s such a pleasant change
from the average vice-regality, the distinction of
whose hand shake few can hope to escape. Lord
Ganngton once entirely spoilt a brand-new pair
of delicate kid gloves by forcing his hands upon an
honest blacksmith red-hot from the village smithy.
From the secretarial resiling given at last meet-
ing of the Sydney Women’s Rights League, my
sisters evidently want not only the earth below
but the Heaven above, with all the little stais
thrown in. According to the secretary—Miss
Rose Scott is the secretary—people should regard
them “from that chivalrous standpoint which
stirs even the roughest man to stand aside and let
women pass first.” But there is precious little
chivalry between man and man, and why should
the woman-suffragists bother about chivalry if
they really believe in theirovvn pow-wow? What,
after all, are doffed hats, pretty speeches, with a
general opening of doors, and “ riding on top to
oblige a lady” t» women who could run the
country with one hand tied behind ’em ?
Sydney’s “leading” daily paper lately asked
whether the emancipated woman intended to
grow her own moustache? She is growing it
already—in Australia, at least, ilie Australian
woman is remarkably hirsute. I once asked a
doctor why, and lie said that in “vvawm countries,
where the ladies are much in the sun, it is nearly
always the case, yev know, ’ so, I suppose, there s
no getting away from it as. so far, nobody has run
to earth a good depilatory. But really the situa-
tion is not without its advantages. “A kiss
without a moustache is like an egg without salt,
saith the prophet—and, as all the johnnies are
navy-shaving, X suppose that what a frisky girl once
described to me as the “ tickle must now come
from the other side.
On dit that the most painful incident at Primate
Smith’s clerical “at home” last week, was that
several rev. Spaldings enquired at the buffet, not
for a bath bun and a glass of milk exactly, but for
“weak tea and stale brown bread.” The dissi-
pated inference is—how hob-nailed must their
livers be to make “recovery” diet necessary in
the middle of the day !
Madame Antoinette Sterling certainly means to
make herself heard in Australia, for when she
isn’t singing she’s talking. At a reception given
to her by the Sydney temperance tabbies, Madame
S. seemed to forget her spirit man who weeps over
the flesh man’s villainies and all the rest of the
mystic nonsense, and lashed out viciously at “gay
Lotharios.” “If men were only animals let them
be treated as wild beasts, and shut up in cages !”
But what a lovely idea to boom the Zoo with on
half-holidays ! “ Don’t forget to bring some nuts
for puppa, 'Maudie I” By the way, we haven’t yet
seen Madame's husband, Mr. M‘Kinlay, who,
poor dear, is understood to be ill, in Adelaide
or somewhere. Wonder what he is like. Pre-
sumably he is a very little man.
I am told that when Madame first visited
Sydney Benevolent Asylum, the other day, she
apparently jumped to the conclusion that all the
women in the lying-in ward were “ unfortunates”
who had been “betrayed,” and that she pitched
her talk in a key to suit that erroneous supposi-
tion ; whereas a good many of the patients were
married-women who had gone into hospital simply
because they were poor. In any case, however,
it is most nauseous to see so much published about
this singer’s talking* and preachings and hymn*
ings, especially as she is here on a transient visit,
running a show and raking in the dollars and
cents with both hands.
I was much amused to read, the other day, that
Madame Sterling, when asked to speak at some
meeting of the Sydney elect, remarked that she was
“only a bird —a singer, not a talker.” This was
very inconclusive, as the most voluble talker of ray
acquaintance is a bird—a certain cockatoo. And,
further, the portly Madame’s mincing gush about
being “ a bird ” only serves to recall an absurd
picture I once saw, representing a very thin little
man sitting on a sofa very close to a very tall, fat
woman (17st), who had just agreed to marry him.
“And now we are engaged, my dear,” said he,
“what shall I call you?” “Call me Birdie,
dearest,” she simpered, “call me Birdie.”
In the Sterling Concert Co., graceful Isabel
Webster made a success with her sweet soprano,
but she should, 1 think, stick to the tra-la-la sort
of tiling and eschew heavy sentiment. May Hab-
good plays feichingly as ever. And if James
Wood, the clean-shaven tenor, wouldn’t shake
top-notes off his head as if they were drops of rain
on his hat he would deserve a smile, especially if
he liquefied his articulation. “Oh, name the dee!
the wedding dab,” he cried darkly in “ My Pretty
Jane.” But Mr. Holder, the rumbling ’cello-like
basso, does none of these things.
The most horrible thing about the “ Silver
King” at Sydney Lyceum was that when pros-
perity smiled upon the heroine, “sonny” burst
forth in a Fauntleroy suit. That affliction of
small-boydom has been knocked out lately in the
circles that fancy-dress their olive-branches, by
the sailor and the Hielander, and its sudden re-
appearance was like a voice from the nursery rag-
bag.
Mrs. Bland Holt, in a good-looking dress of the
devil’s colours—black and scarlet —was in front,
and that famous comedian, Mr. Edward Terry,
“ the Firm’s ” new star, veiled himself in a stage-
box curtain, and brought his grand father seem-
ingly—a fat, old gentleman, as bald as an egg,
who chaperones E.T. round about. Not that 1
think the d.c. maiden will want to compromise
the comedian, who (seen privately) is a thin, neryo-
fibrous individual up to Gov. Hopetoun’s fighting
weight, with an inquisitive nose and a sort of
Byronic baldness. A gold ring on his bachelor
finger and a gold-rimmed eyeglass lent an air of
affluence to an extremely simple toilet. There are
many immensely funny stories told by wicked
actors about Mr. Terry. The burden of most of
them is that he should have a vote for Thrift.
The most striking triviality in “The Guards-
man.” at Sydney Criterion, seemed to be that
Cecil Ward (in evening-dress) wore his handker-
chief up his cuff, and not flaring out of the top of
his vest as so many men flaunt it—especially men
just broken, as it were, to V-shaped vests who
don’t seem to consider themselves full-dressed
unless they have a red or blue banner hanging,
likeashipping-signal, from thetopof their weskits.
As far as feminine robery is concerned, “The
Guardsman ” leads up to but one stupendous gar-
ment —a white satin Court dress with a “ what-a-
long-tail-our-eat’s-got ” of white brocade worn by
Emma Temple (whose ingenues always talk with
an Irish like accent) in the second act. The
dresses Mrs. Brough wears as the French mil-
liner exactly express the situation, but I like the
pair of Empire overcoats —skirts of cream silk, big
full sleeves to the wrist and short bodice of yellow
velvet, the collars trimmed with white fur—worn
by Miss Gibson and Miss Temple. They looked
a smashing good match for a pole in 'em, as
“ Hanbury Hakes ” might say.
“Marriage is an investment for a woman and a
specu.ation for a man,” says somebody, but in
tire eighteen divorces granted by a Sydney judge
at one silting the other day, twelves wives peti-
tioned as against six petitioning husbands. Bo
it’s seemingly rather a speculation for both parties.
I am pleased to hear that the Fresh Air League
ball, for which Mrs. (Dr.)Mailler Kendall is the
tireless lion, secretary—-is going to happen, after-
all —i,y “special viceregal request” Gov. Huff
actually “commanded ” the ball to take place and
has fixed the date for August 10. Another ball
that will be under his patronage will be the Com-
mercial Travellers’—billed for the 19th prox.
Also, the vice-regal folks will trim the dais at the
School of Industry ball, which is to be a double-
barrelled affair this season—a childrens’ costume
ball first—followed by the grown-ups. As the
“society” public ball of the year the School of
Industry hop (it has happened annually for more
than half a century, and was attended by the
grandfathers and grandmothers of many who
patronise it now) is always successful. It is to
happen on 11th July.
The almost totally-forgotten Jerseys were the
histrionic vice-regal troupe while in Australia.
Everyone remembers what a convincing stage-
maiden the lantern-jawed Mr. Gosohen could
present—but the Caringtons were not addicted to
grease-paint. Therefore it’s interesting to read in
an English paper that Lord Cariugton was a star
actor at college and “particularly excelled in
girls’ parts.” “Lord Carington,” it said, “makes
up a really natural girl.” He had plenty of sub-
jects to study in his own nursery, anyhow, if that
was really the direction his talent took, but who
can now imagine the kinkle-browed ex-Governor
doing anything but stage old women of the most
virulent type ? But perhA'fis it was his turn for
play-acting that bowled him along the bumpy
paths of office so smoothly. “ I must dissemble,”
he would say in a darkling aside when the fat
woman in ruby plash broke from her moorings
and bore down upon him.
Just as Melbourne vice regal mob functions are
beingturned iutoday-nurseriesso are race-meetings
in Sydney. Squads of perky infants roll down
the lawn-slope at Randwick and dodge one
another round the band, and the other day I
counted three little girls with tan field-glasses
strapped across their weedy shoulders with quite
a sporting swagger.
The question now agitating a section of Melb.
society is how to balance a baby under each arm
and keep a red-haired two-year-old from losing
himself, and yet shake Lady Hopetoun with an air
of careless persiflage. The clever woman down
South now is the one who can hold twins the right
way up and keep her train following at her heel
while she gets past her entertainers. But I don’t
suppose the thing will become perfect without
human sacrifice. One or two bald and astonished
infants will probably give up the ghost through
being held by one leg in mistake while ma practises
a dress-rehearsal.
Yours faithfully.
SAPPHO SMITH.
“It is an ill wind,” &c., is exemplified by
the large increase in the sale of Australian wines
as against imported spirits. This arises from the
necessity for economy, and we are glad of it, as
the consumption of locally-made wines increases
the internal industry of the country. The popular
brand is Innes and Co.’s, of fierce Boar’s Head
fame. We cordially recommend the wines to our
readers.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Bight’s Eight.”
Lyceum “The Churchwarden.”
Criterion “ The Guardsman.”
Tivoli Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “All for Gold.”
Centennial Hall Madame Sterling.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's.. . Gaiety Burlesque.
Theatre Royal . Dramatic Company.
Opera House Variety Show.
“ The Guardsman,” Brough and Bouci-
caulb’s newest production at Sydney Criterion, is
a piece which deserves to rank with “ Niohe ” and
“The Magistrate”—hitherto probably the best
things in the firm’s repertoire. It drags just a
little in the first act, and it is somewhat too sug-
gestive of “ Pink Dominoes ” in the third, where
a large number of concealed females are en-
deavouring to save their reputations in the bath-
room and other apartments, but these disad-
vantages are outweighed by other solid merits.
The “Guardsman” in which character the
fatally-beautiful Cecil Ward appears at his best—
has a cantankerous uncle who won’t leave him his
money if he marries anybody, and a fierce, blood-
drinking aunt who won’t leave him her
money if he doesn’t marry somebody whom
she has selected. The miserable victim of
all this conspiracy is meanwhile mashed
within an inch of his life upon a girl whose name
he doesn’t know; therefore, being possessed by his
wicked uncle and the devil, he resolves to blacken
his own character to such an extent that his aunt’s
protegee must inevitably cast him off with scorn.
Consequently, finding that lady concealed behind
a screen, he and the uncle and a weak-minded
person in a long coat dance a mad and drunken
can-can in the drawing-room, and tell each other
lies about the awful orgies they didn’t have, and
the public houses they didn’t wreck, and the bar-
maids they haven’t kissed, after which they
violently embrace the servants and propose
marriage promiscuously to an astonished girl
who takes the place for a private asylum,
just then the lady behind the screen and the
guardsman’s unknown mash prove to be the same,
and the ruined victim faints backwards into .£lOO
worth of his outraged aunt’s furniture. The rest
of the comedy consists principally of the wicked
uncle’s escape to the continent to avoid explana-
tions, and the friends of all parties calling on the
guardsman and demanding dissatisfaction, and
the palsied flight of tfie weak-kneed conspirator in
the long coat. But Nemesis comes upon the
uncle, who loses his luggage and his air-pillow on
the railway; and coming back in disguise to find
his bed-socks, he is felled and run over by a lady,
who is escaping out of the bath-room under a false
name, and carrying two towels, a flesh-brush and
a sponge, in a feeble endeavour to pass herself
off as the washing ; and before he can get up
he is seized by everybody and compelled to explain
everything. The Criterion company shines with
especial lustre in this comedy, Boucicault, Cecil
Ward, Brough (as the uncle), and Miss Brenda
Gibson (as a particularly nice and kissable maid
of the nineteenth century) being about the most
prominent. Mr. G. F. Carey tills the part of a
tierce old gentleman named Blazer with reasonable
success, and Mr. Chichester, who has improved
very much of late, creates much joy as the prin-
cipal individual who wants satisfaction. There
were five recalls altogether on Saturday, and a
special and well-merited cheer for artist Spong.
* « * *
Since Madame Antoinette Sterling made
her first appearance in Australia, The Bulletin
has permitted a number of musical critics and
others to say a large variety of kind things about
her in its columns. This week, after personal
inspection, it regretfully rises to take them all
back, and to apologise for having said them. It
has decided, with sincere regret, that the lady
is large and commonplace, and is merely
travelling on the debris and flinders of a British
reputation which might have been deserved years
ago, but which certainly is not deserved now.
She is the Miss von Finkelstein of music, and the
Escaped Nun in short metre. She, like J. L. Toole,
is anold-established British institution whose popu-
larity it is impossible to explain. The enthusiasm at
her concerts is kept up mostly by a little knot of
teetotallers, social purists, theosophists, tuneless
visionaries, and assorted fanatics, who would
enthuse with equal vigour for a circular-saw, pro-
vided the saw were a walking-advertisement for
their “cause.” The Bulletin hears that Madame
Sterling has, doubtless with the kindest intentions,
been singing to the prisoners in a gaol somewhere,
and it respectfully reminds her that torture is
supposed to be abolished in this enlightened age,
and, therefore, her action is distinctly unlawful,
It also hears that she has been giving a gratis
concert in some hospital, and it further reminds
her that it is unfair to sing to any man when he is
down and can’t retaliate. The lady’s style has
already been alluded to as “ rugged,” but it is
more than rugged—it is precipitous. It is simply
a dismal croaking out of a small hymn-book. Miss
Isabel Webster is the really attractive feature of
the show, and the central figure only preaches in a
lamentable sing-song like Jeremiah prophesying
to slow music. Tommy Hudson will be well-
advised if he drops this kind of celebrity and gets
back to the minstrel business while there is yet
time, else the good red gold which he made out of
the sooty humourist in other days will presently
vanish away.
* * * *
A few weeks ago the Lord raised up
George Rignold to play “ East Lynne ” to a rebel-
lious and stiff-necked generation, and as no
enduring effect followed, the chastisement is being
repeated this week. Mr. Rignold, as the instru-
ment of divine vengeance, has taken much money
at the door, and the production is a fine specimen
of stage-management, the railway accident, in
particular, being an artistic triumph. Miss Lilia
Wilde bids farewell to Sydney this week, after a
brief career, which might have been brilliant if the
city had not had all its enthusiasm on fixed
deposit. Next Saturday the avenging rod will
be suspended, and an entirely new drama, entitled
“Right’s Right,” will be staged, with Miss Jennie
Lee in the cast.
* * * »
This week the company at Sydney Gaiety
attacked Planquette’s beautiful opera, “Les Cloches
de Corneville,” and routed it with great slaughter.
It is generally supposed that the opera was taken
by surprise and hadn’t time to defend itself. The
juveniles who gave such a good account of “Rip
Van Winkle” have mostly vanished out of the
bill, and sundry haggard and tuneless veterans
have arisen in their stead. They aren’t all hag-
gard and tuneless, but those who are haggard are
exceedingly haggard. Miss Emma Wangenheim
plays Serpolette, and the result cannot be ex-
pressed in words. Neither can it be fully expressed
any other way. Mr. Wentworth, as the Marquis,
seems to have a oold and to be sompwha*
depressed by his surroundings. Mr. Jule*
Simonsen, in the part of Grenicheux, sings
almost faultlessly, but his dialogue is loose
and slipshod and he utters his most impassioned
speeches with the air of a man who asks
somebody to pass the butter. He entered on
Monday night with one leg of his pants 12 inches
longer than the other. Also, Mr. Wentworth
spoke of the Count de Lncenay as “de Lunacy,”
and Miss Wangenheim sang “Don’t you think
we’re much amiss,” which was lamentably appro-
priate. The opera has been largely re-written—
seemingly by a local author named John Jenks, or
somebody to that effect—and bespattered with
ancient puns, gags and dismal excrescences. Gobo
seemingly acted as prompter, and his midnight
coat-tail was altogether too much in evidence at
the wings. Miss Violet Bertram, who made her
first appearance as a graceful, melodious and
capable Germaine, was the one thing which stood
between the opera and utter ruin.
** * *
The electric piano, now on view in Sydney
(and understood to be the proteg& of a certain
doggy individual) is a ghastly invention. It is,
whilst in action, practically an instrument mani-
pulated by an invisible ghost—attended upon by
a polite, unseen phantom, who turns the music-
leaves over for spectre No. 1.
** * *
Was Irving’s engagement of Bill Holloway
a sop to a “representative Australian actor,”
with a view to a projected “colonial” tour?
More than probable. Charles Wyndham has more
than once played the same game with the
Americans.
# *- m *
“ All for Gold,” which is doing moderate
business at Sydney Royal, is an adaptation of the
famous “Wandering Jew, or rather it is one
episode out of that stupendous narrative. Alfred
Dampier’s Dagobert is a fine, intelligent specimen
of those men of iron who tramped, shoeless, rag-
clad, famished, but unconquerable through the
Russian snows from Moscow to the Beresina.
Morok, the gentleman who died naked and hydro-
phobic in the hospital, after running amok and
stamping on most of the cholera patients, is well
represented by Mr. Plummer, and Harry Leston
is reasonably humorous in the part of a youth who
cleans out the lion’s cage and washes up for the
leopard. This being self-denial week The Bul-
letin hereby denies itself some remarks which it
intended to make about Mr. England, and pre-
sents the unused language to the hospital. “All
for Gold ” should have a tolerably successful run
if Dampier will only kill the man who summarised
the plot for the programme. That person states
the Edict of Nantes was revoked in 1862, and
mentions vaguely that the Renneponts were per-
secuted by “a secret society.” Apparently he
has a hazy idea that the Oddfellows or the Ancient
Order of Foresters was on the job, and that Rodin
and D’Aigrigny and the Strangler were somehow
or other connected with the lodge.
** * *
Harry Rickards’ new programme at Sydney
Tivoli is drawing all the business which the house
will hold, and the 21 high-kicking ladies who state
that their joint and several fathers “ won’t buy
them a bow-wow,” are violently encored every
night (N!B. —The present writer has a dog which
he is willing to sell cheap). Mr. Rickards, on the
average, is called upon by the gallery for five extra
songs each evening, and still survives.
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus appeared in a new pro-
gramme on Saturday, and, so far, it promises
well. The boneless man is now, if possible, more
boneless than before, and the dislocating lady dis-
locates herself in various new places, and the
frantic acrobat, Jones, leaps with a more reckless
disregard of his neck than heretofore. Several
dozen new feats have been added, including those
of a hutdle-racing expert who travels on a wooden
ball, and a gentleman who bounds through hoops
with a glass of water balanced on his foi’ehead.
Also, a nice-looking girl who prances on a wire:
like the dead Mohammedan’s soul traversing the
single hair which bridges the abyss on the way to
Paradise, is an agreeable thrill. If this lady
doesn’t forget her art after death she will get oyer
the hair all right, when many a fat man’s spirit
loses its balance and takes a header into the great
Below.
** * *
Fillis’ big circus opens at Sydney Exhibi-
tion Building on July 5, and intends to ravage
Sydney for two or three months. A number of
new and high-class artists are to arrive from Paris
by the Armand Behic, and Fillis brings a new lot
of trained horses from Maoriland as additions to
the show. The circus is now a larger affair than
ever, and the Maoriland tour is declared, on
reasonably good authority, to have broken every-
body’s past record, and left the province nearly
insolvent.
* stf * #
The unfortunate Sydney Opera House
re-opens on Saturday as a variety theatre under
Dan Tracey’s management.
Another spell of “Silver King,” with
Bland Holt as the pathetically impossible Jaikes,
and Edward Sass, as the reclaimed rioter from
Colorado, is winding up the present season at
Sydney Lyceum. Next Saturday Edward Terry
makes his first appearance in Sydney as Daniel
Chuffy in “ The Churchwarden.” The other
members of the east are George Leitoh,
Edward Sass, J. F. Cathcart, George Belmore,
and Misses Watt-Tanner, Henrietta Watson,
Emma Gwynne, and Polly Emery.
The Gaiety Company reappeared at Mel-
bourne Princess’s on Saturday night, the audience
being large and easily amused. The couple of
thousand people present were not chancecustomers.
Their laughter was premeditated ; they brought a
fine appreciation of the entertainment with them,
and harboured no misgivings as to the sincerity of
their own glee. Lonnen’s humour cannot grow old
and feeble in the eyes of his idolaters. Their
affection for this mummer militant may be a melan-
choly contrast to their want of confidence in busted
banks, or it may be a gratifying proof that some
people still retain a childlike faith in something.
The management doesn’t stop to worry over the
point whilst there is money in Melbourne to keep
Lonnen and Co. going. And as they talk of going
altogether in a fortnight- Heaven defend them
from a change of mind !— The Bulletin will not
sadden their last nights on southern earth by speak-
ing more ill of these good creatures. Enough to
feel ill without saying it. The composition of
the Gaiety Company has been altered somewhat
during the past 14 months, yet the effect remains
as funny as at first. Not more funny ;or less
funny; exactly the same funny. Addie Conyers
legs are under a cloud in a female character, but
the legs of Leila Roze reign in their stead with
equal majesty. The chorus, especially the lady-
portion of it, attracts even more than the usual


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured,
On Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,292,0X6 ss. Xcl.,
audits SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457.800 ss. Xc iL., being the LARGEST
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It dobs the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Noth.—This Is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
nsurance Department. The Assets, Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
he State by the Insurance Superintendent.
The OldßleadL
WKisKy
°f‘ K . e iT e Horse
Cellap x
WHI'
DIRECT »ROM DISTILLERS
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MCLUOV3
MATURED SCOTCH MALT
EdmjM-MTgh
amount of attention, Rare objects of interest are
these girls that stand around and sport the proud
smile of conscious virtue, Which of them ad-
ministered most punishment to the Dunedin
editor ! Where shall one look for the bright
particular girl who held a cold door-key to the
General’s damaged peeper, when the male supers
made an advance movement on the jobbing
printer and the fort was carried at the point of
the hairpin ? Such questions naturally suggest
themselves each time the chorus comes marching
on. There is a certain something about those dear
girls which denotes active service abroad. To-
night (Thursday) the bill is -‘Joan of Arc.” On
Tuesday they start four nights of “Carmen.”
** * *
Melbourne Bijou is awaking from another
long sleep. On the last three nights of this week
the Lyric Club amateurs will make a bold show in
‘ Pirates of Penzance.” Anon, the Greenwood
ramily intend, it is said, to play a season of un-
certain length in B. and B.’s former wigwam.
They start with “Romeo and Juliet,” and the
possible appearance of Master Bob Greenwood in
the character of the hapless hero is looked forward
to with some anxiety. Meanwhile, the capacious
Alexandra announces its readiness to be let on
very easy terms.
** * $
The Victoria Hall was re-opened on Satur-
day, as much after “the London style” as Mel-
bourne law will permit. Billy Emerson joined
the Alhambra company, and the Gaiety Theatre
offered “an Avalanche of Symmetrical Loveli-
ness ”at reasonable prices. The Garden of Eden,
Waxworks, and other places, are still giving plea-
sure to all.
* * iff *
The grand old spectre of Richardson con-
tinues to control the destiny of Melbourne Royal,
and the drama of onr long-lost ancestors is doing
such deeds as even Saturday-night quakes to look
upon. In the midst of all the atrocities, however,
that venerable campaigner, George Ooppin, has
exhibited his coolness and presence of mind by
attempting to raise the rent. A manager, engag-
ing a theatre for one performance only, and being
thereby encouraged to hold on to his desperate
venture, seems to be in the position of Henry
George’s producer, who is beset by brigands. He
may manage to overcome, or elude, a horde of
adverse circumstances, but just as he thinks to
get away with a little money in his pocket one
last brigand, the landlord, bails him up and
demands all that is left. “Richardson”
fitting, they say, has been paying quite a
liberal price (as times go) for the Royal, but the
owners of that ancient property, stimulated to
further exertions by unexpected good fortune,
would fain squeeze another J 230 a week out of their
struggling client. The current attraction at the
Royal is a wild and wondrous article entitled
“The Great World of London.” Plot turns
chiefly upon the dropping of a grey-haired parent
into a pond by Robert Vernon. The pond is
situated in Cremorne Gardens, consequently a
broken-down gentleman and an unwashed boy
come along in a pleasure boat and rescue the
live body. They seem to carry their trophy
to a place of safety. A murder not hav-
ing been committed the coroner’s jury sit
upon the corpse which isn’t there, and the son
of the non-deceased is found guilty of the crime.
But after a towzled judge has roared out the law’s
last dread sentence, the prisoner’s character is
cleared by the arrival of the father who didn’t die.
A second plot to “remove” him, by the aid of
Black Charley, had proved abortive, owing to the
opportune arrival of the same decayed gentleman
and boy. Thus the hangman is baulked of his
prey, and Bob Vernon, with a couple of breathing
mortals still standing between him and
the coveted title, follows his faithful Black
Charley to an early grave. Miss Edith
Appleton again plays the girl who escapes
from Vernon’s clutches, and does it with
much earnestness. She looks pretty, bpeaks like
a little lady, and will no doubt acquire a good
stage walk in time. The comic relief in this other-
wise lively story has been elaborately localised.
On six different occasions of 10 minutes each a
baker regales his girl with stories of Melbourne
habits and ways, selected from letters written by a
relative in the far off city. This Melbourne uncle
pervading the baker’s conversation, reminds one of
the “Mrs. Harris” invented by Sairey Gamp.
** # *
A very topical farce, called “Reconstruc-
tion,” popped up at the Royal last week. It was
a light farce, written by pressmen for pressmen,
and several of the jokes seemed to rebound from
the skull of a mixed audience. But although the
scheme of the authors would have borne judicious
amendment by a Full Court, and the leading
character was not as humorously fat as he might
have been, the little piece raised a good many
laughs. The apex of mirth was reached when
somebody discovered in bis morning’s Argus that
little-brqther-Walter Giffen had scored 567 (not
out) against All England.
At Poverty Point.
The latest likely lie. When Antoinette Sterling told
the “ fallen ” girls in Sydney Benevolent Asylum to
“ sin no more ” they arose and told her in chorus to
“ Sing no more.”
Frailty, thy name is - not Gaiety.
“ Pews” are to be let by Snazzy, Me lb. Opera House,
for the Sunday show.
Alexander Mayne, B. and B.’s faithful manager for
seven years or so, has terminated his engagement with
the firm. He goes into commerce, and takes with him the
good wishes of everybody'.
Antoinette Sterling sings “corpses” in preference to
“corses,” although she has noticed that the inclusion of
the “p ” “ offends some people’s senses.” Those are the
superior people who always get in with an order.
Mdb. Standard speaks of “Mr. Terry and Mr. Lonnen,
the two great English burlesque comedians, meeting in
Melbourne.” Two 1 Now, Teny has not appeared in
burlesque since the birth of any of the Standard’s boy-
reporters.
The Melbourne press gave full, true, and particular
accounts of the outbreak in the Workman office, Maori-
land, as provided by the conquering hero, Lonnen, from
which we gather that that penny-in-the-slot comedia n
received his black-eye through a blow from behind.
“ Neddy ” must own a fearful squint.
Ingenuous admission of Praisegod Balfour, attending
the Melb. deputation to squelch Sunday shows: “The
churches do not object to collections.” Live and learn.
The Anaus speaks of “Gilbert and Solomon’s ” tuneful
opera, “Tlie Vicar of Bray.” A compliment to Grundy,
but rough on Gilbert.
Melb. Standard says of the editor of that Maoriland
paper: “ He is an insignificant man, whose only claim to
same lies in the fact that he conferred a black-eye on
Teddy Lonnen,” Well, that is something to have lived
for.
Montgomery, Australian, has been appointed Grace
Hawthorne’s Dayment, or rather Uamala. Ail at once
the London critics find his Andreas, in “Theodora,”
quite aG. V. Brooke performance. Again do parts make
actors.
Premier Patterson was eminently judicious in his treat-
ment of the parsons’ deputation re Sabbath amusements.
All the other Premiers have been cowards, Berry about
the worst. Patterson says exactly the right thing, and
the shepherds back down humbly, though muttering
about their votes.
Edward Terry is 49. Looks it.
Where were the Gaiety high-kickers in the Maoriland
fracas? “Miss Lethbridge's right toe caught the editor
on the point.” How would that look?
A Capetown paper publishes an “In Memoriam ”
sketch of Albert Lucas, now playing' at the Sydney
Lyceum, and expresses its sympathy with his wife.
A professional singer, recently travelling between Aus-
tralian capitals by sea, occupied a berth in the saloon,
while his wife was sent on a steerage ticket.
Wanted an authorised version of “ Daddy won’t-buy me
a Bow-wow,” as sung at Sydney Tivoli. Rorty? Or a
moral with the chill off?
“p.C.” continues the current vogue of advertising
Pattie Browne by' encoring most of Myra Kemble’s
remarks in a recent issue, but adding that Lachlan
M‘Go wan was stage-manager on the “Sept., ’82,” occasion
of Pattie’s performance of Belinda with the Lotus Dramatic
Club ; that Myra Kemble herself taught Pattie (then Sally,
by the way) to introduce some admirable “ business,” not
in the acting edition; and that Pattie had previously
appeared in minor roles, at the old Queen's, as far back
as ’BO.
The Sydney newspapers echo the cablegram that “a
new play by' Mr. R. S. Sievers (sic), entitled ‘The Younger
Son,' ” has been produced with success at a London Gaiety
matinee. The author is none other than R. Standish
Sievier, formerly well-known in Melbourne as Sutton,
the cash-bookmaker, who immortalised himself by
punching Lord " Beerthirst’s” nose. Sutton after-
wards went to England and married Lady Mabel Brudenell-
Bruce, sister of the present Marquis of Ailesbury, known
to fame as the racketty husband of Dolly Tester, of the
music-halls. Sievier is a man of crude literary instincts,
judging from his Australian form, somebody must have
polished his play a lot.
Instigated possibly by Bentley’s advance-agent, some
40 Scots took the horses out of that much-advertised
showman’s buggy and drew him to his pub. That was
patriotism. At their own instigation, afterwards, the
clan stuck up £l3 10s. in drinks. That was patriotism
also.
The row raised by the “Holy Joes,” re Melb. Sunday,
night concert-promoters charging for admission, recalls
the fact that, at St. Patrick’s and other R.O. churches,
it is a common thing, when a “show” singer or tiddler
has been roped-in for the occasion, to see posted at the
principal entrance of the church—“ Entrance here,
2s. 6d.”
Edward Terry, to an Adelaide Advertiser reporter:—
“ I played with Brooke in his last engagement prior to
his leaving for Australia, and a peculiar incident occurred.
On the prompt side of the stage was posted a bill
announcing, in large letters, ‘The last appearance of
G. V. Brooke,’ and as 1 was reading it he came up, and,
looking at the notice, said, ‘Doesn’t it seem like sounding
a fellows death-knell!’ Poor fellow, the prophecy was
fulfilled. It was his last appearance in the old country.”
Madame Antoinette Sterling, when in Adelaide, was
accidentally informed that a leading medico's wife, who
had been fearfully burnt in an accident, had stated that
what troubled her most was missing hearing the famous
contralto. Madame promptly visited the patient, and
“sang like a canary at her bedside.” At latest, the
doctor s wife was still alive, but the account doesn’t say
whether artificial respiration had been resorted to.
The Gaiety Co. quitted Maoriland leaving most of the
dudes and dudelets stone-broke, as usual. According to
a local paper, a touching incident marked the last fare-
well. Just before the steamer started a pale, agitated
youth came up the gangway, and reverently offered a
small jeweller's case to one of the red-haired sirens. She
opened it, and found within the last remnant of his fallen
fortunes—a small, cheap gold locket. Then she addressed
him in a loud, cold, razor-edged voice: “ What a good
boy ! Bought it out of your own pocket-money, I sup-
pose? Are you quite sure you can spare it? I’m afraid
you must have paid for it with the money your ma allows
you for sweet stuff !” Whereupon she heaved the offer-
ing into the sea, and the poor, crushed little man fled,
with tears in his eyes and his red-haired idol broken past
repair.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The “ reconstruction ” policy of every Austra-
lian bank that has any reconstruction policy at all is,
from end to end, a policy to gain tune ; further, it is a
policy to gain time sufficient to enable Hie natural and
assisted increase of Australian population to raise the
land-values up to the wild-cat boom amounts in propor-
tion to which those bank-advances that led to the present
all-round insolvency were made. In short, labour has got
to suffer, to toil on and to gasp, while capital sits down
and gains breath; and after that, labour has got to make
good, not only all past losses, but ail prospective paper
profits that capital has determined to seize by hook or by
crook as its own blood share.
* * *
The S.M. Herald has a complaint to make There
has been considerable discussion in regard to the decision
of the Chief Justice of Victoria, which restricted the
dividends to the shareholders of the National Bank of
Australasia to per cent, per annum, being the rate paid
to the depositors, and its application to local institutions.
A tolerably general opinion prevails that it would be a
mistake to tie up the hands of the directors by any hard-
and-fast limit. If, as we pointed out a day or two back,
the dividend of a banking co. is restricted to 44 or 5 per
cent., and, in consequence, the market value of its shares
is depressed below par, as for several years it probably
would be, the interests of the institution would be pre-
judiced, to the disadvantage of both depositors and share-
holders.” What Tub Bulletin now wants to know is
this: Supposing it were a little shopkeeper who
had gone broke instead of a bank, and he were allowed to
bluff off his creditors for five or ten years, and then pay
them by instalments without security, would the S.M.
Herald hold that it should be left to his own discretion
how much he should take out of the business and settle
on his wife, or otherwise stow away, before his creditors
were paid ? There are two courses open to the banks;
either to pay small dividends out of profits and be com-
paratively solid, or else to pay big ones and inflate the
share quotations, and have a howling boom for a few
years, and then burst again when the directors and their
friends have sold out at top prices. And the S.M. Herald
votes for the boom and the burst.
* • #
Nothing further has been heard of the Federal
Bank reconstruction, and it is generally assumed that
the institution has dropped back into its tomb without
further remonstrance. If public report is correct, there
is not enough of the Federal left to be worth reconstruct-
ing. It had a paid-up capital of £400,000, and it is said
to have lent £565,000 to various gentlemen introduced l>y
one of its magnates, who had a big Overdraft him-
self. Most of them are now more or less broke.
These crei.Rors were all teetotallers, the majority were
pious, and eight of them seem to have been named
Munro. Before the hank cios d one of the clan is alleged
to have wiped oil a liability of over £200,000 by a pay-
ment of 6d. in the £. The directors, apart from Munro,
are solemnly declared to have owed the po >r, mangy
institution something like £113,000. One family, not
that of a director, seems to ha\e had 'nine separate over-
drafts, and two firms had three overdrafts each. It looks
as if the resurrection of the Federal would be as large a
contract as the raising of Lazarus.
* Sf #
Deposit receipts in the suspended or recon-
structed banks are now much in the market. The figures
(we quote last week’s) are curious, as showing the relative
value of each bank in public estimation. Federal, 7s. to
11s. in the £ ; National of Australasia, 12s. to 155.; Com-
mercial of Australia, 13s. (id.; London Chartered, 14s. 3d.
to 155.; Australian Joint Stock and B.S. and A.C., each,
14s. 3d. to 15s. 3d.; Bank of North Queensland, 15s. to
18s.; Commercial of Sydney, 17s. 3d. to ISs. And, last of
an, Queensland National, offered at 14s. 6d., apparently
without buyers. Among all the reconstructing banks,
therefore—the Federal being practically past all recon-
struction—the Queensland National seems to stand lowest
in public estimation, inasmuch as buyers are apparently
unobtainable, and the Commercial of Sydney and the
N.Q. are in the best repute. The miserable 13s. 6d.
quoted for Commercial of Australia deposits ought to
make Gyles Turner go out and bang the daily paper men
who gushed so abjectly over his institution when it was
born again, and professed to think that bursting had done
it good rather than otherwise,
* * *
The London papers are summing up the position
of the reconstructed Commercial Bank of Australia, and
it doesn’t look well when summed up. The Standard
puts it in fewest words;—“ It seems that the depositors
have £10,51)0,000 staked in the bank at present, and of
this £3,000,000 is lo be converted into preference shares.
£7,500,000 will then remain, on which the bank is pledged
to pay for five years and upwards 4| per cent. It must
earn, therefore, £337,500 net t, over and above expenses,
before it can have a penny for dividend. Then come the
preference shares, which will require £150,000 10 pqy
holders five per cent. Another £150,000 w ould be needeS,
after the Ordinary Shares are paid up in full, to eivett
five per cent, dividend on them. On a modest basil
therefore, the bank will, by and by, have to earn upward*
of £600,000 per annum, besides exp uses." In otnei
words, the Commercial used to pay about four per centA
interest on 10j- millions of deposits, and per cent.V
dividends on £1,200,000 capital. In the future, it will'
have to pay interest on about seven millions of deposits
and dividends on £6,000,000 capital. Therefore, even if
the bank makes as much profit as of old, the highest
dividend it can pay will be five per cent. And, with in-
creased competition and a damaged reputation, will tiio
bank make as much profit in the future as in the past ?
If it doesn’t, where do the ordinary shareholders come in?
* # #
The A agio- Australian “Bank” (Melbourne) has
been making a £4 call and has realised—£ol4. If all
tiie magicians who used to call spirits from the vasty
deep, and the apostles who used to call up the dead from
their tombs, and the wizards who called up storms and
devils, all met together in Melbourne, nowadays, and
called jointly and severally till they fell down from sheer
exhaustion, the total results would hardly amount to a
£5-note.
• * *
The re-consfcructed Commercial Bank of Sydney
and the A.J.S. re-opened last Monday, and tiie daily
papers thereupon came out with a large intimation (hat
“confidence was now restored.” There is only one variety
of “confidence” in the brigiit lexicon of the daily paper,
and that is confidence in banks and other financial in-
stitutions. And Tub Bulletin desires to point out, just
here that “confidence” is an ill-chosen name anyhow,
and a word of evil omen. It applies to so many things
besides banks, and most of these tilings are suggestive of
evil.
• # •
Confidence is the thing that is making Lane’s
argonauts depart in the middle of winter to struggle in a
slow-sailing wooden sh p round the freezing Horn. It is
the subnanoe which makes the new-chum lend his purse
to the suave gentleman who goes round the corner and
doesn’t com ihack. It is the object which makes people
lend money to Parkes, and buy desert allotments inW.A.,
and leave the front door unfastened at night, and go to
look for gold in New Guinea, and do every other kind of
rashness. It also makes them pul their money in
banks, and introduce their wives to nice-looking men, - and
in past times it made sundry escaped convicts start to
walk overland from Botany Bay to China. And when
confidence is restored all round, it onlv means that
more people will go to Paraguay, or lend their money
to the benevolent gentleman who goes round the
corner, and otherwise get taken in. When tiie divorce-
court is unusually active, or the inevitable “gentleman
one” is struck off the rolls for taking his client’s coin,
and the customary infant is being affiliated in large
quantities, these are all signs that confidence lias been
restored and has met with the fate which always befalls
the restored article sooner or later.
• » #
Confidence, put in its condensed form, is a
blind man with a bag of money in Ids hand walking cheer-
fully towards a precipice, therefore The Bulletin is
exceedingly sorry to hear of the alleged' restoration.
The only thing on record which deserves absolute
confidence is heaven, and it deserves it principally because
it is the bourne from which no reconstructed depositor
ever comes back to tell whether there is such a place or
not. It is a species of bank where the customer always
drops through the floor when he is just going to present
his cheque, and whether he is paid in the cellar or not no
one ever knows. In conclusion, The Bulletin drinks a
solemn toast: “To the destruction of all confidence ”
• » #
In re the attempt to secure for nothing the
waterpower of the Grose and Colo Rivers—Rome is now
electrically lighted under conditioi s obtainable in Sydney
At Tivoli, 17 miles outside the city of Rome, there is"a
waterfall of 360 ft., with an average supply of waterequal
to 130 cubic ft. per second. By means of turbine wheels
2,700 horse-power is generated and conveyed electrically
by four copper-wire cables into the city, where arrange-
ments are now being made for its use for general pur-
poses as well as lighting. The loss of power along the
cables is only 20 per cent., a verv small consideration
when it is obtained for next to nothing,
• * #
The aforesaid water-power grab will be strongly
opposed in N.S.W. Legislative Council—chiefly in the
interests of Sydney Gas Co.
# # #
In Sydney, gold is already at a premium. At
Aarons Exchange Hotel, they will give you a £l-note and
a 3d.-piece for a sovereign, and one man last week bv
exchanging four sovereigns for four notes, got his lunch
for nothing.
• • #
A very little Melbourne bank, with a large
sounding name—the Royal—toddled through the crisis as
right as ninepenoe It was jokingly said of the Royal
that it couldti t well be “ rushed," because nobody knows
exactly where it hung out.
* • •
A northern bank is said to hold a whole lot of
Mount Morgan scrip on which £l4 a share was advanced
* * *
In the wideness of the difference between Chief
Justice Maddens views re bank reconstruction and those
of certain of his colleagues people profess to discern
traces of the old Madden-Wilhams row.
• * •
The United Order of the Victorian Sons of
Abraham have for once “ taken the knock ” very severely
In buying up bank deposit receipts at 50 per cent dial
count. they anticipated that each bank would acknow-
ledge the full face value of its deposit receipts as a set-off
against overdrafts to equal amounts, and release securities
held against overdrafts accordingly. The wily ones there-
fore actually bought up and took transfer of liability for
several well-secured overdrafts, hoping by putting in the
cheaply-acquired deposit receipts to get released \ aluahle
securities at from 40 to 50 percent, beyond their actual
values. A decision in the Victorian Supreme Court how-
ever, now rules that hank debtors on overdraft who mav
also be deposit-receipt holders can be sued for their over-
drafts, and that the deposit receipts cannot be made a set
off against the overdraft, also that the deposit receipts
must abide by the terms of payment agreed upon by the
various schemes of reconstruction. Grief in Israel.
# # *
Every now and then the Melb. newspapers
tickle their readers with a paragraph concerning Ibe
affairs of some dead land bank, or other. It is a fixed,
mechanical sort < f par. to the effect that the liquidators
meditate a prosecution of directors, and have applied to
sundry counsel for an opinion as to a “case.” Counsel’s
opinion is invariably expected in afc w days Then the
affairs of that bank appear to drop out of existence. A
flood of silence engulfs liquidators, lawyers, and the
whole question of criminal prosecution. Nothing nv>re is
heard save the fl ip of Fat Man’s eyelid, as it winks by
the way.
* * #
The S.M. Herald down to a penny. It has
s°nsihly lowered its price while it still retained the prac-
tical monopoly of tiie commercial advts. The Fairfaxes
aren’t democratic, hut in (heir new venture they will
have to an extent the sympathy of the democratic crowd
as against Sydney D.T. On Labour questions the Herald
has only spoken like a Tory judge, while the D.T. has
hissed like a malevolent prosecutor.
# * »
The Melh. stationer who stuck up in his window
the dishonoured cheque for 255., drawn by a certain well-
known legal practitioner, is to he commended for his
ingenuity in thus getting a settlement, and to be com-
miserated with on his bad luck in having to pay the costs
of failing to substantiate the charge of stealing the
cheque laid against the eminent one. Quite a score more
Victorian gentlemen of the long robe (one a very eminent
Government official) now quake in their shoes lest other
tradesmen should adopt the stationer’s method of gal-
vanising their stiff paper into liquidity.
* # ' #
The knocking out of so many bank bottonqs has
so increased the B.N.Z.’s Australian business that 20
extra clerks are being brought from Maoriland to the
Australian brandies.
* # #
Mount Morgan (Q.) crushed 5200 tons for
10,6000 z. during May.
» • •
It takes an average of 20,000 sovereigns weekly
to buy the Charters Towers yield of gold. By the way,
in Sydney last week, a man sold £5OO worth of good red
gold to a bank. “Sovereigns,” he said. “No—notes,”
they replied, handing him across the counter two fistfuls
of dirty paper. They wouldn’t give him a single sove-
reign.
* * •» y
The action of the Victorian Supreme Court in
compelling all trade assignees to render account of their
trusts, Itas caused more than one of those gentlemen to
visit adjacent provinces on urgent business.
* * #
Cabled that Broken Hill Knox, who went to
England to boom Mount Lyell, has “ been well received,”
and will secure all the needed capital.
* * *
Melbourne trams still maintain a haggard and
precarious quotation of about 9s. There is apparently no
rise in them, hut the prospects of a fall are still
abundant, and the stock is apparently waterlogged and
boneless. Tbs receipts for May show a further drop of
£3OOO, and are £9OOO less than those for May ’92.
Nobody talks or dreams of dividends now, the only ques-
tion is how to pay working expenses and avoid calls.
But the calls are coming almost to a certainty.
* # «
A recently-in sol vent knight turned up at the
Colonial Bank creditors' meeting!
* * #
The capital M’s own the pick of Charters
Towers mines—the Millicans, Mills, Mainlands and Mos-
mans.
* # #
It will be time enough to invest in B.H. June-
tion shares at a rise when that advantageous English
contract—the co. to supply the Swansea Vivians with
100,000 tons sulphide ore at £2 per ton on trucks at the
Hill—has been signed.
* # *
In forty years, from 1792 to 1833, Bank of
England notes to the value of £1,335,000 vanished out of
circulation—being, presumably, lost or destroyed-every
shilling of which was clear profit to the bank. Yet
another argument in favour of Slate banking.
* # #
Mount Galena silver mine, New England
N.S. w,, has been sold by order of the Sheriff ; mine and
machinery realised £135. “With good management it
would he paying dividends; the purchasers ought to make
a f wtune out cf it.” Any excuse but the right one—the
ore was too poor,
• * •
Important if true. Reported that <£2ooo worth
of ore is lying at grass at the Snob’s Reef mine, Major’s
Creek, N.S.W., and that the reef at the 150-foot level
assays 14 ozs. to the ton.
* # •
The writer is sorry to hear that an attempt is
being made to reduce the price of antimony at Hilh' i ove
where, up to lately, 50 per cent, ore has sold at £7 10s'
Encouraged by this price, many men have got work in
the numerous local antimony veins. For fully a year the
London price has been almost stationary —£11 to £l2
and latest advices quote that price ; the proposed reduc-
tion, therefore, seems uncalled for. Why is the price of
this metal not cabled weekly as well as that of tin
copper, &c.? '
* *
The application of Sunny Corner for six
months’ suspension was approved by Bill Hurley the
original manager, on behalf of the distressed local unem-
ployed miners. It costs money to- mine, and the oo
having no cash, have no alternative. Three months 5
suspension was granted. Hurley himself has for three
months been pluckily prospecting for the continuation of
the Sunny Corner ore-body.
# # n
The Warden’s bailiff, at Trnnkev, N.S W re-
ports stone showing lOOoz. gold per ton,'and also mentions
something about a 3 or4oz. two-foot reef. The public have
grown tired of these reported rich discoveries, so little is
afterwards heard of them.
* * »
Mt. Poole, Dalmorton, has reached the inevit-
able : sold by the Sheriff for £2O. It was boomed by
newspapers ; its reports were El Dorado-ish, it had many
managers, and a few crushings, each of which was ex-
pected to go ozs. more than the actual result.
* • * »
Block 10 (Broken Hill), crosscutting for the
lode at 815 ft., struck a body of water equal to 260 000
gallons daily—certain evidence, under the circumstances
of the proximity of an ore body. When properly explored
the find will go far to settle the future prospects of the
mine. As the Central boundary is but a few feet distant
the latter mine will benefit equally should the discovery
prove of value. J
* # #
Dr. Peters, the eminent American minino- ex-
pert, regards The Australian Mining Standard as the
best mining newspaper in the world, after the Mining and
Engineering Journal of New York. The latter has of
course, a much larger mining constituency ; mt with the
development of Australian mines, Dr. Peters thinks the
Mining Standard should equal, if not eclipse, its American
rival. The feature of the Mining Standard with which
Dr. Peters expresses himself most pleased, is its orhdnal
articles, which (written by practical men) he considers are
of very great utility indeed both to mining-managers and
mining-investors.


AAij S
nr
GrO to ETF.T
IQOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (id.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
7i ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—Ho. 4.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon —which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within three weeks from Saturday, June 17,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
As no one succeeded in naming’the missing-
word in No 3 Competition, the whole of the cash
received (.£49 45.) will be added to this Com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may bo forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 1.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or IS penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to be received by Saturday, Ist Ju'y,
1893.
The Burra Burra (N.S.W.) rush has been
pronounced a duffer. Hundreds of men who rushed
there because of the sensational newspaper descrip-
tions, had to beg their way back. Pitiable stories
of hardships bordering on starvation are told, and
some newspapers have been roundly cursed for
their It is one of
the easiest things in the world to start a gold rush
when there are thousands of half-starved men in
the country.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in comctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received—no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
tvill be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
Personal Items.
Rev. Ralph Brown lectures again in Mel-
bourne.
Tarangamba Ross is back at his station, a
hopeless invalid.
Matthew Henry Davies was named after
the Biblical commentator.
Ex-Solicitor General Isaacs is a lawyer by
religion and a Hebrew by profession.
Ex-Labour-member Glassey (Q.) is a return
passenger for Paraguay per first Royal Tar.
Health.
“ Like the millionaires of Mount Morgan
and Broken Hill, Lansell was not a practical
miner.”
The first lady Bachelor of Arts of Mel-
bourne University is now a widow. She married
a man of 80.
It is widely rumoured that an ex-Q.
Premier, who is still to the fore, has become
mentally deranged.
Rumoured that W. J. Clarke would have
been a Baron this year but for the awful carryings-
on of his dear brother Joe.
Wilson Gray would have ranked higher as
a M.L. Judge but that he could not bear the idea
of sentencing anyone to death.
The late Henry Halloran was the first
lieutenant of cavalry enrolled in N.S. Wales.
That was just on 40 years ago.
The title of brewer Smith, of Adelaide,
whose beer was once very popular, signifies to
most citizens —Keeping Cool My Gullet.
“ Princess May is endeared to the public
by the devotion she displayed at the trying junc-
ture of her bereavement.” —London Times.
“The Queen and her family,” says a Lon-
don exchange, “ are inordinate meat-eaters, a fact
to which most of their disorders are attributable.”
Whether Archbishop Reynolds’ successor
will again complete the trio of teetotal prelates is
a grave business-question to many of the Faithful.
John Wellington Owen, 8.A., Anglican
parson, of Adelaide, has written warning all Dis-
senters that they are living in “spiritual adul-
tery.”
A Sydney newspaper asserts that murderer
Smedley, just before dropping through the trap,
whispered into Canon Rich’s ear, “ You go to
hell ! ”
Annie Besant, who will soon be in Aus-
tralia, wears Madame Blavatsky’s ring. She will
retain it, she says, throughout her stay on earth
“this time.”
John Gavan-Duffy, M.L.A. (Vic.), in early
life, nearly died from thirst in the bush where he
was squatting. The first drink he got was a
bottle of ink. He says he is sure it was the first
time a Duffy ever demaned himself with such
stuff.
Jem Shaw, once
Mayor of Adelaide, is
remembered chiefly by
the enormous consump-
tion of champagne he
caused in his official
capacity, and by the
vividness of his language,
which used to startle dis-
tinguished visitors. One
day a noble lord, looking
over the paintings in
the Council Chamber,
was languidly criticising
their technique. The ad-
miring Shaw, struck by
so much unexpected
knowledge, burst out,
while playing with his
gold chain of office; —
“Why, damn me, my
lord, you must be a
(Australian adjective)
connuser.” The earl was
revived gradually and
forwarded on a free pass.
The “Nosey Bob”
of Maoriland is To in
Long, who accepted a
sentence-remission in re-
turn for becoming man-
butcher. Tom prays
that “capital punish-
ment” may never he
abolished during his life-
time, because he is paid
“by the piece.” He gets
£25 for every gentleman
whom he “works off.”
The execution of Scott
lately was a bountiful
harvest for Mr. Long,
Crowds of persons were
anxious to hear all about
Scott’s last moments, and
Tom willingly obliged
“the company ” with a
dramatic recital of the
closing scene of that
murderer’s career every
time the jug was
filled up again. As a
consequence, Mr. Long
was twice “run in” for
drunkenness during the
first week after Scott’s ascension.
Amongst the signatures to a petition
against Irish Home Rule is that of Daniel
O’Connell, the youngest and only surviving son of
“ the Liberator.”
It was at one time considered uncertain
whether a certain Victorian judge would be able
to resume his seat after vacation owing to “ finan-
cial ” circumstances.
A sister of the Earl of Pembroke (joint
author of that delightful book, “South Sea
Bubbles, by the Earl and the Doctor ”) is a
“convert ” nun in a Brisbane convent.
Dr. Cockburn, Messrs. Ash, Brooker,
Caldwell, and Price decline to take the oath in
S.A. Parliament, and affirm instead. Strange to
say, Caldwell is a Wesleyan local preacher.
Wyndhara, the religious crank who sacri-
ficed his wife and children some years ago because
he was “commanded by the Lord,” is employed in
the blacksmith’s shop at Darlinghurst Gaol.
Enabling, M.L.C. (Vic.), of “ miserable
hounds” renown, went from London to Sicily,
over 30 years ago, to join Garibaldi. He was
surgeon to a vessel taking English volunteers.
A number of the friends of M. H. Davies
had arranged to banquet him at 355. a head in
the event of the charge against him being dis-
missed. The caterer is now thirsting for gore.
Mount Morganaire Pattison, of Rock-
hampton, is back again at his old business —the
butchering. He is partly-paralysed and carries
his arm in a sling ; hut his mind is clear as ever.
Some of the friends of one-time N.S.W*
Premier Jennings feel hurt when they learn from
him how much more highly he values a baronetcy
from Queen Victoria than a marquisate from the
Pope.
Kingston, of S.A., was bound over to
keep the peace for 12 months in December, and
last week he upset and succeeded Premier Downer,
The Bulletin presumes that his bonds will now
be estreated.
A new lepei’-prophet has arisen in the
shape of a Yankee woman who is going on a
mission to the “ unclean ”at Molokai. Her name
is Sludder, That name alone should break up
any mission.
Detective Whitney, sent after Matthew
Davies to Colombo, is the man who arrested, at
Hongkong, many years ago, H. J. O’Farrell, who
embezzled £20,000 from the Victorian Crown
Lands Office.
Rev. John Dinning died near Kiama
(N.S.W.) on the 10th inst. Of him a correspon-
dent : Death had no terrors for Dinning ; he had
been a parson in Bananaland, and a country-
newspaper reporter in N.S.W.
Dick Seddon, the formerly brusque
Minister for Mines, has assumed a polite and
suave deportment since becoming Maoriland’s
Premier. His critics don’t yet know whether
they prefer him as now or as before.
The initial letters of six of the seven
N.S.W. Supreme Court Judges spell the word
Wisdom —Windeyer, Innes, Stephen, Darley,
Owen, Manning. The other Justice, Foster, isn’t
necessary to the construction of Wisdom.
Mount Morganaire D’Arcy, who has long
been in London, still keeps his old Rockhampton
house fully furnished, even to a 100-guinea piano.
His steward, an old retainer, is in charge of the
establishment and already speaks of his master as
“ Sir William.”
E. Dwyer Gray, of Dublin Freeman’s
Journal, is about to settle permanently in Aus-
tralia. He is nephew of Mrs. Chisholm, “ the
Emigrant’s Friend,” and grand-nephew of Wilson
Gray, whose name will, in Australia and Maori-
land, be democratically evergreen.
Postmaster-General Todd’s knighthood
has caused much jealousy among S.A. politicians
who object to being overlooked for the sake of a
HE WAS IN A BANK.
ROMANTIC ETHEL : “I fear you cannot return the wealth of love I have
confided to your care.”
PRACTICAL JIM : “Not on demand, but it’s all well invested. No
occasion for a panic.”
mere civil servant. It is said that cableman
Pender and Henniker-Heaton were chiefly in-
strumental in securing this particular bauble.
Whenever there was a pugilistic encounter
at Melbourne Athletic Club, as soon as the
gladiators got into the ring, Dr. Madden (now
Chief Justice) used to exclaim; “Pipes out)!”
Not that “the Doctor” objected to smoking. He
merely wished to have a clear view of the fight.
The sincere and able Medway Day, for
years editor of S.A. Register, had occasion to
write a letter of complaint to that paper recently,
and because he made a slip in his grammar, some-
one in the office took the mean advantage of print-
ing the communication exactly as it was written.
Melb. Coroner, Dr. Youll, is not to be
retrenched as a sexagenarian, after all. “Dicky ”
is popular with pressmen, but he is now diary
about lending them official papers. Once he lent
a reporter the depositions of a case, and said
scribe not having much time slipped them in as
“ copy.” The printer cut them into “ takes ” and
liberally blue-pencilled them with the numbers.
Richard asked for the “deps.” a few days after-
wards, and they were handed back to him pasted
together on sheets, vigorously “ subbed ” through-
out.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1,
R. S. Smythe, who met Phil May in New
York at the Lotos Club, which has recently
moved up town into new and luxurious quarters
on Fifth Avenue, writes that Phil is now as strong
as a lion. When he returns to Europe after doing
the World s Fair for the Graphic he means to
live in Paris.
A murrain on the cablegrammer who
rushes to advise Australia of every little racing
stake won by a horse belonging to that untitled
N.S.W. absentee Croesus, Mr. Dan. Cooper !
Who cares to know whether Dan. Cooper’s Eng-
lish-bred horses are winning or losing on their
native heath ?
£. £. Smith, Vie. Commissioner to the
Imperial advertising bureau, to Premier Patterson:
“ Victoria was the only colony which forwarded
congratulations at the opening of the Imperial
Institute. I am proud of my country.” The
addendum is the severest thing that has been said
of Victoria up to date.
The late Marcus Clarke (relates G. A.
Walstab) once got G.A.W. to back a bill of <£2o
for him, under the impression that his bank-
manager would discount it. “My dear Mr.
Clarke,” said the manager, “ I would gladly have
obliged either you or Mr. Walstab separately, but
the conjunction of the two names on one piece of
paper would be rather disastrous to any financial
institution.”
Jos. Symes, of Liberator fame, is also re-
constructing. He says: “I have no money. I
am owing one friend £2OO and odd, another about
£3O. Altogether lam in debt about £250, and
must, in some way, raise at least £lOOO to pay
back the loaned money (owing for the building of
the Hall of Science) and my own debts.” And he
has concluded to go on a lecturing tour round the
world to raise the necessary cash.
President Cleveland, the hog who ha**
never replied to the congratulations of the N.S.W.
Foreign-trade party, is a short, very stout and
very clumsy man, with a shabby silk hat and a
shabby black overcoat and a baggy pair of shabby,
misfit pants. He has a broad, baggy countenance,
a double chin which hangs down like a flesh beard,
a stragglesome grey moustache, and grey hair,
which sticks straight out over the top of a
crumpled collar. Altogether a forcible, aggres-
sive, vulgar man, who seems to make his way in
the world by falling upon all obstacles and squash-
ing them relentlessly with his corporation.
On Looey Sang, the fan-tan croupier of
the early digging days, who died of poverty and
paralysis in Melbourne last week, had chances to
acquire wealth that fall to the lot of few men of
any nationality. Although he smoked opium
almost incessantly, his sense of touch and weight
was so exquisite a few years ago that he would
back himself to tell you every time the exact num-
ber of cash lie took up at fan-tan. The writer was
fool enough, some three years since, to believe this
impossible, and bet accordingly, but, although the
Chinaman never seized out of a big heap less than
80 cash at each grab, he named (before opening his
hand) the exact number it contained fifteen times
in succession—and so won 15 sovereign wagers.
From that day fan-tan ceased to have any charms
for the writer as a game of chance.
Miss Cecily Staunton.
The Bulletin prints herewith a portrait of Mist
Cecily Staunton, well-known in Australia as a
rising contralto, who now proposes to try her for-
tune in the United States, Miss Staunton, th«
wife of Herr Goldenstedt, who has been her chief
musical preceptor, was born in Auckland, M.L.,
where her father, a member of the civil service,
still resides. Having achieved considerable local
reputation as an amateur, she came to Australia
five years ago, and got her first local professional
engagement, with the assistance of Madame Lucy
Chambers, on the memorable occasion when
Lablache and Dimitresco sang in “Carmen” at
Melbourne Opera House. Miss Staunton, after
touring awhile with the Montague-Turner Co.,
chiefly in Queensland, Tasmania, and the Vic-
torian provinces, went last year to Maoriland,
where she gave a series of successful concerts in
her native city, and was the first musician to
entertain Lord Glasgow, the new Governor.
When R. S. Smythe started for Chicago
and England, and sent his son to South Afiica
with Max O’Rell, he no doubt guessed what a
storm would shortly burst over Melbourne, but
his Sydney forecast was not quite accurate. When
the suspension of the Commercial Bank of Aus-
tralia was cabled to Chicago, the Herald inter-
viewed the Much-Travelled, who is reported to
have said : “This institution is not connected in
any way with the Commercial Banking Company
of Sydney, one of the most prosperous banks in
Australia, and which for several years has been
most successfully managed by Mr. T. A. Bibbs,
brother of the politician who is. understood to
have damned Chicago.”
A bitterly Tory journal gives Maoriland
Premier Seddon this little send-off in his new
career;—
Nature built him as a fighter, with great big hints, a
big chest, and an iron frame, a moderate brain and an
immoderate ambition. Early he became a kind of bush
lawyer and talked, then appeared as a mining agent in
the Law Courts and talked, joined debating societies and
talked, was elected to local bodies and talked ; talked
himself into the House, became notorious as the longest
and most frequent talker in it, talked till everyone haled
the sound of Ins incessantly clattering tongue. Having
talked himself into the position of a Minister, at once he
used the spacious new field, for ho talked, and has
talked in many a village where no Minister had ever
appeared before. As a Minister he talked himself into the
Acting-Premiership, and then talked himself into the
position of Prime Minister ! Great is talk, and Seddon is
its prophet! Mr. Rees once talked straight on end tor
20 hours and was beaten. Mr. Seddon has talked almost
continuously for three days, and a House cowed, ex-
hausted, yielded to him. No matter what the subject, he
is ready to talk. His talk is never clever, never witty,
always spun out till it is not worth listening to. It is
quite impossible to do justice to his powers of talk.
A Dog’s Wisdom.
A faithful clog, the property of a medical man
(Dr. C ), was in the habit every night at ten
o’clock of coming to his master to tell him it was
time to retire to rest. Dr. C.’s brother suggested
that the clock should be stopped, in order to know
how the dog knew the hour. The animal appeared
very restless when the clock should have struck.
He ran to his master, tapped him on the knee,
and would not be satisfied till he followed him to
the clock to be convinced that all v as not right.
The dog was accustomed to go round the house in
the evening to ascertain that every place was pro-
perly secured. A window shutter was purposely
left unclosed to test the accuracy of his eye. The
faithful animal passed the whole of the night in
that room, evidently for the purpose of guarding
it. When his master was confined to his bed for
some time with a severe illness, the attached dog
refused to eat, and at length the doctor was
obliged to get up and appear well, lest the dog
should be starved to death. How many people
have the wisdom of this dog? He knew the
danger, but mankind rarely pay attention to the
early symptoms of disease, headaches, neuralgia,
and that tired feeling is neglected till serious
disease sets in, such carelessness is criminal, and
leads to such results as that experienced by Mrs.
0. Herivel, Waratah, N.S.W., who writes on Jan-
uary 31st, 1893 : —About two years ago I was very
much troubled with indigestion. The symptoms
were complete loss of appetite, continual head-
aches, pains between the shoulders and chest. I
had no sooner taken a meal than I felt inclined to
vomit. I had a continual languid feeling; instead
of being able to work I had to lie down half of my
time. I tried various remedies, but failed in
getting relief. On seeing Mrs. Dent’s letter in
the papers, and the good she had derived from the
use of Clements Tonic, I resolved to try it. I
did so, and found I began to improve before I had
finished the first bottle. By the time I had taken
six or seven bottles I was entirely cured. Iliad
such confidence in Clements Tonic that when a
daughter of mine, aged seven years, who showed
symptoms of dropsy, I put her under a course of
it, and I am only too happy to state that it has
made as thorough a cure as it did of me. I have
recommended it to a good many of my friends,
who have all derived great benefit from the use
of Clements Tonic.—l remain, yours gratefully,
Mrs. C. Herivel, Waratah, New South Wales.
Health is impossible when the blood is impure,
thick, and sluggish, or when it is thin and im-
poverished. Such conditions give rise to boils,
pimples, and other disorders. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
purifies and vitalizes the blood.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney
Price for Ordinary Cabinet 1 holographs,
15s. per Dozen.
Platinotype Cabinet Photographs,
OAo DAP DOZ62I<
“Invest Your Money in Land.”
M CRT’S TOWNSHIP.
On Railway Municipality of Ilurstville, only 10 miles
from the City of Sydney. Next Public-school.
Gas and City Water.
Title Certificate lodged with Registrar-General security
for purcht.s ;rs. Vol., 1000 ; Folio, 170 ; Utiicial Plan, 2921.
Prices range fiom £5 to £lO 10s. per Lot.
TERMS £t CASH; 10 s. MONTHLY.
I guarantee no forfeiture if you are sick or out of work.
Clients in the country can rely on faithful si lection. No
rooks, gullies, or swamps, or money returned in full.
Deeds sent to any part of the world ; personal attendance
unnecessary at Sydney. You can pay as you like. This
is a genuine offer to those who have a few pounds to
spare. No fencing clause, no land-tax, and Torrens'
Title, which cannot be jumped even if you do not turn up
for ages hence. Deeds made out in names of children or
wives. Free Plans post free from
E. C. V, BROUGHTON,
Licensed Auctioneer, PCH Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
FLEMING’ S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
33 A 34 €lareuce-strect,
SYDNEY.
ì
i
ì
POLITICAL
POINTS
S.A. now has not half as many “drunk’’
&tses as ten years ago. Bad times?
Of the 10 new members of S.A, Assembly
eight ate direct Labour representatives.
Although Pliant O’Loghlen’s historical
decision may not haVe been “crooked,” it was
fcertairily a little Bent.
, . Ass Baker j M.L.0., publicly
blessed! the Downer Government at the meeting
Of S.A. Parliament. That killed it.
“ All for popularity !” Sneer the boom
papers. It is lucky for Victoria that one man
seeks popularity on thfe straight track.
Some members oi the Australian Club*
Sydney, returned the Duff banquet tickets sent
them, because His Excellency is a Home Ruler.
In appointing little Cowley to the ,Q.
Speakership, and Philp to the Ministership for
Mines, MTlwraith cut the heads off the Separa-
tion movement.
Excluding Independents, the Q. Labour
and Opposition parties make up the third neces-
sary to prevent the cloture being applied. Awk-
ward for MTlwraith.
As the Yankees are sending a cruiser to
Samoa to stand-by during the expected fight, pro-
bably Germany will send another—to seize Robert
Louis Stevenson and cut his hair.
The rival of Attorney-General Barton for
one of East Sydney’s seats, who pleaded for a post-
office billet, and not getting it stood as a Labour
candidate, has at last become a G.P.O. official.
The extension of the Local Court system
in S.A. has reduced the Supreme Court cases from
1104 in 1883 to 169 in 1892. The police-court cases
in S.A. dropped from 12,133 in 1883 to 7222 in
1893.
It is sickening to hear an M.L.A., who
prayed and fawned before his constituents, tell
Parliament that, were he an unemployed, he would
die in the gutter rather than ask Government for
work.
In N.S. W., Miller(Comptroller of Prisons),
O’Connor (Minister of Justice), Barton (Attorney-
General) and Dibbs (Premier) actively urge the
employment of the lash for the repression of
crime.
South Australia’s Customs revenue still
shrinks. For the 11 months ended June 6, 1891,
<£567,218 ; for the 11 months to June 4, 1892,
,£580,447 ; for the 11 months to June 3, 1893,
d£504,088.
Parkes’ real political rivals—the people
who have most helped to snuff him out —are Bruce
Smith and M'Millan. You never hear any N.S. W.
Freetrader asking now—“ What should we do if
Parkes were gone ?”
Dear Bulletin,—
It is more than pro-
bable that, in the very
near future, Central
and Northern Separa-
tion will become ex-
clusively a Labour
demand in Queens-
land. Formerly, the
Northern capitalists
Wished severance from
the South that they
might have a free
hand as regards black
labour; and, contrast-
ingly, Northern
Laboitr-men opposed
the division of the
province, so long as
the South assisted to
exclude the niggers.
But, now! The
South has jammed
the cheap and reliable
Kanaka down our
throats, and from the
Kanaka to the Coolie
is a short step.
Black - labour being
thus assured to the
North, you may ex-
pect to see the capi-
talistic representa-
tives of the North
abandon the Separa-
tion agitation, and
jombine with the
Southern monopolists
.n the endeavour to
crush labour by dis-
franchising the bush-
anen and miners,
while handing over
the pick of the mineral
and agricultural lands
to the land-grab-rail-
way gang. The Cen-
tral and Northern
divisions have shown
shemselves so danger- , .
insly Democratic that-mark now my prophecy !
die Northern Fat Man will drop the cry for Separa-
tion and independent provinces, as the yearning
for a calamity of huge magnitude. Youis,
Berseker.
Patriarch Parkes indirectly promised the
N.S.W. female vanguard that he would endeavour
to secure women the franchise by moving a
proper time,” for the omission of the word
“ male ” in the second part of the Electoral Act.
There are now four Labour papers in
Queensland —The Worker, Brisbane ; Eagle,
Charters Towers; Peoit.e’s Paper, Rockhampton;
and the Patriot, Maryborough. And the name
of every one of them, save the Eagle, is a mistake.
According to a return presented to S.A.
Legislative Council it is shown that only two em-
ployes of the railway department or the Govern-
ment Printing Office belong to the National
Defence League. One of them is probably a spy.
The bebaubled Downer’s Government
(S.A.) is the only one turned out of office without
debate. They have reduced the no-confidence
business to a science in S.A. But the Kingston-
Holder-Playford-Cockburn Government will not
be turned out of office without debate.
Patterson and MTI wraith are the only
Australian Premiers who possess the courage—
and the brutality—to tell the unemployed straight
that they are not entitled to work or food. But
all the others—even Forrest of West Australia—
concede that men are entitled to work or food.
During the last five years 122 American
railroads have gone bankrupt, fraudulently or
otherwise, and have been seized by the mortgagees.
An eloquent commentary on the brassy lie
so much dinned into the ears of Australians that
the only way to make railways pay is to hand
them over to “private enterprise.”
The reduction of the Yic. vice-regal salary
to <£7ooo reminds one that, in the old, gold-fever,
five-pound-notes-in-sandwiches days, Victoria’s
Governors got <£15,000. For the last score of
years, ,£IO,COO and perquisites made up the recog-
nised “screw.” Sir Henry Barkly is the only
living ex-Governor of Victoria who drew salary at
the rate of .£15,000.
Eloquent heading in last Thursday’s Melb.
papers. “The shipping difficulty. A reduction
decided on. Conference of employers. Men
invited to discuss matters.” In “The Vicar of
Bray,” the heroine, speaking to the two swains
disputing for her hand, says: “We’ll talk the
matter over together, but whatever you decide
upon I won’t marry Tommy.”
The noble Marquis of Salisbury was not
far removed from a noble liar when he said, last
week, that it was a national tradition with the
Irish to teach their children to hate England.
Their hatred is only for English rnis-government,
and English soldiers on the spot. Otherwise
Patrick merely refrains from worshipping England
with the deeply-interested devotion of a Salisbury,
or the sickening fervour of a British snob.
A coincidence 1 Or something deeper,
and naturally resultant ? Maoriland is the only
Australasian province that is governed by a
Labour Parliament. And Maoriland is the only
Australasian province in which (during its period
of financial and commercial disasters) not one
M.P. and not one banking or financial manager
or director has been accused of embezzlement, or
fraudulent conspiracy, or criminal default.
Dear Bulletin, —Are not Burns, Philp
and Co., Limited, the Government contractors for
many things in many parts of Queensland ? And
Bob’ Philp, practically the working head of the
firm, is Minister for Mines and Works! As a
meiiiher of the Cabinet, therefore, he will be often
required to file or to pass claims preferred by him-
self, as a member of the firm ; won’t he? Is this
right ? Is it constitutional ? Is it legal ? —Yours,
J ust So.
SILENCE IN COURT!
SARGINT X. (with reference
to the shuffling of feet in
the gallery) : “Howld yer
tongue with thim feet of
yours!”
Graham Berry’s friends of to-day, thos
who wish to give him a Parliamentary grant, ar
grateful because Jerry did not do what lie migh
have done. Berry did not look to the people fo
his reward years ago. It is too late nov\ ;
Nay, nay, the people know him not—
This Jingo knight with courtier s mien.
The man he was he. lias forgot
For what he is has lie not been
Iljwaid -d by his gracious Queen?
A prorogation speech, composed by Minis-
ters in power, and not amenable to criticism at
the time of delivery, is one of the very hollowest
of the mockeries of constitutional practice, io
have any value whatever as a State document, it
should pass the House before the close of the
session. It is certain that the speech read at the
N S W. prorogation would never have passed the
House iu session. Why, then, turn Gov. Duff
into a tube and squirt it through him?
M‘ll wraith’s present great strength lies in
the absence from Q. Parliament of any man
who is considered capable of proving a strong
party leader. Morehead has been tried and found
short of ballast. Dickson is all wind. Gro >m is
aged, and getting weak physically, besides being
burdened with a record. Drake is a barracker only.
Hoolan is an unhobbled emphasis. Nelson and
Tozer are both tucked under the apoplectic demi-
god’s armpits. The others are not there.
The Yic. Acting-Railway Commissioners
order that on the new motors (to replace
engines on certain lines) only one man shall be
employed, to act both as driver and fireman.
When this man dies suddenly, or takes a fit, or
meets with some other accident, as must inevitably
be the case some day, the passengers
The appointment of that good-natured
nonentity, the weightless Robert Harrison Smith,
of Bowen, as Government whip, is a surprise to
most inner-circle Queensland politicians. MTl-
wraith even wanted to make him Chairman of
Committees. One of Mac’s colleagues had the
grit to object strongly—and this fact, even in so
small a matter, is significant of future troubles
that await the domineering and choleric chief—
and so Annear was planted in the chairman’s seat.
Then MTlwraith succeeded in getting Smith the
whipship—a snub to Jack Hamilton, who may
probably be relied on to become a troublesome
free-lance and corner Ishmaelite. The only public
reason for Smith’s appointment is that he was one
of the few faithful Mac-tags who followed the
morose and dethroned leader into his cave when
he quarrelled with his supplanting first-lieutenant
Morehead, before he committed political incest
with Griffith. Of those faithful cave-men but two
are in the present Q. Parliament—Smith and
Corfield —and the latter’s election may yet be de-
clared invalid.
Population of
S.A., 331,721.
Fairbanks, a
spokesman of the
unemployed, dur-
ing an interview,
presumed to ad-
dress Prem i er
Patterson quite as
a common person,
and the outraged
statesman in-
structed the police
“to enquire into
the aggressor’s
antecedents.” It
was found that
Fairbanks was
once connected
with the Sydney
unemployed, that
“he was an agi-
tator. and a very
troublesomeman,
Fairbanks, a com-
paratively gener-
ous man, does not
intend to retaliate
by inquiring into
Mister Patter-
son’s antecedents.
Sydney Bell
(Eng.) predicts
that Australiaand
Maoriland will be
mostly swallowed
up by the sea be-
fore 1925. Very
p r o b a b 1 y—the
leprosee, if Chow-
importing Wes-
tralia has any say
in destiny.
N.S. W. Premier Dibbs said to a deputa-
tion, one day last week; “ Men will live by
charity, but they will not work for less than the
standard rate of wages.” Premier Dibbs himself
works for a standard rate of wages; so do his
Ministers. A month or two ago, when O’Sullivan
proposed to cut that rate down, Minister Lyne
said he would abandon his post, and the Austra-
lian Stab published a warm - blooded article
declaring that if salaries were cut down Ministers
of competence would decline office. So much for
the crime of refusing less than standard rates.
With regard to taking charity, there is no such
word in the vocabulary of the true State, or else
Premier Dibbs is himself receiving it.
“ Rubbish!” said N.S.W. Justice Stephen
when Barrister Heydon declared that an unbiassed
jury could not be got in Dubbo, to try a suit in
which the defendant was the blood-relation of
wealthy local squatterdom, worth hundreds of
thousands of pounds sterling, and liberal wjth its
spending money on public occasions. “ Non-
sense ! ” retorted Heydon, “it is nonsense to say
that a Dubbo jury would not be biassed in favour
of defendant. ” Whereupon the judge granted de-
fendant his requested “change of venue,” saying,
“ I never heard such an objection raised before !
Yet it was on account of a similar reason, then
urged by the Crown, that the Broken Hill
“strike” trials were removed from Broken Hill
where defendants were popular) to Deniliquin,
where the only possible “ honest jurymen ’ were
barnacles of capitalism.
Sydney Daily Telegraph always makes a
point of whooping for advanced Liberalism*
Socialism, and Republicanism when they are afar
off, though it always curses them when they are
close at hand because they interfere with “ private
enterprise.” Owing to this habit it came out on
Monday with a yell of exultation about the over-
whelming victory of the Socialists at the German
elections, “an event whose magnitude cannot be
estimated nor its consequences foreseen.” The
Telegraph, it appears, imagines that the Ultra-
montanes are Socialists, and being drunk with
this horrid delusion it straightway went and made
of itself about the worst fool on record. And it
did the thing with such a glad enthusiasm, and so
carefully left itself no possibility of escape from
its ghastly blunder, that the article is the most
refreshing thing seen in the Telegraph for many
years.
The new S.A. Government consists ol
Charles Cameron Kingston, Q.C., Attorney"
General and Premier; Thomas Playford, Trea-
surer ; F. W. Holder, Works; P. P, Gillen,
Lands ; J. A, Cockburn, M.D., Education ; and
John H. Gordon, M.L.C., Chief Secretary.
Three of the team are S.A.-born and three of them
have previously held office as Premiers. 'The last
three successive Prime Ministers of S.A. are
natives of the province—Holder, John Downer,
and Kingston. It is also remarkable that four ol
the present Cabinet also formed part of the Govt,
which, with the assistance of Playford and
Kingston, heartily rendered, Downer turned out
of office in Oct. last. All the Labour-members
voted in a block for Kingston, from whom, it is
asserted, they have received satisfactory pledges.
Kingston and Gordon are solicitors; Cockburn, s
retired physician; Holder, an ex - newspape*
editor; Playford, a market gardener ; and Gillen,
a country storekeeper. All have been in office
before, and the coalition is looked upon as
the strongest that has occupied the Treasury
benches in S.A. since the present generation took
an interest in politics. Chaffey Baker, when the
accession of Kingston to office was announced,
waxed bitter in his place in the Council. He
dragged up the duel episode again and wanted tc
know how a man who is bound over to keep the
peace—for the year does not expire till December
next—could possibly be entrusted with the con-
duct of the business of the country, _,A majority
of the Assembly, however, appears* to believe
that a man might want to shoot Chaffey Baker-
“The Soudan donkey (which cost at least £450,000 in all) at Sydney Zoological
Gardens earned £2 10s. during last month.”
UNEMPLOYED ([?]ol.) : “Two pound ten in one month and board!”
and still be eminently qualified to legislate for the
good of the general body of South Australians.
The Register, which is the bray of the National
Ass, also became hysterical over the matter. It
was impossible to accept Kingston ; no reputable
politician would join him—the Assembly would
refuse to recognise him—and the public would
scout him. However, he is Premier, and Play-
ford, who, it was prophesied, “ would have
nothing to do with the new team,” is his chief
lieutenant. The motion which resulted in the
Downer downfall was moved, seconded, divided
on, and carried in less than five minutes —surely
the quickest political execution on record.
Fresh Goldfields
Would be the means of closing one of the avenues
to the feeling of insecurity now universally pre-
valent, for they would carry away the surplus
unemployed, and thus prove the magnet to attract
from Sydney the direct cause of its stagnation.
The presence with us of so many men, condemned
to enforced idleness, is a condition that affects the
whole colony—whether the Village Settlement
Bill will prove a panacea for the evil is question-
able. No doubt such a discovery will soon be
made known, for the colony is pregnant with rich
mineral veins. Yet a change from the shelter of
the metropolis to the stern and rough realities of
a camp existence will entail consequences of a
serious, if not fatal character, unless provision be
made for such an alteration of circumstances. On
this point we have read a letter from Mr. Hugh
Driver, an old digger residing in the Port Darwin
district, and addressed to Marshall Bros., the pro-
prietors of “ Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,” in which
he says :
“Forward me by early steamer two dozen bottles of
your “ Tonic Nervine,” it is the best preparation (and I
have tried many) to fortify my constitution against the
severe strain imposed by a residence in this climate—its
action is to throw up a rampart against the deadly arrows
of this insidious atmosphere.”
All who wish to preserve health and accumulate
wealth, should lay in a stock of this invaluable
tonic. It is also an absolute safeguard against
malarial and other fevers from which the members
of the recent expeditions to New Guinea and
other tropical countries have so severely suffered.


110 mT
'■
_ o
TORTURE’S CLIMAX— SHE WILL SING TO THEM I
.‘.‘Mien men should get M «W» mercy «i Wien women, » mm were animals they should be locked up in cages like wild b Wh ."-A m n»> Smtm


<£ **
/" 7 /
<•**,>
*=t ?->
**A et . .
£?•** r^
‘p'***?' f
> '* «. M
NfWSPfIPER
OFFICE
y'
k iCUEMiy *p^
U
. <^ <xs °u.T 0 r v/. a/ ‘t ' I!
■■*.#
SNA2ELLH S
TA B B R N_A C L £
NOTiC E-
DRESSCircIe Tew
holders are TiegoesieD
l( (» . . l<‘* ' 1 * *
it < • • * l,M '
9 11« * * * w « »
> r # <-•
tv*
o
0
' eW/ '/y /*>
Coz-ntny ouToj-
Zr A? / s 5 A ell.
\tf\r* OL.£
Iflf HHTIONfIt
\4ui«i> i> *sHo < y
/ lECAU V
OSJ%CTIO^
.
s' -ft t
is. Serncu m fc vf4 . „c. v
-^*'/»•)* tC ~;, , s^’
Sip, is e<v ' / frT7_ l | t e- ®^ lVX<
- 'He flte uvni^
S?£/c;ht
v
s r M
To pon tL O
in i < v
u. (< * •
'ifia "Premier Considers
Ithftt vigilance committees should be appointed
'in the various municipal districts to watch at
|night over the necessities of the unfortunate
(homeless poor. He is arranging to make a
personal midnight inspection shortly of the
places in the city where the destitute g«aa-
jglly congregate.
Sfae/trA fa%
//a ml ef )
1 ■£
T>e oi.t 7i e.
I glut's clelcxyi
~urk <2 n. ] micj
At x
Settle i{e.
ti%. h Ct. I~ €U
7 «. *j
pa cl l< //'*— *
i
IN MELBOURNE.


Ileut^ch-^tstmlisclw
Ersoheint jeden Sonnabcnd in Sydney. Preis 3d.
Zu haben bei alien Zeitungs-Agenten.
Abonnement 10 sh. Jahrlieh direct bei der
Foreign Publishing OJice , 26 Hunter Str., Sydney.
Advice to Young Men— Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use.” Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Si dney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
-rent price. For external use try Colbmanb and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Oootamundra.N.S.W
Society
Gov. Duffs peculiarity is that, talking,
listening to a play or concert, or thinking, he is
perpetually twirling his moustache. The Duff
twirl ought to become as popular as the Oarington
yawn.
» * *
Governor Loch urged Australian breeders
to go in for carriage horses, and Hopetoun harped
on the same string, when he first came. How
now ?
» * »
That action for libeLby Butters against a
Wangaratta paper (in which the honour of his
floating pub., “The Mount Maoedon ” was at
stake) seems to have been settled out of court.
Wanted, a law to prevent the settlement of spicy
cases in this peaceful manner.
# * #
The Australian soldiers are to “take part
in the military escort to the Duke of York and
Princess Mary of Teck, on the occasion of their
marriage.” The hired bravo and the functional
flunkey are one and the same marauding maggot.
But to be the menial maggot of a blood-royal
maggot is indeed a wormy degradation,
* * *
A very great (and well-advertised, and
democratically well-hated) Victorian military
authority, recently remarked that the N.S.W.
cavalry, at present junketing in England, were
“a larrikin lot, flash both in dress and behaviour.”
He further laid the phantasmal unction to his
soul that, however well they might do, they could
never rob the Victorian show of the glory of
having been first in the field of Imperial puppet
performers. How he must have kicked himself
when he read of the personal inspection and phiz
presentation of Queen Victoria ! The old lady
didn’t even know his crowd were in England.
# # m
Not a few pastoralists on the Victorian
borders will be painfully surprised to learn that
“ a rich new-chutn ” and his friend, who eased
them of their cash and jewellery at Nap, 19
months ago, are now doing time as members of
the Sydney long-firm combination.
# * *
Several influential lights in the Presby-
terian and Baptist communities of Melbourne,
are very secretly and silently bewailing the
break-up (by the landlady’s creditors) of a most
select suburban establishment, where elderly,
wealthy and discreet married gentlemen were
boarded and lodged by the week. The retreat
was given away by a Toorak lady discovering her
hubby to be there instead of in Bendigo where he
was supposed to have gone on very urgent busi-
ness. The hubby, by the by, is deacon of a very
straight land-church in Melbourne.
A Brisbane man,
travellinginarailway-
train, spotted one of
the Q. Railway Com-
missioners as his fel-
low-passenger, he be-
ing himself unknown
to the potentate. He
engaged the great
man in conversation,
and, growing confi-
dential, blurted out
that heoften travelled
from Brisbane to
Toowong “ without
taking a ticket, and
the guards never
tumble.” The Coni-
missionergrew affable
and offered his cigar-
case, with—“ I wish
you’d let me into
your secret, as I have
to do a lot of travel-
ling.” The other fel-
low froze up, and
said he wasn’t a bab-
bling fool to part
with money’s-worth
without money. A
half - sov. eventually
opened his mouth —
“Well, you see, I
walk it.”
# • *
Odd that so very
few Australian R.O.
priests should be tee-
totallers, while the
three chief prelates
were abstainers.
A droll “ exhibit ” in the Speight v. Syme
libel case is a letter from Shackell, M.L.A., to the
Railway Commissioner, begging that a certain
“ charming young widow,” of Numurkah, might
be appointed to the charge of a gate-crossing. Ihe
residents of Numurkah seem to have risen as one
man to back up this request. T hey had considered
the charming young widow in her weeds, and
were prepared to swear that she would fill a
gate sufficiently. But Speight was obdurate. In-
stead of going down to take a peep at the bereaved
vision—in which case, as Numurkah knew very
well, he must have collapsed in the ordinary
human way—Speight replied that there was no
available gate for the widow to till.
# * *
Melb. Argus dwelt lovingly upon the
evidence that Wheeler, late Minister of the Vic.
railways, gave the Age a standing order to inspect
all letters and documents bearing upon Speight s
management, and that one of the present Railway
Commissioners ordered a junior clerk to hand
certain books over to the same influential journal
for a day or two. The cross-examination of the
witness, who made these admissions with reluc-
tance, was a thing of joy for the Argus. Thus—
“ Who did instruct you to allow the Age to have
the run of your office?” Answer—“ The Minister.”
And so forth, with due record of the occasional
“hesitation,” or “after a pause,” of the witness.
A whole column of matter, both amusing and in-
structive—in the Argus. Yet the Age managed
to condense this same evidence down to eight
lines, wedged into the middle of an unattractive
paragraph. Which shows that even the “great”
journals differ in their ideas as to “ great” journal-
ism.
# * *
For the opening of the Imperial Institute
speculators erected huge stands opposite the
building for the accommodation of sight-seers,
and many thousands of seats were sold at one
place or another for a guinea to five guineas
each. As much as <£2o was offered for a seat in the
grand hall. The contractors for the public stands,
who had been at an outlay of over <£15,000, tried
to insure Queen Victoria’s life at Lloyd’s for
£30,000, as a kind of hedge in case anything
should happen to the old lady and so spoil the
show. Nixon, the chairman of Lloyd’s (married,
by the way, to a daughter of the late Canon All-
wood, of Sydney), would not do the policy.
# * *
Riding in a Sydney ’bus t’other day was a
sandy man, with sandy hair, sandy eyebrows,
sandy beard, sandy and brick-coloured skin, and
a general sandiness about his tout ensemble that,
together with his cheek-bones, inclined one to a
belief that his name was Sandy M'Something.
A lady got in. She was an ordinary enough lady,
kid-gloved, smart-bonneted, fashionably-attired,
but as soon as she sat down Sandy’s eyes became
glued to her dress, and an expression of idiotic
amazement bestrewed his countenance. He
stared, and stared, and the lady began to fidget
visibly, but still he stared. His eyes grew bigger
and bigger, but they remained fixed upon the plaid
of her dress. She was opposite him, a little higher
up, but by and by some people got out. Sandy
immediately moved up slowly till his knees were
against hers, and then, leaning down, he took up
a bit of her dress between thumb and forefinger.
“Eh,” he said, “Ye did’na buy that oot
here? Ye—did’na—buy—that—oot—here.” It
was his native tartan. The lady never gets into a
’bus in that dress now.
# * *
A number of charitable gentlemen (of the
sort whose names are always in the papers)
visited Adelaide Exhibition grounds in the small
hours recently to ascertain how many “ desti-
tutes ” had to keep the open air. They invaded
the sheep-pens and cattle-stalls with lanterns and
note-books, rudely awakened the houseless slum-
berers, asked them many impertinent questions,
and then—let them go to sleep again just where
they were.
« * *
An emaciated, rain-drenched, long-work-
less man got a Sydney Domain-hospital outdoor
ticket the other day. Examination proved him a
physical wreck. “Well,” said Dr. , “no
good giving you much medicine; what you want
is warmth and care. Keep out of the cold for a
week or so, and stick to rice or sago and mutton-
broth.” “Good God ! doctor, I’m sleeping out
every night, and haven’t a penny in-the world !
“ Well, do the best you can.” “ Can’t you send
me somewhere?” “No, no; I can only advise
you.” And things will be even worse if nothing
substantial comes of self-denial week.
# # #
The law and the doctors said murderer
Smedley was sane, and so murderer Smedley was
hanged. The law, but not the doctors, said
DR. JOHNSON DOWN TO THE GROUND.
BOSWELL: “But, sir, surely you will allow that the lady at the piano has
a vigorous touch?”
JOHNSON : “ Touch do you call it, forsooth! Why, sir, its a blow; a
positive blow !”
murderer Colston was sane, and he was hanged’
too. But in both cases the public instinct is that
the men were lunatics, and that the executions
were mere brutalities—utterly purposeless except
so far as getting rid of the convicts is concerned.
Such hangings serve no end but that of bringing
the law into contempt and helping to place the
frame into which God is said to have blown the
breath of His nostrils on the same plane as that of
the pig stuck at the abattoirs. A deterrent to
crime ! You might as well poll-axe your paralysed
father with a view to deterring your grey-headed
mother from becoming a victim to mental aliena-
tion. * *
# * *
Although executions in Sydney Gaol are
supposedly private, they really are not. Last
week, when Smedley was choked at Darlinghurst,
100 boys assembled on an adjacent eminence to
watch the ghastly proceedings. At Darlinghurst
the hangings take place in the open air. At Mel-
bourne Gaol, the judicial slaughter is accomplished
in a corridor.
» * *
Dear Bulletin,— Re your list of possible
knights among Australian journalists. David
Syrne is the only Victorian whom you mention.
What about Sir Frederick Madden and Mr.
Howard Willoughby, C.M.G. ; the Rev. W. H.
Eitchett and Sir James Smith, Knight Bachelor?
And, then, above all, how about Sir James
Thomson, who loyally named the “Queen’s”
Bridge over the river Yarra ? —Yours, &0., A Bat
Man.
# * *
Perhaps the most touching incident of the
Gaiety fracas in Dunedin was supplied by “ the
ladies who had been in the hands of the police.”
Instead of being proud, and scornful towards the
gentlemen in uniform these warm-hearted ladies
thanked them for their considerate treatment,
and shook hands with the brave, blushing fellows
in a most affable manner. A pretty sight it must
have been. The Gaiety ladies, a little crumpled
by being slung out of the newspaper office in the
first instance, clutching the honest paws of the
perleece for the first time, doubtless, in their dear
little lives. In years to come many a greyhaired
ex-sergeant of Dunedin will gaze tenderly at his
“ dooks,” ere raising them reverently to intercept
a long-drawn sigh.
• • •
There was an “at home” on board the
“ colonial ” warship Nelson, in Hobson’s bay,
the other Saturday, and the papers reported the
delight of the elite at the entertainment provided,
but said nothing of the boats manned by dummies,
and blown up by torpedoes for the delectation of
the ladies. Members of the retrenchment Ministry
were there, too.
A commer-
cial - souled
larrikin from
Woolloomoo-
loo commenc-
ed negotia-
tions, on the
afternoon of
Tuesday, for
“afootor two”
of the rope
with which
Smedley had
been hanged
that day. This
plaited hemp
is saleable
among certain
“pushes,” the
gruesome re-
lics being es-
teemed as ex-
hibits on the
members’
watchchains.
Smedley was,
com paratively
speaking, an
unknown, and
it is conjec-
tured that if
thewell-adver-
tised Archer
be called on to
go through the
drop the whole
rope will be in
use as watch-
guards before
the ensuinr
Sunday.
Dear Bulletin, — I had a casual interview
one day last week with an intending Paraguayan
immigrant. I suppose he was no more ignorant
than the majority of the crowd. In the course of
conversation I made a remark about the treatment
r -ceived by previous colonists from the i ara-
[/nayan Government. His reply was memorable.
“Do you think,” he said, that a colony of Eng-
lishmen, living under the British flag, will stand
that sort of thing from a wretched crowd like
theih’” I pointed out td him, firstly, that the
Paraguayan, regarded as fighting material, was
not so very “ wretched,” and that if Lane s colony
proposed to boss the Government by force, they
would have a most amazing contract oh hand :
also, that there was no British flag in the ques-
tion, and that the man who started hoisting that
emblem might possibly be mistaken for an insur-
trent and shot. Thereupon he sternly gathered up
his coat-tails and left, with the air of a man who
was shaking off a heretic. Evidently he was
firmly convinced that Lane’s settlement was to be
a little independent State, and that any interfer-
ence with the colonists would be an international
question ; also, he had seemingly been warned to
turn a deaf ear to the person who goes about like
a roaring lion casting reflections on the great
scheme. — Yours, &c., Titus Balt.
* *
At length apostles of the Age know there
is such a paper as the Argus, and vice versa.
Each organ now alludes to its reptile contemp. by
name.
* * *
A coming epidemic —Bank-grip.
• * *
A N.S.W. Minister of the Crown says he
would rather black boots in public than endure
the contumely borne by certain reporters while
gleaning news in Government departments.
# * *
The fashionable All Saints’ Church, St.
Kilda, Melb., fairly ferments. Bishop Goe has
long been awaiting a chance to replace the
Ritualistic Gregory with an incumbent of his
own brand, and the chance has come. Canon
Potter (author of the queerest novel ever pub-
lished) is the Bishop’s nominee, but the parish
insists on genuflecting Canon Green, from Glenelg.
# * *
An Australian Supreme Court Judge
wrote, a couple of months ago, to the Attorney-
General of the Administration, detailing facts of
certain cases and complaining of the inefficiency
and incompetency of the Crown Prosecutor.
# * *
For years the N.S.W. Crown Prosecutors
have been chosen mostly from the spineless weak-
lings of the bar. Once they were in the mam
hopeless drunkards ; of late they have been sober
enough but have chiefly been picked from among
the meekest of professional doves and the most
timorous of professional rabbits. Old Judge
Wilkinson is about to retire. He cannot be re-
placed-- thank Heaven !-but he will probably be
succeeded by Crown-Prosecutor Coffey. Who is to
succeed Coffey ? Neither brandy nor milk-and-
water, it is to be hoped.
Gov. Duff trusts Captain Leigh implicitly
as to the persons eligible for N.S.W. Government
House intimacies, and Capt. Leigh relies in great
part on Rupert Carington. Before the Oarington
regime, Ex-Chief Justice Stephen and “the
twins ” were almost rulers of the windy social sea.
# # *
“ Chivalry in matters moral and political*
as a public sentiment, is but a germ which remains
with us women to deyelope in that most worthy
soil, the hearts of men,” says the N.S.W. Woman-
hood Suffrage League’s annual report. Rlease
recite this in a suitable falsetto :—•
Mr. Hudson, secretary of the Australian
Shipowners’ Association, says “it is better for the
seamen to take .£5 a month than to be thrown out
of work altogether.” That is true ;so very true
that Martin Tupper has included the principle in
his Proverbial Philosophy. But what men realise,
when they strike, that they will be thrown out of
A PROMISING OUTLOOK.
“And yon insist on my getting my life insured before we are engaged?”
“Yes, even before you ask Pa.”
work altogether ? There is no such issue ever at
stake to the minds of workmen.
• • •
“ Poor Jack ” is evidently going to have a
good time; The owners supply him with food for
himself, but in future he must buy every other
personal necessary and provide for his wife and
family ashore on £5 a month or 235. a week.
J # # *
The Sydney attempt to erect a memorial
to Bobby Burns needs nursing. This becomes
evident in view of the fact that three of the
prime movers imposed themselves on a cab the
other day, and insisted on paying but one shilling
for a 25 minutes 1 ride.
* * *
It is asserted by one who knows that the
proportion of N.S.W. Legislative Councillors who
eat peas with their knives is much higher than the
knife-swallowers of the Legislative Assembly.
This is a society item, and will interest Gov.
Duff - *
Some eight years ago, a Goulburn Yalley
(Yic.) oockie hanged himself in a fovvlhouse.
When a crowd had assembled round the suspended
corpse, the hired man drew out his sheath-knife.
“What the (hallelujah) are you going to do ?”
broke in a grown-up son. “ Why, cut him down,
of course.” “Cut him down ! Yer (dandy) fool,
don’t cut it; untie the knots. That there’s the
best halter we’ve got!” Thrift!
# * *
An old Sydney sinner, who had long
odiously followed up a lady, cornered her the
other day at a public luncheon-room, and auda-
ciously handed her his card, with a request for
reciprocation. Swiftly she wrote a legend nearly
like this : “ Mrs. Tootoo, 027 Mushroom Covert,
Burrtown; ray husband is at Budgee; at home
this evening at 8 o’clock.” The giddy old roue
called at “No. 027,” found Mr. Tootoo (the hus-
band of quite another woman) in a very savage
humour, and was carried, a deplorable wreck,
back to the city.
* * *
The exhibition feat at a N.S.W. country-
town is to get the distinguished visitor to ring the
fire-bell and time the fire-brigade turning out to a
false alarm. But recently there arrived in that
town a visitor from Victoria who was a fire-
fighting magnate himself in his own township.
He had “been there” and insisted on locating
the fire in the opposite direction to that suggested
and he also stipulated that he should be at the
station when the alarm rang out. Thus by sud-
denly entering unannounced, he discovered various
firemen climbing into Wellington boots and buck-
ling on tomahawks in readiness for the “unex-
pected ” signal, and when the alarm did sound,
they all, as one man, climbed into places in less
than no time. But the steeds, which hadn’t been
made aware of the change of programme, posi-
tively refused to swerve out of the usual line of
route, despite the fact that 14 excited men wore
hanging on to the reins and yelling, “Whoa!”
On the contrary, the horses beat the record past
the usual winning-post, and were last seen fading
into the distance with the proud bearing of foam-
ing and champing quadrupeds that had nobly
done their duty.
# * *
Dear Bulletin,— Who is responsible for
the Sydney Public Library’s influenza-breeding
rule of “hats off?” Again, how is it that any
wanted magazine, or other periodical, can only bo
looked at when it is from a month to six weeks
stale? Who is it that is ?J ~ra ys reading the fresh
numbers ? V isiTOR.
By our long back hair
(On the dressing-chair);
By our spare, false teeth,
By the gums beneath,
By our large, glass eye,
By our rouge and dye,
By our crimson’d lips,
By our padded hips,
By the swelling bust
Men accept on trust —
We will foster the germ
In the masculine worm !


Have yon a cough? Sleepless nights need no
longer trouble you. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral will
stop the cough, allay the inflammation, and in.
duce repose. It will, moreover, heal the pul-
monary organs and give you health.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value tore Obtained Elsewhere,
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling; merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FBUHICH,
UEBEL and LECHLBITER, CAUL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos Inj ail Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSE Y’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock, of New and Popular Music;
Sydney daily papers are most particular to
give the full names of the stipendiary magistrates
who sit at the police courts. It is by this time
absolutely burnt into the public min’d that Mr.
Johnson’s front name is “ Whittingdale/’and that
Mr. Clarke is an O’Malley. For years it has been
proclaimed that Mr. Fisher is a “ Captain,” and
that his initials are A. M. But, in a morning
P a P er > Mr. Fisher has now been blown into
Captain Arthur Money Fisher, S.M.”
* * *
A cool and sequestrated spot—Melbourne.
* * *
Included in a bill of expenses which re-
cently came before a N.S.W. Public Trustee was
the cost of “waking” deceased. Items : 14 bottles
of whisky, 14 bottles of rum, Jib. of biscuits.
* * #
On dit that the Sydney detectives are
working on a scandal of the notorious Oleveland-
street Club type. Well-known men are implir
cated.
* • *
The last execution of a white man in S.A.
took place in 1883.
* » «
A Wellington (M.L.) youth recently asked
that his sister-in-law be bound over to keep the
peace, as she had twice called him “a China-
man.
* # #
A burglar arrested at South Melbourne
last week gave the name of Bryan O’Loghlen.
He evidently hopes for a nolle prosequi.
* * *
London advt. ;
Mrs. George Ashton, 5 Victoria-street, Westminster,
takes this opportunity of thanking 1 her numerous friends
for their kind letters of sympathv on the dissolution of
her marriage.
And why not, pray? It is a blessing to be well
married. It is forty times a blessing to be well
divorced.
* * #
Melbourne picture-gallery is now opened
till 10 o’clock on Saturday nights.
* * *
The Maoris are clearing out of their
picturesque settlement among the Rotorua hob
springs. Too much foreign tourist had demoral-
ised the women, and the tribe was fast becoming
extinct, but the college-going youngsters are
taking to sanitary science, and the elders are
being induced to move on. The foreign tourist
had heard much of the Maori hakas—tribal dances
which the Maoris prefer to keep religiously
secret and insisted upon having'haka for every
meal; the Maori, imbibing the commercial spirit
of the white man, invented a new series of lewd
dances “especially for the tourist market,” and
charged accordingly. In the village of Ohinemutu,
any Maori family of note owned its mud-volcano
in the front-parlour and its hot-spring in the back-
kitchen. In the winter, the parlour became the
bedroom, and occasionally a too-active mood of
the volcano would send the bed-family sailing
through the atmosphere amid clouds of mud and
steam, and the papers next day would announce
that—“ The unusual activity of the Rotorua
geysers caused considerable inconvenience to
the family and dwelling of Mr. and Mrs. Thaka
Motumirangiawhia last evening ; a tangi will be
held over the remains so soon as they are collected,
enumerated and properly classified. ”
* # «
A letter delivered lately to a Darling Point
(Sydney) magnate bore the address, “Cookie
Point,” the prehistoric name of that gold-laced
locality.
• * «
A Chinese Mission Church of England, in
Little Lonsdale-street, is the beneficiary of a Mel-
bourne Town Hall bazaar, Lady Hopetoun pre-
siding. This, in view of the many legitimate
demands of charity, is an absolute scandal, for the
Wesleyans have an excellent, commodious, brick
Chinese church in Little Bourke-street, not a
quarter filled.
# # #
A Melbourne newspaper ukase is that no
prisoner is to be referred to as “ a Jew.”
# * #
Is the religious interest at all concerned in
pearl-diving ?
* * *
Three sportive couples constituted them-
selves a “ surprise party,” and aroused a family
one night last week at a Balmain water-frontage.
The house-father had had enough excitement
through bank-suspensions and insolvent debtors,
and discharged his pistol three times before the
family knocked him down and sat on him.
* » *
Amongst other articles sold by the Yic
G-overnment auctioneer in Melb. the other day
was a full kit of gambler’s tools. Left over by
the boom crowd ?
# # #
Editor Bulletin, —Anybody can be an
Australian. You only have to wear a cabbage-
tree hat and say “ bloody.”—An Englishman.
# # #
In Melbourne, girls are being recruited
for Singapore sailors’ boozing-kens.
# * *
Several diocesan clergy took advantage of
Primate Smith’s invitation to Sydney, last week,
to see for themselves what manner of places the
Chinese and other low quarters of the city were.
One, to show his cosmopolitanism, ate the whole
of a Chinese pudding he had been invited to taste,
and another entered a small grocery and asked for
a penn’orth of lemonade;
* * #
Some S.A. drummers got up a mock
wedding at a back-blocks pub., a serious-looking
“commercial” arraying himself as a conventional
parson, and pretending to join for life the Chinese
cook and Maggie the housemaid —the latter
“ willing ” and “in the know.” The couple were
made to kneel, and the bagman, vociferating a lot
of gibberish, concluded with, “Rise, John; rise,
Maggie. Kiss the lady’s toe, John, kiss my toe,
John, kiss this book, John; put on this ring,
Maggie; kiss me, Maggie, fair and square; now
you are married, John ; good luck to you Roth.
Amen.” “Me mallied ? All li !” —followed by
an ingenuous but u-nreportable observation which
“brought down the house.” While the supposed
bridegroom was providing many drinks Maggie
“went home to her mother’s.” At intervals
during the night a frantic, hiccoughy Chow was
seen careering along the passages of the house
yelling for “Maggie, my wife.” Next morning
the mock parson was chased out of town by a mad
Chinaman with a big carving-knife.
A Londort “ skiu-beautifier,” with A large
connection among freckled women, reports that
he was recently visited by a lady who sat down
peacefully in his sanctum and stated that her legs
were too short ill proportion to her body., She
desired to have “something done tOthem,” and
when he told her that he had no tecipe for
lengthening legs, her surprise was almost too great
for words.
* # fc
In a wife-beating case* recently heard in
London, the defendant stated that he had whalfed
his patient drudge “because it was a wet day;”
The spanked lady corroborated his statement,
“ He’s a very kind, good husband in fine weather*’’
she said, “ but he always beats me when it rains.”
What a husband to have in a damp climate !
* * #
There’s a blood-curse of some sort on most
jewels. The blood-tally paid for the Darnley
Island (N.Q.) pearls averages about two divers
per week.
* * #
“Tom” is an old N.S.W. fossicker,
generally in rags, who occasionally would get from
the local mining manager a few weeks’ surface
work, not because of what work he could do, but
to enable him to exist. When the bank closed,
the other day, Tom was furious, and in his fury
produced a deposit-book showing a credit balance
of .61300 odd,
# # *
Dear Bulletin, — I have only been six
months in Rockhampton, and here is my experi-
ence with servants. (1) Matilda—nice, handy
girl, pretty and plump. Dolph ogled her.
Packed. (2) Biddy—big, good-natured, ugly and
safe, but stupid. She stacked the hot dinner-
plates in baby’s high-chair, and Dolph sat baby
down on ’em. Sacked. (3) Alice —thin and weak,
but willing. She had to leave because we weren’t
a maternity hospital. (4) Arabella —clever, sharp,
and well-educated—accused the children of having
QUEEN VICTORIA—AS SHE REALLY IS.
From a photo. not re-touched for the illustrated papers.
“animated heads;” declined to wear caps, and
told me they only suited my “ginger poll.”
Retrenched. Can you, sir, give me a cure for
Domestics? — Yours, Galus.
* * *
The Women’s Club, Melbourne, admits
perfidious man to the social entertainments, but
sternly excludes him on “discussion ” nights. It
is suspected that these female discussions are
alarmingly “spicy.”
* # «
The ode, written by Lewis Morris for the
opening of the Imperial Institute, did not for-
get to mention that deplorable peal of bells
supplied by Mrs. Millar :
Peal joy-bells unawakened yet, nor cease!
Peal till our isles and continents rejoice !
What an endless order for the men who pull the
ropes!
* * *
One Sydney man advertises the birth, to
him of a daughter—“both 0.K.” A Sydney
woman advertises the death of her husband, and
appends: “Gone where the wicked cease from
troubling, and the weary are at rest. Inserted by
his loving wife— Jenny.”
# * •
A not over-strong squatter is reported to
have dropped .67000 at euchre in one of the Mel-
bourne clubs last week.
One of the batch of last-gazetted S.A.
J.’sP. has for years been known as the drunkenest
sot in his town. Political services won his affix.
Subscribers to the Columbian Land Dis-
tribution advertised in another column are re-
minded that the closing date for posting in any
of the colonies applications for shares is 30th
June. Intending shareholders in this really
genuine speculation should at once send in their
applications, and thus not miss an opportunity
which may not occur again.
The New Australia Picnic.
Dear Bulletin, —Fuller information regarding
the aims and methods of procedure of the pro-
moters Of the “New Australia ” movement only
serves t 6 confirm the opinions already expressed
of the venture. So far as can be gathered, the
sole aim would seem to be to get away somewhere,
and the method of procedure to be to do so any-
how. Just as Paraguay was apparently selected
because ill the struggle for localities it happened
to come out on top, so the arrangements made
for conducting and settlhig the expedition partake
of the nature of a miscellaneous lottery drawn by
the votes of a heterogeneous collection of people
of both sexes, the great majority of whom, pro-
bably, had never heard of Paraguay six months
ago, and have not the faintest conception of what
awaits them on the voyage thither. The fact
that the deliberations are assisted by a brass band
of 30 performers, including three pianos, has so
far been productive of very little but chaos. The
only event parallel to the expedition occurred in
the Middle Ages, when the “boy pilgrim,”having
collected some thousands of children from every-
where in general, set out for a march to nowhere
in particular, which march lasted till it was
brought to a standstill by the sea, when, not
having the wherewithal to purchase a Royal Tar,
the expedition dissolved, a large number being
drowned and the rest vanishing into space to be
never again heard of. When the New Australia
movement has succeeded, if it ever does succeed,
in striking the shores of Paraguay, the result will
probably not be materially different.
At present the predominant idea among the
intending emigrants would seem to be that of a
prolonged picnic, the first part of which will con-
sist of a voyage in a stately ship with amusements
galore and dancing on the main-deck to the
strains of the thirty-power brass band and three
pianos aforesaid, to be followed by a sojourn in a
land flowing with milk and honey, where the
mere fact of erecting a “New Australia”
tent will make the grass grow and the orange-trees
bear fruit, where there will be frequent glimpses
of dark-eyed Spanish beauties for the men, and
wrinkles as to the latest thing in fans and head-
gear for the women, and where all, from the mild-
eyed Paraguayan official to the gentle puma, will
welcome the new arrivals with effusion.
The awakening is not far off now. The tropical
sea and dancing on the main deck will be the first
illusion to go by the board. When the Royal Tar
is making her “southing,” when, with battened-
down hatches and South Pacific rollers sweeping
the ship from end to end, some three hundred
miserable people are crowded freezing together
in the dark in the agonies of sea-sickness, there
will be no mistake about that. Some fifty unfor-
tunate infants, howling for their mothers will
wonder what they have done to be served like this,
and the equally unfortunate mothers calling on
the gallant pioneers who are bringing them to the
land of promise will probably call in vain. The
gallant pioneers will have enough to do in attend-
ing to their own internal economy, and will be
mostly on their backs. A hastily-fitted ship, with
arrangements settled by the collective vote of the
whole of the emigrants, is not the best prepara-
tion for what is, at this season of the year, one
of the severest voyages known.
As to the awakening that will take place on the
other side, although a good deal has already been
truly said, yet this may be added : that whatever
difficulties the expedition may have to contend
with from the vileness of the country they are
going to, and the inherent weakness resultino-
from its incongruous composition, they are not
likely to be lessened by the foresight or powers of
management of its promoters, for, so far, these have
been conspicuous by their absence. In a matter
where the only possible chance of even a little suc-
cess depends upon attention to practical details,
these would seem to have been considered of trivial
importance beside the one grand fact that a motley
collection of individuals of every variety of creed
and opinion is going away somewhere, to live
goodness knows how, on goodness knows what
ana share everything with one another, till there
is nothing left to share, when, unless the com-
munity has previously burst up, brotherly loVe
will no longer continue, and the era of mutual
recrimination will commence, For one thing, it is
certain that, in spite of assertions to thb
contrary, no doctor has, up to date of
writing, yet been induced to join the expedi-
tion, and it is doubtful if any medical aid at all
will be available, and, as one half of the “ pioneets ”
are women and children, this is a matter of sonde
importance under the healthiest imaginable coiidi-
tions; under those which will actually exist, its
neglect is almost criminal. The land of promise
is a land of fever, and of virulent fever at that.
Whatever immunity from general disease the
expedition may enjoy, there will be no escape from
the noxious South American malaria, which assumes
a form practically unknown in Australia, and
when some hundreds of people are planted on the
soil, living in tents and engaged in tilling virgin
ground, the disease is more than likely to prove a
very pestilence. True, there is a trained nurse—
one—but by the time she has attended to the
wants of some hundred and fifty women and
children and the same number of plague-stricken
adults it is probable that there will be nothing of
her left. The fact that this nurse has gained
some portion of her experience in the professional
care of lunatics is, so far, the one consistent
feature of the programme.
The blind are leading the blind. If the pro-
moters have any definite plan worked out in
detail of the methods by which success may be
achieved, they have so far kept it to themselves.
Not only will the choice of locality and financial
aspects not bear criticism, but the very conditions
of life, and the rules which will govern the rela-
tions of the members of the community with each
other, are equally shadowy, vague, and ill-defined.
It is this uncertainty which is attracting many
who might draw back in the face of clearly-defined
plans. But any unanimity can only last till the
active work of settlement commences. When the
vague aspirations of each member collide with the
equally vague and totally different aspirations of
every other member, then the rotten basis upon
which the whole structure has been raised will
become manifest, and the new Arcadia will stand
confessed the egregious piece of folly that it is.
Pioneers these men call themselves. Pioneers,
indeed ! The term is a misnomer. Pioneers are
men who can set their backs to the w 7 all and fight,
and not men who, like these, are practically run-
ning away. They are leaving their country by
birth or adoption for one infinitely worse in
climate, natural advantages, and laws—and all,
apparently, with no other idea than to escape for
a time from the struggle of life. Weariness of the
conditions that surround us is natural at times to
all, but the spirit that succumbs to it and seeks
relief by an aimless exodus to a land where it will
be always afternoon, is not the one which crys-
talises a venture into success. The seed of good
which exists in this mad pi'grimaere is very hard
to find.
GEORGE DANT.
The Warrnambool (Vic.) Waterworks
Trust advertises for a civil engineer, at a salary of
■£so per annum—not even a pound a week. Noble
encouragement to the students now spending their
five years at universities.
“S.W.” writes to the Age for the over-
worked milkmen. Like the butchers, they should
form a union, so that they might at least have one
holiday in the year, “ and an opportunity of hold-
ing a procession.’’ The national Weakness: A
procession !
Attention is directed to a new illustrated
advertisement on page 16, by the well-knoWn
English manufacturing firm, Stewart Dawson &
Co., showing a few of their latest London novelties
in diamond, gem and gold jewellery, watches,
&c., all direct from their factories, and to be ob-
tained at or by post from their Sydney branch,
'412 George-stteet.
Dear Bulletin, The cannibalishi of
snakes is by no means uncommon, and it is an
acknowledged fact all the world over. The point in
dispute is—do snakes swallow their young to
protect only .? Many people assert that they do,
whilst scientists say either no or not proven. Dr.
Stradling, F. Z.S., says some varieties of snakes
prey almost exclusively on their kind, of which it
will suffice to instance the Hamadryad.—Slough.
It is roughly estimated that there are
200,000,000 people in this world “mitnodings on.”
This unshod, shirtless, hatless, sockless procession
of unclad myriads has evidently never heard of
the “Orient Clothing” which is sold by David
Jones and Co., of George-street, Sydney, at such
exceedingly low prices as to be within'the reach
of everybody. “ Orient Clothing ” is now selling
more cheaply than ever, having been still further
reduced to keep pace with the black depression of
the times. It is elegant, durable, well-made, and
can seldom be distinguished from the article which
is perpetrated to measure at twice or three times
the money. Carlyle once drew an awful picture
of a naked Duke addressing a naked House of
Lords. That vision will never be realised. So
long as “ Orient Clothing ” is for sale, and Messrs,
David Jones and Co. are alive, even the most im-
pecunious duke can have a suit of clothes which
will do honour to his rank and dignity.


CHEAP MUSIC!
PAXTON A €0.,19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
Australian Branch; 251 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches,etc. Tobehad
of Music-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanston-St., Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
IF you want a watch to SWEAR BY,
Buy a Waterbury ; but
IF you want a watch to SWEAR AT, then one
of those numerous dear-at-any-price, Swiss rattle-
trap imitations can be warranted to give you
every satisfaction.
ì
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
PANZA, Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
EDWARD MALONE. MARY KATE
MALONE, MAGGIE MALONE, MARY
LEPAGE.
ALL of the above Persona, relations of MAR-
GARET MCCARTHY, Deceased, will hear
of something greatly to their advantage on com-
municating with
MARYLAND AND MARSLAND,
Solicitors, Charters Towers, Queensland.
Amusements.
IfER MAJESTY'S THEATRE
Sole Lessee . ... Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
"EAST LYNNE.”
SATURDAY NIGHT, June 24 RIGHT’S RIGHT.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE,
«p H E LYCEUM THEATRE
•“* (Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS 1 LAST NIGHTS 1
of
“THE £5l SL. \T ES* KING:"
PRICES AS USUAL.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
PfBIVOLIT H E A T R E
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
| M rT" 11 llt R V Itl €KAIt l» S I
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Driss Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
RITE R lON T H E A T R E.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
“Tlx e Quardsman.”
By G. R. Sims and Cecil Raleigh.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
j JO W TO GET STRONG,
Muscles of Arms, Back, Abdomen, Legs, and every part
of the body can be made Big and Strong by using PRO-
FESSOR F. LOOSE’S PHYSICAL EXERCISE CHART
(copyrighted.) Result of 25 years’ experience as Physical
Director. Special exercises for deepening and widening
the Chest, and making the Shoulders broad. Invaluable
to all persons, young or old, who wish to be strong and
vigorous and keep so. Specially adapted for athletes, or
would be athletes. Most complete work up to date.
Charts ss. each, by post, 4d. extra. Address, F. Loose,
Box 673 P. 0., Sydney.
ALBERTS’ Violins, real Cremona Copies, 10s.
Gd., 15 t s., 255., 355., 505., <£3 155., £5 to £7
10s. . cash or Is. weekly. Special discount to trade.
ALBERTS’ Mandolines.—Best Neapolitan and
French, 255., 355., 555., 755., 955., to £7 10s.
Largest stock. Cash or Is. weekly. 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ Accordeons. —Brilliant tone ; 12s.
Gd., 18s. 6d., 215., 355. to 455. Cash or Is.
weekly. 118 King-st. Largest assortment in Aus.
ALBERTS’ Autoharps, with tuning-boards,
enables any novice to tune his own instru-
ment, 18s. Gd. (canvassed for 305.) 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ accept all intercolonial Bank notes
and stamps without any extra charge for
exchange. J. Albert & Son, wholesale importers.
118 King-street.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Amusements.
JpiLLIS’S CIRCUS'
THE EVENT OF 1893.
* Exhibition Building »
PRELIMIN ARY A NNOTJNCEM ENT.
Wednesday Night, July 5
And Every Evening until further Notice.
Return to Sydney, after a phenomenally successful tour,
comprising Eleven Weeks in Melbourne, Four Weeks in
Adelaide, and the principal cities of New Zealand, of
§reat <§ircus and Menagerie
-0f-
Performing Wild Animals.
Acknowledged by the entire Press of Australasia to be
(he “Most Successful as well as the Most Complete
Organisation that ever visited the Southern Hemisphere.”
A CARD.
In approaching the Sydney Public on the occasion of
this, his second, visit, Mr. Fillis has the honour to
announce that in addition to the present company, which
has everywhere been so enthusiastically received, he will
introduce upwards of
TWENTY NEW ARTISTS,
who will arrive prior to the opening date direct from the
Paris Hippodrome, under a lengthened engagement. The
"hole of these artists come with the very highest creden-
tials, which, Mr. Fillis trusts, will be fully confirmed by
the Public of Sydney. The stables have also been con-
siderably added to, and now contain some of the most
perfectly trained horses possessed by any similar organis-
ation in any part of the world. Special attention will, as
usual, be paid to the seating accommodation of our
patrons, and it is confidently believed that in securing
the Exhibition Building as the scene of operations the
comfort of all will be most carefully studied during the
present uncertain season of the year.
Electric Light Throughout.
STRING ORCHESTRA OP 25 PERFORMERS.
MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS,
At 3 p.m.
ADMISSION—4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Children half-price.
Sole Proprietor .. Mr. F. E. FILLIS.
Business Manager .. Signor Agrati.
Advance Representative, Allan Hamilton.
Theatre royal.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINPORD.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
'' All for Gold, or Fifty Millions of Money.”
Dagobert Baudin (a Soldier of the Empire)
ALFRED DAMPIER,
And a Great Cast of Characters.
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel,
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. ■
Family Circle, (id.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
STEW ANT DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery.
NEWEST DESIGNS, at Makers’ Price'*, all Government Hall-marked, DIRECT from their HEAD ESTABLISHMENT, LONDON.
Usually
Sold
at £lolos.
Usually
S'.:.
at £lO 10*
-
Ladies’ 18-ot. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 10.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
513,—O.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 9/6.
. Ditto Silver, 2 6
i
í i
i
With Charm Bell “against fascination.”
•14.-O.H.M. 9-ct. Gold. £1; 15-ct., £1 15.
615,—0.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 15 6.
Ditto, Silver, 4 6.
ì
i
ì
sl(s.—Brooch of unique design,
O.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 12 6.
mET-
mm*'.
m
' *■
615.-O.H.M. 15-o t. Gold Brooch, £1 5
388.-. Suite Studs, Gt.H.M.
Very Strong’,
9-ot. Gold, 12/6 ; 16-et. £1 5.
Silver, 3s.
226.—Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ot. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, *6.
The “Nuptial” Brooch.
605.-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, S 3 3.
227.—Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18/6;
16-0t.,£l 15; Silver, ss.
<2
224.—G.H.M. 15-ct.
Gold. 12 6; Silver, 26.
■’i
225.—Combination Pin and
Stud, Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Gold, £2.
The New Lucky Bella. Latest London Novelty.
756.—G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold 6-Bell Bracelet, £2.
755.—G.H.M, Silver Bracelet, 8 Bella, 7/6.
i
ì
i
767.—G.H.M. 9-ot. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-ot. ditto £4 10.
“ against
Fascination.
Charm
Bell
517.—El’gant Brooch, New Design.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 18 6; Silver, 5 6
G.H.M. 9-ot. Gold Bracelet, £1 16.
Ditto Silver, 10 6.
619,-0. H.M. 16-ct. Gold Brooch, Set with Pine
Oriental Pearls, £3 1%
1(16. —Gent.'s Albert.
G.H.M. 9-ct. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 15; Silver, 15 6. 107.—Gent.'s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ot. £3 12 6; 15-ct. £5 17 8-
126.— Elegant Seal to match either Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 2115-ct. Gold, £1 17 6; Silver, 4 6
Silver, 13 6.
ì
i
35. Single Stone Diamond
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10s
Special Value.
36.—Ladies’ 5-st. Diamond
18-ct. Gold Ring, £5 5.
32.—18-ot. Gold Ring:,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £2.
33.—18-ct. Gold Ring,
7 Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
£4 10
25.—18-ot. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, cut hole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
5-ct. Gold Earrings, 15/6.
00.—Nickel Silver Electro-
plate Breakfast Cruet, 10/6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
601.—G.H.M. Silver Match Box, 11 6.
A size smaller, 8 6.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, £2 10.
jcp
weeet?
520.—G.H.M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, handsome
design, Diamond Centre, £:{ 5.
ì
í i
í
605.-G.H.M. Silver, 96. Plain ditto, 86.
G.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
521.—Elegant Bow Brooch.
G.H.M 9-ct., 17 6; 15-ot., £1 10;
Silver, 6/-.
K
51.—Magnificent Oak and Nickel Silvei
Electro-plate Liquor Frame, 8 Fine Out
Bottle* (14 inches long, 13 high), £3 10.
Delivered Free, 2 6 extra.
NOTE. —The Letters O.H.M. stand for "floverninent Hall Marked.
*ntees the Quality and protects the Buyer ; at the same time our Prior* ire about Half the Colonial Chn
|JF“ Add to Remittance for Poat and Rejriater; One Article, 6d.; Two, 9d,; Three, la.; 91*, la. 6d.
WedMpatoh Oooda dally, poat paid, at thaae ratea. and taka all riak in tranait. Address
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Princess Louise “ accepts payment, at
ordinary professional rates,” for a statue of her
ma to be erected at Kensington. This adds a new
terror to art. Hitherto the complaint has been
that Millais, Leighton, even Boehm, and all the
English working artists, were unworthy to paint
or sculp Royalty, all of which work was done by
foreigners. Now even the foreigners are not good
enough, and the Phamilee, the Phirrum, must mop
up all the spoil.
Dear Bulletin, —Ever heard this before ?
Years ago, in Townsville (Q.), there was a black
boy named Joe pointed to admiringly as a
“clever little nigger.” When he was seven years
old he was living with his father, a trooper, at the
native police barracks at the Bohle. One day he
took his father’s tomahawk and cut off his baby
sister's head. His father was angry at first, but
subsequently cooled down, and remarked to Joe :
“My word, bimeby you make him budgery
pfeller trooper. ” —L. B.
The Star (Sydney) thus gently sum"
marises the hanging of Smedley, the Quirindi
murderer :
He hod not been particularly attentive to hfs religious
duties, although to Canon Rich he was always civil
enough, and his exit from the world was unaccompanied
by any of those distressing features which have character-
ised some executions. Although he was described as a
man of good features by some of the gaol officials, his
conspicuous ears, bullet head, closely set eyes and exten-
sive mouth showed that this was somewhat incorrect, and
that be, in common with most murderers, had character-
istics strikingly prominent.
His exit was unaccompanied by “ any of those
distressing features ! ” Well, he was hanged,
wasn’t he—-hanged, strangled, suffocated, asphyxi-
ated, choked, dropped suddenly through a hole at
the end of a rope and dangled there like a
ham suspended outside a grocery store ?
His windpipe was cut through by the rope, and he
died gradually, looking like a fish at the end of a
line, so that people could almost suppose the hang-
man had gone out fishing and had got a bite. And
as he bobbed up and down there the noseless
stipendary strangler looked at him from above,
through the orifice, and the representatives of the
Archimedean lover considered him and made notes
from below, just before the Government man-
butcher cut down the body on which the law’s
last indignity had been wreaked, and humped it
away as a slaughterman bears off the corpse of a
slaughtered sheep. But there weren’t any “dis-
tressing features ” about his death. He was a
man with large ears, bullet head, and a great
circular mouth, and all is well.
Don’t fish for sharks in a rain-barrel
but print your advertisement where it w ill be seen. “In
my travels in Australia I found The Bulletin every-
where, and everywhere found it powerful,” wrote David
Christie Murray in the London Contemporary Review.
That is true. The universality of The Bulletin’s circula-
tion in Australasia is the envy of all other papers. In and
beyond Australia, The Bulletin, now in' its fourteenth
year of issue, is the most popular, best-known, best-
quoted, and most widely and numerously circulated of all
Australasian publications.
The Strongest Arguments.
From an issue of the Wolvekhami-ton Chronicle
we extract the following-:—“ We have for a long
time heard various reports of the wonderful effects
produced by the use of St. Jacobs oil in chronic
cases whicli had been given up as incurable, but
had always supposed these were enlarged upon
for advertising purposes, like all other patent or
proprietary medicines, but the reports from all
our leading chemists must be considered one of
the strongest arguments which can be advanced
respecting the value of any leading article of trade
in their line. The uniformity of these reports will
be noted at once. All speak in the highest terms
of the value of St. Jacobs oil as an outward appli-
cation for pain. The oil is only advertised to cure
rheumatism, neuralgia, gout sciatica, and those
bodily pains where an outward application is used.
The proprietors of this popular remedy never
advertise the oil to cure those diseases which it
will not actually cure. By so doing they have
gained the confidence of the people. We see by
the Liverpool papers that St. Jacobs oil is used
largely on board of nearly every steamship that
sails from that port. Many companies, including
the Ounard, White Star, and some of the South
American lines, do not even consider their ships
ready for sea unless a sufficient supply of this
popular remedy is on board to last the voyage.
Latterly, we are informed that all H.M. troop-
ships leaving Portsmouth take a large supply of
the oil on board. The oil in yellow wrappers for
veterinary purposes is being used with equally
good results by the leading omnibus and cab com-
panies of London and provincial cities for use on
horses fur sprains, sore shoulders, and general
ailments where an embrocation is required.”
A leading article in an issue of the Chemist
and Druggist stated that St. Jacobs oil had the
largest sale of any medicine in the world, and
when an article possesses the actual merit which
St. Jacobs oil undoubtedly does possess, the pro-
prietors are entitled to receive the benefit of the
enormous sale which this popular remedy has.


C<3(v\ po /\mo Ponies a^t/
fffwMi
VVAIT IN <; THE tK Ju v
A
jiou^e.
\ vf '
Ttjfc
Tent
B & T\n S
E- [DIMES' ORtSS WQ
AT FITZGERALD BROS.’ AUSTRALIAN CIRCUS, OPPOSITE REDPERN RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


Mr. JAS. e; NICHOLSON,
A well-to-do Farmer of Florenceville, JV. 8.,
Canada, suffers for seven long
years with
CANCER OF THE LIP.
Agonizing torture relieved, Disease Cured.
“ I am 55 years of ago, and until ISB4 had al-
ways enjoyed good health. About that t me, a
littlo hard bunch, like a wart, appeared on my
lower lip. Finally, the bunch gathered, broke,
and formed a sore; then it began to eat into the
flesh. The Cancer—for that is what the doctors
finally called it—kept getting worse and worse,
year after year. It caused ma great pain and
uneasiness. During the last year, I would wake
twenty times in a night, suffering intensely
from twitching pains. It was as if my flesh
was being lorn from me by pinchers, bit by bit.
1
%
At last, I began to take Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
In the course of a week or two I noticed a
decided improvement. The twitching and the
pains were very much less, and the sore began
to look healthier. In three months my lip
began to heal, and, after using the Sarsaparilla
for six months, the last trace of the Cancer dis-
appeared, and left very litllo scar.” —J. E. Nich-
olson, Florenceville, N. 8., Canada.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co, Lowell, Blass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
Widow Welch's Pills for Female Complaints-
"jVTßS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
- L ' t - Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
be careful that what they- purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receipe. The genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAPER, and signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smithers, and the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 67, St. Paul’s, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by
most chemists
WINTER EVENINGS.
mwm
Amusement, Instruction
AND
PLEASURE COMBINED.
lE3 IKT ID-*-
FOR
LANTERN CATALOGUE
AND
LIST OF SLIDES
IV (STOCK.
ENTERTAINMENTS GIVEN on any SUBJECT.
L ANTERN S
AND
SLIDES
LET
ON
SIR E.
LIME-LIGHT
APPARATUS
AND
OPERATORS
SUPPLIED.
BAKER & ROUSE,
Importers of Optical Lanterns & Recjuisites,
Syd n°.; p Sa. 375 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY, 375 *2SSU
256 COLLINS STREET
69 RUNDLE STREET
46 QUEEN STREET
AND AT
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE.
Do not miss the Substance hy grasping at the Shadows.
GR
—Our —
GENUINE GOST PRICE SALE
i
Affords Unequalled Opportunities for Purchasing.
i
BEST BRUSSELS CARPETS
TAPESTRY CARPETS
WILTON PILE CARPETS
LINOLEUMS
FLOORCLOTHS
D R A WING-ROOM PUP NTTURE
BEDROOM FURNITURE
HALL FURNITURE
D i NIN G-RO OM F U RNIT URE
CRETONNES
COVERINGS
TABLECLOTHS
CURTAINS
BLIN DS
BEESTEADS
BEDDING
DECORATIONS
JAPANESE NICK-KNACKS
GADARA BLINDS
ì
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Family Drapers and. Furnishers,
Opposite the General Post Office, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W
Old Scott.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I don’t know that I particularly wanted to
go into the bush. It was Jack’s fault, and Jack
is always so impetuous. He would have ic. He
said :
“You come along with me. It’ll be a real good
trip, and do you no end of good. I know the lay
of the country, and, besides, we shall make more
than a bit.”
Jack had a fairly - comfortable fit-up, light
waggon and two good horses, sol went.
It was saddler’s work we were doing. Odd jobs
and repairs of all kinds from station to station.
There was money in it in those days.
“It’ll be the jolliest life out,” said Jack; we
can spell the horses at any of the places where
there’s work, and right out back any of the fellows
at the outlying huts will be glad to see us. They
see a fresh face too seldom not to appreciate it.
A real good sort they are, too.”
# * «
We had been a week at Ularar when we
left one morning.
“Going to camp at the forty-mile hut to-night,
Jack?” said the overseer.
“Yes, Mr. Dunstan, I suppose we can put the
horses in the little paddock ?”
“ Yes, certainly, but you’ll have to square old
Scott. I don’t think you know him.”
Wo got some fresh meat before we left, but the
flies had got into it before we camped at noon,
so that Went overboard as far away as possible.
However, we had flour and the usual. “ However,
wo can get some meat at the hut,” said Jack,
“ whatever sort old Scotiy may be, that bottle of
whisky ought to square him.”
* # #
When we got to the hut it was about
sundown.
“ The first thing to do,” said Jack, “is to see to
the nags, then we can prospect a bit.”
We put the hoises into the little paddock.
There was water and fairly good feed there —out-
side there was neither. As we got back to the hut,
a man came and stood in the doorway. He was
a tall man, about fifty, with eyebrows like a
rhinoceros’ bristle, and a fist like a leg of mutton.
“ Good evening, mate,” I said.
He eyed ns grimly.
“Turn those horses out of the paddock,
d’ye hear ?”
“ Oh, hang it all, Mr. Dunston told us we could
put them there.”
“Turn those horses out of the paddock !
Turn \m out of the paddock, I say, or I’ll do it
myself.”
“ Have a nip, mate?” said Jack.
He eyed ns coldly without committing himself.
Jack went to the waggon and produced the bottle.
The cork was drawn, but it was nearly full. He
turned without a word into the hut. We were
following, when he re appeared with a pannikin.
“Gie it here,” he said, briefly, taking the bottle.
He poured some whisky into the pannikin, drank
it down in one gulp, had a drink from the water-
bag, half-filled the pannikin with whisky again,
filled it up with water, and then sat down on his
bunk, his right hand holding the pannikin, the
left firmly clutching the bottle.
“ I suppose yon can give ns some meat?” said
Jack, “ ours turned coming over.”
No answer. Jack repeated the question.
“ You can leave the horses in the paddock,
if ye like.”
“ Oh, yes, that’s all right, but what about the
meat ? ”
“ Don’t I tell ye, ye can leave the horses in
the paddock. What more dy’e want ? ”
It was no good, we gave him up. Wo boiled our
billy and shifted without the meat. After supper
we reconnoitred. He was still sitting in the same
place, pannikin in one hand, bottle in the other,
but the latter was half empty.
“Damn the old rascal!” said Jack, “he’s going
to drink all our stuff without offering us a sup.”
I wanted Jack to rush the bottle. Jack objected
—he wanted me to do it. We went up at last,
each with our pannikin.
“Hang it, old man,” said Jack, holding out his
pannikin, “can’t we have a nip out of our own
bottle?”
He looked at the bottle carefully, then he
measured out just a one-finger nip for Jack, and
the same for me.
“Ye can leave the horses in the paddock,”
he said, with the air of once more conferring a
favour.
We left him and turned in.
Next morning, when we awoke, he was looking
a heavy padlock on the hut door. An empty
whisky-bottle was lying on the ground. Hu
looked at it contemptuously, and said i
“Turn those 1 — horses out ol the paddock.
Turn ’em out.”
He watched me while I went for them ; then ho
got on his own old nag and jogged away without a
word.
After breakfast we poked about a bit. On a
plank outside the hut was an old soap-box. I had
a look in it—one was quite enough. Snakes—
three black ones. We got two sticks and lifted
that box. Then we had a snake-hunt.
As we passed old Scott that morning, doing
something to the windmill, we pulled up.
“ We found these snakes in that old box I
called out, “ but we killed them all.”
He made one bound, his face livid with rage.
“Killed my snakes, you ! Wait till I
get to ye!”
“Drive on, Jack,” said I, “drive like blazes.’
I am not going that way anymore.
GEORGE DANT.


HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
ADVANCE ALMANAC
■ I I - FOR TZXXS . I ■ 111111 ir. mnni i
REMAINDER OF THE CENTURY
Testimonial
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq., the well-known and
popular representative of the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose tes-
timony carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rassmussen :
Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course
of your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous System, and, in consequence, I have recommended them to
many friends who have all been cured by their use.
Very truly yours, R. ADAMS LUCKHAM.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Head Office
547
GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
o
o
&
\
o
F >C' o P rESE NTE0To^^%
$r<t H.RRASMUSSEN Esq
J®2
BOTANIST
* qASaTOKEN of GRATITUDE eg
W rtmNINEoFHisPATIENTS**f
oocroor
-
<1
o
*>■
&
A?
*
p
TT „ Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen,
Dear Sir, — I can truthfully assert that since using your Eucalyptus
Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I have experienced an immunity from my attack
of Sciatica. I have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a
number of my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I have the
honor to remain, yours truly, jr yy O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
HERR RASSIUSSEN’S
1-ieacS Office
547
GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
&
a
T
JUPJs.
JOI-Y
\0°
Af, ff
«?*!
e'p
%
: -
&*■
“Jr}
r*«
-
• '
ggll
IE? -
rsjrt
rp»*
B£388gK
S3
v*»
■V:
w:
-V
Sv>"
“"^^S
v3*
*J6z<
rfcS
<j>\
*f<s
<8^
OJO
££
<-y.<E>
•f&.
40UY
jowe.
<5-.
sea
W4V
*0®
\\^
-ess
<5%
4p
f\
£S?
►ft
S S
'&/■
(tor
/«-
»'#';«■ <S>
•s ..'a
V -
w/f,
■\
■IlsMs
»r-.
m
BISSMUS^
th
THE CELEBRATED
DANISH HERBALIST
DISCOVERER etr»d
SOLE PROPRIETOR of
REGISTERED & PURELY HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
W CURED OYER 100,000 SUFFERERS
BLOOD and NERVES
a
JULY.
JUNE
-r;
'Vo.
pr*y?
tjX' O 'Lcr.
9&$
GO OSO h
co^EH^HP^co
SSSiEftftl
i £* o,'GV
CP. >A
&r
?l«o
: --
C5 '^'>»S >
SS® *•
MSSmi
'i'Z
SftA
r!fe&s$
■0.%
Hft,
fr<S
ws
fti±
■M
sy?.
Vt
ft .■■■
W 'J'lOOt-or
25S£ft£
ftA
Hwcn
v: ,N
OB'S
ftft,
««a§5
5ft^
SS#
CTft
juwe. Jui.y s
001!?
J,{4gw
■ ■■
e*5
ft A-
a<c
%
"ftl-« :
sw
?/
r*?
C>*
S>7
>■&
ftA
/
WW.
feNft
6AV\cfl»
/ v V*
X ?vN
PARISIAN
\C : ‘
%
9
DECERNEE
5
%
fM<s&
&
GOLD MEDAL
Awarded the HIGHEST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL of the ACADEHIE PARISIEHNE DES IHVEHTEDRS, FRANCE
PARISIAN
ft
GOLD MEDAL
HOW TO
CURE THE NERVES
TAKE A COURSE OF
—s} ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS {s—
to Cure
NERVOUSNESS, WEAKNESS,
DESPONDENCY, DEBILITY,
NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA, LOSS OF MEMORY,
WEAK BRAIN AND NERVES.
Boxes ~6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
LIST OF THE REGISTERED ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
Aifaline Complexion Beautifier.— A
guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for eradicating
Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying
the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Aifaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.-Excellent
for Colds, Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis and Consump-
tion. Pleasant to take. Boxes, is.; posted, is. 6d.
Aifaline Ointments—A certain remedy for all
kinds of Sores, Burns, Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers
and all Affections of the Skin. Boxes, is. and as.;
posted, is. 6d. and as. 6d.
Porous Plasters.—These Plasters are espe-
cially powerful, andwillrelievepainalmostinstantly.
is. each; posted, is. 6d.
“ The Natural Doctor.”—A valuable Medi-
cal Work by Herr Rassmussen, which contains much
valuable advice and many useful hints on all com-
plaints. Price, is.
Aifaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior to any
other. Posted, is. 6d. per bottle.
Alfaline Liver and Kidney Pills.— Excel-
lent for Indigestion and Costiveness. Boxes, is.;
posted, is. 6d.
Alfalinc Rheumatic Pills.— Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago.
Boxes, posted 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption,
Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65.,
12s. and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautrfier*
—A guaranteed remedy for preventing- the Hair turn-
ing grey and falling off. and wonderful for producing-
rapidly luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted,
3s. and 6s.
Alfalinc Universal Pills. —A wonderful Re-
medy, which acts on the whole system. Boxes,
posted, is. 6d., 35., 65., 125., 235. 6d.. and 435. 6d.
FREE PAMPHLET.
Send for Herr Rassmussen’s Free Pamphlet, which
contains much valuable advice and many useful hints.
ZEICW TO
CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
LOCK PILLS&—
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS,
SOKES, BOILS AND PIMPLES,
ECZEMA, SALT EHEUM,
OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES,
AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes-6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S HEAD OFFICE
CHIEF BRANCH EIS :
150 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE
160 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
154 RUNDLE STREET
ADELAIDE
91 LAIVIBTON
WELLINGTON
QUAY
IV.Z.


AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
The Oldest Mutual Lite Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
pr* DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
OVIDENT
ESTABLISHED 1849.
SOCIETY
Directors —The Hon. Sir J. B. ABBOTT. M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income; Two Millions sterling- Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head. Office: 07 PITT STREET, S 'STJOISriStSr. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
Grrand. 3XTc»/tic»ML£a,l Hurdle —Bleniluslon, July 8, 1808.
50,000 at 20 50,000
G-raud. KTational Steeplechase Flciu., July (5, 1893.
50,000 al 10 50,000
ONLY ADDRESS!
' TATTERS ALL,”
C/o Gro. Ai)AMS(Owner),Tatter-
sail’s Hotel&OlclClubPreniiaea
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
ADAMS'
TATTERSALL'S HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
TdE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the i
above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fitting*, Furnishings and Surrounding* of a superior
quality- Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hflle DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
• Whies and Spirits of the choicest Krands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
„nV
Q. &
& L /
fAERV O,
<=,£
\>*
<?.
>/-t■
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
. FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM j
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
A.
* * V
Stree'
B ewareofimitations. Thegenuineissigne
i
i
S 1 R
GEORGE DIBBS
TESTIMONIAL FUND.
SUBSCRIPTIONS to the above will be received
by the COMMITTEE ; Hons. W. J. Trickett, A.
J. Rilev, John Toohey, J. Watson, Ms.L.C., F.
A. Wright, J. Hayes, Ms.L.A., Messrs. A. W.
Meeks, T. Littlejohn, J. Hourigan, J. M'Elhone,
M. C. Cowlishaw, F. B. Lark, John Woods, W.
Henderson, Captain Broomfield, O. C. Beale, J.
Burns, L. Lloyd, P. MaoMahon, James P. Garvan,
M.L. A., R. Bennie, John Meeks, Robert Pender-
gast, and at the
TOWN HALL DAILY.
W. P. MANNING
R. J. BLACK
F. A. WRIGHT
A. J. RILEY
| Hony. Treasurers,
j
- Hony. Secretaries.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, June 20, 1893.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Bridge, Stoney Creek, road Bega to Bodalla
Bridge, Dry Creek, road Bega to Bodalla
Construction of Dam, Engine House, and
Fencing, Nyngan Water Supply
Construction, &c., of Pumping Machinery, to be
made within the Colony, Nyngan Water
Supply.
Completion of Lookup and Police Buildings,
Corowa. Time extended.
Erection of Boiler-house, &c., General Post Office
Construction of Elevated Service Tank, Jerilderie
Water Supply
Re-covering Roof, &c., Lock-up Gaol, Queanbeyan
Construction of Engine-house, Staging, &c.
Jerilderie Water Supply
Supply, &c., Oastiron Tanks, Benevolent Asylum,
Rookwood
Laying of Water, &c., Benevolent Asylum, Rook-
wood
Timber Stand for Elevated Tank, Benevolent
Asylum, Rookwood
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to Cook’s River,
for remainder of year 1893 ; fresh tenders
Conveyance of Coal, Newcastle to Bellinger River,
for remainder of year 1893 ; fresh tenders
WEDNESDAY, JULY 12.
Reconstruction of Timber Footbridge at Qandelo
WEDNESDAY, JULY 26.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
£49,460 worth for £l.
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
THE EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Brisbane, Qi’BJNSLand.
105,000 SHARES at £l.
Anyone Can Apply ! !
No Liability ! ! !
2403 PRIZES valued at £ 105,000.
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
First Prize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, value <£30,000. Rental value,
41500 a year, and other properties valued as
under ;
2 of, <£10,000; ] of <£sooo ; 4 of ,£2500 ; 5 of
.£lOOO, and 2390 of from <£s to =£soo.
Clear Titles ! ! No Deductions ! ! !
See particulars in advertisements in other issues
of this paper, or apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or CORRIE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Remember ONE SHARE (.£1) may win 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, valued at £49,460.
M.O. MOLONEL
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
S 3T HD HNT IE 3T.
Commissions Executed on following events
CANTERBURY, NEXT SATURDAY.
FLYING CANTERBURY,
160 TO 1.
Straight-Out on Each Event.
PLBMINGTON, 15th and 18th JULY.
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle and Steeple,
200 to i.
Y-E-0- Derby and Melbourne Oup,
200 to 1.
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
THREE CHANCES.
S. T. JACOBS
(Member of Tattersall’s Grub),
72 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Executes Commissions on (ROSEHILL)
County & Midwinter,
250 TO 1. .
XXurdLle & Steeple,
100 TO 1.
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle and Steeple,
200 TO 1. If Not.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups,
1000 TO 1. If Not.
STRAIGHT-OUT on CAULFIELD and MELBOURNE
CUPS, AND V.R.C. DERBY.
Letters and Telegrams attended to. All Telegrams
must be prepaid.
Note the Address:
72 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
ADAM BEDE ’ S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CAUTION.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
ì
í
A.dam Bede,
Post Office Chamber*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
5. EACH.
î
5. EACH.
ï
ĩ
i
ON TUB
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
July 15, 1893.
First. 1500; Second, 500; Third, 250; S. (d.), 600; N.S.
(d.), 400 ;20 at 20, 400 ; 50 at 10, 500 ; 100 at 5, 500; 176
Consolation Prizes at 2 each, 350.
Important Notice.— ln consequence of the new
Postal Act coming in force July Ist, we have been com-
pelled to change our address ns below. Remittances by
Cheque, P. 0.0., Postal Notes, Stamps, or Cash inpay-
ment for tickets as before.
ADDRESS—“ GALA,” ojo. H. Alexander, Bo* 171,
0.P.0. Brisbane, Q
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Whitening is abolished, by the V.R.0., for
marking starts, over the grass, because some horses jump
it. Henceforth the mark is to be only of sand or cinder.
# # •
The Australian jockeys, beginning in Mel-
bourne, have formed an association with 45. This is an
excellent move, though provoked by the aggressions of
the V.R.0., and cannot fail to raise the professional tone.
* * #
At Morwell Races (Vic.) a jockey was disquali-
fied three months for trying not to win— though his
mount, a mare named Maud, did win. The V.R.C.
quashed this, for the neatest Melb. Cup finishes, such as
Nimblefoot’s or Shset Anchor’s, might be tortured into
bases for such an accusation, and no jock is compelled to
run away from his horses.
* * •
Coningham’s eccentric style in the cricket-field
has been much remarked on the “other side.” Which
perhaps accounts for the omission of the Queensland
player from several recent matches.
# # #
“Jack” Conway, of Australian cricket and
newspaper fame, still vigorous and hearty, now runs an
hotel at Natimuk (Vic.).
• • •
The Australian Eleven dined with sundry dukes
and personages at Sheffield Park. Blaekham, so the story
goes, took Graham aside before the banquet commenced
and admonished him to be “sure and say ‘Your Grace’
if addressed by a duke.” Consequently, when his nibs of
Norfolk observed that the Australians ought to beat
Warwickshire easily, Graham fired off, “ For what we are
about to receive,” etc., previous to replying, “My oath !
yes.”
mm*
Harding, the English Sculler whom they talk
about matching against Stanbury, is only 9st. 31b.
* * *
In the interprovinoial football match Victoria
and S. Australia in Adelaide, one player had his nose
fractured, another broke his ankle, and a third received
brain-concussion. Fancy a footballer getting concussion
of the brain !
* m *
Whist and euchre players for high stakes are
warned against slow-dealing opponents who introduce
cards with pea-green backs bearing an elaborate rose-leaf
pattern. Each card is apparently of precisely similar
pattern and stands the closest comparison by an un-
initiated player, but the patterns give the spieler the
exact face value of every card nevertheless.
• • •
The Shrewsbury benefit match, at Notting-
ham, on June 26th-28th, will probably be dragged out to
the full three days in any case. The English professionals
will play with a small ambition for victory (Shrewsbury
and Gunn being rather bitter against Australian cricket)
and a large ambition for “ gate."
• * #
Lyons, thus far, is the only Australian batsman
who has made a “century” against first-class English
bowling—this trip. The redoubtable Giffen’s two big
•cores were made off “ soft stuff,” and didn’t really affect
the result in either case.
mm*
Pony-racing is galloping in the footsteps of
pedestrianism and trotting. The sport is one gigantic
swindle and is already surely doomed.
• • •
Already the consultation proprietors are laugh-
ing at the N.S.W. Postal veto which comes into operation
on July 1.
mm*
Redleap, with 13st. 71b. in the Grand National
Hurdle, and 14st. 71b. in the Steeplechase, has a chance
for the former, but is crushed out in the latter.
• # •
At the recent Australian interprovinoial con-
vention of Presbyterian Fellowship Unions, held in
Sydney, during a debate on “Christian Young Men’s
Attitude to Social Amusements,” Mr. A. White, of
Ballarat (Vic.) said that “he knew of a cricket-club in
Victoria which opened its meetings with prayer, and one
of its rules was that they should play for honour only ” :
Two professional tipsters— a little man and a
large—found themselves the other day outside the admit-
tance-gate of a Victorian country race-meeting, without
the wherewithal to pay for entrance. Suddenly, the
little man, with “ I have it,” rushed to the gate, flourished
an old betting-ticket, and said, “ Tommy Hales !” The
gatekeeper admitted him. Then the fat tout lurched up
and pulled out his betting-ticket. “ You carn’t come in.”
“Why not? You’ve let him in.” “He’s a jockey.”
“An’l’m a bloomin’ 'orse ! Carn’t yer see?" It took a
pair of policemen to throw him out.
All she knows about it :—Mrs. Campbell
Praed, in that deadly dreary story of hers running
in Sydney D.T., makes one of the characters
say : “You’d better breed kangaroos and sell their
hides for saddles.”
Tommy Sandford and Johnny Dobcross
represented the two apprentices of Hogarth.
Tommy, the good one, became a poor tailor.
Johnny, the idle one, was transported for life.
He came back a rich squatter, and saved Tommy
from dying of starvation.
Accor.ling to the new wage-rate, the Aus-
tralasian Steamship Owners’ Association able
seamen are to get £1 3s. weekly. Of this poor
Jack, if he has a wife and family, has to pay his
landlord about half—for you can’t get the most
miserable tenement under 10s. a week.
Israel holds many dishonoured bills of a
certain lately well-advertised Victorian politician.
Perhaps that is how the milk got into that cocoa-
nut.
Matthew Davies’s “brain,” it is cabled, is
quite right again. But it may suffer a relapse, in
which ease the doctors will positively order
Matthew to go away again.
Blowitz shows last Harper how Moltke’s
scheme to attack France, in 1875, was burst up
by Bismarck, who caused information of it to be
given to General Leflo, French Ambassador at St.
Petersburg.
A London “missus ” has found the limit
of a lady’s maid’s endurance. She requested her
patient menial to take the pet dog out for an
airing at half-past midnight, and the maid said
she would see the dawg dratted first.
The London D.T. gusher on the N.S.
Wales cavalry : —“They sat their horses with ease
and grace, and bore their lances aloft like some
strange new order of knights come fresh from a
youthful world.” The D.T., on a detachment of
real strange new Australian knights, headed by
Matthew Davies and Benjy-Benjy, would be elo-
quent indeed.
Mr. J. H. Davis, late manager of Sydney
Evening News, is the prime mover in the Dibbs
Testimonial, and up to last Tuesday the amount
realised was ,£2250. The total is expected to be
something under <£0, 000,000, and when Dibbs has
used part of it to pay off the N.S. W, deficit he
intends to quit polities and live in honourable
retirement on the balance.
A memo, for the striking Paddington
(Sydney) bakers : Over twelve months ago a co-
operative bakery was started at Camden Town
(London) with a capital of <£so. The year’s turn-
over was £3,240; the surplus profit, £150; and
the working partners, though employed only forty-
eight hours a week (about half the usual time),
were paid full union prices, while the bread supplied
was of superior quality.
Her Gracious Majesty, proceeding in state
to the Imperial Institute business, was observed by
the loyal newspaper reporter to be chiefly affected
by the cheers of the multitude around the base of
the Albert Memorial. “ For a moment she was
almost overcome by emotion, and was fain to avert
her eyes from the monument erected to the memory
of the Prince Consort.” Yet the Queen should be
tolerably well used to reminiscences of Albert by
this time. Her loving subjects are.
One of the first-mentioned lots of Vic-
torian politicians who waited upon Speight to ask
for a reduction of certain railway freights included
Shiels and Wheeler. Six years later Shiels and
Wheeler were shocked to And that Speight had
not raised fares and freights “ to meet the growing
deficit.” A letter to Speight requesting him to
provide a gateway for some resident of a wilder-
ness township, was signed “ Magna est Veritas
This Latin proverb, as transpired in evidence,
was the norm, de plume of L. L. Smith’s secretary.
Among the visitors to Australia per s.s.
Himalaya are Mr. and Mrs. E. W. Scott, of New
York. Mr. Scott is Second Vice-President of the
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S., and
is engaged in touring the globe to officially visit
the outlying branches of that Society. He left
New York on April 22 last year for England, and
will re-enter the States at the end of his tour via
the Golden Gate. Mr. Scott is president of the
Colonial Club, New York, and the members of
that distinguished social body gave him a valedio
tory banquet prior to his departure.
Sydney press correspondents want N.S. W.
Marine Board to block the clearance of the
Royal Tar—the Ark of the Paraguayan Pil-
grims—because the noble vessel is going to be
manned, more or less, by members of Lane’s
argonautical expedition. It is probable that
enough of the argonauts are ancient mariners ; if
not, it should be easy to become possessed of “dis-
charges ” enough to blind the vision of the nautical
warts who compose the Marine Board—which has
permitted, for years past, a certain trading steamer
to leave Sydney twice a year, with Kanakas as
deck-hands ! That vessel and the lives it carries
are risked because the Kanakas employed, who
are down on the articles for £3 a month, are paid
“ in trade.”
Editor Bulletin, — He, Astronomer Ellery
and the murder of John Price. Ellery was not
“ the first to see Price after the attack.” Price
was first seen by the warders [ashore from the
hulks] and was not then dead. I stood amidst
the amazed crowd on that memorable day at the
corner of the old Pier Hotel, Williamstown, as
Price, conveyed upon convict shoulders, passed
slowly along the Nelson Parade to the residence
of Dr. Wilkins, where he lingered through the
night—dying about three or four o’clock the
following morning. I was but a child at the time,
but I shall never forget that awful, yet merciful
procession. It passed so near to where we were
standing that we could distinctly hear Price
moaning, and see the agonized swaying of his
drawn limbs. Mrs. Price arrived upon the scene
as the end drew near—and it was most pitiful to
hear her despairing cries as the medical attendants
gently but firmly refused her permission to see
him —“He is not fit to be seen just now.” It
is not for me to pass judgment upon the deter-
mined Price. He may or may not have been a
terror and a tyrant. Yet I think you will agree
with me that it is, at least, creditable to our
common brotherhood and sisterhood that he—aye,
even he—had one little soul who loved and
lamented him.— A. Rees.
Editor Bulletin, —Ex (N.S.W.) Premier
Jennings’ Latin is of the schoolboy order. “ ‘ Coim
monweath’ translated into Latin,” said he in
N.S.W. Legislative Council, “is ‘Republic.’”
How does he like this from Edmund Spenser, who
was no Republican
It is a capital crime to devise the dea 1 h of your king
. . . for that, when such a purpose is effected . . .
it should turn the Commonwealth to more loss . . .
by the death of their prince.
That is Sixteenth Century English written by a
courtier of Queen Elizabeth. Besides, anyone
who has read Tacitus and Suetonius, historians of
the Imperial era, knows that they use “Res pub-
lica” for our word “State.” An old Latin-
Englieh dictionary of the Fifteenth Century gives
one of its meanings as “ Reaulm.”—T.R.
A snappy member of the House of
Commons, after likening the Home Rule Bill to
a razor which is only made to sell, observed that
“principle is the best strategy, just as honesty is
said to be the best policy by those who have
tried both. 1 ’ Not bad—but, if there are no more
than two policies, honesty, grammatically speak-
ing, must be the better.
A startling statement ! We declare
That our experience the reverse is ;
The cricket-meet that starts with prayer
is apt to finish up with curses.
Go watch the game. Some Christians pray so,
Y’ou'd think their lips were dew’d with blarney,
Till they dispute the Umpire’s say so,
And Brotherhood is bushed in barney.


THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
the delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Pills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. j. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. B. A.
Every Dose Effective.
Betvare of cheap imitations,
the name— Ayer’s Pills —is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
ì
/ Sample \
/ copy sent \
/ Gratis & Post \
Free to any ad- \
dress. State whether \
you would like Song, \
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
i
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
ì
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15, Kolborn, London, Eng,
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
i
Guaranteed to cure every disease ot
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
t umi ii . enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the IT. S. Medical Profes*
''on. Ti e smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in. a phial.
n Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
c#>
#v
MALTED
nourishing.
DELICIOUS.
MILK.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
i FOR TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the.
richest a nd purest of milk, combined ,
with the nutritious and digestible.
parts of wheat and malted barley, i
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,'
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk, ’
—Lancet , April 4, 1891.
Malted milk, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.
—British Medical Journal April 18, 1891.
Mallei Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents .-
Elliott Bros., Limited. Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hlll, LONDON, E.C.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
66 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
1 nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the tiuth o \\ ia
fC Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should conUnuc to suer.
at once for my TREA TISE and a FREE 80l-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing fora
trial, and IT WILL CURE.
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
11. «. HOOT.
28, Endsleigh Gardens. Euston Road, London.
jales of the convict system.
Brice—One Shilling.
SPECIAL FINAL NOTICE.
-I : y
SETTLEMENT OE THE PEOPLE ON THE LAND!
Columbian Land l3©3
SUB-DIVISION OF THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
NAMBROK & MELTON PARK.
250,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 EACH.
83" 251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and ICO Township Allotments.
£1 may return £58,324 worth.
m
WWm
Bm
i
......
I s a
-
:.
v -V*rr-'«.>«.
.
:.V. V
_
NAMBROK HOUSE.
£1 may return £58,324 rtli.
The following gentlemen, in conjunction with 10 Shareholders and representatives of[the Press,will beipresent at
the ballot, to takl place about June 30 (IMMEDIATELY APPLICATIONS POSTED °. N J 30 phrr wADE Em '
p p LABERTOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; MAJOR 0. M. OFFICER, Melbourne, CHRISTOPHER WARE, n.sq.,
Adelaide ; Captain J. WHITNEY Auckland, N.Z
Clear Titles will be transferred to winners of properties free of all cost.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.— Any shareholder winning property No. 1 who shall have applied for a share oi
shares on any date after May 10, 1893, will, in addition receive a cash bonus of £l5OO (for stocking
Properties 2 and 3 will benefit to the extent of £375 and £ll2 10s. respectively on the same condition. Should the
full complement of subscribers not be obtained, prizes will be allotted pro rata, prize No. 1 to be included.
Applications for shares should be made by registered letter to E. J. Db BOMFORD, care J. 5:
borough Chambers, O’Connell-street, Sydney, N.S.W. State amount forwarded. Prospectus showing sub-divided
plans, with forms, &c., sent on receipt of addressed and stamped envelope.
First Prize .. .. £30,000
Second Prize .. .. 12,000
Third Prize .. .. 7,000
Fourth Prize .. .. 3,000
Fifth Prize „ .. £2,000
Sixth Prize .. .. 1,600
113 Prizes .. .. each £1,050
9 Prizes
120 Prizes ..
3 Prizes
100 Prizes ..
.. £560 to £99C
.. each £550
£340 to £540
.. each £24
TOTAL ESTIMATED VALUE, £250,000.
Each Share has a chance of winning 11 separate properties, that is to say, each series of properties are drawn
for separately. , . . ~ .
NAMBROK is on the Latrobe River, Qippsland, close to the Rosedale Railway Station ; rich land, suitable lor
agricultural, fattening, and dairy purposes. _ .
MELTON PARK, 21 miles from the Railway Station and 22 miles from Melbourne, in the famous agricultural
district of Bacchus Marsh.
Colwmlbian. Land Distribution.
1893.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
Name
£
Address
To E. J. ms Bompord, c/o J. H. Aatrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell-st., Sydney.
Please make remittance by Postal Note or P. 0.0. If by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed
envelope with stamp for reply. Do not attach stamp if other than N.S.W. (Cost of stamp may be added to
Pi 0.0.) PT” Register your letter.
Special iNTotice !
APPLICATIONS must be POSTED not Later than JUNE 30.
"CtOTHED With air”
Cellular Aertsx Underclothing
FOR WINTER COMFORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated Unshrinkable Merino
Singlets and Pdnts just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (i sleeves), Is. 6d.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, IS. «d
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. 6d.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and include in Postal Order ot
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
Sole Agents :
BRAHAM Si MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
I H £
iiiNiu o u r
? 1 ;■
STOVE POLISH
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD,
N
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the LABOUR
yon can produce more polish with TWO Packets
of the "RISING SUN" than with HALF DOZEN
Packets of ordinary Blackload.
B
CHANCELLORS 9lak 9owde«
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria:
T. H. MATE & CO,, Ld.,
Albnry, Sydney, and Melbourne.
BARRY’S TRICOPHEROUS
FOR THE
HAIRah°SKIM.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
I Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine baa trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
î
f/EVE*
QU I^RmDING
ï
ft Pleasure t ° us e
KROPP
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“/ find your
Razors excel-
lent”
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW—GROUND
From (ill Dealers,
or direct trrnn the
English Depot, 61,
Frith Street. Soho
Square, Loildon, W.
RAZOR
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
Q TT, FOR A MOUSTACHE
Caplllarine!
Tin? Lightning Moustache Producer. IBJi
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows dav.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
€K4IO A AITKKM, Sole Aseiits,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
SHARPS
5M138
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
Y
THTS PRESS: “The Last of St*.’’
Bulletin Series, No. 3. Price, Is.
A Literary Banker.
Henry Gyles Turner, general manager of the first, of the
big Australian banks to smash, is a poet. A specimen Of
his Muse: —
SORRENTO—THEN AND NOW.
1803.
A stretch of sandy beach and trampled turf,
A row of tents, amid the broken trees ;
Outside, the thundering of the ocean’s surf ;
Within, the carking care that knows no ease;
A herded crowd, by guards controlled,
Forced to laborious but resultless toil,
Sullen ami desperate men, whose faces told
Of the fierce passions which their minds
embroil.
What joy had they in Nature’s loveliest face?
What hope to wake them to the charms of life ?
None heeded how they felt their deep disgrace,
Or whispered peace when all around was strife.
The savage-haunted forest rotmd them lay.
And half a world between them and their kin ;
The dull oppression crushed them day by day
Until all human hopes were dead within,
Some left their bones to bleach upoti the strand,
Some fled the lash to die in hunger’s faint ;
But all, thank God, passed to another land,
And saved this generation from their taint*
1890.
Bright sunshine, turfy slopes, a busy pier,
A floating palace, quick with joyous life,
Gay raiment and sweet greeting, happy cheer,
As parent welcomes child, and husband wife.
And all around the pleasant landscape bears
The signs of joy, prosperity, and peace;
The cosy home, remote from business cares,
The stately mansion where wealth takes its ease.
Fair gardens blooming with the rainbow’s hue,
And pleasant nooks, where lovers linger long,
Themselves to each more charming than the view;
The old, old story, famed in tale and song.
Sottly on sunny sands the wavelets break,
The children gambol in their merry play,
And old and young unite the day to make
A healthful, happy Christmas holiday.
Ah, well for us those times We never knew,
And well for all who live the happier lot;
No record stands of all that ghastly crew,
To mark how once their crimes defamed this
spot.
Christmas, 1890.
HENRY GYLES TURNER.
MELBOURNE—NOW AND THEN.
Three more brief years, and lo ! the poet’s jaw
Has drop’t amidst the din of busting banks;
Outside the rumbling thunder of the Law,
And wild confusion in the Tat Man ranks.
A shrinking ctowd, by Senate power maintained
Until, at last, the game was burning hot —
Mourning and knighted mert, who, whilst they
reigned,
Made O ! so merry with the gold they got.
What joy found they in Virtue’s simple face ?
Who sought to wake them to the shame of
fraud ?
No thought they had of scandal or disgrace
In flaunting lies for minions to applaud.
The humbug-haunted city round them lay,
And good old Confidence was verdant still:
The “ Home ” depositors dwelt far away,
And commerce flourished on the festive bill.
Some few already know the dungeon cell;
Poor Fat Man’s stomach turneth sick and faint;
To land-boom glories we have said farewell;
I'd fain look happy, though, indeed, I ain’t.
Ah, well for all had booms been never known,
And well for me had I but banking chuck’t
Before the bubble came, which, being blown,
Has left the poet singing “ Reconstruct!”
Bright sunshine smiled upon my early scheme,
The Service of the State was at command —
And now a cloud is darkening the dream;
’Twas sent by cable from the far-off land.
But yet, thank God ! the assets pass for good {
No Melbourne Court could doubt their hidden
worth ;
Though ere the old bank’s safely through the wood,
I’ll write no verses on the new bank’s birth.
When things are right, and “Home” deposits
fix’t
So none may see them for a term of years,
I’ll gather shells Sorrento rocks betwixt,
Whilst briny breezes dry my grateful tears.
And, musing then upon the old-time lags,
May doubt, perhaps, if they were more to blame
Than modern Fat Man who, unpunished, drags
A country’s honour through a slough of shame.
June, 1893.
HENRY SMILES SQUIRMER.
Dear Buixetin,— Re your par. about Pro-
fessor Morris going out one Sunday in Paris to see
a revolution, when a notice was posted calling on
the people to assemble in a certain place, and find-
ing an excited crowd chaffering over old postage-
stamps, there is more in that than meets the eye.
I was present on that Sunday (there has only
been one, so far as I know, that answers the des-
cription since the war). It was when the de
Broglie-Fourtou gang under MacMahon held the
Republic by the throat. Every effort was made
by the conspirators to cause an emeute, a notice
was conspicuously posted everywhere calling on
the people to assemble (which in their excited
state they were only too likely to do), and then
troops were massed at all convenient points,
artillery limbered up ready for instant use and
agents provocateurs sent to do their work at con-
venient street corners. All the materials for a
revolution were ready except bad leadership. One
word from Gambetta, who that day held France in
the hollow of his hand, would have made Paris a
sea of blood and have destroyed the Republic.
But the absolutely greatest Republican leader of
this century knew his own strength and the weak-
ness of his country’s foes. The Soyez calmes, mes
amis with which, from the steps of the St. Lazare
station, he issued his commands to the people, had
the electrical effect that the dominant will of a
born leader always produces. The mob under-
stood the situation and trusted the man. Instead
of turning out to fight, they turned out to laugh.
Three months later the battle was fought out in
the constituencies, and, in spite of a gagged press,
fraudulent electoral returns, and every possible
form of official oppression, the great tribune saw
the complete triumph of his policy. How much
the permanence of tne present French Republic is
due to Leon Gambetta is even yet hardly recog-
nised. Moral. There are 100 ways of saving a
country— 99 times by the ballot-b Oxes and once by
ivil war.— George Dant.


A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Skin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
(Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.')
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
§pd the most eminent Shin Specialists award ii
the first place among Toilet Soaps.
v>y-
m
I
W
■m
i
When the Tide Runs Out
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Black Tom’s “hell” was one of the insti-
tutions of Samoa. And not an unpleasant hell to
look at —a long, rambling, one-storeyed, white-
painted wooden building, hidden on the beach
side from ships entering Apia Harbour by a num-
ber of stately cocoanuts; and as you came upon it
from the palm-shaded track that led from the
brawling little Vaisigago towards the sweeping
curve of Matautu Point, the blaze of scarlet hibis-
cus growing within the white-paled garden fence
gave to this sailors’ low drinking-den an inviting
appearance of sweetest Arcadian simplicity.
That was seventeen years ago. If you walk
along the Matautu path now and ask a native
to show you where Tom’s house stood, he will
point to a smooth, grass-covered bank extending
from the right-hand side of the path to the coarse,
black sand of Matautu beach. And, although
many of the present white residents of the Land of
the Treaty Powers have heard of Black Tom, only
a few grizzled old traders and storekeepers, relics
of the bygone lively days, can talk to you about
that grim deed of one quiet night in September.
* # *
Tarnasi Uliuli (Black Thomas), as he was
called by the natives, had come to Samoa in the
fifties, and, after an eventful and varied experi-
ence in other portions of the group, had settled
down to business in Matautu as a publican, baker
and confectioner, butcher, seamen’s crimp, and
interpreter. You might go all over the Southern
States, from St. Augustine to Galveston, and not
meet ten such splendid specimens of negro
physique and giant strength as this particular con-
traband. Tom had married a Samoan woman—
Inusia—who had borne him three children, two
daughters and one son. Of this latter I have
naught to say here, save that the story of his
short life and tragic end is one common enough to
those who have had any experience of a trader’s
life among the betel-chewing savages of fever-
haunted New Britain. And the eldest daughter
may also “ stand out ” of this brief tale.
* * *
Luisa was black. There was no doubt
about that. But she was also comely; and her
youthful, lissome figure as she walked with springy
step to the bathing-place at the Vaisigago gave
her a striking individuality among the lighter-
coloured Samoan girls who accompanied her. Yet
to all of us who lived in Matautu the greatest
charms of this curly-haired half-caste were the
rich, sweet voice and gay laugh that brightened
up her dark-hued countenance as we passed each
other on the path and returned her cheerful
“Talofa, alii!” with some merry jest. And,
although none of us had any inclination to go into
her father’s pub. and let him serve us with a
bottle of Pilscner, Luisa’s laughing face and curly
head generally had attraction enough to secure a
good many half-dollars for the 501 b. beef-keg which
was Black Tom’s treasury in the course of the
day.
# # #
It gave us a shock one day to see Luisa
emerging from the mission chapel with a white-
haired old man by her side —married. The matter
had been arranged very quietly. For about two
months previously this ancient had been one of
Black Tom’s boarders. He was from Maoriland,
and had come to Samoa to invest his money in
trade, and being, perhaps, of a retiring and quiet
disposition the sight of Mr. Thomas Telton’s
innocent-looking dwelling attracted him thither.
Anyhow, old Duncan remained there. It was
noticeable that, from the day of his arrival,
Tarnasi Uliuli exacted the most rigid performance
of morning and evening devotions by his family,
and that the nightly scenes of riot and howling
drunkenness, that had theretofore characterised
the “ hotel,” had unaccountably toned down. In
fact, burly old Alvord, the consular interpreter,
who had been accustomed to expostulate with Tom
for the number of prostrate figures, redolent of
bad rum, lying outside on the path in the early
morning, showing by the scarcity of their attire
that they had been “ gone through ” by thieving
natives, expressed the opinion that Tom was either
going mad, or “ was getting consairned ” about
his sinful soul.
# * #
The knowledge of the fact that old Duncan
had so much worldly wealth stowed away
in his camphor-wood trunk, may have had
(doubtless it did) the effect of causing this remark-
able change in Tom’s daily conduct. Duncan, in
his way, was sourly religious ; and, although not
understanding a word of Samoan, was fond of
attending the native church at Apia—always in
the wake of Luisa, ToS-o-le-Sasa, and other young
girls. His- solemn, wrinkled visage, with deep-set
eyes, ever steadily fixed upon the object of hia
affection, proved a source of much diversion to
the native congregation, and poor Luisa was sub-
jected to the usual Samoan jests about the toe’ina
and ulu tula (old man and bald head), and would
arrive from the church at her father’s hell in a
state of suppressed exasperation.
The happy marriage was celebrated by Tom and
his clientele in a manner befitting the occasion and
the supposed wealth of the bridegroom. Then
none of us saw Luisa for a week at the bathing-
place, and her non-appearance was discussed with
interest at the nightly kava-drinking at half-caste
Johnny Hall’s public-house. Old Toi’foi, duenna
of the kava-chewing girls, used to say solemnly
that the old man had Luisa locked up in her room
as she was vale (obstinate), and sat on a chair out-
side and looked at her through a hole in the wall.
• * m
An hour after midnight on one of those
silent tropic nights when naught is heard but the
muffled boom of the ocean swell on the outer reef,
a shot rang out through the sleeping village, and
then a long wail as of someone in mortal agony or
terror. Leger, the Canadian carpenter at Mac-
farlane’s store, was, in company with Alvord the
Swearer, and Johnny Hall the Publican, and
many of us general sinners, up late at the kava-
bowl when Leva, the prettiest girl on the Point
and the most notorious member in Samoa
of the most ancient profession in the world
peculiar to women, dashed in amongst us with the
announcement that “ Luisa was dead.” In
another ten kava-drinkers, with un-
steady legs but clear heads, were outside on their
way to Black Tom’s house, which was within
pistol-shot.
• • •
An old man with a throat cut from ear to
ear is not a cheerful sight at any time, and we
turned quickly away from where he lay on the
once spotless white bed, now an ensanguined
horror, to look at poor Luisa, who lay on a mat on
the floor, gasping out her brief young life. Her
head was pillowed on her mother’s bosom and
down her side the blood ran from the jagged
bullet-hole. On a chair sat the herculean figure
of Black Tom with his face in his hands through
which splashed heavy tears. Slowly he rocked
himself to and fro in the manner of his race when
strongly moved ; and when he tried to speak there
only struck upon our ears a horrible gasping noise
that somehow made us turn again to the awful
thing on the bed to see if It had aught to say upon
the matter.
# * *
Luisa spoke but little. The kind-faced,
quiet-voiced missionary doctor told her that which
she already knew too well; and then we drew
away while host oke of other things, and we saw
the look of dread and horror on the comely young
face pass away and a faint smile part the lips that
were already touched by the grim shadow of
coining dissolution. Many of her young play-
mates and comp inions, with wet cheeks, bent
their faces and touched her lips with theirs, and
to each she sighed a low To Fa of farewell, and
then she looked toward the shaking bent figure in
the chair and beckoned him over. With noiseless
tread he came, and then, with her very soul look-
ing at him from her great death-stricken eyes, she
murmured, “ Eear not for me, my mouth is covered
by the Hand of Death ; farewell! ”
« # *
The soft lapping of the falling tide came
through the open window as Luisa spoke again to
Toe-o-le-Sasa, the Maid of Apia—“ E Toe, e pae
afea te tai ?” (“ When is the tide out? ”) And the
girl answered with a sob in her throat —“ In quite
a little while, O friend of my heart.”
“Ua lelei. (It is well.) And as the waters run
out so does my soul float away !” and she turned
her face to her mother’s bosom. And as we, with
a curious feeling in our hearts, averted our face
from the overshadowing Presence of the Reaper,
and stood out upon the path with the lofty palm-
plumes rustling above us, we saw the first swirling
wave of the incoming tide ripple around the
point and plash on Hamilton’s beach. And then
from within the silent house answered the wail of
Death.
LOUIS B.
A Fragment.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
To where in Death there reigns supreme
“ Equality,” which now they deem
The watchword of a madden’d crowd,
Who now gets scorn from them the proud.
Equality ! Thy laws they dread !
(The only laws that rule the dead).
Eternal winter ever chills
Heaven and Hell, and ever fills
The mystic Purgat’ry with cold,
And hems with ice the Shepherd’s fold.
For cold it must he with the dead
When life itself, with heat, has fled.
(When heat departed life had waned,
And cold with death alone remained).
Therefore, the land of death is snow,
Eternal, growing with the flow
Of ages. Thus, though madmen tell.
Hope on ! There is no fiery Hell.
“WURLIE.”
The Michigan Ledger reported the
marriage of a Mrs. Barnes, who called and
demanded a contradiction. Next day the Ledger
said ; “We fully believe that Mrs. Barnes is not
married, nor do we think she ever will be.”
The Way to the Worm.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Where the worm dieth not and the Arc is not
quenched.”—Mark.
There’s the juvenile who wanders,
And there’s the baby boy who crawls ;
There’s the maiden who meanders,
And there’s the mannikin who sprawls ;
There’s the flurried man who ambles,
And there’s the man who simply walks ;
There’s the lunatic who rambles.
And there’s the stalwart man who stalks—
They are all on the way to the worm.
There’s the soldier-man who swaggers,
And there’s the lounger man who strolls ;
There’s the jolly man who staggers,
And there’s the obese man who rolls ;
There’s the little man who toddles,
And there’s the lanky man who strides;
There’s the ancient duck who waddles,
And there’s the skinny man who glides—
They are all on the way to the worm.
There’s the senile dolt who dodders,
And there’s the ass who almost trots ;
There’s the weakened wight who totters,
And there’s the squatter man who squats ;
There’s the convict man in hobbles,
And there’s the gamey man who hops ;
There’s the bandy man who wobbles,
And the aesthetic goat who flops—
They are all on the way to the worm.
Tliei - e’s the earth upon its axis,
And there’s the sun that goes on wheels;
There’s the moon that wanes and waxes,
And all the stars that night reveals—
They are all on the way to the worm, Ha, ha.
They are all on the way to the worm.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
Frederick Warne and Co., of London
and New York, hear that certain Australian
papers are printing several of their copyright
novels without any acknowledgment, among
others a story by Silas K. Hacking. The punish-
ment proposed by Messrs. Wame on discovery of
the robbers is that the paper in each case cease
publication of the piracy forthwith and in its place
insert the reason for so doing with apologies to the
author, a list of whose works they must advertise
gratuitously for three consecutive weeks in the
column hitherto occupied by the literary “ swag.”
Melbourne daily papers recently fawned
slobberingly upon the Chirnsides, as noble
examples of landed gentry who encouraged the
tenant-farmer and bred a noble peasantry out of
pure patriotism. Grind out the panorama. The
Victorian Metropolitan Board of Works, which
lately bought 8800 acres from the Chirnsides for
.£149,000, for sewage-farm purposes, has just
rented to the Chirnsides a large section of the
same land, convenient to the sewage, at 9s. Gd.
per acre per annum. The Chirnsides now stand
thus over this little deal : They have received
£149,000 ; the value of their land has been greatly
enhanced by the establishment of the sewage
scheme; they have cut up an adjoining section
and are letting it in farms at 15s. an acre per
year ; they are themselves only paying 9s. 6d. an
acre for land right on the sewage drift, and they
stand every show of easily sub-letting it at a
profit. Therefore, let the people grovel and let
the press clap its hands.


MSTLE’S FOOD
FOil
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe oases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Yol. YIT.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—YoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorder’s which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
ihe use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” - Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended Toy the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
3E5 O SISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheum tlsm. Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes ;
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Carter * Co?
JJUAIiTABIiH
NQN reversible;
rpHIS Ingeniously Constructed WH.IiIA.RI> ItlMMi-
J- T I RliK is acknowledged th ' most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Pillia ds have no equal, oombin-
inggentleexeroise with a i eb glut and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—3S to Rn’iicas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
**bt
$
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren’s sweet)
|L jM
jgß
BBbk Tjiidi',l ■ j
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &G.
STO IRS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. lid. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. BATMAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffming&Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
66 riTALKS of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
JL Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
♦
♦
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENT*, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap delightfully perfumed.”—Chemist and Dkuggist (London). In five kmds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
I
m
C *OLi.\V& °
BLONDEAU&C
tONO&N W
,d Road /
Ryl
' for "itching, eczema/
ROUGHNESS & SKIN IRRITATION
m.
o
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PIIICKIjY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
A SANITARY, SOUUBUE ROSE-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes -in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
i
HHil
<
I
A
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
O'
Ask lor Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export bu the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse d - Blackwell, London, <sc. , dfC. }
and bp Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents : Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN ; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively tine Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS DARLENE
>■ WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
AFTER USE,
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned T7/A T> OAT T\ From whatever
Remedy Fv/ iV £> Li LJ CiDO cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and Moustaohios it has never been equalled. AsaCurcr
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
oooooo
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonics.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
“ The Brotherhood of Man.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the churches grand ’tis sung of by enthusiastic
choirs,
Till the message rings to heaven from the gables
and the spires;
Then the parson softly preaches on the gracious
precept, too.
“Amen!” responds the elder, in the richly-
cushioned pew.
But the singer, nor the elder, nor the preacher,
when they meet,
Know their poor, unkempt relation who is stranded
on the street;
For a noble theme to sing of, to enlarge upon, and
scan,
But ridiculous in practice, is the Brotherhood of
Man.
In those halls where politicians meet to air their
wretched feuds,
The very walls themselves repeat the noble plati-
tudes ;
There the man of many syndicates, with vanity
and greed,
And envy for constituents, declaims the good old
creed,
And the jewelled son of luxury puts feeling in his
tone,
As he tells how men must brothers be, and join
from zone to zone,
But his “set” is most exclusive, and, in point of
fact, a clan
Of wealthy “ upper-orusters ” forms his Brother-
hood of Man.
Still, with weary iteration, in the palace and the
court,
In the camp and in the chapel, is the ancient
lesson taught.
E’en the man of shares and acres yells the shib-
boleth sublime,
And to prove its truth he lives upon his
“ brothers ” all tin; time.
But the poor now hear the precept with a scornful,
curling lip,
And repudiate the rubber and his damned relation-
ship;
For they know of “trusts,” and syndicates, and
rings that spoilers plan,
And they cry aloud for vengeance on the Brother-
hoods of Man.
Melbourne.
EDWARD DYSON.
“ Marching through rapine to the destruc-
tion of the empire.”—Gladstone on Home Rule,
1881.
Now they say the Franco-German war was
caused by Napoleon and Eugenie joking on the
big feet of Fraulein Bismarck.
From a Frenchman, as usual,” says
Professor Tucker, of Melbourne University, speak-
ing of the best definition of poetry —“The ex-
quisite expression of an exquisite impression.”
One C. J. Darling, Q.G., discourses on
“ Our Virtues ” :
In old time there was put first among the virtues what
was called patriotism, and he wondered whether that
could be said to he vice disguised. At any rate, if a man
\\ ere called a patriot now, the Court of Appeal would hold
that it was a libel, because it was a libel to hold anj’one
up to public contempt and ridicule, and what was a
patriot but a person held up to the contempt and hatred
of all who knew him? There was another virtue con-
stantly preached to them which was called humility, but
that, properly looked at, was in most cases pride, and in j
many cases the expression of conceit. Selfishness was a
vice, and what was justice but a vice, because it depended
upon the purest selfishness and the meanest conservation
of what one had somehow or other come by ? They were
told that honesty was the best policy, and that was just
what they were told about any kind of surrender to a
turbulent mob. Then generosity' was extravagance,
indulged in because it pleased the giver and grati-
fied him. Beneath generosity came charity, and
what was that? Charity, they were told, was simply
the giving up through fear. Next they were told that
temperance was a virtue; but temperance was only
another name for the hideous and degrading vice called
teetotalism. Another virtue, so-called, was humanity.
But, after all, what was that? Often it resulted from
people not taking the trouble to be firm. They went in,
through weakness, for what they called goodness, in
order that they might earn the reputation of being
nobody’s enemy hut their own. Almost above the whole
of the virtues, however, was the virtue of courage, which
from the earliest times had held a high place ; but, after
all, what was it but vanity, and a desire to get fame and
please the crowd ?
And, last of all, he might have added, comes piety,
which is based on a mean and selfish desire to save
one’s own soul which, probably enough, isn’t
worth saving. Most virtues are pretty mean
things when inspected with a microscope, and
probably the only things that really are virtues
are drunkenness and cock-fighting.
Premier Seddon’s elevation in Maoriland
has already been signalised by one row. He was
travelling on the West Coast with his private
secretary, Mr. Hamer, and he wanted the unfor-
tunate secretary one morning at four o’clock.
Seddon is a man who works at all hours of the day
and night, and when he is travelling and has to
catch an early coach he generally starts his
correspondence in the small hours of a.m.
Queerly enough, there was a British tourist
named Hamer staying at the hotel, and
the messenger woke him by mistake, and
told him he was wanted on the instant. The
tourist flew out of bed with a conviction that the
building was on fire, but finding no signs of any-
thing wrong he went back again, and pre-
sently fell asleep. A few minutes later,
another messenger came and yelled to him
that “Mr. Seddon said he was to hurry up.”
The tourist seized an umbrella and rushed to the
door to brain this emissary, but he was gone
before the deed of blood could be accomplished.
By-and-bye the agitated Englishman was just
dozing off once more, when another man appeared
and said he was ordered by Mr. Seddon to bring
him along, if necessary by violence. Then the
globe-trotter disguised his rage and asked, in a
voice of unnatural calm, who Mr. Seddon was,
and being informed that he was the Premier he
burst out from among his blankets and shook the
ambassador, and told him to go back and damn
the Premier, and to tell him that if there was
any more riot at his door he—the tourist—
would have Seddon arrested for conduct
calculated to create a breach of the peace. There-
upon the stolid messenger went back and told the
Premier that he had been damned by his own
secretary. When Seddon had partially recovered
from his astonishment he sent across another
herald to ask the meaning of the outrage, and
this person woke up the right Hamer and told him
the Minister desired him to account for his
language, and he sat up in bed and said that he
wasn’t aware of having used any language what-
ever. After that matters sorted themselves out
somehow or other, and everybody was pacified ex-
cept the British tourist, who intends to lay the
matter before the Imperial authorities and demand
that Maoriland should he made a Crown colony,
and that Premier Seddon should be sent to Eng-
land in chains and executed on Tower Hill.


Established 1876.
ì
WRITE FOR
D?
HAIRS
TREATISE
ASTHMAj,
i
ii
-Agents:
/AaBCUBNE
Rncke. lor,TPSlft»P.
_Svr-rtEY: Elliott Bro? ,
BRlSBAij£~niiottßfO?>(? J
Adelaide ; F.H.Paulding «-C?. Jf
Auckland. shaMand» *
send Treatise and Testimonials frs£
jbanrAMress^oß!s^ ai^
2/6 ’
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board of N.S.W.)
May be consulted at tlie moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a groat
many to’pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; wo hope, therefoio,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been a ccorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
‘—AT —*
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
ODR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Op the Philadelphia College of Dental
Suhgert.
IVe guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
Upper or Lower Sets from JB2 2s.
Full from JE4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10 6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Trice
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS. & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
OOCrORS RECOMMEND REACTS PATENT
INVICORAJdr
i
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says'“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’91): “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kki.lt L.R.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with ohi shapes ; insist on
having our new long wajst. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hasting*; England.
HOW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Humors
When their tender Skins are literally On Fire with Itching and
Burning Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly, and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical (because
so speedy) cure, and not to use them
without a moment’s delay, is to be guilty
of positive inhumanity. ; No greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon a child than
a skin without blemish and a body nour-
ished with pure blood*
CUTICURA,
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
VV
<l.
dies, are absolutely pure, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age, with the most gratifying and unfailing success.
Treatment. Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
skin purifier and bcautilier, externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn-
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, clear the skin and
scalp of crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
“ Alt. about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hath,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations,
100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every .bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, joc.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
Pimples, Blackheads,
red, rough,, and oi'ly skin and
Lands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
*nd childhood are prevented and cured by that most effective of all Skin Purifiers and Ceaulifiers, the
celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps,
while rivalling in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery so'.ps. The only pre-
ventive of inflammation and clogging of ihe pores, the cause of nos* facial IL ntishes. Piicc, zsc.
Thames Electric & Steam Launch C?
IJ\
1 ' -
ELECTRIC LAUNCH “GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. l)y 7ft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary ; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
VV. S. SARGEANT, m i m e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND
BROWN’S PATENT
DERMATHISTIC CORSET.
<lVf
pi*
ELEGANCE I COMFORT I I DURABILITY 111
“ The actual Wearing out
of such a Corset as this be-
comes an absolute impossi-
lity.”— Lady's Pictorial.
“ An ingenious method of
insuring durability.” —Myra
“It seems, indeed, as
though one pair would last
a wearer the whole course of
her natural life.”— Sylvia.
SPECIAL! TE.
BONES, BUSKS,&STEELS,
PROTECTED BY LEATHER.
Principal ®olonrs:
Black. Cardinal, Tabac,
Gold, Ruby, Terra Cotta,
Apricot, Dove, & White.
The Registered ‘ Conch Spring
Busks’ with which those
Corsets are now fitted are
Warranted Unbreakable.
Every Lady should try
them. Order at once.
&
TP,
X& Caatlow.- Do not take a Substitute; Beware
of Worthless Imitations.,
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottlks, Ib. and 2a. 6d.
M BEETHAM a, SON. Chemists.
Cheltenham, England.
DEAF
NESS A HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck's InrUibU Tnbttlar Kar Cuahiftin,
wblapart hoard. Hucoaaafnl vh«n all
ramsdias fall. WriU far hook of proofs
A. M. NASI,
Euxaietm Street,
Ueliournl
[FREE,
RUPTURE CURED!
CES
Pr. Pierce’s Celebrated Magi
netic Elastic Truss is curing
oases of rupture in all parts of the
world and Hiving relief to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
couidbefllledwithletterslikethese:
A Resident of London.
Mu. John Kino, of No. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Sum y Garden’s Estate, S.E.,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to yon about the Truss!
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. It fitssoeasy
that I don't notice that I have gota
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with theoldsteel trusses. loan jump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; i t holds every tiling firm and sure.
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mh. J. TomahkljLl, of the Government Houe?. under date
of December ft, 1892, writes:—"On theHth of last Ann 1 1 got
one of your trusses and it has already nearly cured me of »
very had rupture of about 2fi years standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Y our Truss has
done what doctors and trusses have not been able to doin
2(iyears. You may publish my letter for the good of the
afflicted.” _ . .
Latest from Now Zealand. • ...
Mb. T.W.N abbey, of Akaroa, Canterbury, in alettor dated
Feb. 21,18ft3,says: “I received the Truss in goodorderand am
glad to say it fits me like a glove. I can ridewit neaße,lift,in fact,
no anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while I can get one of yours.
*®~Oall or write to-day for our free"Tllnst, Pamphlet Ne.
While Yet We May.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Ancient, wrinkled dames and jealous—
They whom joyless Age downcasts—
And the sere, gray-bearded fellows
Who would fain re-live their pasts—
These, the ancients, grimly tell us :
“ Vows are vain, arid no love lasts.”
Fleeting years fulfil Fate’s sentence,
Eyes must dim, and hair turn gray,
Ago bring wrinkles, p’rhaps repentance ;
Youth shall quickly hie away,
And that time when youth has went herice,
We—and love—have had our day.
Let the world, arid fuming, fretting,
Busy worldlings pass us by,
Bent on piles of lucre getting—
They shall lose it when they die ;
Past and future, sweet ! forgetting—
Seize the present ere it fly.
Your bright eyes are soft and smiling,
Pouting lips are moist and red,
And your whispers wondrous wiling—•
Surely they would quick the dead—
And these hours they’re now beguiling,
All too hasty will have fled.
Years may bring a dole of sorrow,
Time enough to fast and pray,
From the present pleasures borrow,
Let the distant future pay ;
Leave the penance for the morrow,
Sweetheart! love and laugh to-day.
THE BREAKER.
Germany has a military chest of
£30,003,000. France has .£60,000,000 in gold,
whilst Russia is said to have £100,000,000.
Melbourne declines to the second place.
J. Kingston, in Melbourne, Derbyshire, was once
addressed by a venerable rustic philosopher, in a
I smock-frock and fuzzy, old, white belltopper:
I “ This Melbourne was here 800 year afore yourn
were thought on, and it will be here 800 year arter
yourn be forgot.” Looks like it.
DcavBuLLETXN, —lna recent issue youquote
a cablegram to the effect that a German Lloyd’s
boat with 60 emigrants aboard had reached
Bremen from Australia, and you ask —“When
* the Chinese of Europe ’ can’t get work, who
can ? ” I think you will find that two out of every
three Germans are thorough Democrats. I say
“Germans ” —not including (as I fear you do) the
Slavonians, Bohemians or “Pollacs,”as they are
called in America. From a cosmopolitan point of
view, I think the Germans are ahead of any other
European nation in science and enterprise. If 60
Germans returned from Australia to their own
country, as stated, it only affirms, to my mind, that
they refused to compete against undersold labour,
and had more ambition than could be satisfied
with life in a corrupted squatting country, and
with work at 15s. a week and bad food. —Yours,
F.G.
Dear Bulletin, —Where is the life-prin-
ciple seated in a human being? You have nar-
rated various instances of bullets and other foreign
substances lodging in the brain and remaining
embedded there, without death resulting. Now,
in the Wilcannia (N.S. W.) murder-case, old
Nolan (the 80-year-old father who had loved his
son’s wife) drove a knife into young Nolan’s
heart. There was but one lunge, and the post-
mortcvi is said to have shown that the blade pene-
trated the heart. Yet young Nolan lived to be
carried to the hospital. If neither the brain nor
the heart is the central seat of life, to touch which
is to stop everything, where is that seat ? I know
a theosophist who says that the life-principle is an
attenuated fluid that unequally pervades the
whole being—in short, the breath. Which sounds
to me like an advertisement for rum and onions.—
Yours, Gi.
Earl Rosebery has “recommended” the
Dutch Government to give Capt. J. B. Carpenter,
of Sydney, £2500 compensation, in settlement of
his claim for unlawful imprisonment. Some four
years ago, when on a whaling voyage in the Costa
Rica Packet, of Sydney, he picked up an aban-
doned and waterlogged prahu off Bourn. In her
was found a jar or two of arrack. The crew tried
to drink it, but couldn’t, so threw the stuff away.
Subsequently, he made two whaling voyages to
the Dutch East Indies, calling at the various
ports, and he had quite forgotten the incident.
On the last cruise, however, he was (on account of
the arrack incident) taken out of his ship, and
“cast into a dungeon,” having for a companion a
sick nigger. The burly captain’s description of
the Dutch officials and their hatred of anything
English is worth hearing. An Englishman, he
says, cannot (since the Boer victory at Majuba,
where Gen. Colley and his command were wiped
out) go into a hotel in Batavia, or any of the
Dutch ports in the archipelago, without experi-
encing insult.
Hearth and Home, a maundering British
periodical of the jam-recipe order, tells a pathetic
story about Queen Victoria. During last Egyptian
campaign Victoria, it appears, was graciously
pleased to knit a bed-quilt, which was sent to a
military hospital that it might be a jdjf and com-
fort to the wounded. The doctors considered the
question carefully, and decided that the quilt
snould be reserved for the most serious cases—the
ones which were most in need of something to keep
them up. The worst case got it first, and died under
it; and after that a long succession of worst oases
got it, and they all died in steady succession.
Presently, it came to pass that when the quilt was
put over anybody he straightway gave up hope
and pegged out, solemnly cursing the Queen in his
final moments. At last, one night a howl of dis-
may shook the hospital to its foundations. The
nurse had been covering up a patient, and he,
thinking the fatal quilt had arrived, sat up in bed
and declared, with a shriek, that he would die
rather than have the royal bed-cover put over him.
After that, the imperial present was planted away
in an attic. It was too fatal for ordinary use.
A liar in an English paper relates that,
while asleep under a gum-tree in Queensland, a
“cold ” snake—“one of the most poisonous species
in Australia” —mistook one of his trouser-legs for a
hollow log and climbed up. By wriggling, the
snake was induced to crawl further, until its head
came out beneath the vest-pocket, when :
Watchings favourable opportunity, I grabbed him by
the neck, and, pulling him out, broke his back with one
quick jerk. He was 7ft. Sin. long, and a (lerce-looking
brute.
What a bungling perjurer ! No real artist would
have made so many glaring blunders. (1) There
is no 7ft. Australian snake that is poisonous. (2)
Bushmen in Queensland don’t usually wear vests.
(3) Even Samson Haynes, M.P., couldn’t break
the back of a 7ft. snake “with one quick jerk.”
Finally, the only “ fierce-looking ” snake the
writer ever knew was a red and black, Jeopardy
thing with a head like a walfus and bottle-brush
whiskers—a Hogmanay reptile.


Hotel.
IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(Prom nu-strecl to
(/'asl!cr<>ngli>strecl))
Between King id Market Ste.
SVOMIV,
W
wm
■V'
Bt-.
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
A la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
tfOlxl-l, Ma^geii,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CH4
&
PATENT
PILLS
t,
&
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous dis ndsts,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizz’ness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin,' disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations,_&c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E ery
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system, If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health thei whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are ‘ I ACTS tes inert
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, BeechanTs Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s
Magic
Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general Asthma, BronoWal
Affections, Hoarseness Shortness of Breath,
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove,that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give SjCouoU
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Preuared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, hr the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
( by and Patent Medicine Dealers
jj.B. Full directions are given with each box.
MAN 11 O O I>.
HEALTH. STRENGTH AND RIGOR RESTORED
In Four IP'eehs by the use of
RICORD’S
The. only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the woild.
Dr. Ricord s JEssence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the. most shattered and debiUtMedcmsMutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases oflSs, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
m Agents for Australasia— Perry & Co., 73 Gertrude
Street Fitiroy. M KLBO URNE
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pi tt-st., Sydney.
NOW IN THE PRESS.
Six.”
of
lacl>St
The
Medical
iA IV*
$
ROSE’S
0,
m
ì
THE ONLY!
RELIABLE
i i
'fes.T'
ì
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
J an d SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
3E31- 3FS.C3S Jti!-,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Bs. 6d.
pgr Manufacturer of Dr. SO ETHAN'S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN
* U /
pfM
■ (''ELECTRIC BELT.
K
li
x..
XX
A NEVER FAILING CURE FO ®
DISEASES OF THE NERVOXJo SYSTEM.
. Complete •■with--Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pams in tne Ba-k, Lum-
bago, Gid liness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantlyfelt by
the wearer. It has great impmv mn.ts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for I be specific purpose of producing a o< intmuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened' parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently Clued in three months.
It is more co ivenient to w.ar than any other Belt. A
Book il'ustrated, containing full infoimation and testi-
monials from prominent peo) 1 ■ throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without, paving for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address;-' VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
o O ure, IN" o F* ay.
suspems^
rrHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
> cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wen re r to KUrsUol
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer thiongh
all WEAK PARTS. Rene m'-er, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanent y cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise. urn
NOTICE.- Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine (hem, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list ''post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
w/l
iMi
K
EMBROCATION,/;
y
■it f
OLD
EVERYWHERE
ì
EPPS’S
GEATEFDL—COMFORTING
COCOA
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘Frice Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Buxines* Announcements
í
-0
0^
whisky
- s
m
Mb
m
Bi
m
es:
•Site.
>vpar
Best on Earth
Solk Agents—
flit’s Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited.
/////_,J/
-uu
m
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Pabtt.: “Why d n ’JL_^ ou , 1 L f ‘ e P
Robertson’s Whisky
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
jjg?“ Coupon with Every Case.
‘<S>S
WHITE ROSE
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atk~i \ son’s. Beware of Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
EATJ DE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
is one of the most refreshing I’erf unics.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
GAUT ON ! -<>nlv genuine with shield
shape Uue and yellow inert ami usual
. Trade .Mai-K-H “ W hite lio.e' j
It. and address in lull Jgi
“Men I have Smiled with.”
E STAY at Bruton’s,
NHna'inoo
~"*w-jLc3-Q-^a.-
ive B. 3ST tt u ht OXX
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL). A CALL.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Okaxt* Uo^
MnS
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, fa 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 65.; Bouble ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
TJtLE GROSVENOR HOTEL,
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Rooms from 3s. Double Rooms from 6s.
Inclusive Tariff 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney,
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS ; 30s. per WEEK
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Sydney
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
PRICE—ON E SHILLING
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
"The Bullet! n, M
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
t$ the only paper which has a consistent and dit
tinctive Australian National Policy.
IPhb Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded. ’
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally -condensed columns al,l matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
ana has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile, imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationi
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now aiflicts British humanity.
Against the chums of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, avainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. Jhe Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely -circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bnsliman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of lorres
Straits, and the digger in the Maonland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the uncha lengeable fact-
easily ascertainable from any postal offiual—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, Ihe Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially written reading matter is the brightest
'.'a uJt its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum,
Businas communications to be addressed to
William Maclkod, Managing Director, to whom
all vanilla tiers arc payable. Editorial communi-
ntinns to he .i.-H.c-'ts" I to J. I- AhoUIBALU,


Box 1034, Ci.l'.O.
Telephone 972.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
HTTTT ,T=~!T=?-^
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Stiow Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
AJOW THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
±y PUBLISHED,
Tales or (lie Austral Tropics,
BY
EEFEST IF 1 IE INTO,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■Wynyarti Square, S's£ril33XrJE3'lSZr.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. - ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—los. e«l. per Way. Walter Sidney < lat ® ° f Newcastle), Prop.
Look out for fi£ The Last of Six. 9 ’
A
•za
<0
%
So
o
O
0
X
<RAC^OCK>
*
o
o
c
o
o
V
o
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 38 I'Ut-M . Sydney.
DF*x*e>e> r*rescription.B
Are to be found in the “Light anti bife, 1
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
I\TOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Prue Vanner or Ore Concentrator,
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
GLIIMIITIEID),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
i
ì
EiWjV
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery, and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlie “ Fioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYBMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
Knowles' Steam Pumps,
Sole Agent {or Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT!
SO VERY SHORT!
S'
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip — : ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be -a paradise of" its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc. —for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duff’s or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, For. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man..
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK),
MARK FOY’S.
A PROPHECY
DON TBE DISTRESSED. Depression will soon give place to prosperity by thoughtful economy
and good laws. The lands of the colony should be its source of wealth, but this can only b,,
practicable by a profitable market being provided for the products of the land. The railway rates
should be adapted, somewhat upon the Zone system, to the wants of the inland districts. By carrying
rates to the sea-board, so that the tillers of the soil may have a profitable market provided (America
owes her great prosperity mainly to this), emigration would then flow into the country, population
increase, and a natural boom the result.
LEVEE, BROTHERS, LTD.,
Are doing their best to encourage Trade in the Colony, having, since January,
Bought over 2ooo TONS OF TALLOW Sydney.
Value, £50,000.
This benefits BUTCHERS, SQUATTERS, WHARF LABOURERS, CARTERS, etc.
This Tallow goes to make the far-famud
I
WHICH 18 USKD jN
Her Majesty the Queen’s Laundry
And by all who believe that THE BEST IN QUALITY IS THE CHEAPEST BY RESULT.
Lever Brothers, Limited, Sydney.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Modal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Wliishy.
SO GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents:
0
CUBCIEB, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
TO BE SHORTLY PUBLISHED.
a
THE LAST OF SIX.
Price
One Shilling*.
