

i
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.'*
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS " 5 EACH.
f'AULITEI/l) CUP.
MELBOURNE ('UP
MELBOURNE CUP
OCTOBER 14TH
NOVEMBER
NOVEMBER
mi •
(Foil
Houses
Register Letters and Address td 1
Box 171
•GALA,” C O H.
G-.P.0.,
Only)
Alexander,
20,000
50.000
20.000
f. Each.
5 Each.
10 Each.'
Brisbane, Queensland.,
nrn
JEw-s
Mining’
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ And GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
UM. n u g
and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
NEW ANT) SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ì
d v’Q
uJL 19
ALTED
A
So
o
O
O
c
<RAcitAflocK>
o-
o
c
o
tx
o
V
()
18. A. Htfvoj-t Agent, 38 STtl-st , Sydney.
Fx , && 2Px > eeici~i^-tic»xxei
Are to be found in the “ amt T/ife,'
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
iseasos, &c. A copy of this book will bo sent
I ree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address— ■' . - "
s * & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
■7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
0 nOE.-Advertisements for Current Week
Tuesday* iecc *' eater than i p.m. on
)
- r
■
o*
fl
tHJs
ti£
*to
-a
cSi—v d
HIM
w'wiiai
The Oxford Hotel, Sing Street, Sydney
H. THORPE
rnopmETOn,
í
WALKER’S WHISKY. AILSIPF’S ALE.
JO3E3C3ST 24 3803XT33 STREBTf, -
•Solo in 3STo"v<r Sontli
claytdn
and
S3Jhtx»’4st;lo’x^rc32sr , t;l3..
fos* Messrs
Wales
, n °WAß]ys ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
Ni'RlPrEiiS, WINNOWERS, HAKES,
HARVESTERS, reapers.
st]'. ci.hv.ion. » murn-tnwiKuncou
tMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHIN'E.
'Specially built to suit the-requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable‘Engine?!.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertvpe Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines ot all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting ami Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellcvs,
HOWARTVS
SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, 01E, ETC, etc.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. AST
J. As c. Howard, 2SO£
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural liiJplenuents and Harvesting Machinery on application,
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Tol. 13.—N0. 712. J
[Saturday, October 7, .1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as it Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
THe Brigliton. of KTew SoixtH "W^les-
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &e., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
3MCx*s. 3ESI3CXji3&II SCUJJ’S'TIISSJrS. .... 3Proprieti*ess.
A, and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN
iissian f
Brandi.
WELL BORING TUBES.
Tiio only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Wasagsh for Australia -T. JT. 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
ì
“ Leger” Tobacco. Leger” Tobacco.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
“LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O rOXVJTOIESIO tESO
Compstition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER, 1893. Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893-
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS! DEMAND RAPIDLY. INCH EASING !
4 ‘ LEGER ” has caught on, and tlie unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success of the “ LEGER,” tlie manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr, M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O £5O £5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER” paper tags or labels
from the plugs,during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS ...
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS ...
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS .. .. .. ..
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS ~ .. .. .. ..
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS .. .. .. .. ..
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS .. .. ..
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS!. .. .. .. .. ..
Competition closes December 17, ISO 3. Tickets must he sent in not later titan December 21, 1593.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in the'r Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will he opened cn December 23, 1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the, public may be present to see the contents counted.
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—“ LEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, hut of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is, Bd. and often
Is. Cd. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for tlie “ Leger ” Tobacco—Price, Is. per Block.
“ Leger *? lx els* cauglat oxx !
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week’s-supply 25 percent, cheaper.
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to arty part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“THE LAST OF SIX.”
Price - One Shilling*.
io o «
; to 0
5 5 0
5 « 0
3 3 «
2 2 «
» « 0
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. K. FERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPP S 9 S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COC O A
fjf* A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
H'OL'LO W AY’S FILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thee * grand medicines have not been
recognised' hy thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are .supplied for their use
In every disease. 1F YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nnw Oxfoun-ST., London. §3T' Fur-
i,Lasers should look to the Label on the.Boxes.and Pots,
tf the address is not 022 Oxford street, London, they are
etnmous
ows
if S? OLO |
AVEVERXsWHERE'I
íi
i
i
i
i
i
Dr. R 8 DOE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS afd INVALIDS
‘Tin’s is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— CriAS. IT; Piessb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Ww, Johnstone
PjT.D., F.C.S., Ac., Public, Analysts.
DR. JUDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
rjIALKS OF THE CONVICT. SYSTEM.
PR ICE- ONE SHILLING,
Business Announcements.
K
R
P
O
D
W
T
u
'•'-A
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! 1
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes ? ”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.’
' Mea I have Smiled with.”
E STAY at Bruton’s
MHnainos
► GURKE. Every Comfort at RALPH
I “ UNION.” Good Hull for Troupes.
'fcTYNGAN. WINTERS' TATTE3
-.A SALE'S LEADS. Good Sample Rood
■V<7*a,3C*a?©M.-»
Give FULLERS CLUB HOUSE a CAL
■BATHURST.
Treanor s €3-3 f a.3a.«3. Hote
FOB EXCELLENCE and COMFORT.
THE LANGHAM HOTEI
CtIAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR,
Wynyard Square, Corner of Tork-street, Sydne
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &
First -class Accommodation for Visitors.
(k per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEE]
WHITE HOSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGiPANKE
STEPHAKOTiS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
* Of all Healers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only ftenuino with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
js Trade Mark-s “ White Hose”
Eb and address in lull.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIG6R RESTORED
p In Four Weeks by the use of
RXCORJO’s
t
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and ■unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Record's Faience of Life rest ore* Health and,
Strength, to the most shattered and debilitat'd constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Its, or four quantities in one for .7 Os. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope.
Agents for A nslralasia—Perry S Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Pileroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. 11. Soul &Co., Pifct-st., Sydney.
To N ewsagents, etc.
T ABM AKTIA.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 21 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terns on Application.
b AL 33 3Vr -fn
“ jr. ® S
It removes the cause \\ 7 . iv 3 * Q iPtf- »>
and provides food for the hlif ’^VcrK*^olliele,
-r~r I,!< ’
iViiisiurs. r-v-K
Quickly resume '
colour with lna,u r»
jtorn's “Arne-,
Non-poisonous, hcft^n
sniell, does not stain tifelkin m
a, 6 and 5 . s * ,n -
superfluous Haid
lor". Hai, Solve,,, . (i ,
Lea\ es no mark
I , 3 ° Ule -
wen, and anahticnl CW
opinions with each bottlf°Tt a a,ul ? ,f «s
!** ««rt «s«£?*• »*sg*»ai ro,
- Dr. O. E. HORW n . mrt *h
Newport. Isle of St’p rSptcilli «.
To be obtained of Felton Grimw, i * . Eng .
* nd , fcl ‘ e New Zealand Dni; Co Wclliritff„ Ca «*: Me l''o«me
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd Christ chure(**
or for l/G extra from the Proprietor’" es : an , (! Bri»i Ja £
Z„£“ ,1 ““
f
iiM
$
SI
j;' 1 ' eureka Vh
,\f
nNV\
iV
7m
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £i
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt win ,
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back Lam
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder eon;
plaints. The currents are .steady and constantly felt l.y
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts oh
30 tiays trial,
and accept payment after they have proved th m
selves what wo represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of uroducing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak'
fried parts, restoring them to health and vigOrousstfength'
even the worst case permanently cm e l in three months'
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt, {
Book illustrated, containing full information and t'esli-
menials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persona how they may obtain these kill
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage. .. ...
Address VOLTAIC EELT COMPANY,
Box 910, Q.PiO., Sydsev.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
*
PATENT
PILLS
-
F
*
&
*
$9
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
Buoh as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after nieals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations,_&c. riie
first "dose will give robe!
in twenty minutes. B en
wfferer is earnestly invited to try one box of t.ie«e
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are imaliabh
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, aa
bring about all that is required. female s. •
be without them. There is no medicine to e
equal to P.EECHAM'S FILLS for removing ’ W
obstruction or irregularity of the system. U • .jj
cording to the directions given with each box ie _
soon restore females of all ages to sound <w
health. This has been proved by thousands " 1
tried them, and found the benefits which are ens
ihcir use
o work wonders upon » strengthen the
the human machine. They st e , xio n,
organs in the human maemne. , 00 mp!ex ion '
whole muscular system, restore tbeloi g- gfi j n to ac-
bring back the keen edge of appetite, physical
tion with the ROSEBUD of health itj» e J^ rB » v m inert
energy of the human f raiiie. These a _ F- f soc iety: f d
continually by members n 1 ,3 an d debility- 1 ’
one of the best guarantees to the net f y patent
is, Ueecham’s Pills have the largest sale
medicine in the world.
eecham’s Magic Cough PM’-
Ks a remedy for Coughs in re atb, Tights-*-
eetions, ifoarseness, Shorlness o| |u « these ? 1
J Oppression of the Chest, VVbce- g ffe j e d to tt
md unrivalled. They are the bes of opl , rC3 s n
:>rt time be removed. the
‘repared only, and sold
oprictor, Thomas li«cha , St. » pills), and
eland, in boxes Is. lid. (containing
t)d. (treble quantity). p telifc Medicine u
told by all Druggists and i atenv
'rvwhere. . „ ... en with each box
‘ -Full directions are given vuw .


Medical.
K
112 PHILLIP ST,
SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by tiie Medical -
Board of New South Wales.
.Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman ot his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry! Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing a ter Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bid Taste iu the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mo ith during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate oases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric G-irdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of rny experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
Weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Ilnurs ioasiiltalion :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a. in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday— 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
®3T Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Hervons Complaints.
:
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may he eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
h ast, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34c COLGHGE STUiIHT, .SYDxIIY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION PEEE.
Hotel.
tv;
m
“ she §ydney Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Orescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, X.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
Willi Board ... 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
■JHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It «ill also be a great boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
W. C. ZEXjIDIRIIDGKE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
j Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
Medical.
3XTo Cur e, 3XT o HP ay.
■ v-
f V
nu
ELECTR o '®
belt
mHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we.preferthatyoushould
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
i
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
fromii« parts of the ■Suorld and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce’s
-Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Bead the letters:
From Australia.
Me. W. H. Pbioe, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul h Uo„ (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength ot
the bel t as soon as it is pi aced on h is body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England. , . ,
Mb. Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston bt., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since! have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, anal
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _ , „
J From America.
Mr J W.Pohlman, Tacoma,U.S.A.,writes— ‘YourNo.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of bciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my hack,
andal though I got up as i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled meever since until I tried your belt. For oneyear
now I have felt as I ztsed to at 20.”
S3-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr Pierce’s Belts.
Call, or write for free descriptivei Pamphlet No.Y, and
Please mention this paper when you address: W H. boul * Co.,
158 Pitt St.. Sydney! Elliott Bros., Brisbane: or, the
magnetic Elastic Truss Co., San 1 ran cisco, U. S. A.
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most suc( ess-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Woman’s Salvation.
The Greatest Discovery of the Age! His Treatise sent
for Three Stamps. Write. Prof. ROUT.' HERMANN,
French Specialist, Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
IK 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE..
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York, •
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66,
Combination Ticket, <£s2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company's Oflice, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
CROMART!
5 MrnEsfoiHUWiS
*O.
CROMARTY
Whisky:
Greenlees Brother
OHSCDh IOHOOH AND
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS '
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREA.M.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!!
Capillarixxe!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. "SSJi
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow direcfeioS-lldkd
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
CRAIG A AITKEV, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
‘THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR,
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers o«
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents;—
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
CBO A George Street, Sydney.
8®" NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six,”


—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar Krone.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let t hem know that there is such
an article as JOSEIUISON’S OINTMENT purely
theprodactionof the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve yovi',
Read this letter and Tuv for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo ephsorrs Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man canal to JOSEPHSON’S
A USTR ALI A N O LI. TMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purity the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co. _
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row's Dandelion Hitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
QTUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bittei-s shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak. Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen :
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewktt, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows: —
“ That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the sarnd complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and geneial weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
*mmiki&i.iisc3S!>Krmsr:X ——
Baron Bsrzilius’=
- • - ■ = Bnchu Bitters.
BARON BKRZILIUS- REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel. Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder ana Urethra. Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buehu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D.:—The Bitter is pure, and not like
atbers in overdoses. Ithas a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions Of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in cases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTRQM, M.D.—BBBB—I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G- B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
egfrts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row's Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
thildren, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANEP WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate ‘persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings «f nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
GA I’TION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & C 0.,..
Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Lark, Sons Sc Co.
(LIMITED),
WAREHOUSEMEN
' —AND —
IMPORTERS,
Wynyard Street, Sydney,
ARE OPKXIXG
NEW SEAS OX’S GOODS
—BY —
WEEKLY MAIL STEAMERS.
Business Announcements.
mercer*:
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
PROCLAIM
the
MAN.
HEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
Bo not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
World-renowned !
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses: —
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s),
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brick field Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
GOOD as GOLD.
i î
SimtW 531
&ISEST
_@¥lf(6
Tmaiiine
ftWeRHa
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
HOME
746 GEORGE ST. (Haiymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
> 67 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
BAKSR’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Sheath.
Fitted with HUNTING KNIFE, and Handy
STEEL fcr Shar|»eniii}f.
PLAIN, 8 - each ; IMPROVED DESIGN, 13 - each-
ì
iw~ POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of Money Order.
W. Jno, Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter-Si, SYDNEY, Australia-
NEWTON & LAMB.
BEDSTEADS.
In Black and Brass, Brass and Nickel,
With LATEST IMPROVEMENTS. In ALL SIZES at LOWEST PRICES.
CHILDREN’S COTS.
In all Usual Sizes.
SPECIAL DESIGNS are NOW BEING OFFERED.
BEDDING.
Mattresses, Bolsters
—AND—
PILLOWS,
In all Usual Material, SPECIAL CARE being taken to
secure the
;Most gerfect (Cleanliness.
Wire-wove
Mattresses.
Chair Bedsteads,
Folding Cots* Stretchers*
KTO., KTO.,
IN GREAT VARIETY.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY
.Ji
r
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Limiteti,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gras Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
US' Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 638 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Medical.
EETH.—A COMPLETE SET, ONE
GUINEA. —THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-streot. —Single Tooth, 2/6;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACK E TT writes ; “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a i easonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
98 KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st.
Beeta Beeta.
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
CERTAIN CURE
V —FOR —>
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
ETC., ETC.
To be had Retail from all Chemists and Store-
keepers ; and Wholesale from
FELDUEIM, GOTTHELF AND CO., SYDNEY;
J. BARLOW and CO., SYDNEY;
J. W. JOHNSTON and CO., SYDNEY.
Sole Manufacturers:
MASSEY & CO.,
746 George Street, SYDNEY.
Factory -YOUNG, N.S.W.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
£3T The only thoroughlj
reliable Remedy for
coughs, doitpa
KUMCIIitTIS
A: ID
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist.
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency —J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale of ElliotcJitfllbers, Limited
I/'
t
SSrj
CjmnnMr
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Skin Coon and Refreshed in the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, &C.
And preserves the THR SKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND. OB HARD WATFB,
More effectually than anv other preparation.
It is delightfully Coomno and Refreshing if applied to
the Face or Hands after being out in the Sun. Tennis-
playing Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by tiro Sow, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety feelingto the Skin, which is so delightful.
Price in England, Is. A 2s. 6d. Sole Makers;
M. BKKTHAM A SON. Chemists, Cheltenham. England.,
AND
i
WTCntfjtWa
.■re


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
?01. 13—50.712,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1893.
Price.6d.
í
Iv* ’M
• v #
Z*£f/
THE SAME OLD FALL.
Premier Dibbs, who was understood to hero entered on a course of rigid economy and self-reliance, finding that the London market has become suddenly favourable,
rushes off another 2½ million loan.
ADAM (DIBBS) loq.: “The serpent beguiled me at 4 per cent. and I did eat.” -Genesis, slightly altered.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
u Australia for the Australians,"
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONOE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £1 ® 0
Half-yearly ... ... , 0126
Quarterly... ... .. 06 0
------- NOTICK.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which- you ■may'pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
m the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere. -
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknoivledgejn the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed .
fut ice desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
lifter the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:— It. A- Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interpi'ovincial Netvspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There mil be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Notice to Agents In Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for Ihe
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1893.
“The Bulletin’s” Brother Cobb.
No more ludicrous illustration of that well-
established feature of the human character,
the desire to be eloquent out of season, has
ever presented itself to The Bulletin than
the peroration ascribed by the S.M. Herald
reporter to Coroner J. Lithoow-Cobb, in
that official’s summing-up of the Carcoar
tragedy evidence :
The case, which you have listened patiently and atten-
tive! v to for five days, is one of the most painful, dreadful
and shocking ever recorded in this country, or in any
other. There could not have been in the annals of history,
even amongst the most barbarous and savage tribes, a
more diabolical, cruel, bloodthirsty and brutal double
murder than the one perpetrated in this quiet little town
on Sunday morning last, when two valuable lives were
launched into eternity by a most cowardly ruffian and
fiend. Miss Cavanaoh, the beautiful young lady whom
we saw lying dead with her throat cut from ear to ear,
had just come from Sydney to enjoy herself with her
friends, and now is lying in the cold grave instead of
being, as she was, full of life and hope. Mr. Phillips,
who had been promoted to a much higher branch, and
was upon the verge of his departure, was smitten down
to death by a dreadful weapon in the shape of a
tomahiwk, by the hand of a bloodthirsty assassin.
Through this dreadful tragedy the whole district, and
all Australia, have received a shock through this
awful crime, which will be recorded as one of the
foulest and blackest ever brought before any coroner or
any other court. You, gentlemen, have only one course
to take. I have listened to this most important case, and
conducted it with the greatest possible care, pains and
attention. 1 hope and trust that I may never have to
hear such another dreadfully horrible case, but thank you
for the admirable way in which you have listened to it.
Now, do your duty. You know that duty. There is no
alternative but for you to bring in a verdict of wilful
murder against the man to whom the evidence points
alone all through, and who has been seen by several
witnesses who have sworn to him positively as the man
whose hands, face and tomahaw k (a neat touch of conden-
sation here !—Eo. 15. | were se?n steeped in.blood, and who
was recognised in the City Bank by several witnesses.
Gentlemen of the jury, I leave the case in'your hands.
You must make your own verdict. Remember the eyes
of every civilised country will be upon your verdict, and,
above all, the all s’arching eye of the Great Ruler of the
Universe.
This tendency to hysterical frenzy is un-
happily not confined merely to the press and
public ; it is a characteristic of the law as
administered in New South Wales. When a
sensational crime is under consideration
the criminal code is usually in a blind fury,
and howling with its hands uplifted to the
stars. Coroner Lithgow Cobb, if he really
did reel off the hideously bathetic mouthings
attributed to him by the reporters, only
follows the example set him fr m time to
time by his superiors. The Carcoar murder
was a revolting crime, but it was by no
means “the most painful, dreadful, and
shocking ever recorded in this country or
in any other,” Compared, say, with the
Nig holes and Lester murders, it was
almost a commonplace outrage. And the
jurymen were sitting, not to consider the
bloodthirsty adjectives of Coroner Cone, but
to decide, preliminarily, how the dead people
died, and whether, if their death arose from
other than natui’al causes, blame was prima-
facie attachable to anyone in particular.
Therefore, whether the charge was one con-
cerning the raid-day embezzlement of 20s.
or the deliberate burning alive of an entire
family on a dark night, they should have
been encouraged to review the subject
calmly, instead of being made drunk on
Cobb’s expletives and approaching the pro-
blem in a state of raving intoxication. There
is such a thing as getting drunk on eloquence
—or Cobbloquence—as well as on whisky,
and some day the public will recognise this
and establish a system of local option in
adjectives to alleviate the evil. Also, the
law will itself recognise it sooner or later,
and then some convicted prisoner will be
found applying to the Federal Court of
Appeal on the ground that the Judge and
jury who tried him were drunk—that they
had gone on an eloquential burst and found
a verdict while suffering from horrors induced
by overproof rhetoric.
The well-meaning and indignant Coroner
Lithgow Cobb is only a little worse than the
majority of his kind. It was probably the
only fair chance the poor man ever had, or
is ever likely to have, so he started to get off
all the fluency which had been accumulating
in his system throughout his whole life.
After stating —vide the report —that the case
was “dreadful,” and that the tomahawk
was dreadful, and that the tragedy was
dreadful, he arose in another burst of frenzy
to point out that the whole affair was
“dreadfully horrible.” He was strong on
the point that the town was a small one and
that the murder was very large—evidently
he wished to emphasise the fact that the
murder was altogether too large for the town
and ought to have been perpetrated in some
place that was big enough to hold it. There
were about 33 adjectives in the scream alto-
gether, mostly powerful ones. Cobb was
sure, in the first place, that there couldn’t,
at any time since the world began, or in any
place on the five continents arid the lost
region of Atlantis, ever have been per-
petrated by any person, or with any
known implement of butchery, a crime more
painful, dreadful (1), shocking, diabolical,
cruel, bloodthirsty, brutal, dreadful (2),
awful, foul, black, dreadfully horrible, and
several other outbreaks of stampeded adjec-
tives.
# • *
Then Mr. Cobb went in for details and
bogus pathos. The murdered lady was
beautiful and young, and her throat was cut
“ from ear to ear ” ; she had just come from
Sydney, her grave was cold, and she had
been full of life and hope. In addition, her
throat was cut in a quiet little town on a
Sunday. All these were thrown in as aggra-
vating circumstances over and above the
original murder, and seemed to imply that if
her throat had been cut to a less extent on a
Sunday, or if it had been cut on a Tuesday,
or if it had been cut from ear to ear in a
larger or noisier town, it wouldn’t have
mattered so much by a long way. Cobb’s in-
consequence is somehow suggestive of that
other eloquent magistrate—or was it a judge 1 ?
—who once addressed a prisoner: “The Lord
has given you health and strength, instead of
which you go round stealing ducks.” The
death of the unfortunate Mr. Phillips
was aggravated, in Coroner Cobb’s language,
by the fact that he had “just been
promoted to a much higher branch
and (O most impotent of climaxes !) —“ was
on the verge of departure whan he was
smitten down to death ’’—was any man ever
smitten up to death or smitten down to
restored health, by the way ?—with a
“ dreadful tomahawk,” held by a blood-
thirsty assassin, also a most cowardly ruffian
and fiend (both of them), and launched into
eternity by a person who was steeped in
blood. It is hard to die at any time, but it
is harder—according to Cobb— to die when
one has just been promoted to “a much higher
branch ” than at any other time. Murder is
always a ghastly circumstance, but when
murder takes the form of killing with an
axe a man who is just on the verge of depar-
ture it is ten time's more horrible than when
it is merely the assassination with a dumb-
bell of a man who has just arrived. And
the quietness and peacefulness of the little
town , are rung in as a picturesque con-
trast to the scene of riot and'bloodshed in
the bank. It all reads like the famous
eulogy over the remains of the deceased
bricklayer ; “ I looked out on the face of
Nature and all was ca’am. Our deceased
friend here was layin’ a brick. I looked out
agin on the face of Nature and all was ca am,
but our deceased friend was no more. He
was layin’ a corpse ! The Carcoar tragedy
was all unrelieved tragedy until Cobb came
on the scene and unc nsciously lent a humor-
ous aspect to the story, and infused a comic
opera clement’into it, arid dunderheadedly
made burlesque of the dead.
• • •
The Bulletin regards the Carcoar crime as
an inexpressibly shocking incident, and sin-
cerely trusts that the perpetrator of it will be
brought to justice. Also, it sympathises
deeply with the friends and relatives of the
unoffending victims. But the sorrow of the
bereaved relatives cannot be alleviated by the
nigger-minstrelsy of an absurd coroner, and
their troubles should not be used as a
medium whereby a petty local functionary
parades the “eloquential aspect” of him-
self, and gets a lot of erudite dictionary oft
his chest. The Bulletin has no personal
objection to Coroner Lithgow-Cobb, though
it is of opinion that no man with a double
name should be entrusted with any serious
function. There are evidently two aspects;
of this gentleman —the plain, business-like
Cobb aspect in which he summed up the
evidence, and the poetic or Lithgow aspect,
in which he felt himself bound to fire off his
“dreadful” and carefully-prepared perora-
tion and thus make an exhibition of himself
for all the country to see. After considering
his literary style, The Bulletin assumes,
more in sorrow than in anger, that Mr.
Cobb was, at some time or other, a reporter
on an Australian evening paper. The
founders of The Bulletin were also, at one
time, reporters on an evening paper and
wrote similar slush, therefore they shake
hands with Cobb and regard him as a brother.
But even when they wrote it they knew that
it xoas slush, and they only wrote it for a
living, and never perpetrated it for mere joy
and personal gratification, as Mr. Cobb seems
to do, and they were never proud of it, as
Mr. Cobb appears to be.
# # *
In a time of popular excitement, whoever
else may be metaphorically drunk, Justice
should be sober and free from all tendency
to hysterics. The question for the jury at
every criminal trial is not the “ awfulness ”
or the “dreadful horribleness” or the
eveningpaperness of the crime, but the iden-
tity of the criminal, and in order to weigh
the evidence intelligently the jurymen
should be as calm and judicial in a trial for
midnight carnage with gory accessories as in
a case relating to demurrage on a cargo of
oats. But they can’t be calm and judicial
when they are shrieked to death by wild
coroners or other hysterical law-func-
tionaries, and no prisoner can have a fair
hearing if his case is conducted in the middle
of a volcanic eruption. If the law has got
hold of the right man all the needful
adjectives can be supplied by the hangman ;
if it has got the wrong man then it is as un-
just to bias the jury and the public with
utterly irrelevant hysterics concerning a
crime he didn’t commit as it would be to talk
about the Bulgarian massacres in order to
infuriate the Mercantile Bank jury against
Matthew" Davies. And judicial hysterics
almost always end in absolute untruth. In
the present case “ the eyes of every civi-
lised country ” are emphatically not on the
bush-coroner and his one pet murder ; the
civilised world is pretty wide nowadays,
and in Athens and Tobolsk and the city of
Mexico it is probable that nobody ever
heard or ever will hear of Carcoar, Cobb, or
Croagiugolong. Also, Cobb doesn t know
for a legal certainty whether the eye of the
Groat Ruler of the Universe is upon him or
not. A coroner is only a very small, eawn-
oft emblem of justice at the best, but the
Cobb sort of hysterics pervades too many of
the law-courts, and too many prisoners
charged with sensational offences are con-
victed by a jury that is drunk and disorderly
with eloquence and the war-whoops of
judges.
Three Millions of Money.
What are the exact relations between the
M'llwkaith Government and the Queensland
National Bank? On the answer to that question
hangs the answer to another —What is the
present (legal or illegal) relation of the Q.N.
Bank to the State ? These questions are al-
together outside a third —What is the position
of'the Q.N. Bank as a bank ? Though that is a
very interesting question for many people more
or less personally concerned, it may be excluded
from the more important considerations formu-
lated above. That the MTi.wkaith Govern-
ment considers that the Q.N. Bank is the “koy-
move ” of its present political chess-problem,
its manifest tremors whenever that institution’s
relationship to the public funds is even dis-
tantly referred to, abundantly prove. The
latest parliamentary debate in this connection
was dramatic in its incidence and galling in its
Ministerial effect, while the achievement of its
intention was only circumvented by the most
brazen bluff. The debate should become monu-
mentally historical, and a time will probably
arrive when the present triumphant gang will,
metaphorically, be nakedly tortured at the
stake on its account. Labour-member M ‘Donald
had written the required formal letter to
Speaker Cowley, notifying his intention of
moving the adjournment of the House in order
to call attention to “ the neglect of the Govern-
ment in not completing-by signing—the agree-
ment between the Q.N. B. and the Government
in respect to certain public moneys deposited
therein at the date said bank closed, pending
reconstruction, which neglect causes a great
loss of revenue to the State.” So that the
Government was well apprised of the intended
ventilation of the subject, and, as events
proved, had fully determined to gag the
enquirers. #
McDonald moved his motion for adjournment
and, in compliance with Standing Order 130,
live other members rose in support of the reso-
lution being permitted to be debated. Where-
upon MTIweXiTH rose to the occasion and
exploded another Standing Order, in the
expectation of getting Speaker Cowley to at
once quash further proceedings. Luckily, the
Q. Hansard is not yet defunct, nor lias it yet
been absolutely emasculated, and its records
show that this is what occurred (italics ours) :
Tub Prkmieb ; Mr. Speaker, is tliis, in your opinion,
a question of urgent public importance?
Tint Speaker : I do not think it is within the province
of the Speaker to decide whether it is a matter of urgent
public importance or not.
Mr. Cowley quoted the relevant Standing
Orders, pointed out that their requirements
had been complied with, and ‘ thought that the
duty of asserting whether-or not the motion
was one of “urgent public importance” was
now devolved upon* the House. Then the
MTlwraith waxed mightily wrath, iuferen-
tially twitting the Speaker with official
cowardice, calling upon him to exercise fear-
lessly the functions of a Judge, and concluding
with the quasi-threat :
I do not think it is right for you tq abrogate the duty
cast upon you by the Standing Orders.
“Lands,” “Law” and “Treasury,” by suc-
cessive personalities, bombarded the Speaker,
who, however, inflexibly stood lire, quoted
precedents, and confronted the issue. Then
came the last onslaught from the enraged
Premier, who, after a choleric speech, said :
I move that your ruling be disagreed with.
#-* “ ~ •
An exhausting debate followed, after which
the Speaker summed up himself and his attitude,
concluding with this announcement
I must, therefore, differ in opinion from the learned
Attorney-General and the other Ministers who have
argued the point, and submit the question to the House.
The question is“ That my ruling be disagreed with.”.
MTlwraithian expectation was now at trouncing
point, and the ‘Strangers’ Gallery wotlidTjave
given odds that Queensland would know a hew
Speaker the following week. Bnt--“ Ayes,. 21;
Noes, 22.” The Speaker’s ruling w;as upheld,
in a little more than half a House, hy one vote !
The masterful MTlwraith had to 'endure the
impertinent inquisitiveness of eager Democrats
concerning an amount of nearly three millions
sterling lodged with the Q.N. Bank. On ,29th
June last, Parliament gave the Government
authority to enter into an agreement concerning
those funds. Private attempts had been made
by legislators to discover whether any such
agreement had been “signed,” but allprivate
enquiries had been officially baulked. The
rational inference was, and still is, that the Bank,
not being compelled to, will not pay interest on
the amount, except from the day on which the
agreement was, is, or is to be signed. As is
now known, it had not been signed on 19th
Sept., the date of this lively debate—nearly
three months from the time when the parlia-
mentary authority was given respecting it.
There had been, therefore, up to that trouble-
some parliamentary evening, an almost certain
loss of interest amounting to something between
£25,000 and £30,000,. and this was part of the
“ question of urgent public importance,” But
Treasurer Nelson —the man. who, hist year,
“ ratted ” suddenly from the Leadership of the
Opposition to a Ministerial portfolio—under
the thumbscrew of the MTlwraith, arrogantly
asphyxiated the curiosity of the House and the
country with the following peerless specimen
of lofty official prerogative' (we again quote
from the official Hansard) ;—..., |
The hon. member , has asked two questions.- He-has
asked if the agreement with the , Q.N, Bank has been
signed, and what amount of money Gbvt. will lose
through the delay that has taken place in the completion
of the agreement? Am. I to understand that those;aro
the subjects under discussion? With regard to the
agreement, that is a matter for the Executive Council.
When the agreement is completed, the House can get as
much information as it likes upon it. Until it is com-
pleted, the House will get no information. With’ regard
to whether the Govt, would lose anything by the delay,
my answer to that is “ No.”
Thus, the only information officially vouchsafed
to the country was an accidental admission
that the agreement had not been signed,- a fact
previously known, but impossible of being
proved. Mr. Nelson's general asseveration
that “the Government” would, not lose, any-
thing by the delay is true in a Jesuitical-, sense.
“ The Government,” as a political'joint.-stpek
syndicate, won’t lose anything ; “ the Govern-
ment,” as the State (and it-was “ the. Spate’s ”
welfare after which MT)onald enquired), is
not secured against, and has probably already
sustained, loss. The MTlwraith, :Gpyern-
ment, however, is, in no ethically true? spjpse of
the term, “the State.” H
• • •/?//;', .* .
One very good thing has resullcd-Tphni fids
MTlwraithian reverse. It has disclosed;tp .the
parliamentary Democrats the inpst' bpe.n/joiut
in the MTlwraithian armour. For political
purposes of its own—purposes which may
be pondered over—the MTlwra.ith Govern-
ment finds it absolutely necessary to be
dark and, mysterious as-to its financial
relations with the Q.N. Bank. ' Its whole
policy, in some esoteric way, pivots on tms
darkness and mystery, and the day which sees
the electric search-light penetrate all those
jealously-guarded crannies will also witness the
explosive pulverisation of the MTlwraith
Bung. .
PLAIN ENGLISH
For the Law’s Sake.
“ Respect for the Law ” has caused a number
of Melbourne people—so it appears—to view
with sorrow the prospect of any further P l '
ceedings in the Mercantile Bank matter,
honest and upright stupidity of thesd in-
dividuals defies seduction by argument. vesper
for the Law is engraven upon their hearts an
forms an important part of their constitutions.
The Law, in their opinion, has already nee
unduly trifled with ; holes have been hnocke
in its ancient majesty, ridicule has been heape
upon it; and the duty of all Law-respectug
citizens is to rally, up to the rescue and drag
the Mercantile case off the carcase of its P IU "
tratc victim. This is no fancy picture
an impossible opinion, but a solid s <
ment of fact. There are hundreds ot
decent, - sane-seeming, ■ commercial mntn
cankered Melbourne who protest that■
Mercantile scandal ought to be
ostracised in the interests of the Lair. 1 I Vj
reason that it .is a shameful • W&J
citizens should combine to fehssh . , tl* c
out of court. Whilst admitting thrft JusUc
has been ignored, and also admitting that w y


Jhave a sincere regard for Justice in the
■ abstract, the unconscious friends of Fat Man
'would willingly sacrifice the emblematical
ffigure of Justice aforesaid upon the altar of
(Respect for the Law. They regard that
• damaged fetish with the sympathetic eyes of one
'who'discovers in a draggletailed Tbaviata, the
, girl he had worshipped long ago, ere she ran
-away from home and lost her innocence. The
(<Law is dreadfully disgraced, they say; designing
Ipersons have accomplished its ruin and made a
■ deplorable spectacle of the poor thing, but to
■ continue the Mercantile case were to advertise
1 the Law’s shame in larger type than before,
'therefore they desire a final quashing of the
whole business. If a well-to-do burglar on his
trial had notoriously “squared” six juries in
succession, they would advocate the burglar’s
discharge out of respect for the Law. If the
rotten social state of Melbourne increased in
rottenness until no gentleman worth £lOOO nett
could ever be arraigned for any misdemeanour,
they would turn up their eyes in mild regret
and request “Silence! for the sake of tire
Law.”
■ _
An Irish Controversy.
A correspondent signing himself “ Belfast-
man ” writes from Brisbane as follows :
As a constant reader of The Bulletin I was much sur-
fpriscd to. find in your issue of 26th Aug. some figures
■dealing with Belfast, quoted from the Contemporary
'Review. I trust to your Democratic principles that, flnd-
•ing the figures are incorrect, you will publish, after your
•own stylo, the following—viz., population of Belfast, in
>lBOO, 25,000 ; in 1850, 70,000 ; in 1891, 271,000. Belfast is
•the third port in the United Kingdom. The tonnage
‘registered at Belfast is 170,000 tons ; the tonnage cleared
•at Belfast, 1892, was 2,053,637 tons (not far, if anything,
■behind Sydney); the Harbour dues represent 39 per cent,
of the total collected in Ireland. The imports into Bel-
fast, in 1892, exceeded £9,106,000. (I fancy in the com-
parison the Review must have omitted the millions) the
amount paid into the Custom House at Belfast in 1892
was £2,376,511, or seven-eighths of Ireland’s total, and
the inland revenue amounted to over £900,000, making
together over £3,250,000, a contribution to the Imperial
revenue surpassed only by two ports in the United King-
dom —London and Liverpool. The Income-tax collected
in Ireland amounts to £556,100, of which £370,000 comes
from Ulster. The farms throughout the Protestant
counties in (lister will compare favourably in size, man-
agement, and production with those in any part of Eng-
land. As regards the illiterate voter, there are very few
of them to be found in the Protestant districts. I know of
my own knowledge that 19 out of every 20 belong to the
Church of Rome, it is an admitted fact the masses
(people) of Ulster are educated to a higher standard and
degree than in any other part of the world. How many
Ulster Protestants does one meet in the colonies who can
neither read nor write? Not many.
Belfast ranks only second to the Clyde in ship-building,
but her j early increase is greater than that of the Clyde.
One firm alone constructed over 70,000 tons last year,
which was the biggest output from any one yard.
Her exports must be considerable, but not her foreign
exports, because the bulk of them filter through by
English houses. I know at least a dozen firms paying
over £lOO,OOO a year in taxes. Donville and Co. paid to
the Excise Department last year over £60,000, Ross and
Co. export 20,000 dozen ginger ale weekly, and in linen,
cambric, damask and towels she supplies the world ; so,
you see, the comparison is odious, and the production
totally unworthy of Sydney Bulletin.
To which The Bulletin replies that, in the
first place, it never referred to the population
of Belfast at all, so there is no incorrectness
under that heading. It said, however, that the
population of Ulster had decreased enormously,
and “Belfastman” can’t, and doesn’t, deny
this. Also, The Bulletin made no reference
to the tonnage registered at Belfast, and that
city, with its miserable 170,000 tons, isn’t the
third port—nor even the twelfth—in the United
Kingdom. It comes after London, Liverpool,
Glasgow, Hull, Newcastle, Sunderland, Gree-
nock,- Leith, Southampton, Aberdeen, Yar-
mouth, and several other towns, for even its
alleged 170,000 tons consist largely of small
coastal vessels which are generally left out of
the calculation in shipping tables. The deep-
sea tonnage cleared at Belfast was not over
2,000,000, but only a little over 200,000
tons. In exports and imports, Belfast
comes only twenty-second among the ports of
the United Kingdom. The alleged £2,870,000
of customs duties is pure nonsense; £9,000,000 of
imports couldn’t yield £2,376,000 in Customs
duties, because the British tariff averages 5 per-
cent., not 26 per cent. The Belfast Customs
receipts are very far below £1,000,000 per
annum, and the balance is made up of miscel-
laneous taxes which —in Ireland only—-are col-
lected by the Customs officers. The alleged
£9,000,000 of imports is a very poor, mean
affair in any case, considering that the whole
imports of the United Kingdom are over
£400,000,000, and it would take a lot more
than that to constitute Belfast the third,
or even the tenth port in the British
Isles ; and, moreover, the figures are simple
misrepresentation—the foreign - trade of Bel-
fast, exports and imports both included, is
only £3,261,000. The Belfast Customs are not
seven-eighths of Ireland’s total, but a good deal
less than a-half, and that port doesn’t come
immediately after London and Liverpool in
its contribution to the Exchequer—in fact,
it comes about twenty-second on the list.
Also, the Ulster farms will not “ compare
favourably,” etc. Ulster has more holdings
under one acre than Munster or Connaught;
and far more between one and fifteen acres than
any of the other three provinces; anyone who
knows the abject misery of the Irish farmer,
with two or three acres and a mud cabin, will
understand the significance of this fact. Also
the Ulster gentleman can’t “ know of his own
knowledge” that nine-tenths of Ulster illiterates
are Catholics, unless he is personally acquainted
with every illiterate in Ulster —which he isn’t.
It is not “an admitted fact” that the Ulster-
men are the best educated in the world; the
story was never before heard of. Further,
Belfast doesn’t supply the world with linen ;
Ireland, as a linen-producing country, is only a
little ahead of Scotland, and far behind about
five other countries. As for the ginger-ale
statement, it can stand. Ginger ale isn e .Tuch
of a drink anyhow.
Tire Crrovel of Free Railway Passes.
The Victorian Minister of Railways has sup-
plied the country and the Age —but more parti-
cularly the Age —with a list of people who
travelled free during Commissioner Speight’s
reign and since. At a first glance this “ dread-
ful ” return would seem to suggest special job-
bery and corruption under the Speight regime,
inasmuch as free passes have been few and far-
between this year, whilst they numbered some
50,000 in 1891. But the figures for 1884—
when the population of Melbourne was much
smaller and Speight was a new-chum, taking
the system as he found it and doubtless
struggling in vain against the “deadhead”
influences of the past—indicate that Victorian
officialdom generally is responsible for the
great railway swindle. The Government became
suddenly moral when Speight’s removal was
decided upon—a free-pass enquiry was instituted
and men who had formerly travelled on the
“ never ” were told that they couldn’t do so any
more because the old order of things had been
“blown” upon. The passes granted in Speight’s
time are not so much evidence of extra-
vagance in his railway management as evidence
of political and official dishonesty, effrontery and
grovel. Far more interesting than this list of
dead-heads would be an exposure of the circum-
stances under which passes were obtained by
certain people. Take, for instance, distin-
guished visitors from “home,” the Earl of
Buckinghamshire, Earl and Countess Carnar-
von (and servant), Mr. and Lady Constance
Coombe, Lord and Lady Fitzroy, Lord Land-
hurst, Lord Porchester, &c., &c. Who put
these people up to the free-pass dodge ? Did
they apply personally, or were the passes hurled
at them as soon as they touched Victorian soil ?
Commissioner Speight didn’t make a practice
of hunting for distinguished visitors and leav-
ing passes at their hotels. He knew that in
England, travelling on the Midland Railway,
my lords and ladies bought tickets in the
ordinary way, and would buy tickets here, as a
matter of course, if left to themselves in the
matter. Speight was not the prime mover in
Lord Carnarvon’s free pass swindle ; neither
did Carnarvon himself ask for the iniquitous
“favour” or “honour.” It was thrust
upon him by the Crown, Constitution,
or whatever name expresses the repre-
sentative grovel of Australian states. Some-
body was required to “see that Lord Car-
narvon didn’t pay his way any w here,” and the
Railway Commissioners were merely dummies
in the dirty transaction. So, with most of the
passes granted to visiting military loafers,
naval bounders, petty German barons, and the
thousands of people in “ representative ” billets
and their thousands of relatives and friends.
Somebody grovelled to them by using his
precious influence to get them an “ order,” and
the influence, in most cases, could be traced
right along to the rotten Legislature. It was
not enough for all the “leading” people of
Victoria that they travelled free themselves.
They put themselves out of the way to procure
free travelling for everybody they deemed
equally “ great,” or greater. Also, the salt of
the earth w'as somehow made to understand
that it could nominate its own private dead-
heads. Pull the free-pass system to pieces,
examine it closely, and it will be found to have
been built almost entirely upon official mean-
ness, corruption and grovel.
♦
Freedom of Speech!
Thus a correspondent:—
Editor Bulletin, —The Democracy of N.S. Wales must
soon define its position and programme re freedom of
speech. It is coming to be a settled part of a new policy
—adopted by a party of so-called Democrats —to deprive
everyone outside their own insignificant ring of the right
of free speech. The interruption of public meetings is
becoming more than a mere custom, and is rapidly
hardening into an iron law. A band of political Thugs
have setup a standard of political orthodoxy which even
angels could not hope to pass.
The question of the identity of the intolerant gang
whose fastidious political tastes or ulterior personal ends
urge them to become the Marins of platform freedom
concern me not any more than do the opinions of ex-
Treasurer M'Millan, or of the Protectionists who lately
met in the Protestant Hall, or of the Federationists in the
Centennial. Let us forget the individuals and consider
the consequences of the deeds.
This gagging is a blow to Liberty, an outrage on Demo-
cracy. If Democracy means anything at all it means
Liberty. If it only meant that one shall fashion oneself
to a standard set by some domineering windbag armed
with a few phrases, I venture to say that Australia will
have nothing to do with it. It seems that to pass the
new standard we are not only to think in a certain way,
but one fashion of dress is to he set for us also. The
ancient Egyptian king had his time portioned out for him
by the priesthood—at such an hour to rise, to eat, to walk,
to ride, to pray, to offer sacrifice, to embrace his wife, to go
to sleep. The Democrat of the future will have to pro-
duce a certificate from his tailor, his hatter, his bootmaker.
Opinion is no longer to be the test of Democracy, argu-
ment will no longer prevail—one must, to find salvation,
stand well with a peculiarly illiberal and narrow-minded
body of political sectaries, of which some of the dis-
turbers of recent public meetings are the high priests.
According to the new Inquisition the main qualification
for a Democrat is that he shall be a manual labourer.
That seems the very circumcision of Democracy, accord-
ing to these Thugs. Is no one else interested in
Democracy but the manual labourer? The rack-rented
shopkeeper is to have no place in the party; nor the
sweated clerk ; nor the overworked schoolmaster, the
underpaid artisan, the neglected artist or musician, the
unfortunate business man with a heavy overdraft, the
briefless barrister, the journalist, nor any of the other
victims of the usurer, the money-kings and the mono-
polist. The doors of the Temple of Liberty are to be
slammed in their faces, and they will only be graciously
allowed to vote for the manual-labour candidate furnished
for them by the Grand Inquisitors of Democracy.
Methinks this condition would have barred Grey, Higin-
botham, Lilley, Ballance, and Kingston, and would have
deprived them of the support of the “Active Service
Brigade” engaged in the destruction of the “Fetish of
free speech,” as one of their former members so
tersely put it. Of course, everyone knows it means the
prevention of all free speech except their own.
How long are Australians going to allow, a few foreigners
from England and the Continent of Europe—many of
them hardly a year resident here—to erect their brazen
cheek into a statue of Democracy, and ask us to fall down
and adore it ? It is no argument to say that the jiress has
established the custom of suppressing all speech in oppo-
sition to capitalism. That is a crime which Democracy
should repudiate, and not imitate. It will lead to a state
of affairs where only the vulgar humbug, who tickles the
ears of the groundlings (they are not always working
men), will be able to obtain a healing. What gross in-
tolerance ! Even the Anarchist is more tolerant. “ You
have no more right,” says he, “to dictate to me what I
shall say or do than I have to dictate to you what you
shall say or do.” And it would be a sounder and more
liberal 'sentiment if he reversed the position of the pro-
nouns. But such a liberality of sentiment is foreign
to the programme of our Thugs. Their motto is—
“l have a right to dictate to you, not only what
you shall say, but whether you shall say anything
at all.” And in either case it means “If you won’t
talk the sort of stuff we want we won’t allow you to talk
at all. No one shall talk but us ourselves. Freedom of
speech is for us—the elect, the politically saved and re-
generated, the othodox—and for no one else.”
Free speech is a sabred thing, 'and if any man, or the
Devil himself, wants to exercise it, he should have the
right to do so, and not be gagged in the name of Liberty.
The spirit is now abroad here which animated the
persecutors, the torturers, the religious bigots of old—
which stifled speech and racked and thumbsorevved
speakers. The narrow sectarianism against which every
great Democratic figure in histojy fought and revolted
and struggled will never be unrepresented while the
platforms of New South Wales are handed over to the
Thugs, the assassins, the Makins, and the stiflers of free
speech. No community will ever be truly Democratic in
which even a M‘Millax cannot jjet anti fair liearlnpf,
and a chance to defend himself.—'Hours, Loorafi
A dk lectable Tory, signing himself ‘ e< The
Dear Boy,” sends to the Arcus (or, perhaps, he
is really the Argus writing to itself) a series of
questions concerning his aged mother in
England. His letter Avas provoked by some-
body’s statement that “Victoria has attractions
for people of fixed incomes,” and his questions
are intended to suggest that the blawsted
■country in question Avould have no attractions
for the mother aforesaid. That problematical
parent possesses an income -of £4OO a year.
Her professed offspring enquires, “ Will she
live here and give the (J overran ent £lOO in
taxes for the privilege ?” She likes a little
dinner and a little drive, and a little wine, and
strawberries in mid-winter, and oysters, and
game, and nice gloves ; and will she give up
these to live with me and beep up high wages
and high protection in Melbourne V” To which
Thu Bulletin replies, “ 440 d forbid !” “The
IVar Boy ’s ” mamma, assuming that she is a
bmdjj/ide person, is a grand old selfish British
female snob of the deepest dye, and the further
she lives and dies from this young country
the better for our social advancement. The
venerable female likes cheap labour, and
cheap luxury at the expense of the “lower
classes ” —iu fact, she dotes on everything
that is “nice.” We wouldn’t for Avorlds have
her soil her nice gloves by coming to these
parts. Her proper sphere is Hingland, where
she can consume her modest, but comfortable,
income iu strawberries, at sixpence a bite,
whilst the wind blows cold and the unprotected
masses are enjoying a picturesque snow-storm.
We know that 4 ‘ ] fear Boy’s ” Ma. We have seen
hundreds of her. Just now she is beginning to
toast her little feet at a little early Avinter fire,
and conversing Avith the little curate concerning
the sinfulness of labour candidates and what
the Avorld is coming to. She doesn’t give a
subscription to the Coal and Blanket Society,
because her means are so limited after deduct-
ing for little dinners, but the curate respects
her deeply all the same. As for the British
constitution, it is under an eternal debt of
gratitude to the dear old creature, for of such is
the Kingdom of Abuses.
Premier Dikes of N.S. Wales has just boav
before Parliament a measure providing that
£250,000 per annum shall be set aside out of
revenue for the liquidation of the public debt.
Also, at the same time, it is proposed to borroAV
another £2,500,000 at 4 percent., of Avhich amount
£1,250,000 is to pay off old loans and the rest is
for a new razzle-dazzle. There is something
dismally incongruous about these two proposals.
If Premier Dikes can’t pay current expenses
Avhat’s the good of attempting just now to pay
old debts, and unless he borrows the £250,000
Avith which to reduce the debt Avhere
is that amount to come from ? And sup-
posing he saves a quarter of a million at the
same time that he borrows 10 times that amount
how fast will the debt he Aviped off—or,
in other words, supposing he climbs up one foot
iu the day-time and slidesdown fourfeet at night,
about Avhat dale will he get to the top? Premier
Dikes’ finance is a burlesque from beginning to
end, and the accountancy of his clumsy accom-
plice, Treasurer See, is a thing of Avhieii a
pawnbroker’s infant would be ashamed.
The national burdens can’t be alleviated
by horroAving a million and then putting aside
a quarter of the amount and calling it a sinking
fund. The only process is to raise enough
revenue to cover expenditure iu the first place,
instead of filling the deficiency Avilh Treasury
hills, and then floating permanent loans to
redeem the Treasury hills, and borrowing the
interest in times of stress, and “ converting ”
old liabilities into new ones, at big discounts.
The next essential is to raise enough additional
revenue to allow from half-a-milliou to a million
per annum for public works expenditure ; and
after that the country wants to scoop up a
quarter of a million or so per annum to reduce
its permanent liabilities. Maoriland has done
this by the coldly practical process of levying
£3 IBs. 2d. per annum in taxes, on each
inhabitant, against £2 18s. sd. in Ncav South
Wales, and £2 14s. lOd. in Victoria. That
extra £1 per head—mostly levied on land-
makes the difference. If Premier Dikes Avill
go and do likewise the problem can be solved,
otherwise he may earmark the deficiency till
the day of doom and get no further forward.
A person signing himself “Law and Order”
writes to Sydney Telegraph to suggest that
“ conditional flogging ” might prove a valuable
addition to the penal code of Nbav South Wales.
“Conditional flogging” is to apply to cases of
threatened violence; the person using the
threats is to be sentenced and turned loose, but
Avhenever the threatened act of violence is
carried out, either by the person himself or any
member of his “push,” he is to he captured
and flogged right off. This system naturally
leads up to conditional hanging which would
work in a somewhat similar fashion; the man
who threatened to “ lay out” another would be
sentenced to conditional execution and then
set at liberty, and so long as the defendant
Avasn’t “laid out ” he Avould remain at liberty ;
but the hangman would have his eye on him all
the time, and if the defendant ivas killed then he
Avould go after him with his greased rope, and
hang him Avithout further ceremony. The Tele-
graph’s correspondent sees great possibilities
in the conditional flogging system, and yet it
isn’t so original as it looks. Every man, for
instance, is supposed to be under sentence of
conditional eternal damnation, and yet it
doesn’t seem to make much difference in this
Avorld. And, as the “law-and-oider” man puts
it, it only amounts to this ; the law takes hold
of an offender and points out to him that if he
commits a certain crime a certain thing will
happen to him. But the printed statute-book has
been pointing out the same fact for many years
—ever since there was a statute-book, hi fact
and is pointing it out to this day. The only
difference is that, in the present instance, the
law is to take the offender aside and talk to
him personally, instead of talking to Ids class
generally, and,' apart from the ndvelty of the
thing, one method is about as good as another.
A Great Journalist.
James HAiiufsoN lias p.assqd away, and to old
'Victorians Hie news of Tils 'death " ill recall thu
stifrthg tiines 6f 'lA'ngf ago in which lip laboured.
‘1 eVv journalists have' decided 'the course of events
itr an equal 'me.ashre. It)' the'fifties ho was owner
and editbr of GEikoifc A b veutisek, with an in-
come of 4110, C'Ob 'a'year, Geelong-then as lively
as M6|b6iirtie— being in those days the entrepot of
'the’Ball! tat goldfields. He was an accomplished
cherrjiit, and will live in history a i the man who
invented the'method of ice-making which first
made 1 it'possible to produce ice at a traction of a
‘fetching a pound. But the in volition only led to
irreparable personal disaster. He journeyed round
the world to procure patents, and found, on his
return, that the unwise conduct and bad luck of
those to whom he had confided his interests had
THE LATE JAMES HARRISON.
resulted in his financial 'ruin. His 'patents (a
man’s own patents, the fruits 'of his Own brain,
should, and will in a proper condition of Society,
be absolutely inalienable to 'the extent at least of
providing him with reasonable means of sub-
sistence) passed into Other hands, as did also the
Geelong Advertiser.
He then started Geelong Register, and worked
18 hours a day, acting the part of both editor and
printer;; but Want of capital caused him to re-
linquish the struggle. Then he went to Mel-
bourne and edited the Australasian, but the
position was uncongenial to the old Liberal, who
was offered and accepted the edit dr.-hip of the Age,
then a despised sheet, the existence of which the
ArgCS would not condescend to recognise.
Harrison breathed his noble spirit into the Age,
and made it a power in the land. It has traded
ever since on the reputation he gave it. The old
man would listen to the debates in the gallery, and
without note or reference go down to the shabby
den called the editor’s room, and write his leading
article. He would then hand the copy to printer
Blackham father, by the way, of the famous
wicket-keeper—lay his grey head upon the table,
and sleep until the proof was ready, read it
through without altering it, tell Blackham that it
was all right, and go home to bed. The article was
ever the ablest of them all that shaped the policy
of the Liberal-party, and although the Age has
since been the very chameleon of newspapers,
under this man’s guidance it was trusted by the
people of Victoria as no paper has ever been
trusted sm:e. The Age owes him an unpayable
debt of gratitude, and no history of Victoria can
be complete without enthusiastic acknowledge-
ment of the obligation of Victorians bo this im-
personal advocate. He directed the paper through
tlie eventful period of the dead-locks and the Dar-
ling Grant, and recognised the patriotism and
incorruptibility of Higinbotham at a time when
the conduct of nearly every man was shaped by
the vulgar instrument of personal interest, and
the province was ruled from the unblushingly
profligate Melbourne Club. The Age issue con-
taining Harrison’s memorable loader, the ‘‘Poodles
of the Club,” was bought up ; but it was re-
issued to the discomfiture of the Poodles. It
was James Harrison who spiritedly exposed the
device by which these same poodles defeated
Higinbotham for Brighton and gave the people
of Victoria an object-lesson in the unspeakable
iniquity of the plural-vote, to-day represented in
Australia by the National Ass. Several acres of
land were bought at Brighton by the club, cut up
into the smallest possible “qualifying” allot-
ments, and distributed amongst club members and
to anyone outside who would agree to vote against
Higinbotham. Thus was Higinbotham'defeated.
The people of Brighton voted for him, but the
absentee vote put him out. Harrison’s last
achievement was to demonstrate the practicability
of exporting frozen meat. Having induced a few
squatters, who reluctantly provided him with a
most inadequate amount, to try the experiment of
sending fresh meat to England, he fitted up a
small cold chamber on board the old Norfolk, and
there kept the meat perfectly fresh for seven
weeks. Through defective workmanship the
chamber ceased to be air-tight, and the meat
decayed; but the problem was practically solved.
Though offered his former post, the old man
elected to remain in Europe, whence ho
returned but lately, but his pen - name,
under the heading of “ Science notes from Eng-
land,” appeared in the Age for many years. He
lived to a green old age, nearer 90 than 80. Ho
did earnestly that which his hand found to do,
and hia life’s history may be written in one word,
“ Work.” If a good life spent in this world is. a
fit preparation for the next, then has James
Harrison his reward.
The trouble with Brazil appears to be too
much standing army and an excess of navy. Her
army is her greatest enemy.
Under the benign influence of Freetrade, England had
developed into a wonderful hive of industry.— Extract
from speech on Freetrade recently made in Brisbane by
a prominent Queensland Politician.
A WONDERFUL HIVE.
A wonderful hive is Old England to-day ?
In sootii, there is truth in the words that you say;
For, without any doubt, ’tis a wonderful liive,
Where the workers must pine that the loafers may
thrive;
Where the toiler,*, untiring, who bring in the sweet
Must starve with the stores of the world at their
feet ;
Where the lab’rets are burdened, a weariful band,
That the idlers may live on the fat of the land ;
W here the loafers are lords of the beehive and
own
Their brethren who work, and the Queen is a
drone.
B.LUFTIG.


§ptic6 to §uit all fig
Fitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Beat PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5/- per Pair.
Ihe celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10/6 per Pair.
DOCTORS' PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS.
Jbwbixkrv Showrooms,
S 3 HI. NTK K STREET, IVDKKI.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
jSk. dood. anti Clioap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
i
Manufactured ry
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
I'AIERNE (8m i(?rrl»inl>.
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. Th iy are longer, better filled and heavier then
my other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, aftd you know you get the genuine
irtiole, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
“Be TralM What does it mean a
Messrs. Innes & Co., the proprietors of the Poar’s
Heid brand of Wines, inform us that it is old
Saxon, and means “be true.’’ As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines which
are sold at all grocers from Is. per bottle upwards.
Their invalid I’orl, at 3s. (11. is a wonderful wine,
full of health-giving properties.* , - J
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s .. “ In the Hanks."
Lyceum “ Mikado."
Criterion Walter Bentley.
Tows Hall Pahner-Beamnont Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's 11 Cavalleria Rusticana ”
and Ballet.
Theatre Royal "Jeanie Deans.”
Bijou “ Hans the Boatman.”
Opera House Variety Co.
Nellie Stewart —that is to say “Dorothy,”
went up at Sydney Lyceum last Saturday, and a
great many people stayed away through sheer
inability to get further in than the mat. From
her first entrance—when encouraging noises long-
drawn-out, and many floralities showed that the
Sydney public had joyfully returned to its former
idol—even from the first syllable, it was evident
that Miss Stewart has profited much by her
travels. Time was when the irrepressibility of
Nellie made critical onlookers, in moments of
justifiable revolt, begin to draw comparisons
between the gifted lady and a live butterfly with
a pin through it—but experience has changed all
that. A sort of dainty calm has settled upon our
Nellie, whose Dorothy Bantam is a lady—larky
enough and full of refined comedy—but still a
Dorothy, justifying Sherwood’s assumption:—
“ There is an air of gentility about these farmers’
daughters.”
• # *
Vocally, Miss Stewart has also greatly
improved. Her light soprano is well produced
and bright in quality, and although it was a little
foggy with nervousness on her rentree, it was
wielded much more artistically than of yore.
Bouquets fell with the uncertain aim of meteoric
stones throughout the evening, and each curtain
had to be hauled up three times, including the
final drop, when loud cries for “Nellie ” seemed
to infer that the gallery hadn’t had enough of
its favourite even then. By the way, if Miss
Stewart has brought back a fault from Piccadilly,
it is that she takes Olympus deeply into her
confidence.
* # *
The hilariousness of the rest of the Co.
reminded you of the grateful gyrations of Mon-
golians who have recovered their Joss. Florence
Young made rather a stage-ehamber-maid-ish
Lydia, but the music suited her; May Pollard’s
Phyllis look' d sheepish enough for a rustic bride
who takes three acts to get married in, and Mrs.
Bracy, as the widow, was almost too kittenish even
for a woman who has buried three husbands.
Tenor Tapley, in a clean shave, which made him
look less like.the good young man who died and
more like a rantipole who would ba likely to out-
run the sheriff, made a success of Wilder —long
observation of the Ryley method has greatly
improved Tapley’s erstwhile wooden hug; but
Ryley d isappointed the audience by cut-
ting out the “ Queen of My Heart ” solo,
although he had on the layender-and-silk suit
which accompanies that erotic ballad. Whether
the song was cut for once in a way by a fur-seeing
management, or whether a deputation of goaded
damsels had begged Mr. R. to forego the hollow
mockery of turning his eyes up to the circle and
asking them what they were waiting for, remains
a secret. That great comedian, Lanri, as the
copper-topped bailiff, monkeyed through the part
in his usual way, and Howard Vernon’s Squire
Bantam was remarkable for the verve with which
he sang the Squire’s toast. The “ Mikado ” dis-
places “ Dorothy ” this Saturday night.
* * Hf *
Maggie Moore removed last Saturday from
Sydney” Her Majesty’s to the Royal, recently
vacated by Dam pier, and opened her season with
“Meg, the Castaway.” The Royal, in these
degenerate days, is losing a deal of its ancient
gtateliness; the gallery is more vociferous than
of old, and the apple and lemonade woman
rushes in where once she feared to tread. “Meg ”
is in keeping with other signs of decadence. I t is
a tale of a stout and tattered waif, a lost child,
and a ridiculous uncle who, in consequence of the
loss of the child, disguises himself as a coffee-
stall, and sells the saddle - coloured beverage
from a barrow at a halfpenny a cup. There
is an atmosphere of rags and old, damp dqg-
anciers about it, and somehow everybody in it,
with one exception, contrives to look shadowy and
unreal. Meg, as represented by Maggie Moore,
is the only reason for the drama’s existence, and
as a reason she wants to be supported by strong
collateral evidence. She is a sufficiently clever
street arab, her songs and dances please the
audience immensely, her pathos isn’t much
strained, and her voice has that note of hunger
and fog which is presumed to be inseparable
from such a character, but all the same
she seems to come from nowhere in par-
ticular, and to have no sufficient reason for coming
from that place. As to the gentleman who is
disguised as the coffee-stall lie arouses no manner
of interest. The two dudes and the policeman
and the flunkey and the infuriated dog-stealer and
a lot of other people also fail to attract attention.
What interest remains over from Meg centres
round little Ivy Scott, an exceedingly clever child
actress, and Mr. H. A. Meyraott, who only makes
two remarks altogether but who looks like an im-
proved edition of the lamented Lonnen.
* * * *
Walter Bentley’s now edition of “ The
Bells,” as played at Sydney Criterion, differs very
little from the old edition at the Garrick last year.
The spectre of the dead Hebrew who drives
furiously after dark in his ghostly sledge through
the snowdrifts recurs regularly every evening, and
the brassy note of the bells on the harness of his
dead horse sounds to Mathias, the burgomaster,
like a railway-bell, rung to tell him that his train
is just starting for perdition. Then he hears the
footsteps of a horrid vision upon the stairs, and
goes mad, and dies, and departs, The Bulletin
presumes, to sleigh for ever and ever with the spec-
tral Jew over the ice-fields of a frozen hereafter.
Mr. Bentley’s burgomaster is a suoessful repre-
sentation of a good citizen who would have a
vote for thrift in these days and a seat in the
Upper House, and though his style is somewhat
rugged in places, the death-scene, when Mathias
goes to hear the music of the bells in his
ear for all futurity, makes amends for any
deficiencies. An abbreviated edition of “ The
Taming of the Shrew,” compressed into one act
and not at all improved by the eompres-
sion, serves as an afterpiece. The Shrew, as
played by Mrs. Molyneux, is, however, about the
best work that lady has yet done in Sydney,
especially while in her original, untamed con-
dition ; she falls off a little when she has been
battered into submission by her affectionate pro-
prietor.
** * *
Mr. Dampier, as mentioned last week,
quitted Sydney Royal owing to a serious weakness
in the loins of the ghost. For the satisfaction,
however, of a gentleman (not Dampier) who has
since called at this office and objected to the
manner of the statement, it may be explained
that all liabilities were paid in full. There was
no stoppage of payment, neither did The Bulle-
tin imply that there was one. If the management
had stopped payment there would have been no
ghost, and a thing that doesn’t exist couldn’t have
been weak; neither could it have had any loins.
The ghost at the Royal was honourable, but had
seen better days, and it closed up because it
wanted to remain honourable.
* *
“In the Ranks,” which was revived at
Sydney Majesty’s on Saturday night, is about as
sure a draw as anything on Geo. Rignold’s list,
and, despite its age, will probably stand a good
many more revivals. It is a massive drama, and
there is a lot of it for the money. The good
people in it are very good, and the bad ones exceed-
ingly bad, and the big military drum is whopped
in a way that threatens to rend the parchmtnt
asunder, and the scenery is of that aggressive
green and red order in which the average audience
delighteth. Mr. Rignold’s Ned Drayton is as
vigorous as of old, and among the rest of the cast
Messrs. Roberts and Forde stand a little higher
than the rest. Also, Miss Hilda Spong makes a
pretty rustic girl after the fashion of Maud Muller
when the judge got sweet upon her among the hay,
and before she married the heavy rustic who
grunted over his pipe and mug in the chimney
corner. “In the Ranks” looks as if it would
pay expenses for some little time to come.
** * *
The “ Garden of Eden ” has been moved
from its old location by the Euphrates, and
is now in Pitt - street, Sydney, opposite the
Lyceum. It is a pretty illusion created by a mul-
tiplicity of mirrors, which increase the visitor
indefinitely and make him look as it his death
would leave almost as great a void in the world as
he thinks it would. One man shaking his fist in
the Garden of Eden becomes a riot, two make a
good-sized insurrection, and three are a general
upheaval of the human race. And one nice-
looking youth and his best girl wandering
among the flowers look like a peaceful, pastoral
nation living in a state of innocence in a sinless
world. The Garden is a gratifying illusion, and
when one reflects that the whole two or three
hundred of him have got in for sixpence, it seems
a small price at which to make so many people
happy.
** * *
“ Jeanie Deans ” is sufficiently adapted
from Scott’s “ Heart of Mid-Lothian ” to rank as
a respectable drama, and its production at Mel-
bourne Royal on Saturday night was not without
excuse. The scenery is Scottish for the occasion,
and thi! tartan twang in the turn of Eloise J uno’s
tongue is bonnie. Also, the supers, groan a good
deal in a manner believed to bebraw. Unhappily,
the day when Miss Juno realised the Jeanie of
her coloured posters is long agone, but she strug-
gles artistically against her large circumference.
Her voice can still call the silent tear to the eye of
sympathy when she appeals to another good old
artist, Edwin Kelly, to bring the case of sister
Effie under the gracious notice of Maud William-
son. Veteran Kelly evidently feels like a Duke
of Argyle—God bless him!—at this moment.
Miss Williamson fulfils one’s early conception of
queens in general, and Miss Juno pleads with a
quiet sincerity which more than atones for the
magnitude of her figure. Cannam, with his roll-
ing eye, is a droll laird, whilst Richard Stewart
the elder makes a successful reappearance on the
stage as counsel for defendant in a ridiculous trial
scene. Stewart, senior, can give points in elocu-
tion to his son; but “young Dick” looks his
character of Geordie Robertson, and carries his
high boots with commendable vigour. Effie
Deans is a hopeless case, exciting no interest in
herself or her illicit baby-farming, neither does
Miss Aimee Moore (of the Austral Salon)
fill the large part of Madge Wildfire.
This ambitious young lady breaks out into
mad laughter, and flourishes much straw,
and there is a touch of Barnaby Rudge about her,
yet Aimee’s aberration of intellect does not im-
press the beholder. Her style is thin and blood-
less. Such stage ability as she will
require a deal of padding. There was a poor
house at the Royal on Saturday, perhaps on
account of the new management not being widely
known. A portrait of the lessee, J. Parker Hall,
published on the front cover of an elegant pro-
gramme, exhibits him as a somewhat lovely lessee
with a curly moustache, and doubtless he will
grow upon the public.
** * *
“ Cavalleria Rusticana,” at the Princess’s,
provides about 75 minutes of unbroken enjoyment
for the average person, and, although the com-
poser might easily have stretched the same music
out to double that length, the condensation of his
melody increases the, opera’s charm. It js a
musical dish of which anyone ought to desire a
second, or third, helping. Complaints that it
doesn’t last long enough are heard in the land,
however. The trouble lies in the interval be-
tween “Cavalleria” and the Ballet, which
seems to be protracted by the management, in
order tint the whole show may terminate
at something like the usual time for going away.
This is probably a mistaken policy. A candid
announcement of the facts of the case, laying
stress upon the truth that the entertainment is
short and sweet, would silence the Goths who
grumble under present conditions. The loud-
voiced individual who expected a huge dollop of
entertainment and didn’t get it, is apt to go
around saying that “ Cavalleria ” can’t compare
with Teddy Lonnen because Lonnen used to sing
till past 11 o’clock.
** * *
The Alhambra is still travelling on the
florid humour of Muldoon, the Picnic of that
appalling Irishman having been superseded by a
Ball, which makes very little difference. A round
of excitements, including a “ prominent Mel-
bourne gentleman” in the lions’ den, brings Fillis’
circus to a conclusion on Saturday. Exhibition
concerts have lost the assistance of Miss Maggie
Stirling, flautist Lemmone and harper Barker, who
are off with the Palmer-Beaurnont company on a
long tour.
«« « «
Anew edition of “Hans the Boatman
will reopen Melbourne Bijou, on Saturday-
Charles Arnold has brought another infant
phenomenon in addition to little Dot Frederic,
who is getting a bigger girl now. He is likewise
said to have brought an extra dog this time, and
most of Ids songs are different to the little ditties
of five short years ago.
At Poverty Point.
J. L. Toole bad the free use of the Vic. railways for his
show business, whereas poor Edward Terry was compelled
to cash-up. This must have been a severe blow to Terry,
who is no spendthrift.
Dear Bulletin,— The “connoisseurs” who say that
Bartha’s leas are too muscular are probably confusing her
with the other lady, D’Argo. The outline of Bartha’s leg
is correct and beautiful, like her behaviour in general. A
formidable duenna has charge of the damsel, who talks
Russian only, which her “interviewers” translate into
anything that seems suitable. - Yours, Toe-Struck.
“I lozes, and I lozes, but the kindness of my heart is
such I can’t refuse money,” says Boaz, a lender, in some
play. Coppin gets up another pantomime for the poor
stage-hands.
The Sunday entertainments, at Melb. Royal, are dis-
continued. Nothing is left of the Sunday shows but a fit-
ful glimmer at the Gaiety Music-hall, although, a month
or two ago, there were four.
“After the opera is over,” at Melb. Princess’s, tenor
Giraud proceeds to watch the ballet from the manager’s
box. He is there every night (uncommonly suggestive
of the show goods that a shopkeeper puts in his window)
and it seems as though W. and M., naturally anxious
about the young man’s throat, are trying to keep him out
of draughts and danger in general.
Nellie Stewart was in the box for the first night of
“ Cavalloria,” along with her sister-in-law, Constance
Djorwyn, and Nellie laughed copiously when the com.
pany insisted on bringing Musgrovo to participate in the
“ovation.” But she missed the treat of seeing William-
son dragged on by main force a fortnight earlier. Now,
that teas funny. J.C.W. in a character part can face the
footlights without seeming at all nervous, yet he blushed
and hung back like a school-girl suddenly introduced to
a crowd of people when the Italians look him in tow.
They couldn’t catch him this time, however. Ho was
hiding in a cellar, or had climbed up to the perch of the
limelight man, as soon as the curtain fell.
“Rob Roy” is an indication of the decline of British
sentiment in Australia; for, acted here, it has the same
fossiliferous appearance as it would have in America.
Thus was it with Chas. Clark’s Westminster Abbey
lecture. Smythe bit on the solution—that while the
lecturer was as good as ever, public sentiment had
changed.
When a certain actor lately stepped on to the boards of
an Australian theatre, he was required lo say, “I am
David Garrick—an actor and a gentleman.” He had no
sooner delivered himself of the sentence than a female
voice shrieked from the stalls. Her speech was most un-
reportable.
S.A. Chief Justice Way has given a luncheon in
Adelaide to Mr. and Mrs. Brough, Mr. Boucicault, and
some of the other members of their co. Among the guests
was Prof. Liversidge, of Sydney University. All the elite
of Adelaide atteivhd Mrs. Brough's “at home” on the
stage, just before the co.’s departure.
Antoinette Sterling recognised a talented sister in
Helen Hart, to whom she gave, it is said, ten guineas for
two short songs to be set to music.
London Shaftesbury management, havingdrawn crowds
with “ Morocco Bound” by the aid of Letty Lind and her
celebrated dance, has now (remarks Tub Bulletin’s cor-
respondent) made up its mind to keep them away by
engaging Minnie Palmer to lake her part. To make
assurance doublv sure, Minnie is going to sing “a song of
her own composing.” The last time the writer saw “My
Sweetheart ” she was getting on to be as ponderous as a
Dutch vrow, and about as graceful-looking. However,
the atrocious conduct of “ Yours Merrily ” in bringing
charges of misconduct against her may possibly have
reduced Minnie's adipose tissue, and so fitted her to take
the part of the “Silver Queen ” that was to have been.
“Carefully selected from 400 applicants.”—Advt. of
Williamson and M.’s opera chorus.
Irving once sat out Mansfield’s performance of “Richard
III.,” on l went behind afterwards. Mansfield waited for
congratulations. Irving slapped the American on the
back and remarked thrillingly—“ Aha ! you sweat!”
George Belmore, who travels |with Terry as stage-
manager, dresser and useful man, doesn’t seem to have
inherited any of his father’s talent for character-acting.
Old George Belmore, generally remembered by his Nat
Gosling, could play anything up to a certain pitch. As
Silas Wegg, with the wooden leg, he made a hit, and a
few years later, at the Lyceum, he played Sam Weller and
Oliver Cromwell to Irving’s Jingle and Charles the First.
DJvrient, the German Garrick, had a hopeless passion
for his Juliet. Clasping her iii his arms, on the stage, he
muttered, “ Will you marry me?” “ No,” she replied,
firmly.
During Harry Lyons’ brief experience “ on the boards”
the co. played two pieces in a small Tasmanian town. The
dresses (obtained from the local cobbler, who had taken
them for a debt from a previous co. of tragedians)came in
a box, and while a short curtain-raiser was being played
Harry, who had a very small part in the main play, pro-
ceeded unmolested to adorn himself from the wardrobe-
box with the best clothes therein. When the “ frontis-
piece ” was over, the tragedians stepped back into the
d essing-room to get ready for the other play, when they
beheld Harry. They stared at him and he at them. After
one convulsive gasp the heavy tragedian burst forth :
“ Are you going on in that rig?” “Of course I am,”
said the gorgeously-rigged-out Harry. “ Then, in the
name of Shakespeare,” said the tragedian, "if you are,
what’s the (Australian adjective) King going to wear?”
A treble. Baritone loves soprano. In the opera they
play lovers, and also in a play within the play.
Harpist Barker, Snazelle’s friend, is brother of the
doughty Salvation Colonel, and oddly recalls him in
appearance.
George Lash Gordon is writing Rignold’s Xmas panto-
uvme, “ Jack the Giant Killer.”
Courtneidge’s song, "All doing a little bit," was the
feature, by someone else, at a recent South Yarra Church
concert, the clergyman presiding.
Apropos the return of old-fashioned ballet to Australia.
The average weight of a ballet-girl’s costume is 27 ozs.:
tights, 6 ozs. ; five ballet-skirts, 9 ozs. ; slippers, 4 ozs.;
bodice, 8 ozs.
Herr Josef, of the Leumane Opera Co., is P. C. Josephs,
the bass-voiced Hebrew cabinet-maker of Swanston-
street, Melbourne, well-known on the concert platform
and as first bass in the big R.O. choir.
The convict hulk, Success, is to be shown at Auckland
(M.L.) this summer. Provided the slimy old ruin doesn’t
founder with her load of guilt somewhere in the Tasman
Sea, she should make a sensation in a province where the
old leg-iron variety of civilisation never penetrated.
Old friends Arnold and Frank Thornton are bringing a
co. of seven with them to Melb. Bijou, including Percy
Brough, Miss Agnes Knight, Baby Blanche, and another
infant phenomenon. Arnold, it seems, wasn’t much of a
success in America, bring generally over-shadowed by
recollections of gifted Joe Emmett.
Rawei, a clever young Maori, is touring Tasmania with
a single-handed entertainment called “ Maori Music, Song
and Story.” He should get a big reception in Australia.
Duncan Macallum reports £425 as four nights’ takings
by the Jubilee Singers at Charters Towers. The Singers
started a Brisbane farewell last week.
Giraud, the tenor, has enough cough-drops for a life-
time. After the “Pagliacoi” first-night disaster, Melb.
lolly-shops were depleted, and their contents, femininely
addressed, forwarded to the actor of the tragical clown.
Madame Patti, 50 years of age, has just contracted to
sing 40 nights for t‘40,000 and all expenses. Ellen Terry
is 45, and is full of \ ivacity. Situs Reeves is 71, and is
going to sing again publicly.
Lovell Phillips, who conducts the Blue Ballet orchestra,
is an erudite accountant. In point of fact, he could
conduct the Mercantile Bank case in addition to the
orchestra, and bring out the delicate shades of fiddling
equally well in both cases.
Delicious. Critic Archer on Gracie Whiteford, in
London: "Poor child!—for she looked little more—
what intense eagerness she put into her work.” This
beats the Melb. junior out of his tights.
It is related of Madame S that once in Maoriland
she was confined of a son in the morning and went
on in “Maritana” at night.
A Sydney typo, calls the presently-running tragedian
"Mr. Welter Bentley.” One could understand the slip,
if it were Mr. Welter Rignold.
Iladdon Chambers has finished his new play, written
for Tree, but when it will see the light is a doubtful
matter. Rumoured that Henry Arthur Jones is to
manage the Haymarket for Tree—which does not look
like giving Haddon a show.
While Bentley was playing Hamlet, Busch, leader of
the orchestra, used on occasions to lay down his fiddle
and applaud. The spontaneous tribute of artistic admir-
ation.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
October 4,189 J
My Dear Moouabinda—
Governor Carington and he whom the wicked
newsboys call “Mister Jersey” were wont to
smile affably on the amateur guard of State which
escorted them on special occasions. On arrival at
Govmentonse they would exchange a few flatteries
with the much-millinered leading desperado, ex-
pressing a fear that his ferocious gang were
thirsty —and lo ! champagne would appear upon
the scene—in jugs !
Governor Duff, however, has altered all that.
The absurdly-beplumed Sydney Lancers (a high-
toned set, I assure you—they once got rid of a
trooper from the ranks because they found that
he actually sold socks over a counter!)—the
Lancers, I was going to say, might have been so
many wooden soldiers for all the vice regal
“ notice ’’they elicited after the opening of Par-
liament. On returning to Government House,
Sir Robert made straight in doors without any of
the hollow compliments usual in such cases.
Then —after a moment of parched expectancy-
servants appeared carrying flagons of—well,
“ Here’s To’ee !” lam tdd that the thirst of four
warriors was stronger than their wounded feel-
ings, but the rest refused the flowing bowl in
frigid tones, and returned to quarters in a straight
line for once.
The Sydney temperance tabbies held a grand
review of delegates the other day, and I couldn t
help smiling at the comprehensiveness of the
“bate” performed by the moral police-women.
One lady had to overlook “ agricultural shows and
fairs”—to see that the elated owner of the prize
piggy-wiggy took nothing stronger than soda, 1
suppose; hut the easiest billet of them all
though much depends on the profile, of course—
was that of the lady who has to “ influence the
pulpit.” She was single, you may be sure ; hut 1
deeply sympathise with the lady whose duty it is
to “influence the press.” Just imagine anyone
trying to influence a Pagan press with raspberry
syrup!
The only titled member of the local W.C.T. U.
simply “ superintends drawingroom-meetings
which I have generally found to mean afternoon
tea, where the latest Benevolent Asylum bonnes
bouchcs give piquancy to the toasted muffin. But
good people run in all shapes, altho’ I have ever
remarked that the she-diseiplo in silk petticoats
isn’t the one who plunges about in the mud on the
track of heathen cabmen —just as the religieuse


SOME DO, SOME DON’T.
Tho maiorltv do the minority don’t. The large-brained, level-headed folks do, the others don’t. Those who
study thdrbest interests do. those who neglect them don’t. Of course there will always be ammor.tywho
SVentlv avoid doing the right, and, of course, the members of that minority must pay for their oWn back-
r,t- r ThPV “ backslide” with their eyes open, the evil they work upon themselves is continually being pointed
pnt tn them and vet they continue on their downward career. The case in point is a simple one, a mere matter
out to nem an y j circuUting . lne dium, and what you can get for the money you have to spend There s
no sentiment about it, it is of the earth earthy, it’s bound up in worldliness, and yet its a matter of as much
Importance as half the things that are preached from stump and pulpit and platform from year s end to year s end.
JOIN THE MAJORITY I
Make one of the happy throng, ever changing, always increasing, who day after day, week after week, and all the
■ ■ 1 ’ ■ year round buy all they want at
Australia's Mammoth Store
Fashion Plates and Price Lists sent everywhere.
w- 'TVilTineQ or Shinning Freight to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales on all
ParoTs of P th^SSfi g /10 3 . or^ tfiS, excepting Furniture. Ironmongery. Crockery and Glass.
Grocery! Toys, Harness, Floorcloths, Bedsteads and Bedding, and other heavy and bulky goods.
lf you reside In the country, POP foUR ORDER IN THE POST, addressed to
Hordern Se Sons,
lIA ,’«.l HKKC IONIVI. SVnXKV,
tdlwc to the ttwhtei Station.)
The Old Bleiyd
WlusKy
ur
who holystones the convent kitchen isn’t the
sister who brought the bank-book in with her.
There is always one dress in “Dorothy” that
“stills your pulses—holds your breath,” as it
were, and it occurs with clockwork regularity in
the middle act. Nellie Stewart wore it, and this
time it was of white satin covered with gauze, with
a thick design in gold, bullion sprays round the
hem getting lighter towards the waist. The bodice
was covered with gauze, and had white satin
lappels thickly worked in gold, and white lace
studded with gold sequins formed the elbow-
sleeves, proving (1 mean the sleeves did) that
Nellie Stewart hasn’t come back any plumper.
And, talking of avoirdupois, the most successful
suggestionof embonpointin anopen bodiceoccursin
this gown, and is managed with a fold or two of
gauze merely. I recommend the sylphlike to copy if
they can. The Dorothy train was of shrimp-pink
brocade, with somewhat tawdry intervals of bright-
coloured flowers, which rather lowered the tone of
the garment. Pink plumes in the powdered hair,
a white feather fan and pink shoes completed the
picture. In the first act, Miss Stewart hardly
improved on the smoke-grey gown she used to
wear by sporting a marbled silk skirt, with the
seams outlined in black gimp—looking exactly like
a “Granny ” walking-skirt cut down—and ablack
hat trimmed with red flowers ; and anybody who
started to go to a costume-ball as a sea-gull is
advised to copy the white robe-de-nuit and red
shoes and stockings in which the ever-welcorae
Nellie comes forth at the end of act two.
I think Nellie Stewart’s face make-up is about
the cleverest I have ever seen. There are no
sooty daubings round her eyes, and her flush of
maiden innocence is as delicate as porcelain.
“ Lunnon experience ” hasn’t got anything to do
with that, though. Take the Gaiety girls, for
instance, who went to the tomato and the flour-
dredge for the secret of beauty. But why did
May Pollard—overtrimmed with bridal orange-
blossom—paint her speaking optics to look as if
she had been crying ? It goes without saying that
a bright and shining audience turned up to warm
the Lyceum for Nellie Stewart, but the interesting
thing was to see two rival songstresses in an o.p.
box with opera-glasses positively glued on the
“ star,” as if counting how many pearly teeth she
showed when smiling. How these Thespiennes
do study— and love—one another !
The full-sized pupils of Prof. West gave him a
return ball at Leigh House on Wednesday even-
ing. There were several taking frocks. Miss
Wall, who opened the ball with Mr. West, wore
a picture gown of yellow satin ; Miss Brennan
looked pretty in a white silk with yellow velvet
puffs; and Miss Chamier’s white gossamer with
chenille spots was fairylike. I couldn’t help
remarking how elegantly the men danced,
especially in the minuet. One tall and wavy
youth was positively willowy.
Talking about dancing reminds me of the lady-
wife of a butterfly Sydney medicine-man—who
went to a pupils’ ball and was introduced to the
teacher. “Ah, madam,” he exclaimed, “your
husband is one of my worst pupils! ” Now,
madam hadn’t the foggiest notion in the world up
.till then that hubby was taking waltzing-lessons.
A Bread-and-Butter ball, in aid of the Monte
ifiore Home for those vara aves, impoverished
Hebrews, was held at Paddington Town Hall last
.week, and was a success, over 300 people chiming
jin. The Hall is permanently decorated with flags
ihung across like washing, but was further beauti-
ified by ferns and pot-plants, and the supper-table
,was tastefully set out—a small plate of bread and
• butter having a place to justify the name of the
~dance. Mrs. L. R. Wilson, in brown ombre silk
v with cream lace fichu and diamonds, managed the
■whole affair with very small expense. The dance
,is to become an annual means of helping the Monte-
fiore Home.
A heavy shower of original music has descended
.upon me, commencing with “The Rifleman’s
•March,” by Mrs. Percival Rowe, dedicated to
.General Hutton. The march is a rhythmic
•sprinting-tune in several flats, and the General is
paving it scored for the full band at the approach-
tiijkg tournament. It is adorned with a mounted
rifleman in a facsimile of the new uniform, and is
istakfoigly got up. A couple of waltzes —“ Lang-
reatli ” and “ One of the Past ’’—are strongest
typographically, but a sickly chorus-song, “The
Old Home,” hasn’t even a pretty picture to re-
commend,it. Besides, there are so many bailiffs
, and so much cold mutton in the world that only a
bard can, in these days, extract any
-convincing sentiment out of such a subject. On
the other hand, Aug. Juncker has written an
..effective song for a tenor voice, “The Knight’s
.Farewell,” and an optimistic ballad, “ Ever
' True,” by G. A. Kerr, is rather a relief after the
• misery-songs.in which the musical world deligjits.
Lady Duff’s espousal of the cause of the Kil-
‘iburn Sisters, despite the frowns of Bishop Smith,
< makes those untrammelled nuns able to snap their
fingers at the ecclesiastic. A Kilburn meeting
'took place recently at Govmentouse, at which
iLady Duff requested somebody to say (Lady Duff
governoresses ” on the publicly-silent system,
rjanlike the loquacious M.K.J.) that she would be
i ready at all times to further the work of the
.Sisters in Sydney. “At the conclusion of the
i meeting,” the report naively adds, “ several names
were handed in as associates.” But the outsider
1 turns a retrospective eye over all the vice-regal
1 fads that were, and smiles from ear to ear.
The never-ending stream of talk about the
1 Carcoar murders reminds me that Bertie Glasson,
i the accused man, was present in a top hat and a
r.frock-coat at Lady Duffs first reception escorting
"that clever musician, his newly-married wife, of
• whom, at any rate, he was most passionately fond.
TEverybody feels the deepest sympathy for Mrs.
'Glasson, who is a mere girl, married not yet a
yyear, and now in delicate health.
Glasson is, or was when I saw him, a ratlu ,]
■:hioe and refined-looking young fellow who, so far
as appearances went, might be anybody or any-
thing. He could have been passed off as the prize
University-student, or the prize cricketer, or as a
. young doctor or journalist. He would have done
as the Czarewitch, or, were he bearded and
a little older, as ex-President Balmaceda, of
Ghili (vide the likenesses printed in the illus-
trated papers); you could imagine him preserving
ihis slenderness throughout life and developing in
■old age into somebody very like old George
Grey, il am told that he was intelligent and
agreeable, and was a general favourite at Newing-
-1 ton College.
The action for slander brought by a N.S. W. bar-
-1 maid against a dance-committee who ejected her
1 on the alleged ground that she wasn’t a fit associate
for the company (meaning, of course, the other
women present, for surely the men didn’t mind),
revives the ancient story of the enmity of women
towards the Hebes of civilisation. The reason of
their undisguised animosity is probably because
nothing peaks my beloved sisters more than mys'
tery, and as women never, or hardly ever, see a
barmaid at work, they form radiant conceptions
of her in purple and fine linen* holding a sort of
■court among the beer-taps and taking tribute from
till mankind marrieaj single; or balancing. And
then they am jealous—that is really what it come B
to in plain Saxon.
A statement confided to me recently that one or
two northern churches that have been kept going
by half-crown hops during the winter will have to
shut shop owing to the fact that people don’t dance
in the summer—is amusing, contrasted with the
vehement language hurled at the sinfulness of
dancing by a Glen limes clergyman.
Why is the cloth so “down ”on dancing? It
may be from dog-iii-the-inangerisbness, because
only the most fin de siecle shepherds have con-
sciences that permit their owners to waltz. But
even if the whole army of crow-clothed clerics
went about “requesting the pleasure” on bees-
waxed floors very few girls would care to dance
with them—unless they were in the unattached-
curate stage and good-looking to boot. The
average clergyman is generally an oily, apologetic
person with a poor, worn-out wife in turned
clothing, and a family that Alls two pews, and no
girl likes that sort of a partner even to go to
supper with. I always think the objections of
the clergy to dancing are like the scruples about
kissing possessed by the girl with a hare-lip.
The elopement of the chorister with the organis*
is distinctly the Victorian sensation. He has been
married eight months, but his rich young wife, it
is said, turned out to be a person who ought never
to many at all—to use a piece of newspaper mys-
ticism. So he took another chance in the lottery.
Lord Gormanston, I am told, likes the seclusion
of Tasmania’s Government House so well that he
seldom leaves it, except to attend “early chapel.”
Hobart society frets mightily thereat and sighs,
alas, for a return of the days of the Hamiltonian
onion sandwich. No one ever knows when he is
well off.
Tasmania’s new Governor, so far as he has
given opportunity of judging, seems to be a
gentleman of heavy bucolic tastes. He poses
as a judge of cattle (Kerry cows for pre-
ference), and it was while inspecting a lot
of these animals at a Government institution
near Hobart recently, that he made the most
eloquent “speech” registered to his credit since
his arrival. After critically eyeing the cows for a
moment he turned to his mixed audience and ex-
claimed, “Humph! call those Kerry cows? Why
I wouldn’t give thirty bob for the whole damned
lot ! ” A remark which has given considerable
“ pain ” to the goody-goody elite of Hobart, who
nevertheless repeat it at every opportunity. How-
ever, perhaps he didn’t say this in his vice-regal
capacity.
Writing about bachelor-taxation, “Rebel,” in a
Sydney daily says ; “Ninety per cent, of married
men are church-goers ; 90 per cent, of the prison-
ers in gaol are unmarried.” Perhaps so, but a
man can hardly be in two gaols at once.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
There aren’t ten people who really know
why ex-auctioneer Dickson bad to decline the
Speakership of the Q. Assembly.
Between 3000 and 4000 people in Bris-
bane receive Government relief now. Penny
tram sections, 2d. ’bus fares, meat Id. a lb., and
bananas Id. a doz. Grand country for the work-
ing man.
“At last N.S.W. general election 2000
people in Sydney recorded 24,000 votes,’ says
Minister Lyne, who has had the votes analysed,
and vouches for the correctness of the state-
ment.
There is unfortunately no hope of the
recovery of the universally-esteemed Rev. Dr.
Steel, of Sydney, who is suffering from internal
cancer. The only favourable feature about his ill-
ness is that it is unaccompanied by pain.
A Canadian Crown-Minister, bearing the
unfortunate name of Bowell —Mackenzie-Bowel!
is coming to Australia in the wake of Toby
Barton. The Bulletin dare not quote the
hideous puns made in the Yankee press upon this
gentleman’s name. The most respectable of them
all has some reference or other to a casus belli.
Sydney Burdekin, M.P., is already cir-
cularising the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.) electors.
Extract from his round-robin
For my own private information I enclose you a post-
card which you will, perhaps, not think it too much
trouble to post to me, informing me whether you will
support me or not.
What a blessed privilege it is to be able to afford
to buy post-oards by the hundred—or thousand !
How many easily-impressed electors will be
bribed by the compliment of an autograph letter
and a free post-card from a millionaire ? Did we
say “ bribed ” ? Well, let it go at that.
Dr. George Bennett, physician and
naturalist, who died in Sydney last week, aged 90,
and of whom a portrait appears in this issue of I he
Bulletin, was one of Australia’s few grand old
men Almost 60 years since he published in Lon-
don-a book relating to his Australian experiences.
Years ago he retired from medical practice and
devoted himself solely to scientific research and to
bis splendid library which, it is understood, now
goes to Sydney University. The name of the old
doctor is closely interwoven with the history of
Sydney during the early part of this half-century.
It was he for instance, who gave medical evidence
in the memorable Knatehbull-Jamieson murder-
case many years ago.
Salmon Wilson reappears in Collins-street.
One has to look twice to recognise him. He is
thinner and grey-speckled, but lively as ever,
with the familiar, brisk, proppy step. He means
to stay several years.
The Wild-Cat Column.
It is already rumoured that paper will be made
legal tender in N.S. Wales for another six months. Paper
is like drink ; it can’t Le knocked off without the paper-
drinker suffering an awful recovery. When the Bank of
England stepped paying in gold and took to inconvertible
lOUs, it didn’t straighten up for 24 years. In the pre-
sent instance it is an open question whether one, at least,
of the N.S.W. hanks could stand the shock if its notes
came back with a rush and it was required to pay in gold,
and it it suspended the tag-end of the old panic would
probably break out afresh.
« # •
Owing to an unexpected burst of enthusiasm in
London, the Victorian conversion loan was floated at a
total loss of only 1141,695. The London money-market
is an apparently unaccountable institution to outsiders,
yet to those “ in the know” it is said to w'ork with the
regularity of a clock. The money—which is the gastric
juice in the shark’s innards —keeps accumulating, and
when it has accumulated to a certain extent, and the
general health of the fish is otherwise favourable, it will
digest another loan. Therefore, it is all a question of
knowing when the fish will be hungry. When it is in
good health it can be made to swallow almost anything,
but it hasn’t been in good health of late, and, though it
has brightened up a little just now', it is questionable if
it will ever again be quite the shark it used to be.
• * •
The solvency of any Melbourne financial insti-
tution is simply a matter of opinion. Jimmy Munro will
tell you that the Federal Bank could pay 40s. in the £ if
you give it time for the “ inevitable rise in landed
to occur. Each of the Daviesian tentacles might be glori-
ously solvent hulf-a-century hence if all hills were filed
and forgotten, and the premises were closed, and nobody
wanted any money, or did anything in any of those
matters—for fifty years or more. In the meantime, who
is liquidating all those tentacles, or was there nothing to
liquidate ?
# * •
A correspondent sends along a quantity of
figures to demonstrate, to his own satisfaction, that the
Australian Banking Co. may', with a reasonable amount
of good fortune, pay its creditors Bs. in the & in the
course of three years or so.
• # *
According to Ooghlan, the returns of two of the
principal N.S. Wales banks are—or were up to 1892
“illegal and misleading.” Apparently wild horses and
locomotives couldn’t draw’ from the Government the
names of these banks or particulars as to how their
accounts were “ faked.”
# * #
The publication in full of a certain insolvency
schedule, filed some days ago in Melbourne, would have
brought a run on a boa-constricted bank.
# * #
Two lota of people represent well-informed
opinion on the Mercantile Bank case. One lot declares
that Davies and Millidge can’t escape trial, and the other
lot swears that Davies, anyway, is as safe as he ever was.
Meanwhile, it is certain that Miilidge’s counsel doesn’t
like the look of things, or he wouldn’t have started howl-
ing that the private prosecutor and his representatives
are “ mere tools in the hands of conspirators.”
# • *
A Melbourne paper quotes deposit receipts in
Vic. and National Banks at 18s. in the £, which is 3s.
more than the average market price.
* # #
In the notorious balance-sheet of a certain
Southern bank, furniture was included in “ bills receiv-
able !”
* * *
Australian sharebrokers have had a rooky time
lately. One big firm got a quittance from a large financial
institution. It is alleged thecompo. footed up six figures,
represented by pro. notes pinned to Souths, Centrals, and
so on. Another firm is said to have paid the same lucky
institution 3s. 6d. in the £ fnr a clean sheet. Yet a third
partnership “ turned turtle ” through private speculations
in trams—not for the first time. Other old-established
sharebrokers are choked to the chin with scrip in re-
incarnated banks on which they will be paying calls (or
else their wives will) when the last cornet is being blown.
# # *
Years ago, an Australian magnate hankered
somewhat after N.Q. sugar plantations and invested nearly
six figures in a Northern sugar-estate. The manager
called for a couple of shiploads of Kanakas, The
godly magnate, however, had his high and pious reputa-
tion to consider, and he and his brother directors
sounded loudly the cry, “No slaves on our property!”
Then they sent to Singapore tor “cheap and reliable,”
and got it in the shape of a hundred or so mixed-
breed Malays, &c. Result: a loss of £140,000. Machinery
that cost £36,000 was afterwards sold for £3500, and taken
South. The ruinous sugar-estate is now deserted.
Moral: The money-making cheap-labour man would
be better off without any conscience at all than when bur-
dened with a bogus and misleading one.
# * *
Dear ButXETiN, — Here (an up-country branch,
Vic.), any creditor of the Bank, lately recon-
structed, who happens to have a current account of over
£lOO, is not allowed to have one penny unless he signs a
pro. note to pay it back within 12 months, and he is
charged IJ. per cent, for drawing his own money ! Also,
he has to pay Is. 6d. stamp-duty on pro. note I—Yours,
P.N.
« * *
It was very rough on Mr. Campbell, who sought,
in the N.S.W. Supreme Court, to eslablish the validity of
what purported to be an old Crown-grant but is now
insinuated to be a “fake,” that he should be forced to
prefer his application thus prematurely ; for, had the
matter been permitted to hang over a few months longer,
the full legal period of 60 years would have expired, and
the deed would have proved itself.
m * *
All the Townsville shareholders of the B.N.Q.
voted against the resolutions (authorising the transfer of
head-office to Brisbane; limiting temporarily the div. to
41 per cent.; reducing capital by cancelling £1 per share).
The voting record is suggestive : For resolution, 660 r otes
representing 27,741 shares; against, 57 votes (4353 shares).
# #' #
Can anyone define the provisions of the N.S.W.
No Liability Act? For instance, what is the meaning nf
the condition requiring 10 percent, cf the,capital to he
paid up? Few people seem to know that under this Act
it is illegal to mortgage mining property. Ignorance of
the interpretation of the law has placed more than one
Sydney bank in an awkward fix for the recovery of over-
drafts.
« * •
Boga (N.S.W.) Gazette knows of two brothers
who own, near Bega, a mine “piebald” with gold, and
says that a Sydney syndicate was only dissuaded from
buying the reef for £6OOO, “ in consequence of the com-
parative downfall of Pambula and other reasons.” The
brothers, with a 5-head battery, “have since, with-im-
perfect gold-saving appliances, had several 40z.-to-the-ton
orushings.”
* * *
It is humorously alleged up South that one of
the brokers who did business for a certain individual’s
tentacles is responsible as buying broker for calls oa
shares bought by him to the extent of £3,000,000. The
trouble sits lightly on him. Having squeezed all possible
out of the “A” list of contributories, the liquidators ol
various dead land-banks are industriously compiling
“ 13 ” lists.
* * *
B.H. Extended having failed to secure a .£lOOO
prospecting grant from N.S.W. Govt, endeavours to in-
duce the adjoining Co.’s to contribute towards cross-
cutting Block 10-wards from the 1330 feet level. The
crosscut would be of immense prospecting value to Block
10 and Central, but one potent reason—want of cash- will
unfortunately prevent those Co.’s assisting.
* * #
Block 10 which, unlike the other Broken Hill
mines which wanted to squash the miners' union, didn’t
avail itself of the principle of sloping by contract—
nominally the question at issue—has introduced the
tributing system into the mine, and t he Proprietary Co. is
credited with being anxious to follow suit. The move is
not one to impress shareholders with the future of the
mine, though as the Co. will begin by grabbing from the
tributors 14s. lOd. in the £ on the ore sold it should make
a good thing out of the venture.
# # *
Tenders are wanted for the purchase of 500
shares in Monte Criato West diamond and gold-mining
block. A gorgeous prospectus is before the writer. It
was intended to advertise this document but for “the
Australian banking crisis.” If 50,000 shares have already
been issued, paid up to 2s. 6d., to what purpose is the
money now being devoted ?
The writer has interviewed a diamond-mine
manager from Bingera district. Diamonds, he says, are
numerous but small, poor in quality, and difficult to cut.
He has been carting round Sydney a bucket of them—
yes, a whole bucket of them—for sale. The only hope of
the Bingera diamonds is for drills and lapidary work, and
as soon as they came into the market for such uses the
De Beers diamond ring will probably swamp them, as
they have more than the world has any use for.
# * *
The late splendid crushing from the Hidden
Treasure mine, Pambula—7o tons for a yield of COO ozs.
gold, has been followed by 130 ozs. from 40 tons Victory
ore ; the latter urine adjoins the prospector’s (Mt. Gahan).
Both mines are now let to Uibutors,. those on the
Treasure paying 12 per cent. Heaps of money werespenl
by the shareholders in both properties, but nothing good
resulted. Many of the children of Israel, who figure pro-
minently on the share-list of the first-named co., are
doubtless now cursing their luck. However, tributors
were just about to throw the mine up when they struck
the spot that turned them (three of them) in about £650
apiece clear ! The field is now being prospected by loatn-
ing—much less expensive than the old method of costeen-
adopted by the first crowd. Both above crushings
were put thro’ at the Huntingdon mill, which must have
saved the gold fairly well, the H. T. tributors offering to
sell the tailings for £1 a ton.
* # *
In a few days Shoalhaven Consolidated Sluicing
Co will have its nozzle playing on the bottom part ol
the drift. Already some 30,000 yards of the higher ground
have been washed away. The manager has been making
good use of Ills gravitation water supply-probably the
finest in the whole district.
# # *
Another clinking crushing by the Bushman’s
Hill (Parkes) tributors-134 tons, 3750 z. Two of the
lucky tributors called on the writer last week to say the
reef was still looking well and that the mine was suffi-
ciently opened out to indicate many more good yields.
They have 15 months to run and are erecting a winding-
plant to expedite work.
1 # • *
Exaggeration is second nature in N.S.W. news-
paper mining descriptions. The D.T. says the cyanide
works on the Mitchell s Creek mine treat 16,000 tons tail-
ing per month. Such a plant would cost £16,000, and
after a month there would hardly be any tailings left. As
we are told the vats number six, it may be gathered that
600 to 800 tons a month is aimed at.
• • •
In the good old boom-days the cold cynic who
wanted to know what commish was being paid for floating
did not exist at shareholders’ meetings. To day he is
always there. At Mt. Lyell meeting in Melb. last week
he asked what Mr. Knox’s exs. and com. would be for
floating in London. The chairman; “I don’t quite know,
and if I did I’m not going to say. When Mr. Knox returns
1 will tell you.”
# # *
Had the British Block been dividend-paying, Mr.
Knox who had the had luck to float it in England, would
have had no difficulty in raising £250,000 for Mt. Lyell.
Wilson, ex-chairman of the Proprietary, just returned
from London, anticipates Knox’s success. Should, how-
ever Mt. Lyell (chiefly relied on as potentially the world’s
greatest copper-mine) continue to put out such huge
hunks of silver, the money for railway, machinery, and
development can be raised in Australia, or, better still,
got out of the mine.
e # * *
As the writer foreshadowed, the Mt. Lyell
shareholders are getting very “cocky.” At the recent
meeting it was mentioned that if Mr. Knox failed to raise
the big monev wanted in London the mine would go on
without it the directors have conceded the demand for
a preferential 6 per cent. div. to English investors, but if
the returns continue no other will be allowed.
# * *
Baker's Creek is the boss gold-mine yet worked
in N.S.W. Tons crushed, 31,437 ; gold, 97,7550 z.; divs.,
£167,500.'
* * *
The Mining Standard describes Baker’s Creek
40-head battery as the finest in N.S.W., and admits it
only crushes 400 tons a week. True, the ore is tough
because of the slate crushed with the quartz, hut if the
heads were 9cwt. instead of 6 or 7cwt., almost double the
output would be obtained at the same cost. At prefect
it is 10s. 6d. a ton. The writer knows of no other 40-tiead
mill in Australia where the cost of crushing is so great.
# * *
Hard times at Croydon (Q.). Three of the local
publicans are “ doing a hit of mining.” When a publican
has to work—
* * *
W. H. Irwin resigns, the mining management of
the Wentworth mines, Lucknow (N.S.W.), which he leaves
better than he found them, to take charge of Brown’s Creek
mine Blayney. Unassuming and capable, he is equally
admired as a man and as a miner. From a bonanza-or-
nothing mine, he goes to an enormous body of low-grade
o te_ g old low in value and not easy to save. He has »
big task. # »
A well-named mine, Star of the East, Ballarat,
for many years has held the lead in Victoria, and
thereby established a world-wide reputation. A recent
typical crushing, 1971 tons, 1009 oz. There are hundreds
of thousands of tons still to come out.
# * *
Charlie Rawson, erst of Mackay (Q.), is secre-
tary to the Golden Gate and Carrington, and his name
induced a number of people to invest in these mines who
would never otherwise have thought of buying. As he is
an absolutely straight man, everyone is sorry he should
have been associated with such fiascos. He is also secre-
tary to the Raub syndicate.
( ‘‘ Wild Cat ” continued on page IS.)


rfJ :
W/WU
Go to HELL-
-IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps We
Sell the Set of 14, unused. for Is. Od.
lllust int i (I Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
Cratif.
V. A. VIUDIH Sc CO.,
74 ELIZAP.KI II STUEET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
A 111 II > V' I k i •
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION,
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyor?to Chicago h'xhihilion.
Ealchin, Johnston U Co., C Bridge-:t., Sydney.
DO YOU SUFFER?
ARE YOU AFFLICTED WITH
INDIGESTION,
BACKACHE,
TIRED ACHING LIMBS,
liver complaint;
LASSITUDE, OR*
Any complaint arising from an imjxwetiahtftf
nervous system ? If so
CLEMENTS TONIC IS
A QUICK, PROMPT AND SURE
CURE, IT DOES NOT MERELY
ALLAY THE SYMPTOMS BUT
EFFECTS A PERMANENT AND
POSITIVELY LASTING CURE.
ASK
Mr. Thomas Edgeworth, Binalong, who writes on
June 12th, 1893;—About twelve months ago I
was a great sufferer from indigestion. The
symptoms from which I have suffered were great
pains in the chest, especially after meals. I had
no sooner eaten anything than I would have a
violent fit of retching ; I could not retain anything
on my stomach; the consequence was that I
became weaker daily, although I had the advice
of a doctor, and also of his medicine ; I derived no
benefit from either. Seeing so much about
Clements Tonic in every newspaper I took up, I
resolved to get a bottle. I did so. and by the time
I had finished the third bottle I was thoroughly
cured of all disagreeable symptoms ; if ever I feel
out of sorts, 1 Hy to Clements Tonic, and I am
happy to say I am never disappointed ; if I was to
write for a month 1 could not say more in favour
of Clements Tonic, though I am a thorough
believer in it.—l remain, yours sincerely, Thomas
Edgeworth, fencer, Binalong.
Gold Mkdai, Artificial Tbktu, full sets £n. Warranted
n Fit. Natural App nranc. Old Misfitting Cases Ite
modelled. Painless Extractions vih Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations fiee. J. I. Marshall, Denial Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (Gcorge-street entrance.)
Personal Items.
Salmon Wilson owns 164 square miles of
land in Victoria.
Accountant T. J; Davey is to be the next
Mayor of Melbourne;
Parson Fitchett is now a grand-pa, his
son, aetat 19, being the happy father of a fine boy.
Premier Kingston (S.A.) is supposed to be
a complete replica of Blaine, the American poli-
tician.
“ Tom ’’ Rose, M.P. (N.S.W.), is reading
for the Bar, and has just the sort of intellect to
succeed there.
The oldest native inhabitant of N.S.W.
has been discovered in the person of Mrs. Bloods-
worth, of North Sydney, aged 99 years. Her
living descendants number 200.
Phil May will be interested to learn that
his own special curate lias started in N.S.W. a
“ White Rose ” League for furthering the election
to Parliament of practical Christians.
Somebody asked Professor Threlfall, the
other day; “ Who is the professor of under-
ground engineering at Sydney University.”
“Dunno,”' replied the Professor, “he doesn’t
belong to my school. ”
A very well-known Adelaide Congrega-
tional parson, who, after striking it rich in Broken
Hills, deserted the Lord’s vineyard, is now, silver
and shares having dropped, once more looking for
a church and a stipend.
Archdeacon Gunther (Parramatta, N.S.W.)
steadily refuses preferment—this time a bishopric.
His late father was an archdeacon, and the son
declares that he will never accept any higher
dignity than Ids father held.
Treasurer Carter (Vic.) is indeed a great
pran. When proprietor of Bell’s Life he tipped
the Melb, Cup winner first try; now he has
negotiated a two-and-a-half million State loan in
the shortest time on record.
Gov. Kintore, thanks to the advice of a
cute fellow-Scotchman, was worth >£25,000 in
silver stock a while since, but he didn’t follow the
advice subsequently given, and held on. The
stock is worth about <£sooo now.
The announcement lias not yet been made
(writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent),
but it is said to be a fact that—but there I am
now, going to let out a State secret connected
with the succession to the throne.
In ’B7, when Ned Pfeiffer, the largest
shareholder in the Day Down P. 0., Charters
Towers (N-Q-)> received from the purchasing Eng-
lish Co. a cheque for £llO,OOO as his share, ho
presented his wife with a cheque for £16,000.
Rev. H. N. Wol-
laston was killed by
the Argus on Tues-
day, and resurrected
on Wednesday by
the announcement
that, though he had
retired from the
“living,” he wasn’t
dead. .
Husband M‘Kin-
ley was the restrain-
ing influence on poor
old Antoinette. He
prevented her break-
ing out furiously on
the social-purity sub-
ject in much the
same way that
“dreadfully proper”
Miss Brown kept
Baroness Burdett-
Coutts from getting
married. Immedi-
ately after the death
of her lady-com-
panion the aged
Baroness skipped
into matrimony. As
soon as M‘Kinley
took to his bed,
Antoinette started
on the rampage, and
began to knock her
voice to pieces. After
a tempestuous time
at the Austral Salon,
she said: “Pin afraid
I’ve been talking too
much. Mr. M‘Kinley
doesn’t like me to
talk, but he’s in
Adelaide at present,
and so I can let my
tongue go.” Pre-
sently the careful
Scotch gentleman
passed from Adelaide
to Heaven, and
Antoinette’s tongue
has been going ever
since. She returns
to England a rabid
missionary, with
hoarse musical ac-
companiment.
“Jimmy” Robertson, late Chamberlain to
ex-QueenLiliuiokalini, of Hawaii, isnow “clerking”
with a Honolulu shipping firm. Dibbs as a
rabbiter, or Reid, in a white suit, bawling
“Hokey Pokey!”—who can tell what is in the
womb of time ?
Lord Carington is said to he able to walk
backwards before Queen Victoria with more
elegance than any other Lord Chamberlain on
record. Carington’s billet is that of an honour-
able dancing master combined with the job of an
upper flunkey.
The largest-sized hat ever sent out by
Leaver, the well-known Bundle street (Adelaide)
hatter; was 7« —to a farmer, since deceased, on
Yorke’s Peninsula. Tom Playford takes 7£, and
little Chief Justice Way and burly Premier
Kingston, 7f.
There is no secret about the Victorian
Judge who in'dilated, or in-'dilates, a return to
(he Bar. It is Hodges, who believes be could
make in practice three times his present screw.
Au rnnlrairc, there is the consideration of his
pension, bo lie crosses the mirrory water, bone
it) month.
The Kingston (S.A.) Ministry is Unique—
it does not contain a single baldhead.
Many old Sydney friends of D’Arcy Went-
worth will be sorry to hear that he has been
exceedingly ill. But he is somewhat better now.
Another sick man in London is the popular A. H.
Good (“Robin Hood,” of the Australasian),
who, however, was recovering at latest dates.
Ex-Premier Munro is hack-in Melbourne,
after his trip to W.A., and says he would settle
in Perth if he could find anything to do there. He
does not wear a prosperous appearance, and has
just moved from his former palatial residence into
a small suburban house at a weekly rental of <£l.
It is not generally known that Archpriest
Sheehy, of Ryde, was at one time appointed
Assistant R.C. Bishop of Sydney, but declined
the appointment and sent back the papers to
Rome. The refusal was not accepted, as every
year his name appears in the published list of
bishops.
Gov. Norman, it is said, had to decline the
vice-royalty of India because he is too poor to
hold the position. The preliminary expenses of
removal and settling in state as viceroy would
amount to many thousands, and as he was heavily
hit in the bank-failures be simply has not the
money to do it.
Julius Herz and Josh Peckersgill were two
familiar Melbourne identities who seem to have
enjoyed free journeys at one time or other. Herz,
was a “ distinguished visitor ” for the nonce, “ on,
the recommendation of Sir Bill Robinson,” whilst,
old Josh was probably distinguished on the
recommendation of Pickersgill.
James Murdoch, late professor of history
to a Tokio (Japan) college and a member of the
‘‘New Australia” organisation, is now on his way
from England to Asuncion. He is to be school-
master there. Murdoch is a man of his word,
anyway. He promised to go 18 months since,
and gave his valuable library to the community as
an earnest.
Helen Hart, still Miss, indignantly denies
the rumour of her marriage—set afloat by a
jealous suburban editor. A few years back,
through a similar rumour, Tommy Bent volun-
teered to give Miss Hart away, “shout ” the wed-
ding breakfast, and present the happy couple with
an allotment at Brighton. But Helen stuck to
Women’s Rights.
Frederick Humphries, now a Crown
lodger, when secretary to Vic. Employers’ Union,
said to a press interviewer: “Spence (Shearers’
Union secretary) and you are scurrilous liars and
would-be thieves. I shall live to see you both
where you ought to have been long since—in
gaol.” A man who is not a mere “would-be”
thief ought not to prophesy.
HERBERT E. GLASSON.
(Accused of the murder, at Carcoar, N.S.W., of Mr. J. W. Phillips and Miss Cavanagh.)
Arthur Forbes (late secretary of the Q.N.
Bank), who was to have done so much for Queens-
land mines in London, did them infinite harm ;
but he may not have been altogether responsible,
as a man is not always his own master. He was
enormously stout, though a young man, and, as
everybody feared would be the case, he died sud-
denly—in bed, of heart-disease.
G. C. Hawker, M.A. (Speaker of the S.A.
Assembly from 1860 to 1865, and who still holds a
seat in the Chamber), celebrated his 75th birthday
on Sept. 21. Although the wealthiest man in the
Chamber, he signalised the day by voting for a
20 per cent, additional tax on land held by
absentees, while he did not oppose the Govern-
ment progressive tax on large estates.
Parson Shirley Baker, the humble mis-
sionary of Tonga who rose to be prime minister
and chief persecutor in the archipelago, now owns
a big daity-farm in Maorilattd. The toiler in the
(South Sea vineyard always comes back compara-
tiyely rich, somehow or other. It is only the
blighted nigger who has given away his last cocoa-
nut to keep himself out of Gehenna who loses by
the transaction.
ij h/t i v • , » ~ i ,
H. M. Bmdoil, barrister, son of the late
Judge Bmdon, died in Melb. last week. To him
was allotted Ned Kelly’s defence, and what a
triumphant failure the weakling barrister did
make of it! It was almost the only job he was
ever known to get. Heaven help Bindon when
Ned Kelly meets him beyond the Divide !
~ . , , T , ...
Cricketer Lyons, who was employed] m
S.A. Census office, will find his billet vacant on
his return from England with the Australian
team. It is said he will settle in Sydney, unless
something tempting turns up in Adelaide. Lyons
was on the verge of accepting a good post in
Sydney some time ago, but E. E. Smith, the
wealthy brewer and president of the Norwood
club, averted the disaster.
Aha
s&' m //CL menAa.ry
ousmess shoo/ct
commence <&&■
Atv'.o o * c/oc /4f w
a
//%cj ./ ConS/cten //k/*
7a./-//a, /7)g/;Aty £<sS /ness sS?ocjS<S
coniment e ct~A /?oun <? *c /oc\
TWO AND FOUR: A QUESTION OF STOMACHS.
Menotti Garibaldi, it is cabled, lias formed
a syndicate to search for Spanish treasure-ships
lost off the coast of Uruguay, on the east coast of
South America in the seventeenth century. He
might as well search for Leichhardt's gold watch.
By the way, Menotti’s brother, Ricciotti, was long
in Victoria—firstly as private secretary to James
Service, and afterwards as a truant-officer in the
Education Department.
Daniels, M.L.A. for Cambooya (Q.), and
Treasurer Nelson are constantly at loggerheads.
Nelson taunts the little farmer with entering
politics at his wife’s instigation, so that he might
get .£3 a week. “ She didn’t instigate worth
much,” said Daniels, “ She says she’d sooner ha’
seen me in gaol and get her two-pound a week
reg’lar from the Union than see me in Parliament
with three-pound a week. She don’t like the
society I’ve got to mix with now.”
Pall Mall Budget publishes a full-page
picture of “The Prince of Wales Smiling,” from an
instantaneous photograph. A fiend armed with
a detective camera dodged the Heir Apparent
around London until he found his ghastly oppor-
tunity to “ cop ” the royal smile. Such a smile !
It suggests counters in the travelling-bag and
baccarat by stealth. A feline, greasy, unmirlhful
smile—probably a libel on the original article,
which could scarcely have been so bad as that.
N.S.W. ex-Gov. Lord Augustus Loftus is
quite a hermit now. He lives at Leatherhead,
but rarely goes outside the gates of his residence.
He is quite absorbed with his reminiscences, the
second portion of which will shortly be published.
There was a good sale for the first two volumes,
which, however, bore evident traces of having
been written by one who was not an expert in
“book making.” It is understood that Archibald
Forbes will have an eye to the proofs of the next
issue.
The Duchess of Montrose, a playful young
lady of nearly 60 suminers, has dissolved her
girtnership in racing with her husband, Mr.
enry Milner. Ominous. It will be remembered
that the very near relative of a recent Australian
Governor, in his hard-up days, was desirous of
leading the old lady to the altar, but unfortunately
just at that time the sporting Duchess became
enamoured of Fred Archer, who, however, would
have none of her. It was supposed to have been
in consequence of this disappointment that the
Governor’s relative shed the light of his counten-
ance on Australia, which was a much better spec,
for him.
Whenever any financial matter stirs Mel-
bourne the newspapers rush (or used to rush) to
James Service, Victoria’s money-god, for his
“views.” Once, long ago, a queer incident hap-
pened, A morning-newspaper man had to see Mr.
Service very late one night, and on cabbing it to
the great man’s house found the place in darkness.
Not to be baulked, he was scaling the fence when
a policeman seized said scribe and, despite pro-
testations, ran him in. Mr. Service was sent for,
and, to convince the constable, went bail for the
arrestee. The desired financial interview took
place in the shadow of the lock-up there and then,
and was duly printed next morning.
Yon Mueller, botanist and explorer, is
again agitating for an expedition in search of
traces of Leichhardt. Ex-Premier Parkes was
once inclined to penetrate the wilderness with the
intrepid Prussian, and might have done so had
not politics suddenly spurted just as the last
expedition was getting ready. Leichhardt and
Parkes were of about the same age, and the
latter’s Hunter-street business was at the time
dull, so that it was a question whether anti-trans-
portation excitement or inland exploration gave
bettor scope. Parkes chose the former, and still
remains in evidence, while Leichhardt and party
were swallowed by the wilderness. It is useless
o speculate on what might have been had Parkes
gone with Leichhardt.
“ Premier Patterson is not in good health..
and a change of air is necessary.” The air of
Imperialism and a K.O.M.G. liver-pad would set.
the Scowler rigiit up.
.... .. .
Ihe oyduey lawyers still maintain that’
there will soon be a vacancy upon the N.S.W..
Supreme Court Bench, and that the new Judge
will be found in four—Barton, Rogers Back-
house, Murray,
’
Ex-Treasurer M‘Millan, M. P. (N. S. W. ),
bad an aesthetic revenge on his ancient and im-
placable personal enemy, John Norton. At
M‘Mil lan’s latest political meeting, Norton was
in large evidence and mounted the platform to
move an amendment virtually abolishing M'Millan
in every capacity. Presently he roared his voice
into a hoarse whisper, whereupon M’Millnn rose
gently, poured out a glass of water, and blandly
presented it to the*still-hissing volcano of objur-
gations. Then the meeting yelled at this literal
fulfilment of Solomon’s proverb. It recalled i
Shiels handing jujubes to his hoarse foe, Carter.
New member (of;
N.S.W. Assembly); “I[
can’t understand whjy
they are so rude in this*
House, I being- a ne\w
member, too, and they-
scarce]y knowing me.;"
Ancient st a t esmam;-
“ Well, I can’t say they
show too much cespoctt
for me, either.”' N*w
member; “Ah.!; tout
that’s different.. They
know you so well!”
Hoolan, M.P., is
too hotheaded to make
an effective leader of the
Q. Parliamentary Labour-
party. The imperturb-
able Glassey would never
have been provoked, sa
Hoolan was by a sneer
from Dalrymple, into
denying that he was a
socialist and into claim-
ing that the democratic
party included some
squatters, &c.
“ The bulk of the present Mahometans in ,
India are Hindoo converts.” — Naoroji, M.P.
(Parsee).
For six hours during the Siamese trouble,;,
according to Lord Rosebery, Britain was •
to a war with France than at any tim*. since.
Waterloo. One Sunday afternoon t’lp. con-.
vlotion in London was that war was.
certain, and Kaiser William at Berlin is said to,
have rubbed his hands with glee and cried out-
joyfully, “Now the dance is going to begin.”
According to T. P. O’Connor, who pro*,
fosses to know everything connected with Royalty,,
the Prince of Wales, avhen a young man, used, ini
speaking of what he would do after he came to the-
throne, to say, “When I am King.” Now he,
simply says, “If ever I am King.”
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool.— The opening sales of the season *i}l lie Itelil
next week, when fairly large siz.'d catalogues.will/l>e sub-
mitted. By that time the whole’of the buyers will have
arrived, and good competition may be expected. It is
sitisfaclory to note a linn demand at the London salts
nowin progress.
SnrepsKixs.—For the heller qualities the market to dav
was quite equal to that ofTuosdav, but medium and short
growth skins were easier, full woqjled free from burr 4a.!
was obtained ; medium, 3Ad to 4>d ; pelts, 2d to 3d per
lb. ; butchers’ green skins', 56d for tops, 3Qd to 40d for
medium, and 9d to 12d pelts, per skin.
Hides.— Market about the same as last week. Best-
heavies to 3Jd ; heavies, 2Ad ; medium, fid to l?d • dry
IJd to 2d per lb. 3 '
Tallow.— We brought forward a catalogue of pack
ages and found a very active market at an advance of
about 15s per ton on last week's rales. The bulk of om
catalogue was taken by exporters. The principal shipping
hues disposed of wcre-Tester, 23 casks; Gearin' Id
casks; J.G., 12 casks; Fooks and Co., 4 ca«k»; Curtin
Bros., 4 casks; J.H./H., 4 casks; M., 3 casks. Tlie
balance consisted chiefly of trade parcels. We quote best
mutton at from £23 10s to £23 15s ; best mixed, £23 2sCd
to £23 10s per ton.
Horns.—Large, from 25s to 355; medium, 18s to 245;
small, 11s to 10s ; tips, 3s to 9s. per ICO. Sbankbones
bring from £3 10s to £4 10s ; sheepshanks, £2 10s to
£3 15s ; common bones, £llss to £2 ; hoofs, £2 ss. to
£2 10s ; ox knuckles, £3 10s per ten.
Wattle Bark.—The market continues depressed for
inferior descriptions, hut for first-class chopped a fail-
demand exists at from £5 to £6 15s per ton.
Marsupial Skins exhibited a better tone, all round;
best grey kangaroo skins selling up to 50d ; medium, from
25d to 35d ; small, from Id each ; red, 20d to 30d for large ;
small to medium, Id to 14d each; bearskins, 3d each •’
swamp wallaby, 2d to 14d ; rock, Id to 2}d ; scrub, Id to
14d each ; opossum, best greys, lOd to 12s Cl ; medium,
ss. to 8s ; small, from 6d per d iz. ; reds, from 5s to 9a
per doz.
Sydney, September 29, 1893.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal ArcadLe, Sydney.
COO
y Messrs. CTIARLEMONT study to keep tliem-
solves abreast with the various new and beauti-
ful processes in photography.”
ì
An excess of animal foot! and a partial closing
of tin) pores of the skin, during the winter
months, cause the system to become filled with
impurities. These are removed and the blood
purified by taking Ayer's Sarsaparilla.
FLETCHER’S PILLS
nevor fail to cure
INDIGESTION,
COSTIYENESS,
SOUR BREATH,
HEARTBURN,
LIVER DISEASE, and
KIDNEY COMPLAINTS.
FLETCHERS PILLS and CLEMENTS
TONIC are the recognised household remedies of
the Australian colonies, and every designing
quack tries to trade on their reputation and re
nown. This is the greatest proof of their merit,
and sufferers want to be particular to get the
genuine articles as regret and disappointment are
sure to follow the use of the thousands of “Alb
failing ” remedies so freely advertised. The repu-
tation and wide-spread use of Clements Tonic and
Fletcher’s Pills are the greatest proofs of then
appreciation by the public. If they were not as
represented they would have passed out of
memory ere tliis ; but instead their sale is greater
and they are more esteemed day by day and week
by week, and this emphatically proves their un
disputed supremacy. Listen to no argument from
interested parties; demand the genuine articles
and TAKE NO SUBSTITUTE.
AGRICULTURAL
AVD
MILUNG
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES A. BUGGIES.
William Fleming,
22&24 CI.ARF.S-CE Sxr.E"T,
SYOVF.V.
ì
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drii.-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers- engaged. Casing,
tubing, oil drive pipe snp-
pliod to suit the various
strata. "VVILEIAIiI
p tJ EMING, 22 and 21
Clarence St., Sydxey.
i
POLITICAL
POINTS
Glass ballot-boxes are used in the Italian
elections.
Col. Templeton woos Benalla (Vie.)
electors with a Free trade dirge.
Have you noticed the large number of
starving parsons and priests in the streets? You
haven’t ?
Those political libel-actions have, The
Bulletin hears, been settled —on terms not dis-
closed.
N.S.W. ex-Troasurer M‘Millan says he is
“not anxious for office, and is not likely to take
office for years to come.”
One Sydney daily is completely boycotted
by the 840 Sydney publicans—as a result of its
attitude on the liquor question.
“ I would follow the man who applied the
cat to mv back until I had drunk his heart’s
blood.”— tiAßOUß-MEMBER HOOLAN (Q.).
Rumoured that S. A. Government intends
to reduce to .£lOOO a year the few departmental
heads receiving more than that salary.
The Argus goes dead against all direct
taxation and high tariff but favours big duties on
tea and sugar and a duty on kerosene !
N.S. W. Ministry again usurps the authority
of Parliament by secretly contracting to annually
subsidise the New Caledonian Cable Co,
A political omen is that the Sydney Daily
Telegraph has got off the fence, and sat right
down in the payment of members paddock.
Sydney cabmen may profit now that late
Parliamentary trams. and trains are abolished ?
No —the House will rise early and go to bed.
“In the Middle Ages, a man’s energies
were concentrated on the perfection of his work,
while now they are devoted to obtaining it.”
Why did Parkes, sen., vote for the second
reading of the iniquitous Australasian Rights
Purchase Bill and against the third reading?
Ex-Treasurer M‘Millan says that N.S.W.*
in 1890, had “an ideal Freetrade tariff.” In-
cluding sugar, kerosene, soap and candle duties !
Ex-Minister for Lands (N.S.W.) Brunker
is a brother-in-law of editor Curnow, of S.M.
Herald. Which accounts for quite a lot of things.
A Victorian politician has deliberately
proposed to buy over N.S. Wales to early Federa-
tion by suggesting that Sydney be made the
Federal City.
East Melb. electors will note that Frank
Stuart, M.L.A., returned on the Protectionist
ticket, assists Col. Templeton in his Freetrade
candidature for Benalla.
Melbourne newspapers are not disposed to
growl at the high terms of the conversion loan.
“ The great thing was to float the loan with Mat."
Why not give the country away with a pound of
tea ?
Argus : “If Russian labour can send
wheat down to 2*. Gd. per bushel in London it
must drop to 2s. Gd. in Melbourne.” Puzzle;
Find the difference between Freetrade and slave-
trade.
The Northern Territory Times prognosti-
cates that “ ere many months the Australian Gov-
ernments will be considering the desirableness of
establishing legislation of an anti-Japanese des-
cription.”
Premier Kingston, a teetotaller, threatens
to start morning sessions for the especial benefit
of certain National Ass members, who, when S. A.
Assembly sits late, are incapable of following
business.
Central Queensland has so displeased the
M'llwraith Government that, out of seven medical
officersand seven land-commissioners “retrenched,”
six and four respectively have been effaced from
that division.
A sign of the times. At the annual meet-
ing of S. A. National Ass, the audience consisted
of 50, of whom 2G were bald-heads. Same evening,
at a Reform conference, an audience of 500
assembled.
After the recent Queensland elections, C.
B. Fitzgerald received a letter, concluding with :
“You are youn*. I can hardly hope tofight
much longer. You will succeed yet. —Yours,
Charles Lilley.”
No mention of God is made in the Gover-
nor’s speech at the opening of N.S.W. Parliament-
The Ministry may be excused for this ; so many
prominent people who publicly travelled on God’s
name being now in gaol.
Sydney Daily Telegraph claims old Jack
Robertson as a Prohibitionist. But that politician
only assented to prohibition to extinguish local
option. He assumed prohibition to be impossible,
or, if possible, impracticable.
Metropolitan evening newspapers favour
the idea of N.S.W. Parliament meeting at two
p.m. Professional instinct again. The evening
newspapers would gain and the morning ones lose
political influence by the change.
Arrangements have been made by Minis-
terial friends in N.S.W. Parliament for the asking
of already over a dozen questions, each of which
will imply a charge against the Govt, which
Ministers will triumphantly refute.
Full details of the release of the “ con-
spiracy prisoners ” will never appear in the Q.
Government records. The men would probably
be in gaol still but for Tozer’s fatal habit of talk-
ing first and thinking afterwards.
An applicant for an Australian Govt,
position, after being all but officially accepted,
was finally refused by the political head of the
department. .“Not one of us,” was the reason
given. Not politically —religiously.
Zox declares that no honourable member
of the “ House ” has a right to cast reflections
upon the magistracy of Victoria. In a general
sense Zox is quite right. The House ought not
to reflect on anything save its own disgusting mis-
deeds.
Labour - member Charleston, M.L.C.,
threatens that, unless S.A. Council elections
next April result in the return of a preponderance
of Liberals, he will resign, as he is tired of wasting
time in fighting against a solid Conservative
majority.
“ One must have the soul of a valet to
like monarchy. ... lam a Republican, and
that is just the reason why I cannot consider
flunkeys as [my] equals. A servant loses certain
rights when he consents to serve.”— Marie Bash-
KIRTSEFF.
The Victorian Protectionists are much
incensed at the tactics of the Argus on the tariff
question. It absolutely refuses to deal with any
but the spirit-industry, and will not touch any
other protected trades. Personal spite has much
to do with this.
Jawbone Neild, all going well with him,
will write himself over more of the current
N.S.W. Statute-book than will all the other
members taken together. He has effected some
big reforms, and when Parliament met last week
he submitted seven Bills.
A good deal of evidence for the defence in
the Speight v, Syme case has no visible purpose
beyond the spinning out of dreary allegation. It
comes to nothing when cross-examined, and seems
almost to justify the wild rumours one hears as to
a fixing-up of the case presently.
S.A. “Country” party, which embraces
the Tory element in the local Assembly, consists
of seven squatters, four capitalists, three lawyers,
and four storekeepers, the balance being pig-
voters. This—ye gods !—is the party which exists
to protect the interests of the hard-working pro-
ducers !
Taking constituencies all round it is doubt-
ful if a Parliamentary candidate improves his
position by advocating local option or prohibition.
CLEANED OUT.
To identify oneself, however, with those who main-
tain that drink causes 90 per cent, of crime and
75 per cent, of divorce is supposed to add 30 per
cent, to one’s votes.
“We must weld the wills of all of us into
one single hammer, and must place this hammer
in the hands of a man in whose intelligence, in-
tegrity, and good faith we have the necessary
confidence, so that he may bo able with that
hammer to strike.’ — Lassai.t.e. Does the b. S. U .
Labour-party need a leader?
The Age, in publishing the second list o
railway deadheads--20 solid columns of ’em—does
not enumerate the half-price fares to newspaper
representatives, nor point out the imposition put
upon the people in making them thus subsidise
in this manner a profitable business concern like
—the Age for instance.
Carious Yic. State-railway statistics. Out
of 750 stations only at 110 arc the weekly takings
over <£100; 265 do not earn iMO a week, and of
these 180 do not take <£s a week ; about 80 take
under <£l a week. Fourteen stations do not earn
<£lo each in the whole year; at one station,
Albion, only 16s. 2d. was taken last year.
Mr. M‘Gowan, M.P. (N.S.W.), tying a
crow and a pigeon together, wants general election
polling days to be holidays, which is an acceptable
suggestion ; but also wants all public houses to be
closed on such holidays, which is both objection-
able and impracticable. Linking the two pro-
positions, he asks 11 10 N.S. W, House to answer
yes or no.
One man one billet ! Rev. J. Bennett-
Anderson, “ who can’t he kept back, announces
that he will stand for Miller’s Point, Sydney, as
the Maclean is too far from “the scene of his
labours.” Parson Anderson advocates both prayer
and flogging. The Bulletin hasn’t yet hoard his
opinion on payment of members, but guesses that
he is sound on the question.
Even if the S.A. Government carries its
Bill by which the tax on estates above <£sooo in
value is raised from <jd. to Id., the local laud-
owner wit!i .£lO,OOO worth of earth-surface will
only pay <£'3l ss. per annum, and the absentee
possessing land to the same value will be chaiged
,£37 ss. The S. A. Land-tax, so far as the big
estates and absentee landholders are concerned,
is only in its infancy.
Dear Bulletin,—You do S.A. Minister
Cockburn an injustice. He has never oven pre-
tended to be a Single-taxer. He entered Parlia-
ment as a Protectionist in 84, and it was largely
through his efforts that the present tariff was
passed. He has been a Protectionist ever since,
and is now. It was Cockburn’s Govt. (181)0)
which introduced the Progressive Land tax,
Holder being Treasurer.—W.
Millionaire Burdekin and attorney Morgan,
both “Freetraders” (representing the ancient
Bowman and M'Quade factions respectively), will
renew their old battle for the Hawkesbury,
N.S.W. A new element is this time to be im-
ported into the struggle—G. L. A. Davies, of
Windsor Gazette, who has many local friends,
and will stand as a Protectionist. Room is thus
being made for a Democratic candidate.
“ The bill providing for the reduction of
the salary of future Governors, is before the Vic.
Legislative Council, and will be proceeded with
in the ordinary course.” Quite so. It will be
shunted into obscurity and left there, if possible,
until a new Gov. has been prematurely appointed
at the old salary. Then the Council will rise as
one representative humbug to state that any
further proceeding would be a “ breach of faith.”
Since the present Yic. Railway Commis-
sioners came into power a noticeable number of
“ undistinguished ” froe-passes have been granted
to people connected with the Silverton Tramway
Co.—why? But the remarkable circumstance
is: “December, 1892—James Mirams, ex-M.P.,
secretary’s order, station to station, G weeks!”
“ Station to station ” means that Mirams had the
entire run of the railways for the period stated.
English writer re the Woman’s Rights
movement: —■
She only really loves and desires to become what man
wishes her to be, and, beauty being visible orreflected good-
ness, can only exist in woman when, and in proportion as,
the man is strong, good and wise. The relation between the
sexes is disturbed only when man becomes womanish,
and woman will not consent to be small unless man is
great. The present abnormal restlessness ot woman is aw
unconscious protest against the diminished manliness of
the male species.”
The “ Australian party” in the Commons
consists at present of Sir John Gorst, Sir Charles
Dilke, Sir James Ferguson, Sir (in posse) Hcn-
niker Heaton, Pritchard Morgan, W. A.
M‘Arthur —who will read the prayers—Florence
O’Driscoll, William Allen, H. R. Graham, T. B.
Curran, Owld Tom of that ilk, and J. F. Hogan,
who will supply the necessary modesty, as hon.
sec. Australian experience is the only necessary
qualification, the “ wife ” business having been
put on one side.
At latest advices the Brazilian insurrec-
tionists, who want to start a new empire with
little Augustus of Portugal as figure-head, arc
not getting on so well as formerly. They made
a landing at ycllow-fever-stricken Santos, but the
Republicans drove them out of that city of death
in short order. The second bombardment of Rio
didn’t prosper, for the forts got the range more
accurately than before, sinking one ironclad—so it
is alleged, anyhow—and silencing the others.
Evidently the royalist sentiment is rather weak,
and if Augustus of Portugal does come along his
prospects will probably be just about as brilliant
as were those of Maximilian of Mexico. There is
a very convenient place for executing a king on
the quay, almost in front of the palace, at Rio.
Melbourne Age affects to discuss the
religious-quarrel question from a calm, atheistic
standpoint. “Protestants,” it says, “are no :
where dangerous.” That is to say, the Pro-
testant is never bigoted. As a matter,of fact,
the Ulster Protestant is a deal madder in the mat-
ter of Dutch Billy than is the Holy Roman in the
matter of the Pope, and the average man who
knows both parties would rather live under a
comnlete Popish tyranny than under the grim,
sour rule of the ascetic set of Calvinistic hypo-
crites who have so long ruled Melbourne,
The personnel of the Sydney Active Ser-
vice Brigade begins to interest the authorities,
and the police have been instructed to carefully
compile the back history of certain members.
N.S! Wales has always had in power politicians
given to employing the police service against their
opponents. The arrangement to politically garroto
Thomas Walker is fresh in the public mind, and
more often than is generally known Ministers
inspire an underhand police inquiry into the ante-
cedents of a newly-arisen political foe, in hopes of
being able to hustle him off the field by threats of
exposing some act in his past career.
The Queensland railways show a profit of
2| per cent, on capital for the last twelve months,
and, as the capital in question was borrowed at
4 per cent., the country is out some £290,000. The
losses are mostly in the south and north, the awful
Cairns line being the most insolvent of the lot.
The Central line from Rockhampton to the west
shows a profit of 6 per cent, and when the Central
district gets separation, its one big railway will be
a handsome addition to the revenue. But just
because the Rockhampton line helps to cover a
good many ghastly deficiencies elsewhere, the
Central district won’t get Separation if the South
can help it.
The Beacon, a Melbourne Foreign-trade-
Single-tax publication, states that in Victoria—
Ocean freights are also higher because Protection, by
reducing Imports, forces ships to come here in ballast,
and in charge the loss involved thereby to the farmer in
high freights for the prodtu e that they carry home.
Now it happens that, owing chiefly to the bor-
rowing frenzy, Victoria, in the last 12 years, im-
ported £1)4,00 ),000 worth more goods than site ex-
ported, therefore imports weren't reduced, and
ships didn’t arrive in ballast by reason of th«
reduction because there was no reduction, and
freights weren’t raised owing to the excess of
ballast because there wasn’t any more ballast than
usual. The Single-taxer appears to be in
his facts than any other man in this world—which
is saying a good deal.
The Manchester Clarion makes a sug-
gestion for overcoming the opposition of the House
of Lords to the Home Rule Bill;
If Mr. Gladstone wishes to pass the Home Rule Bill this
session, he need only make a sufficient number of Liberal
peers to swamp the Tory majority in the Upper House.
I don’t suggest that a large number of the wealthy
brewers, railway directors, bubble company promoters,
and other “ dignitaries ” of the Liberal party, should be
HIE LATE Dr. GEORGE BENNETT, F.L.S. of Sydney
(Died-Sept. 28th, aged 90.)
promoted to the peerage, and thus become the Lord knows
who as a reward for the Lord knows what. That would
be merely multiplying an arrogant class that is already
too large. What X propose is that Mr. Gladstone should
gather together a mob—several thousands say—of linkers,
tailors, butcher-boys and thieves; also bricklayers
labourers, football players, able - bodied tramps and
billiard-makers ; that he should make these people dukes,
earls, and so on, for life; and that they should each
receive fifteen-and sixpence a Week, also two joints of
beer a day, when the House is sitting, on condition that
they pass all measures immediately they are sent up by a
Liberal Government.
Maoriland this year devotes out
of revenue to the construction of railways and
other public works. This means the hnal extinc-
tion of the borrowed dmoney disease.; when the
pi-ovince can build its railways with its own
money the temptation towards more Vogelistn is
practically gone. The result hasn’t been arrived
at by any special display of genius ; only by grit
and a reasonable amount of honesty. N.S. Wales
and Victoria wail piteously that they are the
most heavily-taxed countries on earth, and that it
is impossible to raise money for public works,
except by borrowing. Maoriland taxes ( itself 40
per cent, more heavily and doesn’t wail. It is
simply the difference between the province which
does the lifting and the province which does the
grunting.
Premier MTlwraith takes no pains what -
ever to disguise his contempt of the sycophants
who follow him or for the creatures he has made.
In the Q. Assembly, lately, while Speaker Cowley
was opening a message from the Council,
MTlwraith crossed over to the chair, snatched it
away, examined it, put it in his pocket, said,
“O, this is so-and-so,” and went out. When
Colonial Secretary Tozer’s tongue gets injudi-
ciously loose, a look from the fat, red Premier
brings him up with a run; and in the “other
place ” anything like open hostility a
MTlvvraithian measure ceases whenever MTl-
wraith walks in and glowers at the hostile coun-
cillor. The only members for whom he ever has a
good word are several of the Labour men. They
appear to be the only ones of those who surround
him whom he cannot inspire with strange fear.


jdjP, moved (the motion being
taken as formal)—
• That in the opinion of tKts House th 4 practice-©!
brovlding special trams and trains for IIW con*.
Jvenlcnce of honorable meittjxirs, alter the ordinary
Service has ceased for tU2f duj, should be Uiscou*
&nued.
■ A division was balled the result
the motion was agreed <CO by 46 votes to
%t Cable man, pf Course, bas to mm kisses. W(jfn
i finis are scarce, tjc can always fall faacK oyltje
TrAcr *1 Eu.FLO PET"
London, Thursday, 1 p.m.—The Rome
correspondent of the Dmhj Chronicle qaya
tint reocnt developments have rendered
the outlook dangerous for a continuance
jof peace in Europe, and that the attitude'
jof Franco and Italy Is causing grac'd
anxiety at the Vatican.
r^v
£
JX
V
e /raff; a >?u ore/f;ary
//{t h/j/) bepo u/jujual
llis Holiness’ Monties aboi k%e ?eacGo[ farape!
A doj j'lghhfi life l/aftcan fcatH yard disturb
jfjuci] njore - and klould Certainly He of equal itiferesfto
considered iyUjfliijljt’of Copy*
[ - A public, meeting called for the purpose of
| forming a “ White Rose League/’ th.e objedt
| of which is the introduction of a class of mo?.v
intopariUment of sound Christian principle
land intelligence, was held in the BurWobd
.School of Arts oh Tuesday evening.
W W Mtf^
i
"Tflriwfycf. Ml/eti iff ¥
Snfifci a
W'?' c t:r
flhC
His >nt|Ciplf' bf
-
ofn.
J® ClKU sf*|l-ET !
jfiht fijpiijfoi’i mu if
fmtd \tjlif jb osihe/f tf
private Cerrieffi
ft. iJjp qmt'dMjd of'
fo polifealjlivy
% 4a. j'tV
'« to.
ì
irrmr*-
Jr{ tfplojioh}
ah Bal\L f
,- — VfcCg. ~?arK (T5 3
re TkyAL? SuFrKfi( j E'^
'z/L ** fa* Mr
M, V W ‘ V**
tf/j jtr/fafaHf*
#/■/> a? ff/yfafafa a
U om? e/ ' ai ? c^_ A ~ /'»
“■' faacfly-J’/tfpjg y a ‘*‘
ì
THIS WEEK AND LAST WEEK.


i
j WE ARE
PsriMO te I
COST if
k^ looo Jm
Rtf#*
w\i>s
mn
/?1 7* * All L
í
'tIFCTRI
r £1
ì
’•w
TSteak-fus I /s t-ea.c(y] S/r.
'//$& 7)a^rx.k -ma-riAjet-
of /A e-
f-j/ti/fe
j7ou.}d
c* etofr
/slay*.
41**%
hf
T . BENDIGO, Monday.
‘ “fee young lady pedestrians arrived in
Bend.go this evening, after completing “
h^e Bt he e n , tOUr ,u rom Sanhury ' The ladies
kLTi Wa k ' ng Bince We dnesday. and
boroughly enjoyed tbeir trip/
îï
Vv^'
I
c.e/'
*• iV b
yr*
READ THE Rii'
I Alilifif- fun
-in
the MINISTRY
CALLED TO
fICCOUMT ! I
THE DEFICIT STILL
SWELL INC .
IV'ftV X STRRTUN C,
DEVELOP MENJS T*f
JSC/3M
T/e Vernier /s
&c/is/sect ye
ttS <* cAcinfe
J of- .
mi
W: TRI lif Ni I
pM/JCH f\DO UC* j4:b I
||j (l sri c tot? i r
S I or/ LoßtyHj
men / $
'
Sp
V
The Rev. A. Brazier said that if permis-
sion were granted to the clergy to smoke in
the chapter-house they would want to bring
in flasks of something next. Whatever the
assembly did they Should keep smoking and ,
, drinking out of the Cathedral precincts. y
\^
1 0^
v
i
-a* 1 . • i-,\cC lo9e^'
too® 9
vcFne;Hfi^NT
T?OOM
N°vl•*.*.
* V V * \* ° > V ' '
«> 0 JSJ’\ , 2 > o v
*■>>;>•
<*•
Corned loeef* i* — Yt ! o
lef-t* r c.«?j>rna cj ox. fiVer arv Ccv'f
7 'h-e r
■/fwfieto yy v
of ml Ik
5 Je .",
4*
Y^Y
.
*•*
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
ohison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
woild. Land in 1 erth and Albany, the ]>rincipal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
tune is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 30,') Pitt-street, Sydney,
iilfers exceptionally well-positioned bio ks from
A'lO each on Very easy terms, or fur cash,
gljaianteed title. I lie c unpany has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years andt
is well known throughout the colonies for straight-
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
vho will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
propel ties, "ill select faithfully fur intending
purchaser* " are required.
i
jy onderful Qisco very!
R OSE’S
CKLKIIRATKU
LYE LOTION .
ffPIIIS hot ion cures Sirr/liny ami Sandy Hi if/hf,
u Inflamed Kyv.tt ami lAd ft, Dim nous of Sii/ht.
'Very beneficial to those who have lloah Eyes, as it
strt-nf/thrns the sl(//it. lly j>ost. Us. per Ilottle.
I*'” M.v nf iclnred S -lelv hv II A. WO iK I'lieiuiHt.
Wl OICOiiUK sTiIKICT, svh.nkv.
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC'
SCHNAPPS
THE
“Won’t be happy
until he gets it ”
or
Every Enlightened Man
and Woman in the
Universe.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
ROSI3T CONT~M?TIDLE IMITATIONS
Society
Tlie Age’s account of the Carcoar tragedy
is in the best gore-seeking vein of that right-think-
mg paper. “He (Glasson) glared round, feigning
marl ness, but the imposition was palpable in voice
and gesture.” And yet the great Dr. Blanche,
who died a few weeks since in Paris, after spend-
ing his whole life in madhouses, said : “I have
examined the brains of 20,000 dead and have
talked with perhaps 50,000 men more or less mad,
and yet there are thousands of persons concerning
whose madness or sanity I could not, even after
the most thorough examination, pre-mortem and
post mortem, pretend to dogmatise.” The Bulle-
tin has no opinion whatever as to Glasson’s guilt
or sanity. It only bespeaks for him a fair and
passionless trial, such as might be given to a man
accused of stealing watermelons.
* » •
In court, the other day, Judge Manning
(N.S.W.) felicitated a solicitor on his “respectful”
attire ! He was pleased that this lawyer was
“somewhat more fittingly attired for the occasion
than those who had preceded him ” —in tweeds of
various shades !—shooting or walking attire :
There is an air of respectability, or respectfulness, about
a black coat, and although you are not exactly wearing’
black , yet your coat is dark, and that is a distinct ini
provement upon the erarb of many others who have been
addressing the court this morning.
The respectability of the black coat is the
most poisonous doctrine yet enunciated from
the Supreme Court Bench of any country,
1 lie black coat—the Sunday garb of" the greasy
bourgeois on his way to worship his pretended
god ; the garb of the gin-sodden undertaker who
gammons to be sorry; the garb of the brutal
hangman who shoves the knot under his client’s
ear ! Bah ! Black coats—every human spider
wears a black coat.
* * *
Episode at Government House, , at a
late “at home.” Nobleman in charge of cloak-
room to hurrying horde of departing guests : “i
won’t give yer yer (hie) ’ats. I’m used to genel-
mensh. Snow me a gory genelmansh amongsh
yer. There ain’t one in .” Then the crowd
surged over the counter and helped itself to its
own brolly (pVaps).
• * *
From a Melbourne paper’s death column '
Jones.—On the 10th September, at Dr. Smith’s
Hospital, Melbourne, John, the dearly-beloverl hus-
band of Mary Jones, a few hours after operation,
asred 59 years. Deeply regretted by his sorrowin'/
widow and family.
“ He went as a lamb to the slaughter.”
It is little things like these which peptoune a
doctor’s breakfast.
HIS BROTHER GEORGE.
HE (for the sake of conversation ): “You’d like my brother George.
He’s as different from me as possible.”
SHE (to keep her end up): “Oh! Then I’m sure I’d dote upon your
brother George.”
The Church of England Assembly in Mel-
bourne last week gave sundry parsons a chance to
“do” the opera. Moreover, they stayed for the
ballet, in most instances. One divine was heard
anxiously enquiring whether it was not a fact that
Her Gracious Majesty used to stop for the ballet
m days of yore. Having assured himself that the
Queen did stop he smiled sweetly and said “ Then
1 may venture—l may venture.” He ventured
three nights in succession.
The feminine mission to the Chinese
heathen of Bathurst (N.S.W.) makes good pro-
gress. The other day seventy well-meaning white
ladies were entertained at tea by the smell-
ful vegetable Johns of the City of the Plains, and
the Johns waited on them with oily obsequious-
ness mingled with the greasy familiarity which
comes of being brothers and sisters in the Lord.
The seventy ladies have set out to prove to John
that all humanity is free and equal in the biblical
sense, and presently, if they don’t take great care,
John will commence to be particularly free in his
manners towards them and as equal as he knows
how to be. His conversion isn’t making much
progress, but the Chinaman is everywhere the
same, and he will (as San Francisco religio-sooial
history shows) soon get to that stage when he will
think himself entitled to hug his teacher if she
gives him half a chance. The Chinaman hasn’t
any sense of gratitude to the girl who comes round
to his door with sermons and dreary tracts, and he
doesn’t entertain her in that capacity. His views
are not religious, but purely social. There will
be no Chows converted in Bathurst, for the Ohow
never is converted, but there will be a lot of social
trouble there in course of time, and several
people’s brothers-in-law will be named Ah Fat.
The white men of Bathurst should allow their
womanfolk to have no trade whatever with the
yellow man. If he is to be converted, let the male
parsons do the deed.
*m - #
Walking tours are the latest fad among
the Austral-Salonites ; three damsels belongingto
the Salon lately padded the hoof from Sunbury to
Bendigo. Which recalls the Yankee yarn. First
Lady ; “Four of us girls took a tramp through
the mountains during the holidays.” * Second
Ditto : “ And did the tramp have a good time ?”
* * *
Chief Justice Madden (Vic.), dealing with
an assault-case witness who wanted his expenses,
■dogmatised to the effect that little consideration
was to be paid to people who demand their ex-
penses, when their manliness should prompt them
to make sacrifices for the sake of injured women
and children. The Bulletin wagers that that
witness was a workman, asking for a few shillings.
Judges never moralise in that strain to fat, florid
(personages who rate their time at a guinea an
hour.
Aldgate, a rail-
way-station in the
hills near Adelaide,
Inis long been haunted
by the daughters of
adjacent gardeners,
who offer flowers for
sale to passengers.
The economising
Cornrai ssioner s,
anxious to turn an
honest penny, have
disposed of the right
to sell bouquets there
for a year to an en-
terprising girl, for
£2 2s.
# # #
Miss Spence, of
Adelaide, S.A., was,
at latest, stumping
Canada in the in-
terests of the Hare-
Spenoe system of
single transferable
voting. South Aus-
tralia is apparently
on the point of enact-
ing woman-suffrage.
Should women be
eligible for election,
Miss Spence, who
has strong democratic
sympathies, should be
the first S.A. lady
M.P.
* # #
Rumoured that
a very charming
violinisto has either
gone and got
married, or is about
to do so. The name
of the fortunate
bridegroom or bride-
groom-elect is under-
stood to begin with
Mac.
How easy for qualified medical men to
shuffle out of charges of malpractice, and how
hard for the comparative nobody 1 Sinners in this
direction should first learn how to bring about a
miscarriage of justice.
# * #
Two last week’s items. The N.S.W.
Sheriff proposed the health of a bride ; Judge
Wiudeyer left a card of sympathy with the
relative of a murdered lady. Now just lie back
■and think hard in various directions.
• * »
The long-delayed report of the Victorian
Bariianientary Mace Inquiry Board has just been
[published with the anticipated result. No ground
for the paragraphs in the papers, nor for the
rumours that tire mace was taken to a brothel.
The board thinks the mace was stolen and melted
down for sale. It makes one smile. The most
effectual way of suppressing an awkward fact is
to take a newspaper into your confidence in
advance.
* * »
A consul’s life is not all fancy-ball costume
and Governor’s luncheons. A Melbourne man,
who had for years tried to get a sinecure of this
description, at last succeeded in getting himself
gazetted as Consul for Barataria, and as Barataria
ENRICHETTA D’ARGO (chief ballerina of the Williamson-Musgrove new Opera Co).
possesses no seaport and has no trade with Aus-
tralia, he considered there was nothing to do but
flash his uniform and answer invitations. But
within a week the indigent Baratarians began to
turn up for a little assistance to take them home.
Now, the Melb. man’s residence looks like an un-
employed bureau, and far into the small hours of
a.m. the wail for backsheesh of the impecunious
aliens, seated on his front doorstep, may be heard,
mingled with threats to report him to the Govern-
ment when they do get home.
A Port Macquarie (N.S.W.) farmer uses
in his kitchen fireplace a couple of historic leg-
irons for pot-hanging purposes. The same man
uses as a “linen-press ’’ —7ft. high, 2ft. wide, and
20in. deep—an old convict “cell,” the dungeon in
which a man was placed after his back had been
skinned with “50” and salt well rubbed in.
National relics !
* * #
Item from the report of the N.S.W.
Women’s Christian Temperance Union Con-
vention :
The following ladies were appointed colonial superin-
tendents of the undermentioned departments:—Peace and
arbitration, Mrs. Pottie (Botany); influencing press. Miss
S. Laverty (Singh ton); influencing pulpit, Mrs. Harris
(Parramatta); social purity, Mrs. Lees (Ashfield); trams
and cabs, Mrs. Rutherford (Rurwood); unfermented
wine, Miss M'l/'nn (Berry) ; narcotics, Mis. Daniels
(Summer Hill); &e., &c.
The Bulletin now wants to have a look at the
lady who is appointed to “influence the press,’’
and it especially desires to know how she pro-
poses to begin influencing. Some sections of
the press can be favourably influenced by
taking them out for a drink, or by a small
loan, or a few cigars. They can all be influenced
unfa\onrably by anyone who calls on the editor
and talks to hint at great length just before the
paper goes to press. This paper also wants to
compare the lady who influences the press with
the one who influences the pulpit, and to see which
department, the pretty woman is on, and which
one has got the intellectual gorgon with the
logarithms ai d the blue spectacles, if the pretty
Advl e to Young Men -Hr. Iliclmr.ls’ ad., p. 1.
woman is on the press contract, then it ffrahts td
be influenced at once. Also, it would like to see
the unfermented wine lady—despite the fact that
unfermented wine is about as awful as raw potatd
—who, it somehow imagines, is young and nice-
looking ; but it has taken an unaccountable dislike
to the peace and arbitration lady, whose name
and address don’t look promising.
# # #
A recent London advertisement
TATANTED a Law Clerk, must be good shorthand
’I writer ; salary 10s. a week.
# * #
An unknown
lady-occupant of a
stage - box played a
prominent part in the
‘ ‘Cavalleria ’’premiere
at Melb. Princess’.
Indeed, she was the
foremost figure of the
opera from start to
finish, for the top half
of her generous pro-
portions was always
leaning forward from
the near corner of the
box with both elbow-
joints resting upon
the stage. In round
figures, this lady
absorbed about two-
thirds of the popular
interest, and when
she grew very de-
monstrative the music
took a back seat, so
to speak. She super-
seded theentirc show.
Her undraped arms
were all - pervading.
Every time she
drooped her eyes in
a d mi ration of the
bounteous bust be-
neath a number of
men standing at the
back of the dress-circle
murmured “Oh-o-o!”
Bouquets came from
this box, therefore it
was presumed that
the lady knew some,
or all, of the Italian
company. Anyway,
they musthaveknown
a good deal of her
by sight before they
finished.
* * •
A prominent
Yankee life-insurance
society is extra-cau l
tious in the accept-
ance of Australian
risks. The reason ?
Leprosy!
A pompous illustrated volume, entitled
“ Victoria and its Resources,” has arrived at this
office. One of its features is an article by Miss
Murphy, of Melbourne Punch, on “Social Life
in Victoria.” An extract:—
There are few features of Victorian social life more
agreeable than the liberal views that obtain with regard
to the occupations of women. As clerks, typewriters,
journalists, teachers of painting and music, agents, Post
Office employes, telephone operators, and University
teachers, great numbers of women are employed ; while,
as has been already indicated, there are several engaged
in the practice of medicine. The severe financial crisis
from which the colony is just oinergingnompelled many
ladies to seek a living in some of these ways, and Mel-
bourne even boasts of a society belle who now directs
a successful dressmaking establishment, while other
lesser known social people have elected to try
their luck hi tea and flower shops, as the demand for
governesses is entirely out of proportion to the supply. It
nny not he wholly inapropos to state that these ladies who
have been obliged to relinquish the attractions of society
for the more sordid pursuits of business have never had
their wav made rougher by the snubs of former friends ;
indeed, the dressmaker referred to is always welcomed at
all the most exclusive society reunions.
From tins announcement it would seem is
necessary, in the city of busted saints, to state
publicly, in order to avoid misconstruction, that
a lady hasn’t been ejected from the houses of her
friends because she is honestly earning her own
living. The gentlemen who are suspected of
fraudulent insolvency, and of issuing mendacious
balance-sheets, and the gentlemen who did cairn,
undisguised steals, and compounded for a penny,
in the <£, and their wives and other relations
still recognise her, and she hasn’t been deposited
on her squashed bonnet upon the tesselated pave-
ment in front of the big mansions where she used
to be a welcome guest. Melbourne is so astonished
at its own unobtrusive chivalry in this respect
that the circumstance requires to be put in the
papers. The Bulletin has heard, somewhere, a
story of a refined and plucky lady who was less
fortunate than Miss Murphy’s friend. She started
a tea-shop in a time of misfortune, and her old
friends came round-or a minority of them did —-
to sniff contemptuously and extend one superci-
lious forefinger in patronage. At last one ofi
them broke into open sympathy, and then the
lady insurrected. “Madame,” she said coldly.
“I am not here in search of sympathy but to sell
tea. Do you want to buy any tea ? ”
* * *
Rev. T. Symmonds (Anglican), of Quean
boyan, N.S.W., refuses to surrender the keys o)
UNRAVELLED.
WOULD some kind gent, befriend lady in distress.
’ ’ Marie, Park-street.— Evening News Advt.
Man of settled social station.
Flighty fair one. Adoration.
“Love undying !! ” Assignation.
Wife who knoweth not.
Wife appears. Recrimination.
Husband weeps and says “Damnation ! ”
“Woman ” asks for compensation.
Wants to buy a cot.
Social scandal ! Great sensation !
Baby-boy !! Affiliation ! !
Judge’s order ! ! Liquidation !! !
“ Victim of a plot.”
D.W.
A MORAL WORTH REMEMBERING.
Behold a man of ample girth
Who spreads himself unduly !
You think that stranger “owns the earth ”
He docs, to tell you truly.
He stands on high commercial ground,
Related to the B.iss-es,
And came out here to look around.
He gets free railway passes.
Observe his Nibs in nobby coat,
Lord Hopetoun’s latest lodger!
That gentleman commands a boat,
Or—p’raps he is a soger.
It makes no odds; of Hingland’s might
You bet your life he gasses.
For reasons we’ve forgotten quite
He gets free railway passes.
Twig yonder boy with vague moustache—
Young Reginald Tomnoddy,
Globe-trotter, very flush of cash,
But rickety of body ;
An only son, who loves to spend
The gold his “gov.” amasses.
Although he’d rather give than lend,
He gets free railway passes.
A toff, in this enlightened land,
Can’t buy a blessed ticket;
The “country ” puts one in his hand,
Ere bending low to lick it.
So, if, on reaching Britain’s shore,
He calls us snobbish asses,
Don’t snort about it any more.
He got free railway passes.


Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
181)3, as follows : One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to bo signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
SHOPPING
BY
POST.
3VT 3E3 -W
Spring & Summer Fabrics.
SAMPLES OIF 1 OTJIR.
MAGNIFICENT STOCK
Sent Post Free to nil parts of Australia on application.
DAVID JONES & COMPAKTY,
GEORG 15 STREET. SYDNEY.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor stimulates the hair to a
vigorous growth. It contains all that can \w
supplied to make the hair beautiful and abundant,
removes dandruff, and renders the hair flexible
and glossy.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
f >i t P. none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
tisuli, thesale has now reached phenomenal proportions,
W. H. PALING &Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEUHICM,
UEI3EL and LECH LETTER, CARL ECKK,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of Now and Popular Music.
his church till he Is paid his arrears of salary
The church will always be at a disadvantage as
compxred with others till it can put a bailiff on to
a man’s soul.
mm*
The equation of money and servitude
should inter into the preliminary examination of
all candidates for the magisterial bench. These
exam tle«, taken from Sydney police-courts, last
week, show how various and vagrant are magis-
trates’ notions of the quantity of imprisonment to
be set against a fixed quantity of cash : 405., or
on; month ; 10s., or three days ; 55., or three days;
55., or 24 hours ; 55., or “ the rising £5, or four
months ; .£3, or four months ; <£l, or!4days ; 10s.,
■or 30 days ; 205., or one week; 10s., or three days.
* * »
The sentencing to death of the boy
Alexander Brysen, aged 13, at Hay (N.S.W.)
trecalls that Australia began its capital punishment
history on the under-aged : the first execution was
that of Jas. Barrett, aged 17, in 1788. Barrett’s
offence was robbery, but 100 years ago the law
looked at the robber as it now looks at the
murderer. In a hundred years to come?
* * *
Miss Cissy Loffcus (a budding Nellie Farren
who has already been earning £4O a week at the
music-halls), lately engaged with London Gaiety
Co., the agreement stipulating that Cissy should
perform at the Gaiety her “mimetic entertain-
ment exclusively.” Then arose a law-suit. The
co. contended that this meant that the girl must
not give that particular entertainment elsewhere.
Cissy’s mother, on t’other hand, urged that her
daughter might give her own entertainment
wherever she chose, and that, in fact, the clause
prevented the Gaiety Co. from asking her to do
any other kind of work. The Court decided
against the Gaiety manager. Which reminds
The Bulletin of something.
There would be a radical difference between the
implicated potentialities of two ■ advertisements
like these (the first of which you often see in the
Australian press) : —(1) Wanted, a housekeeper,
with a view to marriage. (2) Wanted, with a
view to marriage, a housekeeper. No. 1 would
allure the woman, but not involve the man, as it
merely says, in other words, “ Wanted a woman
who is prepared to hug the delusion that adver-
tiser means to marry her.” No. 2 would involve
the man and give the domestic Cissy a triumphant
chance:—
In such a case, the cliff’fence see
Twixt tweedledum and twoedledee.
If she agreed by tweedledum,
She’d get a hubby and a “ hum.”
If she agreed by tweedledee,
She’d take her chance—unhappy she !
* * *
When a prisoner dies in St. Helena penal
establishment (Q.), the authorities put over his
grave a record of—his “number.” After the
Fr ■.licit style, a Queensland prison-member bas no
nann, only a number. But carrying the punish-
ment on to the corpse is rather a stretch of unsen-
timental ferocity. Query :On the arrival of the
time when prisoner, It ad he remained alive, would
have been set at liberty, do the authorities remove
the number from the grave and set up the name?
Justice ought to be exact, if ferocious.
# # #
A local bank is pressing the representa-
tives of Sydney’s reputedly wealthiest religious
congregation. The debt is only a trifle over £BOO,
but the flock hold back, and the bank per-
tinaciously duns.
* « #
In North Queensland. Proposing the
bride’s health:-—“I knew the little devil in her
father’s house years ago.”
* • #
New form of N.S.W. oath—“ Dibbs it!”
# * •
The Bulletin lias heard of a Maoriland
resident whose name is actually “Sulfur.”
The party is a She ! The She is a Widow !! The
Widow has buried three husbands ! !!
After this, we would exclaim—
“ Is there nothing in a name ? ”
# * *
“English as site is wrote” on postcards by
the intelligent German :
To , Sydney, Australian.
Dear Sir ! I owe your ily add re tto a friend from me
and as I am a oollecteur for stamps most zealously I bag
you it it make no circumstance for you, to send me much
stamps, old converts, postages and all that which I can
use for my collection.
And so on.
# # *
A child’s rocking-horse now adorns the
verandah of Deeming’s villa, Windsor, Melb.
* # #
Card-tables are to he provided on long
journeys on Vic. railways. The next boom will
•be in the three-card trick.
« # •
Captain De Moleyns, a brother of Lady
Hopetoun, who departed from Yic. gubernatorial
'circles, two years back, under, it is said, somewhat
'romantic circumstances, returns to Australia
shortly.
• • •
While Bishop Webber is busy in England
'collecting for the Queensland church, the Queens-
land people are busy collecting for the London
Missionary Society for supplying Bibles to the
‘heathen!
* * #
The “Church of Christ” at Barra*
blamine, Q., hearing that one of its members had
'suicided and been buried as a State pauper,
'relieved its feelings by passing round the hat, and
'refunding the cost of the interment to Govt. Yet,
'when alive, the corpse had been in the employ of
smother member of the “Church of Christ” —a
‘“prominent citizen” —and his wages had been
15s. a week and “ find ” himself; working hours
from (5 a.m. to 0 p.m,, or later. He rented half of
a horse-feed hut at 2s. 6d. a week, and rioted
luxuriously on the twelve-and-sixpenny balance.
The most mournful sight in a certain
Melb. suburb is the local sampler of smells, a poor
devil of a retrenched Civil servant, essaying to
drive a stray cow to the pound, dressed in the
faded remnants of his old-time “ block ” glory.
# # #
The women, dressed as hospital nurses,
who canvass from door to door with pills, soap, &c.,
are not wearing the uniform in the cities during
the hot weather. They say that it doesn’t help
them to sell in the metropolis, but in the country,
where they are taken for real nurses, it acts like
magic.
* « #
The population of Maoriland has increased
50 per cent, since 1879, yet the total number of
drink licenses has declined from 2078 to 1871.
The figures tend the same way in all the pro-
vinces. Apparently the cold-water regime is as
certain as death, and it approaches gently like a
thief in the night, only it approaches so gently
that no one hears its flat feet upon the stairs.
» * #
Adelaide (S.A.) Prisoners’ Aid Society,
the other day, had before it a man 83 years old,
who had served terms of imprisonment amounting
to 44 years, and who boasted that he had been
three times sentenced to death. Let the public
executioner found an argument on that.
# » #
Rev. H. F. Scott, prison chaplain, thinks
it disgraceful that the Church of England has not
one institution for the relief of the destitute,
whom he had been compelled to send to R.C. and
Salvation Army homes. “All honour to the
Church of Rome for her magnificent institutions,
open to the whole community !”
* « »
Piano-lessons advertised in Melb. at £2 2s.
per year. Fact.
# # *
A vulgar Melbourne man, married and
well-to-do, recently came to hard words with his
other Mary. She is muscular, and he was rather
unsober at the time, so they went, at the lady’s sug-
gestion, to somebody’s boxing-rooms and ordered
gloves for two. In a couple of rounds the nn-
happy male competitor was knocked out, where-
upon the fair one hovered round her “ protector ”
and punched him until she was afraid he was dead.
Then she repented of her strong left arm and fled
to fetch the doctor. She also rung up the fire-
brigade, and sent for the police in her distress,
and tore her hair vehemently until the prostrate
foe came to life again. The story ends here. It
is undei’stood that they became reconciled after
this.
# # #
“With her old husband’s hide the fashion-
able widow buys a young man.”—Ex.
# # #
Pastor Fitchett, in one of the papers^
advises T)r. Bevan not to go to Sydney. Exper t
to expert. Bevan reconnoitred Pitt-street last
year, but is old enough to know that a mere
starring experience may be fallacious in giving
people an exaggerated idea of a man. Fitchett
emphatically, “ Don’t move ’’—like Moore and
Burgess’ minstrels, who never perform out of
London.
• * *
A boy soprano appearing at certain
promenade concerts is said to itave a voice of
“ that thrilling, voluptuous quality, for the lack
of which boys are preferred to girls in church
choirs.” The Bulletin always thought that boys
were preferred because they don’t fall in love with
the parsons, and can be more easily shaped into
one large singing-machine.
• # •
Dear Bulletin,— The reason “why Aus-
tralia can’t export salt pork ” is that she hasn’t
learnt how to salt anything—except mines. Or
perhaps the climate is the matter. You can’t cure
a dead pig properly because it must be done in a
hurry—isn’t that so? Anyway, there is something
radically wrong with the bacon. —Yours, York-
shire.
* * *
Sydney City Corporation ought to have a
body to be kicked and a soul to be damned, when,
after the verdict of an Australian jury, upheld on
appeal by the N.S.W, Full Court, it attempts to
sneak out of paying an unhappy widow (with five
children) the few hundreds of pounds awarded
her as compensation for the death of Iter husband,
by carrying a further appeal to the Privy Council.
Both the law and the merits of the case having
been decided locally, the Council’s action is simply
shameful,
# » •
The irreligious Englishman, or Australian
of English descent, has no national chances m his
favour in a police or law-court. There are Scotch
jobs, Irish jobs, Welsh jobs, and barefaced .lew
jobs worked by racial prejudice, but who ever
heard of an English-blooded magistrate, judge, or
jury favouring a defendant for the sake of the land
he sprang from, or the tribe ho belongs to? Smith-
Brown may occasionally pull through a case on
the Wesleyan or Baptist ticket, but his mere face
and name do nothing for him in these matters. It
is time that Smith-Brown started a clan of his
own, or began to kick up a devil of a row about all
the other clannishness that he has to contend
with. There, now!
To soft-sawder the Yanks, theR.C. calen-
dar will soon include Saint Christopher Columbus
and the French will worship Saint Jeanne d’Arc.
When advised to consult Mr. Albert
Sharp, the Medical Herbalist, or to procure his
Special Remedies, likewise the Medicines prepared
previous to and after he purchased the business of
Sims and Bailees in 1888, remember his only
.address is 257 Ceorge-street (close to Bridge-
street), Sydney.
MY PHILOSOPHY.
Time lost than Time misspent leaves keener sting,
And Joys foregone titan Joys that sorrows bring.
V.J.D.
TO A LADY UNDERGRAD
A Rondra[?] of Good Counsel
[ FOR THE BULLETIN ]
Keep skirts well dow if hose be blue I
Who would a husband get, that hue
Must not display. In Hymen’s marts
Minerva wings not Cupid’s darts.
And Aesculapius aids not you.
When eligible males shall sue,
Your *‘ shop ’’-talk stop, and hide from view
Your hose, and, lest the man departs,
Keep skirts well down '
So, wisely take from me your cue,
Most learned maiden. Do not strew
Your converse with the loro of Arts,
Or from “ the other side. ”* Male heart!
Such wooing love not. you rue.
Keep skirts well down »
Melb.
STEELE GREY
c Melbourne University euphuism for Medical School
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped . Name and
address must , in every case % appear on MS.
“S. M. Smith ” : If the jury acquitted you and
the Judge thereupon said you were “a lucky in.tn,”
you should have just told him to mind his own business.
No Judge is entitled to comment on a jury's verdict
“C.,Merton J.” : Read the lirst chapters of Zola’s “ Pot
Bouillon,” then say whether ho is not a graphic writer.
....“Beery” (Nelson, M.L.); Your borrower makes a
weak story.... “J. C. Hutton " (C. Towers): Yes, it was
meant for Gov. Duff.,. “J.W.M.” ; Bad enough, but too
tinpot for publication . . “M. M‘G.”: Thanks, but the
items must have appeared in The Bulletin and must
not be parodies “Be G.”: “Swinking” spoils it
“ Corbeau ” : A hideous pun. “ Kenzfe ” : There
are several good translations of Beranger. Try Oxen-
ford’s ... “ A. 0.” : “All strong men are narrow-waisted.”
No— a really strong man is as round as a gum-tree. Book:
at Canova’s statue of the stronger boxer “E. R” (M.)::
We are tired of the unconscious blasphemies of infant pro-
digies ...“ Myall ” : Thanks....“ K.S.” : “Working life-
Bench ” well written, init it attacks a woman whose only
offence is publicly sticking to her accused husband. Tin-
world lias a soft corner in its heart for the woman who-
sticks to her husband, however base. In fact, the sort cf
woman who delivers her husband over (o justice, instead!
of screening him, is regarded as on a level with the mam
who, having been over-friendly with a woman, tells;
the truth about it in court.. . “M.W.8.”: Shouldn't,
wonder if you are the culprit, but can’t verify now.
“Polype A “dishevelled, shapeless mass” “clamours
for more brandy ” and “ clings to the arm .of his mate ” a
few minutes before dying of a frightful accident? Tough,
very ~ “Khan Klea ” : Beautiful, but indefinite slush;
full of intoxicated figures of speech “ Moidialloc ” :
Received “X.” (Sydney); Will deal with lb - matter.
“Jo Jo” (Shepparton): “Will the next South
American war be in Paraguay?” Well, at this distal ce,
no one ever knows for certain which is the next Soul It
American war, or which is the last one.. , “Reulxn
Chambers”: Most of lire humourists you quote were not
British. The man who quotes Mark Twain as a British
humourist must lie a mental wreck “ Henry Marlin ” :
Your remedy tor the land difficulty is “ to further extend
the power of the intellect when allied with the power cf
concentrated capital.” Which, The Bulletin presumes,
is half-brother to the internationalisation of the inferential
hypochondriac. Can’t you be a Henry Georgite without
suffering from anchylosis of (he brain and babbling of
unmeaning polysyllables? “J. A. lit-miry : The Bul-
letin has always advocated economy. Hough it jeers at
Thrift (of the National Ass brand). Economy is wisdom ;
Thrift is the thing that the fatted swindler gift
six votes by. The National Ass, whoso designs are
well understood and will be frustrated, bas made
the very name of Thrift a thing of loathing
“ X.Y.Z.” (Bourke): There is nothing new in your aspect
of the camel question. The Bulletin still believes that
(he camels should stay and that the Afghan should go,
“Cerise and Blue”: Melbourne Cup romance is inap-
propriate just now. Besides, we don’t believe there ever
was a Melbourne Cup .. “E.VV.B.” (Melbourne) and
many others: Tub Bulletin has received 81hs. of hard
cursing, argument, scorn, recriminafion, and every kind
of infuriated manuscript from 70 Single-taxors. It can't
publish everybody’s letter, for space forbids ; hut it
will publish John Farrell’s statement of (lie Single-tax
ease, which will no doubt satisfy everyone tor the present.
“ One and All ” : Wo haven’t time to hunt up London
papers of 45 years ago . . .“Aromet” (Redfern): Too
office-boy's practical joke is as stale ns the humour of the
office-cat .. “R.F.D.” (Marryatville, S.A.): You throw
no new light on the Chinese question. All your state-
ments have been made a million times r. Ready
“R.S.” (Parkville): It jingles prettily, and that is
all. It is only the old, old get eralities about “free-
dom” and “blood” and the other hackneyed cries.
... “ D.0.R.”: P. for 11. excellent ...“ Boyne Water”:
You are a most inexpert literary thief. Why don’t you
send us Hamlet’s soliloquy as original ? “ Tarcoola ” :
Thanks “Anon.”; We can’t help that. The real
intrinsic value of an expensive bottle of medicine is often
not more than a half-penny... “E.J.S.”: “Idol” will
do “T. Ringed” : Yes; it is an absurdity for the
“ New Australians” to claim that their exodus has forced
Australian Governments (o make feeble attempts to setlie
people on the land ; for, had the exodus been so large in
volume that it left Australia without unemployed—i.e.,
had the exodus been a complete success—the Australian’
Governments would not have been irritated into making
even the niggardly concessions they have made.. ."
“ G.C.” : Not a “ colour ” in your “ Gold-digger’s Slorv ”
... “Amalgam”: Many thanks... “ J. Corker”: Nr,
only one on each “Sigilli”: Swallowed gt'atefnlh
by the w.p.b., barring one item, which stuck in ti e
wicker throat .. “Mephisto”: Item used; doggerel ex-
cused— “Constant Reader” (Barcaldine, Q.); Your
statement that his reverence wanted the proceeds of the
“hen.” while they were red-hot isn’t big enough l;>
dilate upon. Resides, it’s so very natural - looking.
“ W.E.S.” : Will make private enquiries “ J.H.8.”
(Slawell, Vic.): A commonplace ghost in commonplace
and hadly-Irish jingle ~. “ W.F.M.” (Christchurch
M. ; Declined, with thanks “A.P.” (Liverpool
N. Such general invective would be a mere stall
•ting of the air. Other fact noted “Beeswing”
(Bris.); Pars, used when suitable; better tally each slip
“G” sketch will keep; much ton long in present form'
“ J.R.”: Yon can make gold rise in vapour, hut it
doesn t remain so when you stop the intense special
process, and you don’t lose it with ordinary care. Visit
a mint once and see every fraction of a wrain
accounted for. Suspect the bona fides of any working
jeweller who loses gold through alleged volatilisation.
“C.D.” (W., B.): The distance from Adelaide to Port
Adelaide by rail is 7i miles; by road from same city
point, 8 miles... “E.J.C.”: Your “sporting poem”
fc . a » n . d . isn ’t sporting.,.. “ Collingwong ”
(Casino, N.S.W.) informs us (re last week’s answer to
“Pauline Jones”) that the lines commencing “I hate
another life I long to meet,” &c., were used in “L-d
Astray,” as performed by the Brough and Boucicault Co
in Sydney about years ag0..,, “M. M‘G.’’ : Your font’
ball hero declined. » out root-


Business Announcements.
CLIMATIC CHANGES.
The sudden changes of temperature, so charac-
teristic of the season, are the cause of more in-
dividual and domestic trouble than is generally
supposed. Most of the evils which result from
these changes originate in the little-thought-of
“chill” with which we are all so familiar. The
only really effective remedy, and one which should
bo kept at all times, and under all conditions,
handy for all members of the household, is the
standard favorite, St. Jacobs Oil. It can be
bought from any chemist or druggist, and carries
with it a sense of security to the possessor shared
by no other remedy. It is
JUST WHAT IS WANTED,
for, whenever any article has stood the crucial
test of public use and opinion for any lengthened
period of time, and the public demand for such is
continuously sustained, you may be sure that it
tills a public need. When, in the case of that
article being a proprietary medicine, the demand
is not only steadily sustained but continually
increasing, you may be absolutely certain that
there is some extraordinary merit in it, and in the
case of St. Jacobs Oil this is borne out by the
testimony of the press and of thousands of
reputable citizens in all parts of the civilised
world. Apropos, Messrs. Francis, Newbery, &
Sons, London, one of the oldest drug houses in
Great Britain (established nearly a century and a
half), write—“We have sold St. Jacobs Oil for
years; demand continually increasing on its
extraordinary merits.”
TITHE DAY HAS PAST for “ poking borak ”
L at the faithful, old long-winding series of
the WATERBURY Watch. Old-time Con-
servatism has gracefully acknowledged its past
errors, and now admits the WATERBURY to be
undoubtedly the VERY BEST LOW-COST
ITMEK.EEPER ever offered to the public. The
ink of good-natured satire, as applied to the
Waterbury, has run dry, but the pen of interested
malice will run till the crack of doom. The new
short-winding WATERBURY WATCHES are
perfect models of horological skill; while the old
series Waterbury—paper dial and two minutes to
wind to boot —is a more reliable timekeeper than
any of its would-be rivals, in spite of the visibly-
hard - polished - nickel - plated - extra - polished-
cylinder intestines with which some of them may
<>r may not be fitted to special order.
WATERBURY WATCH CO.’S REPAIR
DEPOT,
56 Margaret-street, Sydney.
2/0
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. AND S.
(Reoistered bt the Medical Boardof N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Pee of 2 6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of groat depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a groat
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoie,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
ODR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr, H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College op Dental
SURGERT.
ITp guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 1 Q/b
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIAN", CHEMISTS, i DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST
BRICKFIELD HILL.
S ’ A
A
CASCARA— HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
CAPSULES
Full directions.
All Chemists.
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsizes.
TO JOHN RUDD, formerly of Spring Bay,
Tasmania. Father dead. Estate to be
equally divided.
Write at onoe to
O. R. Rudd, Noondoo,
St. George, Queemland \
Of x. Ooffar* Rudd.
Orford, TaemanU.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
i
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Plano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
ì
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
BRQOMESm.ISO
INTO THE COLONIES.
BROOME, 15, Holborn, London, Eng,
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
í
BALSAM
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA. COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists i,i Lotties Is. lid. 2a. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN <fe CO.,
18, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,'
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Legal.
RE JAMES SWAN, DECEASED.
ALL the persons who may claim to be next of
kin, according to the Statutes for the dis-
tribution of intestate’s estates, of James Swan,
late of Brisbane in the Colony of Queensland,
Freeholder (a member of the Legislative Council
of the said Colony), deceased, living at the time
of his death, on the twenty-sixth day of May,
1891, or to be the legal personal representatives bf
such of the said next of kin as are now dead, are
respectively required on or before the thirty-first
day of March, 1894, to send by post prepaid to
Richard Gailey, of Brisbane, in the said Colony,
Architect, and William Henry Ewing, of Bris-
bane, aforesaid Manager of The Scottish
Queensland Mortgage Company, Limited, the
Executors appointed by the VC'lll of the said
James Swan, deceased, at the office of the under-
signed, their Solicitors, their full Christian and
Surnames, addresses and descriptions, and to
prove their claims, or in default thereof they will
be peremptorily excluded on distribution of the
estate of the said deceased.
Dated this 16th day of September, 1893,
Witsow, NkwmajMVuson k Hkmmiho,
Selborne Chambers,
Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Solicitors for the said Executors.
HOW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Humors
When their tender Skins nre literally On Firk with Itching and
Burning Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly, and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical (because
so speedy) cure, and not to use them
without a moment’s delay, is to be guilty
of positive inhumanity. [ No greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon a child than
a skin without blemish and a body nour-
ished witii pure blood.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
%
$
V
\
3^
dies, are absolutely pure, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age, with the most gratifying and unfailing success.
fftEATMEN i. Gl'Ticl'ra, the- great skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
skin purifier and beautifler, externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn-
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, clear the skin and
scalp of crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while CuTtCfijA Resolvent, the new
blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
All about the Blood, Skin, Scats', and Hair,” 61 pass*, ~00 Diseases, so Illustrations.
100 1 cstimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cliticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
Pimples, Blackheads,
red, rougn, ana oily skin and
hands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
f ‘d childhood are prevented and cured by that most effective of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the
celebrated Cutlcura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps,
while rivalling in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet ar.d nursery soaps. The only pre-
ventive of inflammation and digging of the pores, the cause of most facial blemishes. Pi ice, 25c.
i ham es Electric & Steam Launch C
s.
ELECTRIC LAUNCH “GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. Ly Tft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary ; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. S. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND.
THE
‘ Plum 5
i£[pnj
THE
‘ Plum ’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and wc
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price! jingle ? azor > j n strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY..
mmmm
mam
There is no fabric
more serviceable or
effective than the
WELL-KNOWN
“LOUIS”
Velveteen
Rich and rare
new colours for
present wear.
♦♦♦♦♦
LUSTROUS I
BLUE
Eim
I
~ The World Renowned
T GUIS’’ VELVETEEN Ims this in its favour,
besides its beauty, that it is a durable fabric
capable of undergoing real wear, and although
always elegant and dressy, it is not of that kind
of beauty which renders it impossible for or-
dinary wear. For loveliness of texture, as well
as for real durability it is unequalled.
NOTE WELL.—Each yard of genuine " Louis " Velveteen
bear* the name (spelled L-O-U-l-B', and In no other way,
and is stamped with a guarantee of wear, ,
Ladies should reject all substitutes.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. "Martha,” "Robert le Dluble,”
"Crown Diamotds," "Ltioresla Borgia," "William
Tell," "Faust," "Cn Ballo in Maschera," "tl Trova-
tore," " Le* HUguenatl." Is. Bd. «aoh-Of all Music-
jclluj'4, Dr frpiu (ho Publisher*, W. PAXTON A Co.,
London, And Jf>t SwAXS'toS Stum, MtoLBOuHXS,
The OALIG-RAPH Writing Machine.
vfl
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Inter changeable and, Adjustable.
The writing of the Oaligraph can always be recognised*
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which w rites
on a Hat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.B. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs-
in the public offices of Australia than machines of alh
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation l
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction'
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from’
one stencil, each equal to the best original work.
for Mimeograph circular,
The N w Special No. 3 Caligraph l as two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Svdnrv, J. E, Cunningham, 49a Castlerengh.
afreet (two doors from Australia Hotel); Mbuioohnk,
0. 8. Cunningham, tudstone Chambers, Oolllns-street j
Hrishahb, Webster k Co., Mary-street; AnutAiOK, E. 8.
Wlgg to Son, RundlO'ilrcct; Hobart, J. W.alch & Sons.
rjixrirs or' thk sYsmt
PUtCK - ONK SttltiMOTi
A definition : The fashionable woman is a
woman wlio lias what every other woman has
before any other woman gets it.
In Russia, even, no soldier will ever
consent to fill the office of flogger, and convicts
are availed of to supply the aching void.
.The coining religion will say that God
might be glad in Heaven if only men would forget
Him for one whole year and pay attention to
suffering humanity instead.”— Rev. Geo. Walters
(Sydney).
A Carlton (Vic.) humourist, “wanted”
by a policeman, forcibly arrested that officer by
“getting the arm-kink on him” (humorist was
himself an ex-policeman), and locked him up in a
room for the night. Next day he went down
amiably to Court to answer all charges and accept
four months’ hard.
A N.S.W. postmistress lately summoned
a man for annoying her. He wrote proposing
matrimony and pleaded that by her silence she
had consented. He was hound over. It is not
every woman who can afford to reject an offer
these times.
Capt. Burton, the traveller, voyaged with
a R.C. Archbishop, and tried to convert him to
Darwinism. They had some apes aboard, playing
in the rigging. Says the prelate: “ There are
your ancestors ! ” “ Well, I have advanced more
on them than you on yours—the Angels.”
Dear Bulletin, — A labourer here, whose
married sister is accompanying her husband to
Paraguay, was speaking to some of his mates of
the project, but expressed the opinion that the
next trip of the Royal Tar would have to be aban-
doned or postponed, because the French were block-
in;/ the river, flis sister had told him so! Does this
size up the knowledge of the world’s movements
possessed by the average Paraguayan Pilgrim, and
does this account, to any extent [I don’t say it
does) for the success of the venture so far? If so,
God help the Pilgrims, and may He pay a little
extra attention to the welfare of the Pilgrimesses !
—Yours, kc., Waster.
William Farnsworth, who died the other
day at Melbourne, aged 74, was an old-time Ben-
digonian. Ho was a digger in the fifties, and
settled at Golden Square, Bendigo. With Andrew
M‘Gregor and Tom Ellis, he afterwards held a
claim at Eaglehawk and did well. Then he
returned to his old residence in High-street,
Golden Square, sank a shaft on his own land, and
got lots more gold, subsequently selling right out
to the Shamrock Co. for .£l5OO. Within the first
few weeks the Shamrock got back its <£lsoo, plus
(is. per share dividend, out of one stope only of
the mine.
VVo hear that the shingle is now being
carried over the breakwater at Timaru, Maori-
land (says a local paper), and is rapidly tilling up
the harbour, on the construction of which about a
million of money lias been sunk. There is now, it
is said, deeper water outside the shelter than
within it. It is expected that the basin will soon
become a promenade. And all this because an
ancient mariner, and some antiquated wiseacres,
and some sapient fat men chose to traverse the
opinion of Sir John Goode. He said the break-
water should be an open work to permit of the
shingle travelling, but they stood out for solid
masonry. They got it, and now the ratepayers
are enjoying the fun and paying for it.


AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849,
•The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
t:y DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAH.
Ouiectoks The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES 11. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. \V. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary; RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.E.A.
Annual Income; Two Millions Sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1802 amounted to over £501,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Office : o*7 HEWITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
m
ri
JL k
O .A. XT LFIBLD CXT HP OrtoUer it. 1803,
50,000 at 10 50,000
MEI.BOI7.RWE: CUP FlciHluglon, XovemOei- 1893.
100,000 cs?" at !f« 100,000
“ TATTRRSAII,”
Care of Gkorob Adams,
. “The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
. ii: isbaue, Rueensla n<l
ADAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
4- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Eight. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d'Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
F*itt Street, Sydney.
THE BRISBANE
Co miner cial Syndicate .
MIH.ICOI ICM: Flemington, Nov. 7, 1893.
At 10 Each 50,000 aw At 10 Each
i
ì
Lew 10 per cent. Pro rata if not Jilted.
Enclose two stamped envelopes with application, one
for each, share and result. All money received fully
secured by Trust Account in Union Bank.
Address: I'OUAIIHU'IAL, co llv. White & Gov.,
Mercantile Brokers,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
PATENT JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Send for Price-list and Photos.
NEWTOWN CARRIAGE CO., SYDNEY.
L--v
í
i
î
ï
$0
A*
w*
V
S~Q
ì
VALUE
í
SO,OOO.
~'V£-
c A/\/
A Sy?
yz/zu/yii'/jV
RENTAL VALUE
v/ t/ IJ
•l. v -i- «
î
£ WOO A YEAR
S't/ r/ s/
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
ï
i
i?/.
.wit///
9 y Yty&'t'//L:
FOR SHARES AND AU.
PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SECRETARY ALBERTS T
or CORRIE & CO. queen sr
BRISBANE. OR:-
IeAArA. fierce $ flfo.,
126 PITT STREET,
syiduey.
mmmm
i
I
M. &J. MOLONEY,
I3Th I*ITT STREET (near King Strict),
(opposite Gttnsler's)
S T D IT E Y.
£3T Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events :
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup-
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 3.
V R 0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) Tins DOUBLE.
Kg” 1 THREE CHANCES.
“ Yorkshireman’s” selections
—-FOR
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUF
Should be obtained at once.
It is folly to speculate in the dark.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can bo had as
usual. Prospectus on application. Sec Referee, News
and Star. “ YORKSHIREMAN,” c o W. J, Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
Telegraphic Code—" Wkstbkook, Sydney.” .
Member of Tattersall’s (London), Tattersall’s (Sydney\
and Victorian Club (Melbourne). Executes Commissions
on all events throughout the Colonies.' Double or
Straight-out. USUAL WEEKLY DOUIBLES. All Tele-
grams, &c., must be pre-paid, and no Commission must
be considered executed until a reply is received.
5. EACH.
Fass-rrstJ
5. EACH.
OS THE
CAULFIELD CUP, 21st October.
At 5 each. 20,000 At 5 each.
i
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
20 at 20 .. .. 400
50 at 10 .. .. 500
100 at 5 .. .j 50;
Prizes at 2, 350.
Lesa 10 per cent.
345 Extra Cash Prizes 345 Tgj
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November.
At 5 each. 50,000 At 5 each.
ì
N.S. (d)
25 at 20
50 at 10
100 at 5
1500
510
500
500
250 Consolations at 2 each, 500.
Less 10 per cent.
425 Extra Casli Prizes 425
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November.
At 10 each. 20,000 At 10 each. (For Horses onlv.)
Register and Address Letters to
" GALA,” c;o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q
Or Personally at 07 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
171011I 71011 the person who is not a millionaire, there are
• ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated h ‘
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “ POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET
and near the General Post Office.
l’i-o|u icliti- GEO. H . EM.IS.
t
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Philadelphia Eleven lias beaten the Aus-
tralians by an innings and 68 runs ! Great Washington !
* # «
The following are given as Coningharn’s two
most characteristic jokes during the English tour. At a
dinner one evening, he called for three cheers for the
Queen, and seizing a boiled leg of mutton by the shank-
bone he whirled it round his head at every hip ! send-
ing a shower of caper-sauce over the people in the neigh-
bourhood. Out in the field one day he passed his spare
time piling up against the fence all the dry grass he could
lay his hands upon, all sorts of speculations being in-
dulged in by the crowd as to what his game was. When
the last English wicket fell he set their minds at rest by
setting a match to the heap, and crouching over the fire
like a blackfellow: “ 1 haven’t,” he said, “ been warm for
a week.”
* * *
George Giffen’s friends say that he will not take
part in any interprovincial matches outside Adelaide
during the coming season. Giffen’s trip with the Austra-
lian Eleven concludes his career as an active player.
* # *
When the Kent (Eng.) cricket-match seemed a
dead certainty for the Australians, the latter’s cocksure
backers reckoned without beer and whisky—the most
powerful opponents the Australians ever met. Not
merely whispered, but openly stated that, on the Tuesday
night, almost half the team were (missing word); result—
ignominious defeat, instead of a brilliant victory. Aleck
Bannerman established a record—he carried his bat right
through the innings for 7 runs.
* * *
Dear Bulletin, —One last par. concerning the
alleged “inconsistent” play of the Australian Eleven.
They lost 10 matches in all—3 with All-England (Lord
Sheffield’s and Shrewsbury’s benefit elevens thrown in), 2
with South of England, and 1 with a picked M.C.O. Eleven.
Barring the match with the Players, they did not
beat any team as strong as those six aforementioned,
although they made draws (never distinctly in their
favour) with some equally strong. That leaves four losses
in county matches to be accounted for. Surrey beat them
twice with its fast bowlers. Yorkshire and Kent beat
them once apiece, and those two counties came out first
and second on the English list for the season. The Aus-
tralian Eleven didn’t win one match in which Richardson
opposed them, nor one representative match in which
Grace, Shrewsbury, Stoddart, or Jackson batted against
them. They made their biggest scores against the weakest
bowling, and when they came to a scratch crowd of
amateurs, described as Universities Past and Present,
they put up a batting record. Where was the incon-
sistency in the Australian play ? On the other side, they
can’t understand how Yorkshire played so inconsistently
against the Australians as to get badly licked on one
occasion, and practically beaten on another.—F.
”, # # •
a £SO handicap race at Mentone (Melb.), the
other Saturday, was a painful satire on turf morality.
Portsea, winner of the Australian Cup, was started
together with John S., from the same stable, In a small
field John S. was made a warm first favourite, whilst
Portsea went out at 10 to 1. The public and most of the
“ books ” seemed to imagine that the “crack ” performer
of the crowd wasn’t “on the job.” Fit and well and
doing his best they would have reckoned the race a real
good thing for Portsea, as it proved to he. Portsea won.
The stable backed him. Everything was quite right and
the preposterous supporters of John S. had imagined a
vain thing. The real sadness of the situation lay in their
idea that any first-rate animal could be started for a
oaltry handicap with other than serious intentions.
# # *
At the late Rand wick Spring Meeting favourites
won the first two of the 24 races.
• # #
Somebody tells us The Barb went mad.
# m #
Barnard is re-elected paid handicapper of the
V.A.T.C., though pensioned by the V.R.C.—wherefore
grumbles. He left the V.R.C. of his own accord.
• # *
Patron, the Y.R.C. Derby favourite, started at
5 to 4 on for the Maribyrnong Cup, hut was beaten by
Moscow, who covered the mile and a-half in 2.40. This
does not make Patron, who carried 7st. 91b., much of a
wonder, unless he is very backward in his preparation,
and there are more unlikely things than that Sydney will
win the Derby and Cup double with Solatium and Cainoola.
« « #
Lowndes, amateur champion of the Thames for
several years, committed suicide. Asa boy he received
an injury to his eyesight, and an oculist had told him to
expect total blindness when he reached 40. The calamity
came upon poor Lowndes in his 36th year. He struck a
match and saw no light although it burned right down to
his fingers. He wrote letters to his mother and the
manager of the hotel where he was staying, fumbled for
his revolver in the darkness, and blew his brains out. The
world had no use for a blind athlete, he said.
• • •
There is all English champion at last. Nuttall
has easily defeated M'Ousker, the American swimming
champion. The Yankee was known to be wonderfully
fast, and odds were laid on him until the start, when
Nuttall’s friends took even money. After the dive,
Nuttall rose in front and, gaining at every stroke,
eventually won by 200 yards, in 2Smin. 71sec. tor the
mile, which might have been improved upon had he been
pressed. He is indeed a wonderful swimmer. Young
Tyser, an amateur, is winning all the championships in
England, or is going for them. So far he has won every
race.
# » #
The last Graphic pictures the benediction of a
racehorse, in Siena Cathedral, Italy. Church and Turf.
The horse is fetched right into the Cathedral and sprinkled
with holy water by a priest in full canonicals before the
altar. Mind you, this kind of thing comes rather expen-
sive. Still, it might he tried.
# * #
“Diddley ” Young, the.orack wing player of the
South Melbourne F.C., is 45 years of age and but sft. in
height. When he reached two score he concluded that
he was getting too old for violent exercise and retired;
but last season, being induced to play in one match as a
sub., he found he was as good as ever and once more
entered the emerald arena with success.
# # #
A great sporting authority, Mr, J. J. Walton,
for many years sporting editor of the Newcastle (Eng.)
Chronicle, and a renowned judge of ’hfowin’ and ’hron-
nen’, is dead. He once told The Bulletin correspondent
that the only sculler he ever saw who was at all equal to
Renforth was Beach. Poor old Trickett he couldn’t stand
as a champion, although he was shown one of the finest
trials ever rowed on the Thames. That was before Ned
unfortunately took to following haycock round the
cricket field at Putney and sprung a muscle in his leg.
Ah, what a difference that sprain made?
# * *
Even into sport the Bananalanders import
Separation. Football and cricket associations are being
formed to “ make Brisbane sit up.” In Rockhampton a
conference of Central Division turfites seriously discussed
setting up business for themselves and letting go the
Q.T.C. connection.
* • «
“C.” —an initial that veils an identity not
unknown in Sydney—contributes a chatty cricket article
to a London paper, sounding the fame of the very first
Australian team that visited England a-quarter of a cen-
tury ago—the aboriginals, headed by Johnny Cusens,
Dick-a-Dick, Redcap, Twopeny, and Mullagh, trained by
Tommy Wills, at once a cricket crank and genius.
“ Diok-a-Dick once threw the ball 120yds.—a length not
easy to heat. Also, with a light shield in his hand, he
allowed four bowlers to throw in quick succession at any
part of his body from the distance of ten yards, and was
never once touched.”
# # #
Parson Berry, a Wesleyan shepherd recently
imported as anew sensation for Adelaide (S. A.), has
roused the ire of some of his flock by Sunday-riding on a
bicycle to a suburban chapel where he was billed to
preach, “John Wesley never rode on a bicycle.”
• # #
The North Shore Rowing Club simply walked
off with the champion eights, at Sydney Association
Regatta, on Saturday. The crew, who row in the true
English style, have now on two occasions shown such
superiority over the old Sydney style that the Association
must oast aside prejudice, and lose no time in inviting
the honorary coaches who have done such wonders with
the N.S. crew to take in hand the next interprovincial
eight.
* * *
“Corbett employs a secretary to refute nasty
things in the press.” Goddard should do ditto. It would
come cheaper than pulling noses and paying fines.
# * •
A well named horse is the steeplechaser Waiter,
ny Somnus—Bar Maid.
* * «
There is little doubt that honesty is the best
policy for a jockey above the common order. Once let a
jockey be mixed up with a “clever” stable, and how-
ever good a horseman he may be, owners outside his
particular circle are afraid to put him up.
# * *
Football and blackguardism are now synonmyous
terms in Tasmania as in several other places.
* * *
The cry of the football-barracker as it may be
heard any Saturday afternoon in any Australian city :
“Yah!” “Stoush’em!” “Sit on ’is ’ead!” “Bust
’im ! ” “Go it!” “Go it, blast yer! ” “Yah!”
“ Whoo! ” “Shake ’em up!” “Jump on ’is ’ear!”
“ Yah-h-h-h-h! ” “Wring ’s neck!” “ Whoo-00-0000-oo
00-oo !” “ Scrag ’im!" “Rush’em up!” “Wring’is
neck!” “ Wring’s gory neck ! ” “ Wring’s dash, dash,
dash, dashed gory neck ! ” “Rush ’em up!” “Tramp
on ’em ! ” “ Yah h-h-h-h-h! ”
* * #
A football match was recently got up by the
pressmen of a certain Maoriland city, and a short sighted
editor went into the game with great vim. He left his
spectacles at home, considering that they would be in the
way, and consequently he saw the ball as through a glass
darkly. So when the wind carried a spectator's hard-hat
along the grass in front of him ho excit dly seized it and
ran like a red-shank for the goal. Nobody pursued him,
but he took it for granted that all his opponents were
close behind, and ran more and more desperately until
within six feet of the goal-line, when he threw the hat
across and himself on top of it, and reduced it to ruins.
When he was made to realise the evil of his ways, which
was done with some difficulty, he went back to his place
savagely resolved to retrieve his reputation or perish.
Five minutes later the ball did come in Ids way, and,
gathering it up in two immense hands, he spurted for his
life a second time. But before he had done 12 yards the
ball bit him in two places, and he dropped it. In his
haste he had seized upon a toy-terrier that was frisking
across the field. After that, his side played one man short
for the rest of the day, and a near-sighted editor sat on
the fence and beamed placidly on all and sundry.
• » •
Jem Mace —the “old blanker,” as Joe Gosse’s
admirers used to call him, 30 years ago—has. turned
stage pug., after flinging away a life-full of chances.
* # *
Larry Foley gets as many press notices as ever
he did when he ran a generous bar. Mystery!
# # #
Frank Slavin, said the cable, was trying to
arrange a match between Stanhury and the winner of the
Bubear-Sullivan match. Fudge. Bubear, at any rate,
wouldn’t entertain the thought of rowing a first-class man.
When the Britisher came out here some years ago he can-
didly admitted that he was only on for soft things. Eng-
land has taken the knock as regards championship
rowing, and could hardly raise a backer for Bubear in a
match with the Australian.
• • «
It went the rounds of the papers that George
Dawson had been appointed boxing instructor of a big
Yankee Athletic club at a salary of £IOOO a year, for
which post all the big American boxers, including Jim
Corbett, were applicants. It now appears that the
“screw ” is £SOO p.a.
* • #
An English gentleman is running a horse called
“ Holy Water.” No doubt Mr. Hope is an Orangeman.
Some years ago Mr. Abington named a colt of his, by
Peter, “Cock Crow,” which he was very promptly
requested by the Jockey Club to alter.
* * *
A nasty English paper says that George Giffen’s
fielding has been “as listless as if he wanted to be put on
to bowl.”


'.•US
izZ—JH)*
PILL PALACE
Ena ii .Üb-üB.Mm'ALFALINL PILL
BIOOOiHERVt DISEASES
vmam
Herr Rassmussen’B
5
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known lo the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSKN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
Qeorge-street, Sidney, has devoted his whole lifetime to
the study of how to prepare a genuine rente ly for Afbo-
lions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary lo say Hint ho
has succeeded, because it iaknown lo every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned A hi;'A LINK
VITALITY FILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all AfTeotions
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains us a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr KASSMUSSEN is in possession of over fOO,OOO
den nine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not 100 much to
say tha t his Remedies have cured more than all others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALFA LINK VITALITY FILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. |W A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 4iis. 6(1.; an Ordinary
Course, 23a. Gd. Smaller Boxes posted at Gs. and 12s.
WA UN I NCI, —Imitators trill hr Froseeuled.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmirsson has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-stroct, Melbourne.
I
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALFALINE
TY PILLS.
Ill'll vs
swss
i AWARDED
TWO GOLD fof
m
#
EDALS
■VJH
THE
ri
ANGEL
ofHofe
'■■"v
UI M
ALFA UNEPILL.
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD vNelwes
;Special Powerful Course, 4,‘is, (id,, posted. Ordinary Course, 235. (Id. Jinxes, (is. and I'is,
Hegistered and Farely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Cold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR Ills FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmusscn
“ Herr Rassmnssen's well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many ureal cures, as bis
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney liri.iacriN'.
“ Herr Rassmussen lias shown us some liiuhly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifyinjr to important cures
effected by bis remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together."— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr R isnnussen manufactures some excellent lllood
and Nerve Remedies.”— N.Z. Times, Wellington.
11 Herr Rassmusscn is a clever botanist/’- Dairy Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
" Herr Rassmnssen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-ddts of Ids
testimonials appear to be well established.’’- fci.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassinussen, we are glad to say, ns a Medical
Herbalist bolds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”- Cooktows
Courier, c I
Alfalino Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3 (>/-, 12 ■ and -23. C.
Alfalino Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3'., 0., 12 - and 23 0.
Alfalino Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3 • and C•, posted.
Alfalino Complexion Beautifler.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3 -
and 0, •
Alfalino Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 10.
Alfalinc Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 10.
Alfalinc Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2 ■ ; posted, 1. (i and 2 0.
Porous Plasters.
Believe pain instantly. Posted, 10.
Alfalino Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, C>/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD.
TAKE A COURSE OK
A LFA LINE LOCK /* / LLS,
('.uaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AEFEOTIONs
SOKES.' BOILS AND I* IM I’LES KOmiA
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS'
blotches, and other unpleasant
SYMPTOMS OK THE FLOOD.
Boxes—Cs. and 125., Posted]
Ordinary Course, 235, (Id.
Special Powerful Course. 435. Od.
Alfalino Lcucorrhcea Powders.,
For the Whites. Posted, 8/- and (5/- per Box.
Alfalinc External Invlgorator.
Boxes, - posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr RASSMUSSEW’S HEAD DEPOT: 547 0001*06 Street, S^dOCV-
ALSO .A.T HIS BEAUCHES :
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne, f 160 Queen Street, Brisbane, i 154 Bundle Street, Adelaide, j9l Lambton Quay, Wel’ton, N.Z
“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics," by Ernest Favenc, from Tim Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Co. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S. W.
<"a>i
vTS
//
0
Mi*. JAMES L.. TURK,
Of the Commercial Gazette Office
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Describes the Suffering and Distress
of His Daughter
Bow these are Exchanged for Health
and Happiness by the use oi
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
‘‘l wish to state to you what your blood-
purifying Sarsaparilla did for my daughter.
Some two years ago she was attacked with
diphtheria. A physician was called. He helped
her a little, but not much. Finally, I called
another. She got over the soreness in her throat,
but a large swelling came outside of her throat,
hard and angry looking. We poulticied it for
three weeks, but it looked no better. She then
lost her voice, and her throat swelled inside
again. The doctor lanced the swelling, and it
discharged for two or three weeks. She then re-
gained her voice, but was paralysed in the lower
limbs. I became discouraged, dismissed the
doctor, and sent my daughter to the country.
My wife, knowing the purifying qualities of your
Sarsaparilla, determined to give it a thorough
trial; and* after using two bottles, the news
came to me that my daughter had begun to im-
prove. From that time on, she continued to
gain, until she became sound and well again, and
she has enjoyed good health ever since.” I have
used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family many
years, and I know it to be the best blood-purifler
extant.
Ayer f s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell Mass., U.S.A.
Has Cured others, will cure you.
BarrysTrioopherdus
FOR THE
HAtRA^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald'
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Hakes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
í
Cienuinc has tradc-raavli Barclay & Co., New York.
M Perfect Food
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
î
ĩ
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS. For INVALIDS.
FOR THE AGED. I For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick 13
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water,
TWALTED MILK is the best food for In-
Ifl fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
—Lancet, April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:—
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
< b~^ RY f 4
0^
<9
*
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
ILOXOTIS OPOPONAXi
L \ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/;
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
&°nd
ī
y
i
“ A Sweet Smoke ia Bliss Untold!"
TAYLOR BROS.,
Pipe Makers Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
ĭ
I3T” The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES In
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking Pipe*
Ncrdlc Wood Pipe
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stun), 4 6
Myall Wood I’lpc ditto 4«
la r ran Wood Pipe ditto 4 6
Wood Pipe, Silver Mount and Amber Stem, J 6
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
Pipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
Agents wanted for Australian Native Wood Pipes.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SlNtil.E
PIPE will be forwarded (post free) at above prices.
KIDMAN’S BIILDIM-*.
GEORaE & MARKET STREET..,
SYDNEY.
©ENAMELLED CABINET g .
PORTKAITB
fhe RcW' Panel Portrait.
Its-
Its.
Size, 9x7 in.,
J* Eli DOZES.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement 0
rp ALES OF THE CON'K *
J PRICE-ONE SHILLIN'’-
i
i


ID
M‘BIJBNEY, WALLIS and GO.
(N. M‘SUBNET X
E. S. WALLIS J
A. HENSON J ?
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Liberal Cash Advances if required.
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Each Department
ACCOUNT sales rendered as promptly as
ma.zia.ged
POSSIBLE.
■fc>y
a. member of tlie
ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses : Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay.
- - Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices; Macquarie
FOR COLDS,
COUGHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-reacly remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. c. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
JOURNALIST, with eight years’ experience
on Sydney metropolitan press, desires en-
gagement as Sub-Editor or Reporter—or as Editor
of country paper. “Journalist,” Bulletin office.
S"OOS>
for INFANTS and INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These (;oods are free from Animal Germs and '.ery rrr,
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Heoter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to euro every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, ns well as active
. enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate hut by their general action please oil wk»
ure them. The standard Pill of the U. K. Medical Profess-
ion,. Tie smallest and easiest to take, . Forty in a phial.
3
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWIN' G IN FORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for =Bl9
19s. Cd.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOM ED HOUSE FURNISHED for £5O.
8-ROOM Ki) HOUSE FURNISHED for <£loo.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTIO ADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
Wo have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURIO
BED-ROOM FURN ITU RE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOYEN-WJRE MATTRESSES
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVi S (all sizes)
Best JA VA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
M A N UFAGTUIIER S,
COS GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone No. GO.] [Established 1860,
rjIALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893.
NAMBUOK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
Tlxe only Agricultural Property I3lstrii:j-o.tion ?
25i Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments
“NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties:
« ,
m ■■
' '>?W~ T =
H i
111 I
■
i
__
Nambrok Hoar^
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated value
Also, 59 Properties ~
£12,000
each 1,050
On 15tb JULY, only £26,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPER i \ in Us entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required.
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representatives of tire Press) is to take place without
fail in NOVEMBER, and results will be, duly advertised All moneys arc in the hands of J rustces and perfectly secure. P. P. L All ERTOU CHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major
C. M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J. "HIIiMA, Auckland, N.Z.
The FIRST BALLOT will be from the “ NAMBllOK” Estate, which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (cut of a total of
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
APPLICATIONS for PROSPECTUSES, SHARES and all Particulars should be made by
Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY,
c o R. Newton & Co., BRISBANE (Q.).
PROSPECTUSES, PLANS and all PARTICULARS can also be obtained on
Application to ’
Columbian X. «3L Distritoiation Co.,
c/b J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O'Connell Street, SYDNEY, i .S.W.
State amount forwarded and enclose two addressed envelopes .with Id. in stamps for reply and
»«ult. D 0 uot attach stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment .s made by cheque.
X.8.-ln the case of the extra ,£20,700 not being subscribed by November, the best value of pro-
P«ty fur the amount subscribed will be included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate per-
*■" a t> c °f bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
f the amount required bo not more than- 10 per cent short, Ho Ibann.Am-s have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be al.outd the - haulm. Im.
far REFERENCES can be made to the well-known Firms ol Messrs, ALEXANDER WILSON t CO, A Sydney, and M
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
-—■ •
ISOS.
PLEASE ALLOT 'me Shaven.
&
Name
A ddvess
To tie Columbian Land .Distribution Co.
That most terrible of crimes, the murder
of the Careoar (N.S.W.) bank-managerand his lady
guest, and the mutilation of his wife and child, is
another proof of the uselessness of what old Field
Marshal Burgoyne used to call “ those wretched
revolvers,” for any practical purpose of defence.
A man with any feeling will not fire until forced
poor Phillips, instead of shooting, seems to
have expostulated with his savage murderer—
and when he comes to close quarters with a
lesolute antagonist it is too lato. With toma-
hawk against revolver in a room, you may safely
bet on the tomahawk every time.
Sir Wilfrid Lawson, British M.P., pro-
poses that whenever the Queen grants a title to
any person it should be accompanied, in the
Gazette, by a detailed statement of the services
for which the “dignity” is given. This is good
so far as it goes, only the list of services should be
published three months before the title is granted,
so that objections can be lodged, and in order that
the proposed recipient’s unpaid bills and illegiti-
mate infants and old police-court record may have
time to turn up. If they don’t turn up, then the
title can be granted. A man whose character can
bear three months’ public inspection deserves to
have a title if he wants one.
Recently a select committee of S.A-
Assembly, consisting of Ebenezer Ward (chair-
man), Treasurer Playford, Chairman-of-Com-
mittees Catt, Mattiuson, Tennant, the late
William Townsend, the clerk and a reporter
(eight in all), travelled from Adelaide to Orroroo
to make some trumpery official enquiry. The
train journey to Orroroo from the city is 178 miles,
but at Terowie, slightly more than half way, the
travellers dined, slept and breakfasted at a cost
of £5 165., and for one gaudy night at Orroroo
they spent .£3O 12s. Gd. The hamper prepared
by the parliamentary caterer for refection in the
train on the outward journey, according to a
return now published, contained these comforts
21 bottlesofchampagneatlls., £1111s.; fourbottles
whisky, £1 Gs. ; four bottles brandy, £1 10s. ; four
bottles sherry, £1 4s. ; four large seltzers, Bs. ;
eighteen bottles ginger ale, 9s. ; thirty bottles soda,
10s. ; two boxes cigars, £3 10s. ; three bundles
cigars, 7s. Gd. ; four bundles cigarettes, Cs. ; four
boxes tobacco, 7s. ; four packs cards, 10s. ; sand-
wiches, 10s.; sausage-rolls, 7s. Gd.; the breakage of
six tumblers was charged at 9s. ; and the little bill
was £23 ss. The travellers were absent con-
siderably less than a week in all, and their food,
drink and carriage cost £l4O 12s. 9d., or £l7 10.-.
each. The amount paid for transit was but £4O.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
1G of this issue.


Special Advertisements.
The people of Queensland, in
Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Brisbane),
where the FINEST STOCK in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts, Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockeryware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low-priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES !! This can be proved in the
most satisfactory manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the only reliable test. Everything
in their line can be had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S except shoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, and remittance to cover
amount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c., payable to FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.
Samples, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for men’s or
women’s clothing, Price-lists, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will be immediately forwarded
on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers),
Brisbane, Maryborough & London,
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLITELI PURE.
Proprietors; ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOE
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
F rame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VIL
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Prof. Wm. O.
Lkubk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROF ULOSIS. —Vol. XVI.
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’? Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.’’—Prof.
Birch-Hiksohfkld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
1 have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
Cafe
MARTIN
Moore
and Pitt Sts.,
THE
, “City Dinner'
r> (A Specialty).
MAKTIX
CHAMBERS,
opp. G.P.0.,
8 YI) y EY.
First-class Grill Room & Restaurant.
The Coolest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
in Sydney.
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-class Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE and TABLE SERVICE.
NB.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready—l/- to 30.
Public Banquets. Private Dinners. Smoke Concerts,
For Estimates, apply H. GARDNER, Manager.
“A. Golden Shanty.”
Carter
j3uauTabiiE
NON REVERSIBLE
rpms Ingeniously Constructed HI 1.1,1.41i1t lII.VIVC-
Ttltl.ll is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggenlleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—2S to ;»!<£ (>n 'urns, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collias-St ,, Mslbsurat. Factory, University-Ft.
Special Advertisements
GOLDSBROUGrH,
MORT & CO.
(LIMITED.)
Hon. lIENUY MOKT,
Adviser.
JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Shipping Manager.
LESLEY HERRING,
Assistant Manager,
GRAIN BROKERS
—AND —
Station Agents.
STORES:
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
í
"Clothed with Air.”
Cellular Cloth
i||fc66 -i||hirt6
WITH
Linen Fronts S Cuff's,
6/6 & 7/6
Just Opened.
Cellular Cloth Shirts.
French Print Fronts and
Guffs; 3-stud ; various
patterns—6/6.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention s'ze of neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents;
BRAHAM Sc MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
& BO{{r
%
i
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren's sweet)
ftvufs. cMcrLfL/UfS- *
Lancet.
St. John's Works, London, W.C,
Established 1876^
ASTHMA
CURE
' white ron
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
«N I
ASTHMA^
o*
i
/ Agents
/—Melbourne
Ro<Krroi-.p'.i7i.ir
psiTl»(° |
Sydney: Elliott Bw I
■am c'- rTTintf Rrns if® r
B R i SBANE :TfTloll 8r0?»(
Paul
Slwrlan
fcC
tmHDUI
iOSOai
and > (?
ILSSJAtifi
J(j#jW Trmbu JM/Testimonmk /
Publication*.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO-
l_Tave much pleasure in announcing; to their former
Patrons and the Public generally that they will
RE-OPEN THE PREMISES at
353 GEORGE STREET 383
Sydney (Next E.S. & A.C. Bank), on or about the’
FIRST DAY of OCTOBER, 1893,
AS— r - • - .
RETAIL BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS.
BOOKS IN EVERY CLASS- OF LITERATURE: ■ ■
MAGAZINES TO ORDER.
NEW BOOKS BY EVERY MAIL.
Mechanics’ Institutes, Schools of Art, and
Schools Supplied.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & GO.
Pda
N‘
OW READY, post free
Is. Cd., THE LIFE,
ADVENTURES, asd CON-
FESSIONS of A SYDNEY
BARMAID.
Highly Interesting.
To be had only of And Unique.
MADAME PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
BRILLIANT SUCCESS! BRILLIANT SUCCESS!
of
“ IKT THE XtA-UfKa.”
Interpreted by an abnormal cast, including Mr. George
Rignold and Miss Kate Bishop.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
VTIHE LYCEUM THEATRE
_ (Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgpove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO,
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
DOROTHY.” “ DOROTHY ”
SATURDAY, Oct. 7, Miss NELLIE STEWART in
“THE MIKADO.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman
CRITERION THE AT R E
LAST NIGHT (THURSDAY) LAST NIGHT
“THE BELLS.”
WALTER BENTLEY as MATTHIAS.
FRIDAY, October 6, the Last Night, a Complimentary
Benefit will be tendered to Mr. WALTER BENTLEY,
who will appear in
“ HAMLET " and " CRAMOND BRIG.’
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSONS.
£1650 <£1650
Ml K Ell NIA y SOCIETY
Grand % Fete
AND
ART UNION!
9th NOVEMBER,
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
Isl.—House and Land, or Property, value £O5O nett, lobe
selected by the winner in any of the Australrsan
colonies; or 12 months’ trip round the-world, First
class and all expenses paid, and £2OO in cash for one
person, or eight, months for two.
2nd.— Fruit and Poultry Farm, irrigated, value £150; or
a complete Outfit and First-class Ticket, value £BO,
for the West Australian goldfields and £l7O in cash.
And 138 other valuable Prizes.
(StT* Tickets, Is, each, give you a chance whether present
or not. Buy from Local Agents, or forward £1 direct to
the Manager, Hibernian Hull, Swanston-st., and 22 will be
sent you. As there is an unprecedented run upon the
tickets, intending purchasers should buv early.
THEO. W. HERDE,'Manager.
J. M. RYAN, D.S., Hon. Sec.
rp H E A T R E ROYAL.
Acting Manager and Treasurer Fred. Gunther.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of Maggie Moore in >
MEG, THE CASTAWAY."
Box Plan open daily at the Theatre.
POPULAR PRICES —3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
. Business Manager, Mr. J. E. Moore.
CHEAP IVI USI C.
New Song, “After the Ball,” the latest, London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes,
Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON.
axb
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
_-- - £ ~
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, Oct. 5,
THE PALMER-BEAUMONT
CONCERT COMPANY;
High-class and Popular Vocal and Instrumental Music,
Popular Prices ok Admission— 3s, 2s, and Is.
Plan at Paling’s. Commence at 8. Carriages, 10 o’clock,
PHILIP STUART, Manager.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, October 3,1333.
r| WINDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazhttb.
TENDERS for the Works, <fec., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18.
Erection of Residence for Engineer, Pumping
Station, Nyngan Water Supply
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1.
Construction of Wharf at Cahills, Bellinger
River
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15.
Bridge, Belabula River, at Regan’s Crossing,
road Carooar to Trim key
Bridge, Marshall’s Creek, road Wagga Wagga to
Gugadoo
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Bridge, Wallondilly River at Lucy’s Crossing
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
A correspondent to a Broken Hill paper denies
the existence of the boycott on the local mines. As if
there was any doubt of that I Instances are thereupon
given by correspondents who, finding themselves black-
listed, have, on various occasions, secured work under
assumed names, to be recognised and fired out generally
after a few days in every case. A condition of all mine
contracts is that the names of all the men employed shall
be submitted to the censorship of the manager.
* * *
The water struck in Bayley’s Reward shaft is
described as “copious;” alleged supply, 400 gal. hourly.
A copious supply would be more than that a minute.
None the less, in an arid country it is a great event to
strike water at all.
• # •
Something novel always occurring re Low’s Log
Paddock alluvial mine (N.S.W.). “It now transpires that
where the shaft is sunk some miners, many years ago,
found a 500 oz. patch, but were driven out by water.”
Whisky and water, perhaps.
• • «
The Sunlight Co. Hillgrove, still pursues the
man-and-boy policy of using the motive power of a 40-
head battery to crush 80 tons half-oz. ore fortnightly.
* * *
Another paint-mine found in N.S.W. ; the dis-
coverer undertakes to supply 1000 tons of paint if re-
quired. Poor little Abigail floated a paint-mine in
England; when he went in the mine seems to have
snuffed out. The Qorden Emery was also a paint-mine.
The man who attempts to float a N.S.W. paint-mine takes
his life in his hand.
# » •
The world’s two largest gold-mines—Robinson
(S. Africa) and Mt. Morgan (Queensland). The former
produce* the more gold monthly; the latter makes the
bigger profit.
* * *
“Ginger” Clarke has been waxing virtuously
indignant re the extensive borrowing in England by Aus-
tralian banks. He seems to have forgotten that his own
shop, the Standard, had, by advertising and so on, been
one of the foremost offenders, though perhaps not the
most successful. Hinc, etc. Ginger may be prospering
in London, and he certainly looks like it, remarks The
Bulletin correspondent, but the mining companies with
which his name is associated have been most unlucky.
Golden Gate (Towers) and Carrington (also C.T.) are
both in bad straits. Ginger was foisted info the direc-
torate by the late Arthur Forbes—why, nobody knows.
Well, the Golden Gate paid regular monthly dividends of
6d. on a ten-shilling share, and the knowing ones duly
cleared out. No provision was made for a reserve fund,
nor was development ever dreamt of. The consequence
was that the rich stuff was worked out, and no new dis-
coveries having been made dividends were suspended,
and probably will never be renewed. By and bye, the
shareholders will, no doubt, be called upon to find fresh
capital, to be fooled away by incompetent directors,
acting upon the usual class of mining reports. The
Carrington, which was certainly thought well of on the
Towers, is in a similar fix —no available capital, with the
prospect of reconstruction. The shares of the Golden
Gate, which were at one time quoted and sold at 17s. 9d.,
are now a drug at Is. Carringtons, which have been as
high as 125., are now at Is. 3d., no buyers. No wonder
(lie names of Australian mines stink in the nostrils of
English investors.
• • «
The deepest shaft on the Barrier will one day
be Dickenson’s, the future main shaft of the Proprietary
mine. It is located about 300 ft. west from the lode, and
is thus safe from creep influences. According to present
programme it will be carried straight down to 2000 ft.
Practically all the other Proprietary shafts have been sunk
on the lode, and the continuation of the open cut system
will necessitate dismantling most of them in order to re-
move the surrounding ore. What the new shaft will
reveal in the lower levels will determine the fate of
Broken Hill.
# • #
The sensational, but long quiescent, B.H. Con-
sols mine is again in evidence, this time with a 251 h. slug
of native silver. The vein in which the discovery was
made has been followed on the incline to a depth of 480 ft.
—equal vertically to 380 ft.—sometimes almost disappear-
ing and again widening into pockets of rich ore or native
silver. It is the same in which the famous turtle slug of
’9l was found.
• * *
Junction North (8.H.) lately struck a rich
silver vein in the middle of the argentiferous sandstone
at the 420 ft. level, which returned up to 2500 z. silver and
from 7dwt. to over loz. gold per ton ; and from lin.
widened out as sunk on to over2oin.
* . » •
B.H. Proprietary run for week ending Sept. 92
was 9466 tons of ore treated, for 1138 tons bullion, con-
taining 308,4880 z. silver—the highest on record. Shares,
same week, 47s.—not quite the lowest on record.
To Non-Subscribers and Distant Readers.
The Bulletin Xmas Number, to be published
December 1(5, at this paper’s usual price, 6d., will
shine like a star. It will not be a fat hunk of
paper stained with English stories, bought abroad
for ss. a page, shared with scores of other papers
throughout the world, and backed up with yards
of stolen matter and a garish foreign-printed pic-
ture of a girl nursing a kitten.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be absolutely
original, both as regards its literary matter and its
pictures, which latter will be contributed by
the leading artists of Australia. The literary
contents will comprise contributions in prose and
verse from over 40 old and new Australian
writers, and there will not be one dull line from
first to last. The number will be the best and
biggest and most original sixpenny-worth of read-
ing published by any news-magazine in the world.
Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number will be mailed to any Australasian address
outside N.S. Wales for Bd. in stamps ; to any
English or foreign address for a remittance of 9d.
in stamps sent to the office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.
Query : Who committed the Cargo bank
robbery ?
Respectability--The behaviour of the
unthinking.
Donald Murray, a Sydney journalist, has
patented in the IJ.S., Great Britain, and else-
where, a “printing telegraph a machine, by
means of which a typewriter, a type-setting
machine, a piano, or any other keyboard instru-
ment can be operated by telegraph over a single
wire.
The Home Rule Bill.
When the political history of the nineteenth cen-
tury is read, in years to come, there will be one
measure around which universal interest will
gather, and that is “The Home Rule Bill,
initiated, guarded, and passed through the House
of Commons by that accomplished statesman, the
Right Hon. W, E. Gladstone. Through its rejec-
tion by the House of Lords a general election is
necessitated. If the Government be victorious,
and a new Parliament re-echo the voice of the
old, the Lords will not, dare not, arrogate to
themselves the right to stultify the intelligence of
Great Britain. “Let justice be done though the
heavens fall.” Then, and not until then, will
Ireland receive justice, and from that day Eng-
land, Ireland, and Scotland will become, in word
and deed, a United Kingdom. The unanimous
voice of Australia, expressed in unmistakable
accents of decision, proclaims that “Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine ” is, par excellence, the tonic of the
age. It spurns all opposition, for it is carried on
the voices of the people that no therapeutical
remedy for weakness, debility, and general de-
pression has ever been placed before the public, so
skilfully blended and so miraculously certain in
its effects, as this unrivalled preparation. The
testimonials to its wonderful efficacy are innu-
merable, and embrace members of every class of
society. Their testimony is unimpeachable.
Lane returns per Royal Tar—to organis e
further shipments of emigrants to Paraguay.
A proposal for a smoking-room, for the
clergy, at the Cathedral Chapter House, was
debated in Melb. Church Assembly the other day.
The press naturally brackets this with the discus-
sion over the Parliamentary refreshment-room, and
even some of the sarcastic clergy wanted to know
if their brethren required also a club grog-license.
Another local issue of N.S. Wales Funded
Stock is announced. The borrowing process goes
on vigorously in N.S.W. even while the Dibbs
Government preaches economy in its most uncom-
promising aspect, but hardly anybody seems to
notice how the loans are piling up. The new
issue will make an unobtrusive trifle of £2, 000,000
borrowed within the province. Of the million
loan now being floated in London, one-half only is
for conversion purposes, and the other half is a
new liability. This will make, in all, some
<£3,250,000 borrowed inside of one year, and if
the country goes to perdition at this rate in the
days of hard, unflinching retrenchment what can
it be expected to do when the clouds lift'a little
and the old razzle dazzle begins afresh ?


Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Colemane& Sons’Euealypte Ex. is the strongest*
Pears
Soap Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
11
Hi
InFn
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Number Three.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
Joe and I had stuck together from the time we
ran away
From an old New Bedford spouter which
anchored in the Bay,
And after drifting round awhile fetched up at
Waitaha,
And started in-shore whaling with the Maoris
from the pah.
Our boats and gear were paid for, though we never
made a pot,
And only once I got a chance, and the chance was
all 1 got;
Still, we made a fairish living, with nowand then
a spree —
Joe owned and steered the Taniwha, I headed
Number Three.
We did a bit of planting, and one breezy autumn
morn,
Were pitting-in the kumeras and racking up the
corn,
When the smoke curled up on Marau, which any
youngster knows,
Is the station-whaler’s lingo for the deep-sea
“There she blows !”
There was rushing for the boat-house where the
whaling-gear was stored,
And the long, slim boats lay ready with their lines
and grub aboard;
There was jabbering from the women and yelling
from the kids
As Taniwha and Number Three went rattling
down the skids.
A feathery spout to seaward showed the course
which we should take,
And all our ash was springing as we jumped the
outer break.
The big steer-oar was straining at its strop of
bullock-hide
As we flattened in the canvas and the boats began
to slide.
Just the very day for fishing—had been hot and
calm all night,
The young sea-breeze just brushing the roll with
flecks of white ;
The boats were jumping gaily in the rapid-running
waves,
And the southern swell was bursting high from
Marau’s sea-worn caves.
We edged away to windward, and were taking
down our mast,
While Joseph, with his usual luck, was first in
getting past;
The Taniwha, outside us, was going like a streak,
With her crew all looking for’ard and her paddles
all apeak.
We were not long behind them, not half a mile to
pull,
When our steerer got his iron in an eighty-barrel
• uL.
He si.unded like an anchor, till half our line was
imc,
And tiie r sh hi made on rising was a thing to
talk about.
’Twas like towing by a steamer, and the foam flew
tinged with red
On surging line and quivering boat and smoking
loggerhead,
Number Three was fairly flying—l think I see her
now
With a curl of snow-edged emerald rolling iiigh
from either bow.
He soon began to weaken, we were hauling up to
kill,
When I, looking round a moment, saw that Joe
had got a spill,
His fish was off to windward, and the Taniwha in
shreds,
And in among the raffle was a bunch of‘bobbing
heads.
Well, oil and bone are precious, but they’re not
worth sailors’ lives,
And some of them had youngsters, and all of them
had wives ;
So, though I don’t deny our luck was sticking in
our throats,
We cut the line and let him go—change for a
thousand notes.
When we got among the wreckage, I saw that
Joe, for one,
Had shipped a lot of water and was getting nearly
done;
He’d have slipped his wind, for certain, with a
very little more—
I jumped and caught him just in time, and held
him on an oar.
There was quite a nasty jobble as the strong
swell met the breeze,
Number Three was bucking wildly as she headed
to the seas ;
And just as all the other chaps were hauled in out
of harm
She chopped me with her sternpost and smashed
my ribs and arm.
While I lay up sick and idle with my broken ribs
and fin,
Joe got two fish as easily as hauling schnapper
in ;
Five pounds of ambergris in one and shares of oil
and bone,
That set him up coast-trading in a schooner of
his own.
He offered me a berth, but I was sickened of the
sea,
And luck which turned to gold with him, went
rotten bad with me.
The maize went down to nothing, the whaling did
not pay,
At last the coasting steamers came and scared the
fish away.
I’d sit for days and watch for spouts, and nurse
my broken joint,
Where the long Pacific rollers split on ram-bowed
Marau point;
At last, when all the country-side was taken up
for sheep
I had enough of luck to get a boundary-line to
keep.
There’s a great big iron woolshed where the
whaleboats used to lie,
And broken bits of Number Three are patching up
a stye;
Where we used to hear the sea-birds scream
around the try-works mess
There’s the buzzing of the Wolseleys and the
clicking of the press.
Sometimes I see ray old mate—is he glad to see
me ? Well,
I’m a rough old boundary shepherd, and he’s a
Queen-street swell,
A member of the Harbour Board, churchwarden,
and J.P.,
But he used to steer the Taniwha when I headed
Number Three.
Maori land.
WAIHOA.
On many way-back stations in N.S.W.,
boys, whose ages range from eight to twelve years,
are now employed as boundary-riders. In shear-
ing sheds in the Lachlan district, youngsters who
ought to be at school are numerously employed.
Scandinavia has joined the Triple Alliance,
whose territories now extend right across Europe,
from Sicily to the frozen ocean and the land of
the midnight sun. Norway wants to sever from
Sweden and set up a Norse Republic, and Russia
is understood to be spreading fuitber disaffection
in the peninsula, with a view to the bursting-up
of the kingdom, and the annexation later on of
Norway with its magnificent coast-line and its
splendid harbours opening on the Atlantic. There-
fore, Scandinavia throws in her lot with the
defensive alliance of Germany, Austria and Italy,
with a view to staving-off the inevitable, and the
four States draw an ink line across Europe to
block the coming avalanche.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
From a recent Australian newspaper :
A man, supposed to be named Thomas M'lhvraith, com-
mitted suicide on Wednesday, by throwing himself under
a train.
The hazarded theory is a bit out. It was a case
of misadventure, not suicide. A Thomas MTI-
- was trying to “do Blondin ” along one of
the narrow strips of country reserved to the
people as against the broad areas reserved for
land-grab railway syndicates, being determined to
set other people a good example in not trespassing
on soil which didn’t belong to him. Being broad
of foot, and the thin slice of people’s land being
very narrow, the ungainly fellow overbalanced
himself, tottered and fell on to a railway-line just
as a train dashed by and manured the ground with
his presumptuous brains.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Raratonga, in the South Seas, has set up
a Constitutional Government with Moss, of Maori-
land, as boss, Governor, British Resident, and
head of the State generally. In Raratonga it
costs 6s. to get married. The criminal code con-
sists entirely of banishment, and that is the pun-
ishment for every crime in the calendar. The
Parliament votes a sum of ,£9OO for the expenses
of the State, but apart from this the Government
is permitted to spend not more than £l2O to meet
any serious emergency which may arise when the
House isn’t sitting. The collection of revenue
costs £4B a year; the administration of justice,
£lB ; the postal department, £24 10s.; the educa-
tion department, £75; the Cabinet, which consists
almost entirely of Moss, receives £3O per annum ;
and the public works vote is £lB 15s. The Acts
of Parliament and public records are kept in
Moss’s trunk. Altogether Raratonga seems to be
a happy, primitive kind of a State, and When the
days grow hot, and the streets get dusty, and the
typhoid and the itinerant preacher and the fraudu-
lent bank-smash are abroad in the Australian
cities, it would be a blessed thing to get away for
a while, and he a nude savage on Moss’s isle in
the coral seas.
The Ghost of the Past.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
The lonely publican sits behind the empty bar of
his shanty on a deserted Victorian goldfield—
apparently the last man in the last place in the
world. But no ! Enters a digger, equipped with
bluey, pint-pot, &c., for the road ; he looks round
the empty bar and remark.--—“ Good day, boss.”
“Good day.”
Traveller seats himself, and slowly and thought-
fully cuts a pipeful of tobacco, and fills his pipe,
while the landlord, looking dispiritedly on,
scratches his arms and sighs.
Five minutes impressive silence.
Suddenly—
“ Got any good brandy ? ”
“1 have that.”
“ It’s my shout for the crowd twenty nobblers,
mister.”
With a spark of the old animation, the nobblers
are poured out, and ranged in a line along the
counter. Theswagman puts down half-a-sovereign.
“ Have a drink yourself, mate.”
The publican nods; and, with the old war-cry,
“Here’s luck,” disposes mechanically of one of
the drinks.
The wayfarer slowly rises, and, taking up, one
by one, eighteen of the remaining gla.-s s, walks
solemnly to the door and empties their contents in
the road.
The publican scratches his head and sighs.
The guest, with a “ Here's to you!” tosses Off
the one remaining nobbier, shoulders his swag,
lights his pipe, and, with a nod and “good day ”
to his grief-stricken host, drifts mournfully out
and away.
SYDNEY COVE.
Front the Russian novel “Dead Souls,” by
Nikolar V. Gogol, (p. 18)
“ Fat men know better how to manage their affairs in
this world than thin ones do. The thin ones only serve
on special commissions, or are merely in the ranks, ai d
change about here and there; their existence is too litrht
in some way, too airy and not to be depended upon. But
the stout ones never fill minor posiiions, they always hold
responsible ones ; and if they do settle down anywhere,
they do so forcibly and reliably, so that the place trembles
and threatens to give way beneath them. They are not
fond of external glitter; their coats are not so skilfully
cut as thin men’s coats; but, on the other hand, they
have plenty of cash in their coffers.”
Otago Daily Times (M.L.) :
The exesution of Makin is not a very nice topic, but
there is something' like a I ouch of grim humour in the
suggestion that, with half-a-dozen victims to choose from,
they had mixed them and hanged him on a case of mis-
taken identity. The same thing once happened in Vic-
toria. A man was charged with the murder of a settler
and his wife. A body was found, and by a trick a confes-
sion was obtained, poured into the ear of a detective in-
carcerat ed with the accused on some pretended charge.
The accused was tried for one of the murders and con-
victed. As he left the dock he remarked, “Well, it’s
hard to be hung on the wrong bones.” So it turned out
in due course. When the bones, which had been posi-
tively identified as those of a man by the local doctor,
were submitted to Melbourne experts, they were declared
to be those of a woman.
Not very many years ago a man was almost con-
victed in Sydney of child-murder, the main evi-
denee being a portion of the supposed cor pm
delicti. After all, the bones, it was shown by a
naturalist, belonged to a wallaby.


i
ì
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
i\\WM
m.
m
S:
m
SSSS'A
m
m
■>r-.
m
i
m
w£
m
Brass
CocO^
:SSS
%
*V\
The Funeral of Flaherty.
(FOR THE BULLETIN .)
I have never such a vivid faith in the im-
mortality of the soul as when I see pass by the
funeral-procession of a man whom I have known
to be a good fellow while alive. The concentra-
tion of forces from winds, and seas, and flowers*
and the budding of trees in spring, and th e
strength and glory of sunrise, and the sad
splendour of sunset, and the loves and dreams of
generations of kindly men and women which
go to make up his essence are not, I think*
likely to be flung abroad, after he dies in this
world, into blind space and chaos.
I know, and as the years go on am knowing
more, a score of these good fellows who will meet
me on that Other Shore with welcoming hands
and say to me, “ Why so late ? We expected you
to be with us ever so long ago.”
And one of them, whom of them all I know
best, will speak to me with a jest on his lips
and say— “lt was as I told you. The churches
confused the story. Bishop Jeremy Taylor, who
is just now engaged with St. Simeon Stylites in
picking asphodels and amaranths for a salad, will
tell you all about it when he has finished. But, in
a word, the churches misconstrued the primal
revelation. They made Hell a place to go to.
But Hell was in reality the place we have left.
And we had been sent there for our sins in a
previous existence. ”
* * *
Flaherty was buried last week. The small
street in the suburb where he had lived was con-
gested with mourning cabs and other valedictory
vehicles of every kind of build.
I had only known him for a few months and,
even at that, very slightly. My first transaction
with him was on account of a widow who had
been left with several small children in destitute
circumstances. Some of us were getting up a
subscription for her.
“I’ll put you down for five shillings, Mr.
Flaherty, if you don’t mind,” I said.
“You’ll do nothing of the damned kind,” he
remarked, “you’ll put me down for that,” giving
me a sovereign.
• * *
Flaherty was oy profession—if the term
may be applied to such a method of making a
living—a bookmaker. And his funeral was far
better attended than that of any defunct celebrity
I have known of.
I happened, on the day of the funeral, to be in
Villmer’s Hotel, which was at the corner of the
street in which Flaherty had lived.
I asked Villmer—an obese-faced German—
what was the cause of his (Flaherty’s) death.
“ Gonsumbtion,” was the reply.
And then —owing to some delay connected with
the undertakers —several mourners dropped in to
drink a farewell glass to the memory of Flaherty.
“A very good fellow, was Mick,” said one
with large pearl buttons on his buff-coloured, short
overcoat.
“A d d good fellow,” said another, empha-
tically. “He gave me five to one over—but never
mind the name of the horse—and paid me like a
shot. ”
“ I lost a hundred or two with him,” remarked
another, who looked like a bank-clerk, “but I
don’t mind that. I know he always looked after
his mother and sisters, and a man who does that
is a good enough man for me.”
“I tell you vat,” exclaimed Villmer, the pub-
lican ; “I don’t vant to have any tears or
female’s remarks in this bar, if you please. Mick,
when he came back from the races, al ways used to
set in this bar. That much I know,
and that much is quite enough for me, too.”
And then the publican, even Villmer, the obese-
faced German, displayed emotion.
“You lay around with that other barrel,
George,” I heard him say to his barman, “ this is
going to be a very thirsty funeral, and I think
we’re going to have our whack out of it.”
* # *
But Mick Flaherty, man of no account as
he was in the estimation of chapel members and
members of little local Bethels, went to his grave
with one true mourner, in addition to his mother
and sisters. And that true mourner was —not a
woman, although you would naturally think so—
but Tom Hogan, a hard-faced, red-complexioned
man, who said to me as he got into his cab, “Mick
owed me some money, but, by God, I’d give it all,
and all I am worth, for him to be alive again.”
And Tom Hogan carried in his hand a bunch of
violets, which he meant to drop upon the coffin.
CREEVE ROE.
The horse of a looney German dropped
from exhaustion, at Lilydale, Vic. He calmly
piled wood on the animal and burnt it to death.
Then, getting a fresh supply of wood, he burnt
the carcase to ashes. Two children witnessed this
mad and horrible outrage, for which he goes to
gaol (not to the lunatic asylum) for six months.
A cut from the letter of an Australian in
England to a Bulletin man :
At present I’m living down in Wales, and absorbing new
ideas at every pore. The fanner who lodges me told me
the other day that his family had held the same farm for
322 years, as proved by old leases and by tablets in the
church. Then he told me the average rent and tithes paid
during the period was about £2OO a year. I put two and
two together, and told him that his family had paid a
landlord and a parson about £65,000 to sit on the fence
and steal the crops grown by tenant’s sweat. (N.B.— He
always votes Tory). He wanted to see the figures,
scratched his head, pondered. Been thinking very hard
ever since. Hope I’ll get him to vote Radical next
election.
In its biography of the late Captain
Devlin a Sydney daily offers a unique apology for
baldness: —
On February 7 they made one of the Fijian islands, and
on this descried a tribe of Fijian cannibals, who gave
chase. Here again Captain Devlin’s energy stood in good
request, and by his tact they outwitted the natives and
got clear ; and after being 48 hours at the steer-oar he fell
asleep, and when he awoke he found that his hair had
fallen out and that he was a bald man.
The writer of this paragraph is also partially bald,
but he lost his hair in the course of a 15 years’
struggle with every hair-restorer known in science
or fiction—kerosene included, also Monkey Soap.
Of them all he found kerosene the most reliable,
but abandoned it on reading a dreadful story
about a Maoriland lady who was washing her
failing locks with this fluid secretly, by candle-
light, in her own bedroom, when the candle some-
how fell on her and her head blew up. Now,
however, he intends to let the balance of his hair
slide and explain, when it is all gone, that it fell
off suddenly through anxiety in a shipwreck.
Revenge.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Inspector Knox, of the detective police,
in Sydney 35 years ago, had a score against his
subordinate, Sergt. Cox, for several things. In
the first place, the Inspector would soon retire,
and Cox would succeed him, and no man has
ever yet contemplated his successor in posse with
affection. Then Knox was a bachelor and Cox a
widower, and they had quarrelled over a woman,
Kitty Scott, a spanking derai-mondaine, and Cox
had won. In short, Knox was lying low for Cox,
ever on the alert for a chance to get even.
* * *
The men were loafing in the general room
waiting for the orders of the day. Conversation
turned on bank swindlers, and just after the
society D. had been excusing them a voice broke
in—
“ The infernal sharks deserve no pity ; they
ought to get 20 years.” It was Cox, and he had
a son in a bank, too.
In a little while the Chief, from the inner room,
called the men in for instructions, using the
strongest language, as was his wont, especially to
Cox.
“Cox,” he shouted, “Look sharp, stir your-
self.”
Cox stood submissively before his chief.
“I’ve got a nice job that’ll just suit your
taste. Make this arrest at the Pacific
Bank,” and the chief handed him the warrant.
Without looking at the document, Cox went on
his mission.
He went straight to the manager’s room at the
bank, handed him the warrant, and requested the
defaulter to be called.
The manager gave two rings on a bell and in a
little while a clerk appeared.
“ This is the gentleman you want, sergeant!”
said the manager, simultaneously with a “ Hello,
father !” from the clerk.
Old Cox pulled himself together, and remarked
simply—
“ I want you to come with me for a little while,”
and the two went away together.
At the watch-house it was the Sergeant’s duty
to see his prisoner searched. Among the contents
of young Cox’s pockets were several letters from,
and a photo, of —Kitty Scott.
# * *
Old Cox started drinking, and in two days
became shattered. On the morning of the third
he went out into the barrack-yard and shot him-
self. Knox scored.
PAUL MELL.
As earth-worms from tuberculosed bodies
make their way with bacilli to the surface of
cemeteries, why should it not be legally enacted
(pending a cremation law) that all bodies be
buried in quicklime?
Thus a correspondent:—
Editor Bulletin, —lie your “ bold generalise!' ” on the
qualities that go with “ curly hair.” Prof. Simms, on
Physiognomy, expressed this view, in very blunt terms :
“Curly-haired people are born liars. No man whose
hair curls naturally and closely about his head can
become great; but, above all, he will be a liar. Back
somewhere in his ancestry has been a negro-taint. The
sign is infallible. Lying and deceit are special gifts of the
nigger temperament! ” —F.
Colemane & Sons’ Bucalypte Pills stir one up.
Nemesis.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Previous to the opium war the Chinese not only shut
out the foreigner but shut in their own people. The
opium-war was directly responsible for the irruption of
Mongolian hordes into America and Australia.”
There was clash of steel and cannon roar,
There was rifle-flash on the China shore,
Till the Mongol oped—as the Briton bade—
His closed seaports to the sons of Trade.
There was joy in the hearts of the merchant-men*
There was joy—great joy in the opium-den,
There was joy in the heart of the debauchee
As he blessed the ships of the Western Sea.
And the English bells, with a gladsome voice,
With peal on peal rang a loud “ Rejoice !”
Rejoice, rejoice for the conquering brand
And the strong right arm of our Ancient Land.
From Mongol ports to the Austral strand
(Give thanks to the Briton’s conquering brand
There came a curse as fierce and fell
As the dog that barked at the mouth of hell.
The land lies set in a summer sea,
And the land is fair as a land may be,
And its corn doth droop and its fruits do fall,
But the Leprous Curse is upon them all.
And the wild winds wail as they wander by,
And the bells peal out with a plaintive cry :
“ See here your gains from the Mongol strand,
And the strong right arm of the Motherland.”
Q.
P. L.
The Melb. Builders’ and Contractors' Asso-
ciation assembled, the other day, at the good old
annual dinner, an indomitable spirit named
Baxter occupying the chair. Aggressive gaiety
distinguished the builders and contractors on this
occasion, and alter Fitz Gibbon had proposed the
chair’s health, Baxter brought down the house by
announcing that there was a great deal of credit
due to them for holding their dinner at all, con-
sidering the state of the bricks-and-mortar trade.—
The builders and contractors strive
Against adversi-ty ;
Their maxim is to keep alive
And never murmur “ die.”
Their gallant hearts with hope deferred
Have not begun to sicken ;
Prom yearly dinner undeterred,
They pass around the magic word—
“ Hoorooforfizzanchicken!”
Ah ! what a lesson for the weak
Who faint at fortune’s frown,
Who never seem to have the cheek
To eat their troubles down.
The builders cry, “Dull care, aroynt I”
Their strong pulsations quicken ;
They spread the board, and (here’s the point)
Although the times are out of joint,
Hoorooforfizzanchicken.
For 16d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning. ”
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


.
U T
BULLETIN’S
Missing Word Competition--No. 7
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement,
Coupons received to 28th October,
1893,
_ ■ •■■■■■
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents arc known only to tho manager of
this paper.
If the worn is not named, the money will
he added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
Ihe sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps; when the
latter are sent, a penny to he added for
exchange.
- BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
Every precaution has been tnkeu to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
H Ths Bulletin’s 19 Missing Word Competition Coupon*—Ho* 7.
X X
Out this out. pH in the ntissiny word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney , in time to he received by Saturday, 28th October , 1893,
One of the morals of the hideous Qarcoar tragedy is—When you hear a burglar
in the house and go forth armed to meet him, don’t take a light in your hand. You
know your own house better than the .. does. He needs a light; you don’t.
When he shows a light he provides you with a target, and also assures you that you
aren’t shooting one of your own people. If you show a light, you sign your own
death-warrant,
Xam e ______
Address ,
Missing Word : ’
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the toted amount
received—-no deduction whatever being made. Should there he more than one successful eompctiUr,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
jV o replies will he admitted except contained on this coupon.
“ Bnlletln ” Series, 3NTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SEOOITD EHDIT’IOIiT
,C A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
((
IBULIIeriKL ” Series, KTo. 2.
a
Tales of the Convict
Bj PRICE WARTJJNTG.
g
§
“ ‘ The Transportation System,’ said Archbishop Whately, speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a monument such
as I suppose was never before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity ’ How t rue
this is Marcus Clarke’s great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung’s ’ stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not lie «iven to
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are of the
blind brutahsm of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the tnvtm-e ,-rf
1 ,1 IT /v» , n . 1 • 1 . ./• '<s vu '-’ Xv. tvX. \JX. Ulv I'd lllib 111
Hoot n n Al\ n e Af fim f I iniftian n nerutTtviAn 4- s-\ U . ... 1 * Ilf* Tit- . _
-Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
“ The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of The
Bulletin, now appear in a. neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and tar more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke before
producing ‘ His Natural Life,’ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict system. The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer’s knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘ Price Warmm 1 as the Author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout • Ids thorom
ac
the
. ' . . - • ~ y iiimuinioTu : ms taoroißni
cquamtance, oven to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary ability with which
lie subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the ’ initial stun-
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what Wind
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellionVotinst lint
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made arc our own work.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
"THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly— Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
£ ‘ "3? la. o Bulletin,”
1 tenner Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy,
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican I'orm of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
•.<; 'uluoation.
li i.oi of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A L niter] Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—Tile cheap
Chinaman, the cheap Higher, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System —one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A tJnivercal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
- he entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
Ihe Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.-”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started Id years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes;
The Bulletin s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by Com paring
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
Prom the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have Spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the dawns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which lias not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
’Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unccpialled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, aud is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they arc printed. ,
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushmau of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all Journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Suhscripiim (payable strictly in advance), Si,e
Shillings and Sixpence pei' Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed t >
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial comniuni-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Auciudalu.


Boy 1034,
Telephone
&
MANUFACTURERS QF
Silver and Hl@ctro*plated Goods
OF EVERY INSCRIPTION
iIEIEre
SHEFFIELD.
Sito-w Rooms;
BMPIIIE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,"
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
NOW PUBLISHED,
(f
THE LAST OE SIX:
Titles of Ilie Austral Triples,
BV
EBUEST FAVEUC,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney,
Scale of Advertising
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Os. per inch per insertion, nett,
30 per cent, discount.
20 .. ..
Single Column ... ... ... ... ...'
Quarterly Contracts ... ... ...
Half Yearly „
One Year ~ ... ... ... ... 2o ~ ~ „
Paragraph Advertisements ... 10s. per iucty per nett.
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
Sole Agents for HENKIT HEATH.
Price 3s. 6d.
rtCT-
(JENRY V[EAT!f3
TRADE MASK
”v
sm: t
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price £»s. CScl.
A Splendid Hat. fov Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three tnjgligb shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really -go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
O. 3KC. &: SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
SBT Look Out for
"THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator,
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies,
PARKE &
CLiIIMIXTIEIDL
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor or tlxo “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crashing, Amalgamation an{l Conecutffttion.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIOENTLY REPLIED TO,
ì
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
i
LADIES!
Your attention, pleas*, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coining season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily- visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
Great is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
dights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES I—One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PARK).
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices*
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard. Square, SYDNEY.
[Established ov bp. a Quarter of a Cent iky.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED, W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
tar Tonus—i»s, M, i>or i»ay. WaltGl SidllGy (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
KPIRIV.A.a'E HOSPITAL^
CAMDEN HOUSE, MUhoh's Point. SYDNEY .
m
m
Cv. ':V;i
warn
wmm
Resident Medical Officer-Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-K O-S., Eng., etc,
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical Officer, Brisbane, tie.
BXPERIBWCBD 3ST XT H. S 11ST C - STAFF,
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAIi, SURGICVIr and CYNrECOLOGICAIi CASES.
MIDWIFERY TAK EN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
“THE BULLETIN ” .SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
H
