

O
V*.
a?
XJi
4-.
t>
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
METROPOLITAN STAKES SEPT. Kith ..
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER 14th
MELBOURNE CUP. NOVEMBER 7th
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (Fob Horses 0»ly)
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.F.0., Brisbane,
*t 5 EACH.
20.000 1§» 5 Each.
20.000 @ 5 Each.
50.000 @ 5: Each.
20.000 10 Each.
Queensland.
jE£. G. WA.TKIIVS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR-
Mining and Contractors 7 Plant, Engineers 7 and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ds
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
4?
T:
4>
4.
o X,
o
o
<RAC'<'aJocK>
O
o
'*
o
-i
p
V
()
IK. A. Hervcy, Agent, 28 I*lll-M , Sydney
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
s. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IVfOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
r nnDc.T? nil()t be received LATER than 1. pan. on
1 u LSD AY,
r •<
■v*' ?
lilii
rHt
.0(1“
It
SS
»*
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE Proprietor.
ds
WILKEK’S lIISII. IIISOFf’S ALE.
O-OBCKT WALKER, 24 EU33STI3 STREET, SYX33XTOE33r.
J. «SC-
Sole A-genta New South Wales for Messrs. Olaytoix and
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS.
192
CLAYTONS SHUT!LtWTOTOUVC.OLH
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
■ 'V
-
pi
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., ETC-
LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, 1R ACTION ENGINES. BSh Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & C. Howard, 280| Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 13.—i No. 709. j
[Saturday, be.ptemoer xG, 1893.
Registered at the G-eneral Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
THe Brighton of JTew South Wales.
». most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
itting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D’HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
o
l^dCat*». ■IC.J.J «T\flri3XrS~jL~Jbj-trC. .... JPi'ojprietreaa.
A. AIO) J. STEWART & CO.'S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
df
Tha only TUBES need by all the Governments of Australia.
UASkm FOR Awnuua-T. JT. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SVDNEIf
“ Leger” Tobacco. “ Leger” Tobacco.
• ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARYT
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
“LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O DIVIDES £5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER. 1893. Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893*
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS! DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING!
“ LEGER ” has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success of the "LEGER,” the manufacturers have instructed
Iheir Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O £5O £5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed aa follows
lo the person forwarding, to the Agent the largest number of the "LEGER” paper tags or labels
from the plugs during the Six Months ending 17tb DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS ... ,£l5 0 0
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS ... ... ' ... .. 10 O »»
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS ... ... ... 7 I© O
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS ... ... .. ... .. 5 5 0
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS .. ™ .. „ .. 5 0 0
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS „ .. .. .. .. 3 3 0
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS „ ... .. .. .. 2 8 0
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS .. .. .. ..' .. 8 0 0
Competition closes December 17, 1893. Tickets mnst be sent in not later than December 21, 1893.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23,1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public may be present to see the contents counted. ,
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—" LEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the "LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, but of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. 3d. and often
la. <sd. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for the “Leg’er 7 ’ Tobacco—Price, Is. per Block.
“ X.e M JjLßja avfc oxx !
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week’s-supply 26 per cent, cheaper. s'
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
“THE LAST OF SIX.”
Price - One Shilling*.
Medical.
The First Step
NERVOUS MEN
rn' apply for
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. 3MC. PERRYj
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCOA
far A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes o> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions arc supplied for their use
In every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-St., London. Po*~ Pur-
chasers should look to the label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address Ui not 523 Oxford street, London, they are
wurtous
RftrATIAM /
m
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOB INFANTS amd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
wo have examined.”— Chas. H. Pikssb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S,, &c. Wm. Johnstokb
Ph.D,, F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
HpALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
p o WDtR
r
m
I
She; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! '
He; “No!”
She : “Know my cakes ? ”
He ; “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
THE
Bank of lew Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Men I have Smiled with.”
w E STAY at B ruton’s,
MHAamoa
BOTJRKE. Every Comfort at RALPH'S
“ UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
TyTYNGAN. WINTERS’ TATTER-
’ SALE'S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms.
*W arren.
Give FULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
THE LA NG 11 AM HOTEL.
CHAB. PRINCE. PROPRIETOR,
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Beet -Jrands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, Stc.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30*. per WEEK.
WHITE HOSE
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atkinson's. Beware of Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
EAXJ DE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eau de Cologne
is one of the most refreshing Perfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of ail Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION I ~Omy genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
. Trade Mark—a “ White Hose "
Ex and address in full Jt
manhood.
aBALTH ' KbsToßEo
O® R * CORO'S
L |f j.
T)u only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
And unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restore* Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cates of 19s, or four quantities in one, for S6k. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for A astralasia—Perry & Co., 7u Gertrude
Street, EUsroy. MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. 8. Wales—W. H. Soul &00., Pitt-st, Sydney.
To N ewsagents,
T .A. « 3Vt A.IMIA.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from Thk
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
M edidal.
£
4/1
%
%
rose's!
JUSL.
w
0$
LOTI
dsf
ds
THUS valuable Lotion, is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only, by the Proprietor,
lE3C. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
y/
$
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT
y
$
N\
/0
\Y
SSs
>n
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorousstrength,
even the worst case permanently cmed in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address:—VOLTAlC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
pH®
o>.
PATENT
PILLS
*
$3
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
suoh os wind and pain in
the stomach, siok head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer la earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorder*
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
oe found to work wonders upon the most important
Jrgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ PACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeohnm’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine In the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills,
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled; They are the best ever offered to the
public and »ill speedily remove that sense of oppressing
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Brbcuau'h OocoH
Pi bus a trial and the most violent Cough will in *
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd, (containing 66 pills), and »*
Es. !WL (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealer#
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


Medical.
3
PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualitied and Registered by the Medical
Boai’d of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Thanpsutics,
SP3JIAZ.IST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Puysiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Hu.u'iy' arid Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatise
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English G overrun nit). Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted ease, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
I Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last editioxx will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ON 1? SHILLING
{to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous, correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the fir-t letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restles mess at Night, a
Des pair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
P.vTik.nts Srioui.i) Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Ur. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE.
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what 1 claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession.
J ress, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHAB.GE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free,
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cur- all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to man y honourably.
Hanra g'.Misiiilalion :
Monday, I’uesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
D.. 30 a. in. to I p.m.; 3p. in. to 5 p.m.
Saturday d 1.30 a. in. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
i p.m. to 1) p.m.
A Id ress all Communications:
Di d ECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
I’LEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHK.N WRITING.
Medical.
Or. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registeied by the Governing
Medical Board ol New South Wales.
I v_> I
; H
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
m the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Fervons Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his ease has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
i.he purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 eases since
coining to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
iddressed :
Or. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
i <- sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION EKEE.
Hotel.
an
“ The (Sydney (Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young s Ckbscknt,
loner Uoiusiiii, *.v«<nt.v, .1 ustralia.
J. A. QUIN, l’i oprietor.
1.11(1 If.
hl.MlEinni).
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two frie ids.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &o.
Position in tin* very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
Tie (pint of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PKOMENADK ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
LatTies’ Tea Rooms.
•pHE C BAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in t hevicinify, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
Medical.
RUPTURE CURED!
jiKPIERICES
Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag-
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture in all parts of the
worltl and givingrelief to thousands
ot'sufferers., This entire newspaper
couid be 111 I ed with letters likethese:
A Resident of London.
Mr. Joax KiNG.of N 0.17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’s Estate, S. E„,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Truss!
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. It fitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have gota
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses.! cm jump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; it holds everything firm and sure.”
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mb. J. Tomasellx, of the Government.He use. under date
of Decembers), 1892, writes:—“On the 17th of last April I got
one of your trusses and it has already n»arly cured me of a
very bud rupture of about 26 years’ standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your Truss has
done what doctors and trusses have not been able to do in
26 years. You may publish my letter for the good of the
afflicted.”
Latest from New Zealand,
Ms.T,\y. Nabbey. of A karoa, Canterbury,in aletterdated
Feb.2l,lB93,says: 'TreceivedtheTrussingoodorderandam
a\s,d.to ssxy Ujits me like a)r/oi’f. I can ride with ease, I ift,in fact,
do anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while X can get one of yours.”
BSr-Oall or write to-day forourfree“Tllust.PamphletNo.
X,” and please mention this pnper. Address the Australian
agents Messrs. W.H.Sou 1& Co., 158 Pitt St.. Sydney Elliott
Bros., Brisbane ; o-, the Magnetic Elastic Trii's Co.,
*?o. 704 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Cal.. U. S. A
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST. Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
IKT o C xtt re, 3NT o F* a. y.
MISSES
electro
Pelt
fI’HIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
L cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
V ictokia Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
53
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. c. ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonics promptly
attended to.
HALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
VIA AMERICA
J IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL mail express service.
Avoidin'.: -dike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In eonjnnothin with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, a;»l Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, .San Iran cisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through lares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 1 s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAGE RIESImMTMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Dates of Departure.
Commander Sydney IMelbournei Adelaide
; 1 Noon [ 1 p.rn. j 1 p.m.
Fiasohi .. Sept. 27(Oct 1 Oct. 3
L. Boulard O. t. 27 Nov. ijNov. 3
A. Poydenot Nov. 27tDec. 1 Deo. 3
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
i Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lot don and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—-Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For farther particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Steamer
Y.deIaCIOTAT
POLYNESIEN
ARMAND
BEHIC
Miscellaneous.
CRCMARTJ
M
~ f 3
i m
v.o.
(II
CROMMYiI
Whisky
Greenlees Brothers
OUSCOWUWBONMO
ARQYLEShIRE
£
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
187 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!'
Ca.pill a rine!
fST“ The Lightning Moustache Producer. ISfc
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, ami
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
UUI« A AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR,
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used hv
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:— J
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALKS BARBERS SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 «i 682 George Street. Sydney.
&T NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


EWjtOME
TREADLE
AND
NEW NATIONAL HANR
Sewing Machines
BEST on EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent,
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat.
alogue with full
particulars.
o
»
V
s,<
a
*•
Ha
&
iS
K<
O
V
&
❖
H
&
R*
<0
K<
<b
6^/
** e
Oily
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
(WE
■
SELF THREADING
FOR THE
SHUTTLE
NEW HOME and NEW NATIONAL
SIMPLICITY ITSELF!
..misis
am ao S 3 TO,,
BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Sheath.
Fitted with HUNTING KNIFE, and Handy
STEEL for Sharpening.
PLAIN, */- each ; IMPROVED DESIGN, 13 - each.
fsd
S2&~ POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of Money Order.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter-St., SYDNEY, Australia
n.
A pMft
Artistic (Resigns at (Moderate prices.
NOVELTIES
—IN—
COMBINATION
SECRETARY,
Bookcases
AND
China Cabinets
Suitable for the
Dining-room, Library
AND
Boudoir.
Estimates for FURNISHING
a Single Room or a Mansion.
A STAFF OF
SKILLED WORKMEN
AND
Improved Machinery
Employed on the Premises.
■
1 ffl
In' '■
iif
& O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Xiimited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
Steam
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Engines, Boilers, Gas Bnglnei
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tM- Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
‘ Plum’
fds
THE
‘Plum’
fTITT’S brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public,
I Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use. and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave tliom-
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
( Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd.; Fair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Pnoe \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Fair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
teenM
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street. SYDNUY.
rTEETH.-A COMPLETE SET, ONE
X GUINEA.— THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-street. —Single Tooth, 2/6;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.—The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages:—
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACK E TT writes: “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
. satisfy every customer.”
SEND or GALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
98 KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st.
fds
Barry’s Tricopherous
HAI RASKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, braises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Ke w York.
“ CLOTHED WITH AIR"
Cellular Aertex Underclothing
FOR WINTER COMFORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated Unshrinkable Merinl
Singlets and Pants just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (4 sleeves), 7s. «d.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 7S. 6d.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. «d.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and include in Postal Order or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
Sole Agents :
BRAHAM Si MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
ir&Sv
<SSr
S3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
bronchitis
AMD
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor;
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Dity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-ai
Wholesale ol Elliott Brothers. Limited
“ A Golden Shanty.”
#&♦ !♦
1) inolia
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
'■An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”— Chemist and Druggist (Loudon). In five kinds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
■
H^.A.ST/c
tBLONDEAU&Cif;
Depots,
Rylandßoad
£o\dqn-H^
TOR ITCHING, ECZEMA,
ROUGHNESS.&SKIN IRRITATION
■
_LONDEAU&C!f
oo n o £p London. Paris&NewYork
g e^v=N9 —x-
ROAQtf> LONDON.NW.c^)^
For Toilet, Nursery&?
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PHUKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
A SANITARY, SOLUBLE ROSE-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes—in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
f
Sk.
■v v
&>«•
or head
B.MOUNTCASTLE& S<?Hs
OIREOT IMPORTERS & MANOFACTORER3
of hat<s & Caps
dsf
—
u.
I?
dsf
ds
0
fds
m
f
dsf
a
o
dsf
ds
9
fds
f
—s
dsf
ds
fds
f
.‘sV'-r
ds
fds
f
(QOKSEY&O)S [ELEBRMED IONDON HATS
WTicn ordering number or hot will be sufTicicnl
FOR


The Bulletin
tftri/isfrrr l /it tkr timrml Posk S't/fhte#, fdr 'transmission hit poU as d lfem)>hp4t.
Vol. 13—Re. 709.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1893.
Price, Qd.
■ h l ' J
r va K.
k *?*
dsf
“ HIS FIRST CIGAR.”
The N.S.W. daily press scolds G. H. Reid for “keeping the cigar alight for the other boy."


The Bulletin
Tho National Australian Newspaper.-,
"Australia for the Australians."
P a oratutors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO.„ Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
7t/s to si.rnsoitrßKßS
(payable in advance,' only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... -40 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0 1:26
Quarterly... ... ... ... ... 0 6 C
Nor ter:.
lifl sfiiiiUu f ilti i’rt la Til a I!c(,!,ktix 0/Ree Twenty
ShiUinys sicr.'i.i /—with pwtiye a Uted where required,
which you may pay by Poet OJicc Oi'iUv, One Pound
Sote, or stamp* of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Hl’i.lktix posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not. open to residents of Sydney. Tn that
city Tub Bum.ktix is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
»n the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not tvish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., ami-all Business Communications
tale addrosed to William Macluod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.,
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence'’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 0000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as stricllg confidential.
Tin; Rili.etin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address Is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tin? Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, F.C.
Also is the Transvaal :—Tha Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with ?.s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will he no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
*
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launees-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents fur The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16. 1893.
The Coming Queensland Revolution.
Premier M‘llwraith is laying broad and
deep the foundations of the coming revolu-
tion in Queensland. He is binding the
Democracy with bands of straw, and enacting
solemnly on parchment that the laws of
humanity are hereby abolished, and that the
rising nation shall be permitted to have no
more aspirations or ambitions from this date
until the latter end of futurity, and that the
soul of the people shall no longer have any
official existence. The soul of man is a
fragment of the being of God, and—so far
as it interferes with his personal ambitions
and the financial speculations of tlie ascend-
ant Parliamentary gang— M‘llwkaith pro-
ceeds to repeal God and to extinguish the
Almighty by Act of Parliament. It is a
strange and wonderful spectacle—this vision
of a solitary fat man constructing a long-
series of statutes to provide that in all Ihe
hereafter the people of Queensland shall
never have any semblance of political liberty,
any outfit f >r a rational ambition, any scope
for self-government, any hope or chance or
possibility of ever being anything save the
Fat Man’s serfs and the bond-slaves of
“ private enterprise.’ And it is supremely
imbecile as well as wonderful—it is, after all,
only a belated atom of humanity hanging up
on a nail a paper decree to the effect that
the world will no longer ho permitted to go
round.
# * •
If it were possible to rule the world solely
with parchment M'llwkaith’s policy would
hi both well devised and well executed.
When lie abandoned the lying pretence- of
being (In' leader of a great Nationalist party
a ul brazenly became tlie most bigoted and
u snup ilous reactionary (save, perhaps, his
la e partner in political infamy, .S. Grii’fith)
ever known in Australian politics, there
w re many obstacles in his way. He has
already overcome most of them —on paper,
ul a 1 events and is in a lair way to over-
come the rest. The Legislature,, elected as
a Democratic institution, by a strong. Demo,
qratic majority, was bought body and soul
with, the. prospective Lapd Grant Railway
bribe—the only scheme which promised
enough political commissions and percentages
tp go round, —and it disfranchised the majority,
ip one act, The systematic importation of
Kanakas, Chinese, and, other cheap, and;
slavish aliens has since dope much to starve
out the disfranchised workers who, might
otherwise have been by this time a source
of trouble. The Land-grant project, when
carried tp, its logical conclusion, is to .create
a system whereby thp banks and the big
railway corporations will so absolutely own
the body and. soul of thp nation that there'
will he no, room, in alii Queensland for
tlie man who objects to the existing
order of things. If it. were possible—
which it is not—for MHlwraith to survive-
ami retain office for another 40 years,, he
would,see tfie growth of a,slave policy so,
complete anfi elaborate that the nation would
hardly dare even to think evjl of the Fafq
Man in its dreams.,
* ** *■
The proposition for the “ reform ” of r the
Council is the coping-stone of tlie structure.
That nominee body is bigoted and i brutal *
enough at present, for any reactionary, pur-
pose, hut there is no guarantee that its
bigot, will last for ever, and M'llwraxth
dqsires to provide for years of political fraud
and oppression to come. Seine day a future,
Premier, for purposes of his own,, might;
Hood the Upper Chamber with Dempcrats,
and make it a comparatively popular institu-
tion and a thorn in the side of the Fat Afiin
of the hereafter. Therefore, a Bill fi now
before the Legislature providing that, tfie
Council shall he transformed into an elective
body, with an authority almost equal tp thafi
of the Assembly. The power of election is
to rest almost wholly with landfiolders, tfie
qualification being the ownership of pro-
perty rated at an annual rental value
of £2O, or the occupancy of property
rated* at an annual rental value of
£3O. As tlie rating value is always
considerably below tlie real rental this
entirely excludes the working classes from
any share in the suffrage. The new Council
is to he the House of Property pure and
simple.
* •
If this measure passes—and there is up
serious reason to suppose tfiat it not
pass—then the Great Apostacy is practically
complete. As far as the Fat Man’s eye can
discern, the arrangement is perfect. The
Democracy is already iriostly disfranchised,
and the Fat Man who presides oi r er the
Revision Courts exercises the right to strike
off the roll almost anybody who is seriously
suspected of a tendency to vote against M‘ll- 1
wraith and the almighty syndicate. ’ TheFe
is little visible chance under the present"
infamous electoral conditions of a Driiiioriratic
majority in the Assembly ; there is no visible
chance whatever in the elective Council; If’
by any possible combination of circumstances
some future Assembly should be dominated
for a brief space by a Democratic majority,
every liberal measure it passes will be thrown
out by tlie Council. It cannot even reform
its own franchise without the Council’s per-
mission, so that, despite occasional defeats,
the Fat Man will keep- returning to office ;
and it cannot reform the Council without the
Council’s permission, which almost certainly
will never be accorded. The Upper House
cannot be swamped, and it is meant to be im-
pervious to every argument except gunshot.
It will be the friend and supporter of the
Kanaka, the Chow, the Land-grant Railway
corporations, the banks, and of monopoly in
every form ; also it will be the chief but-
tress of Imperialism and grovel. The ob-
stacle—on paper—will be absolutely and
utterly irremoveahle, and the reign of the
Pat Man in Queensland will last for all time
and spread over the hither end of eternity.
• • •
And yet, it is all paper and nothing more.
The Anglo-Saxon has a slavish regard for
law and order, but if M‘ll wraith or any
other Fat Man can fix up a Constitution so
perfect, so elaborately finished in every
detail, that there is absolutely no possibility
of reform by constitutional means—and the
Queensland Premier promises to get tolei’ably
near to this consummation—then the revolu-
tion is very'iiear at hand all the same. If
the Council “ Reform Bill becomes law,
and MUlwkaith can demonstrate to the
nation at large that his work is finished —
that the Fat Man is going to be supreme in
both branches of the Legislature then and
thereafter—the chances are that a revolu-
tionary mob will carry his head on a soup-
plate down Queen-street, Brisbane, before
sunset, and his deceased majority will be
strung up in a row from the telegraph-wires.
If the work is really complete, but the nation
fails at first to recognise the fact, then he
may have time to escape by dying and going
to that place—whatever it may be—where
the political apostate goes, and in that case
the head of his nearest descendant will pro-
hihly garnish the soup-plate in lien of his
own. Provided there is no flaw in the new
constitution, somebody’s head must get there
in the end. Law at the best is only a sheet
of paper and a sentiment. Lacking the sen-
timent it is only a sheet of paper, which
tears on pressure. The situation resolves
itself into two alternatives. M'llwraith is
sitting on the safety-valve. If he is sitting
there unsuccessfully then he might as well
he entirely absent; if he is doing it success-
fully, (lieu the fragments of him will pre-
gently fly athwart the landscape ami he will
be abolished,
* # *
It may be that even tlie carefully ela-
borated Fat Man constitution will prove
leaky when put to the test. If so, tlie
Democratic vote in the Assembly will grow
with, each succeeding, election till at last it
grows into. a. majority once more, and* a 1
Democratic Government will find means of
putting such pressure on the old property-
holders of the Council that they will have to-
consent to their own. abolition.' Then the
House will probably repudiate the Land
Grant railway-contracts, and. confiscate the
land-grants and the railways also, and impose
a Land-tax that will burst up the great brick-
and-mortar vote for ever;, and publicly auditthe
accouutsof theQueenslaaid National Bank, and'
outlaw Thomas MHlwraith according to the
grand old, Saxon precedent, so that if he is.
ever again found on Queensland territory the
nearest Divisional Board will be authorised
to give a price for his scalp. And if there is
absolutely no, leak in • the revised Consti-
tution then, according to, all historical
Precedent, a time must come when■ a.
Provisional Government will put a price
on the heads, of the.railway corporations,
and the Q.N. Bank will be wound up
by violence, and the Upper House will con-
ceal itself in , the main drain to avoid the l
fury of the. ipob* It is all a question of
putting a sufficient weight upon the safety-
valve,. apd, the rest follows automatically,
M‘ll wraith is only an ambitious madman
building ap edifice on a,quicksand, Whether
it,,will fall op Imp or on fiis children, and,,
how its fall will come about, are, matters, of
uncertainty, hut about the fall, itself there,
is no mapper of, uncertainty whatsoever.
A Capital Cure.
A simple method of, wiping, out. the Victorian
deficit, and converting tlie mallee,..scrub country
into smiling cornfields, has been suggested to,
the Argus.' The suggestion conies from a
(happy' name !) Mr. Burstall, personally an,
excellent specimen of that well-meaning Toryism,
which would cheerfully pawn,,the prospects of
posterity for the relief of “ prevailing distress.”
He belongs to the class of riven whose public
spirit is as vicious as their private characters
are amiable, and 'who have been paving every
national hell with good business intentions
since the time of, chaos. Consequently, the,
ideas of Burstall deserve to be received with
sympathy, and cursed with all the respect due,
to their grey hairs. After dilating upon, the
richness of the mallee country, Burstall pro-,
poses the immediate sale of four or five million
acres of it to an English company, at,, ten
shillings per acre. Why should all this soil
languish fbr want of cultivation whilst the)
beneficent British capitalist is willing to put
his money into such a sound investment?
* ■' w *
Burstall writes with the proud conviction,
. that Victoria can show no reason for wanting
to stick to its wilderness. “ The company, in,
ofder to make the investment profitable, would
serid out'a class of emigrants who would be
likely to make the most of the land. All con- i
corned would benefit. The capitalist .(salute !)
would obtain good interest for his investment;
the provincial Treasury would receive a lump
■ sum, and an augmented revenue, annually in-
creasing ; the old country (salute !) would ex-
changed struggling population for good colonial
customers.” And so Burstall prattles on.
The wonder is that he should confine his simple
remedy to a matter of four or five million acres
when greater results could be obtained from the
sale of five times as much territory at two
“ bob ” per acre. Or why not give every inch
of available land to a British'syndicate, whose
desire to make a profit arid create good colonial
customers would be none the less keen because
the preliminary expenses didn’t include a jump
sum for purchase-money ?
'* » #
But this is a minor consideration. The burn-
ing necessity is an absentee landlord prepared
to ship over a large agricultural population,
with a view to raising wealth from his distant
possessions, in order that “ all coricefned ” may
benefit. When the landlord has sufficiently
loaded the country with cheap-labour lie can
increase the rent, and even build a town on a
basis of £lOO a foot, with power to add to its
value—but, in the meantimfe, the '“ prevailing
depression ” will have passed away, and Burst-
all will have died respected by all who knew
him. It is easier to forgive the instinctive
awfulness of Burstall than to 1 excuse the
Argus for taking him seriously, and backing
him up with false arguments. Says the Argus
—“ The principle underlying our corres-
pondent’s scheme is by no means new to
Victoria. Many mines Have been sold in
London to English companies who took the
risk and invested their capital and employed
men.” Mine-buying and mallee-buying are
speculations as wide apart in their political
economical effect as the poles. All that Eng-
land has made, or is likely to make, out of tlie
purchase of Victorian gold chances, England is
quite welcome to. Indeed it is a pity that ( the
British capitalist doesn’t buy up every working
gold-mine in tlie country, at a fair speculative
valuation, and drop all the Melbourne stock-
brokers down a shaft. Reefs are things that,
pinch out, and six ounces to the ton is liable to
break down suddenly, like a “dead bird” for
the Cup. But the land endureth for ever, and
the toiler who lives thereon must work it for
the benefit of the owner, let it be himself, or
the State, or the bloated absentee who gets it
at 10s. per acre. To sell tlie land is to sell the
men.
The Right of Free Howling.
Everybody now-a-days advocates the right of
free speech. A casuist might argue, with some
show- of logic, that to concede the right of free
speech, in its fullest sense, must necessarily re-
cognise also the right of free interjection. Then
follows the consideration of degree. If intorjee-
tion is allowed, wlieu is the limit i •
interruption reached ? Is there n °
not the liberty of free howling an 1,1111 •Is
of the recognition of free speech 7 ' U nuleiuu 'ee
ably. Then 1 what 1 happens V If f, IKl . uestio “ l
reigns, free speech' is extinguished
It is the eternal law pervading ,- ust so-
strong prevails, the strongest foifcefl? U 7 tlle '
adapted to the conditions govern in a .i' at w
This conflict, if let alone and 1, un-
fairly, generally .adijufets itself. No n ,- OUt
however extreme, ban logically j ustif yg'J®-’
mg down 1 of a speaker in an entirely hw m. ’
meeting It is probable,- too, that* q publl -°
dents were searched, and all the ’em rr Ue;
attaching to them'were thoroughly 1 . 10n ,f
in would be found that 1 no speaker , ltinisecl >
unpopular he might be, who addressed nTiT
meeting that was held fairly and Pub lc
tb all, shades of opinion, ever was howled'clowit'
Even public debates on Christiaan,,
infidelity, perLapa ll,e m„.t l“S
spectacles existent, are notoriously ordJi n fi
seemly. The mischief with nmstS andl
however, is that their promoters
ignore the rights of free speech «
themselves, and thus provoke the
fae L-wlmg, Tim if wl.at *
with M'Millan’s meeting in Sydney i a^ mdtt . er
concerning the disgraceful disorclei-w! 66 ,
which the “ right-thinking” papers foam- 8 ? rt at
mouth, and call on all Fat Man’s brood
and strike for freedom.- It needs no arr, ame ,
to prove that Mr. McMillan’s meeting B St
hall, and invited, those who cared to hear ht
public-views to, go and listen to him. It Wft !
not a public, hut.a private meeting
*- »■ e ' *-
No one has, contributed so much tb the rt*.,m
of Mr. MCMillan’s and .similar meetings as the
daily press, winch, now gnashes its gums over'
the public protests made against its past cum
ning and wilful misrepresentations. For the"
vogue has been to get up private meetings he
hired halls, t.o hear the views of friends only to.
admit of no, aniendaients being tendered*on >
resolutions previously cut and dried ;;and them
—to report to the world these doings as the ■
doings of a., small, sectional parly? No fear"'
But to blazon them forth to the world in pic-
turesque headlines as the unanimous vote of a'-
public meeting—as the Triumphal Progress of m
Cause, whereas they were but the caged!
squeaks of lobby-rats.. Is it. any wonder that
these miserable tactics, these public lies, pro-'
yoked an opposition that felt that it must make'.'
itself heard ? The suppression of truth and the ■
misuse of free speech begat the curse of I free
howling. The parties to be blamed as original'
offenders are the gagging Tories and! their'
jackal newspapers. In revenge, they are"
having their turn at howling others down.
# #■ #•
By the time these lines are in print, “ Free
Speech,” in the vernacular of the daily press,
will have been .“ vindicated. ” Another meeting
w-ill have been held, at which the hall will have
been carefully packed by hired pugilists, foot-
ball harrackers, and .amateur bruisers; it may
safely he prophesied that, no amendment will
be seriously tolerated ; and the resolutions will
undoubtedly be unanimously carried. That is
all right, so long as it is remembered that the
meeting is merely . a .private and utterly incon-
sequential one., But, ihe daily , press will as
brazenly as ever represent it as, the expression
of a movement by , the great mass of the people,
a demonstration by an overwhelming majority
against the tyranny of a violent minority !
thus preparing an infuriated opposition for the
next nu-“packed” private meeting called by
the same set of political Jesemy Diddleks.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Government by Dead Cat.
The Irish Home Rule Bill ka,s. been rejected ii> '
the House of Lords by 41,9 votes (including, of
course, those of all the* bishops of the aristo-
cratic and corrupt Ofimtch of England) against*."
41, and now the muefirvaunted British Constito-
tion is at its accustomed deadlock. It* 1S
questionable if there is anywhere anything
more cumbersome or more hideously unworkable
than that blessed Constitution which. Australia 1
has copied with such slavish reverence.. At las l ■
British general election the nation returned a
solid majority in favour of the Home Rule but
nevertheless it is cast out of tjie, Upper House -
with “ laughter ” by a ten tp .one majority, am
419 rich men, many of them. dotards, partial
idiots, or men of disreputable diameter, sprea -
their lingers out from their lapses at 40 miuiou
people said to be blessed, with. the privilege o
self-government. In such a crisis there are uu
two ways of meeting the difficulty. One is 0
create a sufficient n,umber of, new peers to can,| >
the Bill, but, that can only bp done provu ei
the Sovereign approves, and in the present m
Stance the Sovereign assuredly does no
approye. Moreover, to, produce the require!
result in the present case it would be necessa J '
to appoint 379 new pobjemeu, and then du -
would be tl?ree a penny in England, and earn
would be sold by the, quart; and the next i'j
the re-constructed Upper House docket 1
will of tlie , nation in a similar fashion, lt ' vo ( J’ ag .
be necessary to appoint about 700 of them s ° *
to outvote both tlie old peers and the new on •
And then, later on, some other deadlock vvol ,
arise, and it would probably be necessary
create somewhere about a thousand bar
and viscounts, and altogether the P IOC , “
of keeping the Peers in line with
nation by creating new fossils to
down the old fossils is too hopeless p
seriously considered. The other alternate
and the one usually adopted—is to. scare
House of Pomp and Drivel by .holding 11
meetings in Hyde Park and tearing d°wn . g
rajlings, by, processions and . unearthly 11
outsjde the senatorial halls, by taking P° . nt)(
with half-bricks at the windows of P 1
legislators, by frantic speeches in Irat ag
square, and otherwise by bugle-*?* o
letting-off fireworks, chasing casual p
through the streets, and slinging dead cats.
js n cumbersopic and undignified process,


, a cl .j s i s as the present Government by
at3 T(!at is the beginning and end of the
Ir h Constitution. This process applies
I'"however, if the mob of London—the one
011 - v ’ ll o f tj, e people wliich is within dead-cat
sect '° n of the peerage—is on the popular side. If
a maiority lies in the English provinces, Scot-
tlie, \vJes, and Ireland, then the only process
!f U which it can exercise its right of self-govern-
l)-v coll sists of faction fights and erratic
“1 at the “agent,” in breaking machi-
& v hunting away the Anglican parson when
f 6 tries to° collect his tithe by levy and
r-tress processions, and setting fire to hay-
-1116 , ks ’ fhe whole process is hideously cum-
, ‘ ,' e circuitous, and incoherent, but it is
one reasonably effective mode of self-
-1 verninenb which the British Constitution
*1 cits of. But, in the present instance, the
m ,[ ar majority in the Commons is smaller,
PJI t j ie strictly Conservative and aristocratic
majority in the Lords is larger than in any of
Ihe numerous instances during this century,
li en Government by Dead Cat has averted
revolution. And it is just possible that, relying
this fact, the pompous brewers of the
peerage will stand their ground. Then the
matter resolves itself into the old conundrum
which nobody has ever yet answered—when an
irresistible force comes in contact with an
immovable obstacle, what is to happen ?
Dear Bulletin, The Maoriland Female
Suffrage Bill has passed—all save the Gover-
nor's assent, which is practically a foregone
conclusion— and now the opponents of women’s
suffrage can sit down and await results. For
my own part I am willing to bet a horse and
two oil-paintings against a set of false-teeth
that there will he no results —except, possibly,
that the Liberal majority will be a little more
reliable than heretofore. Every time the
ordinary, unpropertied male citizen was in a
fair way to get an equal share of political
power the Fat Man rose on his capacious
hind legs to say, in a husky, port-wine
voice, that public ruin must follow on the
heels of so disastrous an innovation. But
the suffrage was steadily extended, and
the ruin never came. Then it was proposed to
give to women the same blessed privilege, and
straightway the Fat Democrat, who is quite as
bigoted and selfish as the other fellow, rose up
and used on his own account all the old, dreary,
stock arguments which he so utterly despised
when the other fellow used them against him.
Presently he is going to be convicted out of his
own mouth. His assertion that women are
naturally more Conservative than men is a lie of
his own invention which he has repeated so
ofte i that he has almost come to believe init him-
self, but he has never supported it by a single
evidence. His other assertion that women have
a greater craving after titles than men is another
lie simply because it is an obvious impossibi-
lity. The only two prominent public men in
Australasia who didn’t long after a title with
an intense and awful longing have both died
within the last few months, and in a country
where every man is looking with all his soul for
aK,C.M.G.-shiporother decoration, womencan’t
want a title more than he does. In fact, she can’t
want it so much because there are less of her and
because—according to popular, reasoning—she
hasn’t so much soul to want it with, therefore
for her to want a title more than does the male
of her species is an arithmetical impossibility.
The cry that women have an insatiable yearning
for cheap ami miserable dignities was only
invented by bogus democrats who wanted to
■ excuse their own fall. “ The woman tempted
■me and I did become a K.C.M.G.” It was
Dibbs’ argument, also Stout’s. —Yours, &c.,
'Titus Salt.
+
At a recent meeting of the “Want of Employment
‘ Committee,” now sitting in Melbourne, a stoek-and-station
agent said it was difficult to get suitable men for wood-
outting. The unemployed made a mistake in not taking
' ij * when they could not get a whole loaf. If men
would take 10s. a week at timber-clearing they would get
plenty of work. 6 s
«k O S f C f ®,?f. °/!the Labour-party vigorously
o (lav n . le . 1 evv Australia ” exodus'to Para-
wisbinu „°j i I , n t^le commendable spirit of
1 unmistaSl' l ! Ck t 0 de P arted mates, but with
sion nf n ak 6 tout, ?”B for the wholesale acces-
; that tbs fl 6 rec s ldts ‘ Which simply means
Australin democrac y is advised to quit
alaverv\ i,, a ! U thus help to sell its brethren into
Australia of .battling manfully to make
should r M^^ QWp - Thoughtful democrats
the knnwio i'flowed poiicy in the light of
the Wori// 6 < la * J some °f the controllers of
iParasuav are P ers onal promoters of the
"’horn tbL° ! e , me> and Varied by the workers
Australii n 1 j 6m P b bo sway. It is certain that
■hood more ti to teba ' n all its straight man-
Republic BVei did before. The coming
sturdv son r|, re( l uire the aid of every
time' when ri ° desei ’t Australia at a
'oouvertm * threatened capitalistic dangers
It is not ;r a / d f a crisis is unforgivable,
salvation «• , bl 6 Possibilities of Australia’s
eie uot with us. Under manhood-
suffrage, this nation must eventually liberate
and uplift itself. The gear is in the people’s
hands if the wisdom is in their heads and the
courage and endurance in their hearts. The
counsellors who whisper flight are enemies of
ie people s weal. At the present time the
starving stay-at-home is a nobler Australian
Patriot than the self-saving emigrant, though,
all the same, the personal good wishes of those
who remain to continue the battle may go with
the disheartened runaways who were daunted
by a disturbed horizon.
Sydney Daily Telegraph in an article on
Dand-tax and Single-tax ” :
i^"W° UBbut dishonest attempt is being made by
°i f V?°, no P ol >' and restriction to delude the
a, °i n he bellf r f that the Land-tax means the Single-
thL2 th ? r word3 ’ they ? re tO’ing to make it believable
° ■ a f® su PPorting the imposition of a Land-
,^L^ qUUa j e parfc of our system of taxation are
S to sweep aWA - v the Custom-house, repeal
tavnoPn 8 - 6 an , d 8 amp cllltiea > and every other form of
taxation, in order to throw the whole burden of revenue
f^ C l°"y 0n H 1 land ' This is 30 grossly untrue that
Putting forward these statements cannot be
uli Wl h , ev , e . n the charitable supposition that they
have been misled into this belief. ' y
In other words, the Telegraph now advocates
a Land-tax and a revenue-tariff—the same old
V r! e ,;i ariff wllicll used to levy over
000,000 per annum upon the nation. And
Ihe Bulletin advocates a Land-tax and a
protective tariff which will cost the nation a
great deal less than £2,000,000 per annum.
Yet the lelegraph has quoted the steady rise
ox the Land-tax party as an evidence of the
decadence of Protection, and has professed to
believe that a Land-tax and a protective tariff
are things which are irreconcilable, and which
cannot possibly exist side by side. The “ Free-
trade butter-and-bacon duties can go hand in
hand with the Land-tax, but the Protectionist
oatmeal-and-candle duties can’t ! That is about
the beginning and the end of the Telegraph’s
politics.
Painful yarns by members of the New South
\\ ales Cavalry and Rupertswood Battery of
Horse Artillery, recently back from England,
are being printed just now. The object of these
reminiscences is to create in Australia a taste
for uniform and sham fight, and a disposition
to meet a phantom foe. They are intended for
incentives to that military spirit which can
only find proper expression in firing low and
laying ’em out. Fortunately, the stories don’t
inflame the civilian mind with ardour for a
barrack life, or fill one with much respect for
the intelligence of young men who take prizes
at tournaments. Hear a battery officer relating
a special incident to the Argus —“ Lord
Roberts, the Commander-in-Chief in India,
called one of the team up, and told him how
pleased he was to find the nephew of an old
and gallant friend, with whom he had fought
in the Indian mutiny, serving in the ranks for
the love of soldiering, and how glad he was to
hear of that spirit in a new country.” The
humour of this anecdote is in the battery
gentleman’s proud way of telling it. He
quotes Lord Roberts as an unimpeachable
authority on the buckram question, without
stopping to remember that an enthusiastic
draper would compliment an old friend’s
nephew on his earnest desire to enter the rag-
trade, or that a clever pastrycook loves to see
ambitious youth in a square white linen cap
and apron. Of course, Lord Roberts is pleased
with the person who polishesup a cannon for pure
love of the thing. So are Queen Victoria, and
the House of Peers, and Colonel Price. They
all dote on military spirit because it is a ghastly
Tory institution and a deadly enemy to the
democracy. With Roberts, in particular,
troops are a trade. If the stock of troops were
to run out, and the manufacture of them ceased,
lie and his dear old friends would lose their
billets and be no longer a drain upon the public
purse. His old friend’s nephew and Co.
would feel sorry to hear of that, but the rest
of this young country would revel in the news.
New South Wales Art Society is a volcano in
continuous eruption. Its membership, roundly,
is 300, about 80 of whom are exhibitors. Besides
pictures, the artists exhibit a capacity for
hating each other violently in a manner which
can’t be delineated on canvas. They don’t hate in
water-colours either, but in indelible carmine.
For various reasons, the exhibitors, many of
whom are professional artists, desire to vest
the control of the Society solely ia the bauds of
exhibitors, and evince resentment at any
appearance of interference by amateurs, those
dilettanti who paint cats’-heads on plates, or
yawning frogs on drain-pipes. The argument
on behalf of the amateurs is a variation of the
well-known political dogma that there should
be “no taxation without representation.”
“You admitted us—nay, you invited us—for
the sake of our guineas ; you couldn’t run the
show without us,” is the plea. It is a parallel
misfortune to that of a man who marries for
money an uninteresting woman, who pulls her
purse-strings tight. The only remedy for such
remorse appears to be a swift divorce. It
would, perhaps, be indelicate to suggest which
party should be the respondent. To complicate
matters, the artists themselves—after the cranky
manner of their kind—are riven into two op-
posing factions. One section is understood to
be headed by an artist who is a trustee of the
National Gallery, while the other set is com-
posed chiefly of his deadly and envious
enemies.
Dear Bulletin,—l believe you discourage dis-
cussion of the “meejum of exchange,” but may
I say two words ? When silver is knocked out
(as it practically is) in every country but China
[Where do Mexico, Central America and South
America come in ?—Ed. B.], money values must
rise [Why ?—Ed. B.] until we reach some-
thing like the mediaeval condition when a
sheep and threepence were equivalents, [Not
3d., but 35., and very often it doesn’t fetch
that mediaeval price now.— Ed. B.] It may be
said—what does it matter if wages go down
when prices fall in equal ratio? Perhaps so,
hut what about our national debts ? They were
not formed on an estimate of a sheep at three-
pence, or sixpence either. Say wheat reaches
Is. a bushel. The debts were contracted on a
general estimate of wheat at 55., then the Aus-
tralian national debt will he, not £200,000,000,
but £ 1,000,000,000. Evidently the British
must then do one of three things (1) Accept
a reduction of interest to about | per cent.; (2)
accept a reduction of the debt to £40,000,000 ;
or (3) accept repudiation. But what troubles
all the time ! Because the drop in values will
not be immediate, but gradual, and there will
be constant bickerings and readjustments.
Will the silken bonds stand it ? And Maori-
land, South Africa, America, Egypt, Turkey,
Greece, &c,, will be growling, reducing, and
repudiating in just the same way. If the
British navy is going to collect the debts of the
gold-bugs, it will have its work cut out.—
Yours, J.M.B.
HALF-A-LOAF!
•Haji/-a-loaf! Yea, our richest meed
flfitPever more than a bare bone, flung
1 s h'ive for—the grudge of greed—
fhfifpahry pittance from av’rice wrung.
He wljc, jn luck, can to fullness feed
Aye, is.p, king, all his kind among.
/W/-a-loaf.! \es, the hardened crust !
tell us, oh.ye of expansive soul—
e, our good Piasters, by wealth made just—
uswer! Say, when did we have the whole ?
'tie gist of our bond is the hard word “ must,”
’ lu wa o e is just what ye choose to dole.
Wkdoaf! ’Ti s the old, old croak !
for scanty crumbs shall we toil and till,
uignur necks to the galling yoke,
Half* 7 CQwsoieiipe, and brain, and will,
a- oaf I 'l’were as well ’twould choke
uce 11 cannot fatten, nor fairly fill.
t'-'W 'J' e workers be born again
We-,,? e ? t , orui • Tor our future weal
Anri , Umb |y P l ' a y Thee, leave out the brain
Nor cfv‘ * t we might not know nor feel,
grant us stomachs, for then, ’tis plain,
want no loaf, and we’d miss no meal.
' ViO.
E. F. SQUIRES.
The Fight in the House of Commons.
Dear Bulletin, —They told me the House of
Commons was dull. Dull! They told me it was
decorous. Decorous !! They said it was digni-
fied. Dignified !! ! Is a dog-fight dignified ?
Is a cat-fight decorous ? Is a cock-fight dull?
For then, and so, and on such terms only, is
the British House of Commons dull, and digni-
fied, and decorous.
There is a Distinguished Strangers’ Gallery,
but I was an undistinguished stranger, distin-
guishable from other strangers in the undistin-
guished gallery only by the trembling reverence
with which I took my seat. This, then, was
the historic Chamber which, as I chose to
imagine, had echoed the tramp of Cromwell’s
soldiery, had resounded with the thunderous
eloquence of Pitt and the subtle ironies of Dis-
raeli, had witnessed the expulsion of Brad-
laugh, had given birth to event after event of
supreme significance in the world’s progress.
This was the hall where—yes, there was
Gladstone, there was Balfour, there was man
after man whose name is a household word
wherever the English tongue is spoken. And
my unimportance could gaze its fill at this
assembly of heroes, with curiosity unrebuked,
sanctioned, even welcomed ! Let me abase
myself.
See ! who rises to speak? A thin, pale, erect
man, in a long frock-coat, with high collar, a
sneer on his lip, and a gorgeous blossom at his
button-hole. It is a quarter to ten, and Mr.
Chamberlain is to utter the final protest of the
Conservatives against the application of the
closure on the financial clauses of the Home
Rule Bill. There is no time for argument, but
there is time ta level taunt after taunt at the
Liberals, and Mr. Chamberlain is a master of
taunts. The Gladstonian ranks writhe at his
references to their leader. “You have made a
blind surrender of judgment and reason. He
calls a thing black, and you say Good ! He
calls it white, and you say Better ! It is the
voice of a god. Never since the days of King
Herod ■”
Then there comes a pealing cry of “Judas !
Judas ! Judas ! ” and all at once is uproar. It
is ten o’clock, time to divide, but the Chairman
sits nervous and anxious, the embodiment of
indecision. The division-bell rings, but only
the Liberals obey it. The Conservatives keep
their seats, and yell for an apology from the
Judas-shouter, There is a babel of voices in-
structing poor, hesitating Mr. Mellor what to
do. A Gladstonian member, Mr. Logan, walks
to the middle of the floor and stands gesticulat-
ing. A hundred Conservatives proclaim that
he commits a breach of order, and angrily shout
to him to sit down. He sits down, but—
horror ! —on the front Opposition bench, re-
served for whilom Cabinet Ministers—and he a
private member and a supporter of the Govern-
ment ! It is sacrilege surpassed ! At once a
dozen wrathy Conservative .hands thrust him
from his bad eminence, and he tumbles on the
floor. Then—ah, then !—I must borrow from
the report of the proceedings of the society
upon the Stanislow—
Then Abner Dean of Angel’s raised a point of order, when
A chunk of old, red sandstone took him in the abdomen,
And he smiled a kind of sickly smile, and curled up on
the floor,
And the subsequent proceedings interested him no more.
For in less time than I tell it all the members did engage
In a warfare with the remnants of a palaeozoic age,
And the way they heaved those fossils in their anger was
a sin,
Till the skull of an old mammoth caved the head of
Thompson in.
Omit the fossils, insert fists, and Truthful James
has pictured to a T the fight in the House of
Commons. It was simply grand. Talk about.
Corbett and Mitchell, Jackson and Slavin—Bah!
You should have seen big Colonel Saunderson
hitting five ways at once, with two men kicking
him in the neck, another poking him in the
stomach, and half-a-dozen more pulling at his
coat-tails ! There were fully fifty members
rough-and-tumbling on the floor, with silk hats
and bad language flying in all directions like
dishonoured pro. notes on the 4th of the month.
It was a lovely scrimmage. You never knew
who hit you, and you Just had to hit the fellow
in front, and trust to Providence to send the
blow home to the right party. It was very
unscientific. I pined for Haynes or Jack Hamil-
ton. The distinguished strangers stood up and
hissed, but we of the undistinguished mob
cheered ’em on. We knew this show' was for
one night only, and wanted an encore before
the performers left the stage. And the Chair-
man sat tremblingly ejaculating ‘ ‘ Gentlemen !
Gentlemen !” But, bless you! they didn’t mind
him!
It was all over in five minutes. Then the
Speaker came in, and explanation followed
explanation, and excuse after excuse, and the
naughty boys hung down their heads in shame,
and then the veil dropped gently over “ this
discreditable scene.” But will I ever again
thrill with awe at the hoary traditions of the
British House of Commons ? Nary thrill.
London.
A. G. STEPHENS.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Oro”: The Bulletin is told, on excellent
authority, that “the murdered man” was always
regarded by the local police as “ one of the push,” and
that more than one constable has frequently “moved him
on.” “M.M.” : “ Four-fifths of the world’s people are
vegetarians.” Similarly, nine-tenths of the world’s people
don’t drink champagne. Necessity in both cases
“Tambo” (Tasmania): “Years ago, when the Laun-
ceston-Deloraine railway was completed, Govt. levied a
rale ou the farmers along the line, to meet the interest
on the cost thereof. Farmers refusing to pay, Govt,
distrained. A poor farmer’s horse being seized, a coffin
was placed in the auctioneer’s yard, ~ with a notice
attached that anyone who bought the horse would be
shot. The horse was not sold." People must have been
easily soared in those days. You don't say whetlier the
land for the railway was resumed from private owners.
The tax on farmers was a variation of the “betterment ”
principle ; but it is certainly equitable that owners whose
properties become of increased value because of a railway
® ,l ould contribute specially to the cost of such railway....
(8., Vic.); All weak save corridor - incident,
which is too strong.... “E.M.” (L 1.13.); The Bulletin is
not supplied free to- reading-rooms. It Is already the
best-borrowed and most stolen of Australian papers....
Hen the Trapper”; Yes, he is a brother of the other man.
.... “ Buried Treasure ”: Plot-fixings complex enough
for a 8-vol. novel, but clumsily jointed and bare of veri-
similitude ...“ Conn O’R.” (AI.L.): Australian miners
don t call gullies “glens,” orrhyme “said” with “spade”
.■•••' L. 8.” (Bundaleer, N.S.W.); (1) No; never published
in book-form ; afraid you cannot now get a copy of that
issue. (2) Noted your complaint.. “ Waimate ” (AI.L.);
May use, after sandpapering. ..“ J.C.” (Bendigo, Vie.);
An old joke dressed in straining rhymes “ E.L.MT.” ;
A woman s love for a wife doesn’t yield fibrous poetry.
Few women can dress their souls in male attire...
1 Logos : Thanks— “R. de S.”: Y r ou give away your
‘parson-lawyer” story by presenting the rev. gentleman
(who, since he is asked to “pray for the repose of souls,"
is evidently a R.O. priest) with a wife!... “ Wnrlie ”
(Adelaide, S.A.); The poet who tells his wife's corpse to
get up and leave his sight, and raves about his “soul's
black reef,” would not look well in print...." Last of
Alohicans : If you advocate the secret-society weapon of
“a mild course of assassination," why illogically insist on
a three months’ close season for reproductive purposes?”
“H.O.”; The Daily Post (with which The Bulle-
tin is m no way connected) is still incubating. But
better stay anywhere on a certainty, however small,
than come to Sydney without a pre-engagement...
‘ Eucalypt” (Vic.); Because your hero was wall-eyed,
club-footed, half-blind, and once, for a wager, ate 25
boiled eggs after a full tea, drank and played cards till
3 a.m., and was none the worse for it, you believe that he
was an English nobleman in disguise. Alost likely ; but
he makes a poor story.... “ Bonshaw ”: Alight work out
the “ annual ” some time or other; but theldea is as old
as love and hate. ..“P.H.P.” (1) Yarn about the
publican’s daughter marrying the stockman on the blaiJk
gin s recommendation is unprintable, like many other true
tales. (2) Older than oyster-eating “J.II.II.”
(Ravensvvood, N.Q.); Thanks “Old Forty-nine":
Thanks; would rather, as you prophesy, “meet some of
your friends in Shed” than print your stories.,
“0.J.”: A sermon on “Art” ought at least to be
artistic. Your’s doesn’t follow' your own rule. “R.AI ”
(Narandera, N.S.W.): Thanks; noted....“ 0.G.” (Carl-
ton, Vic.): No good froth to your beery joke .. “C. C.
James”: The Bulletin has never said that a land-value
tax means ruin to the selector, and cordially invites you
to point out those places “in last week’s issue ” where it.
did so “Arthur Mensley ” : The Bulletin isn’t run by
anybody who is in Parliament, or who wants to get there,
anyhow'.... “ J.W.T;" : Yes, it is as easy for most people
now to turn the new moon as to turn their money...,
“Geo. B.” (B.): You can’t have been reading this paper
lately —“W.R.R.”; Parodies are usually unacceptable.
“Nathalie Walton”: Imperfect verse, but full of
colour. Try again.... “Frank P.” : If reason to believe
she was a leper, write Chief Aledioal Officer, Sydney.
“ A.D.E.” (Tas.): We have a South African letter giving
much information, and will publish it immediately
“F.W.M.”: Not worth W'hile “Anon”: Has the
death-penalty just been resumed all over Switzerland-or
is the recent resumption by one canton only? You are
the hystericist; The Bulletin is logical “J.E.F.”
(Melb.): An old idea—“ Sol. Oriens”: Alassive plati-
tudes, fit only for a suburban paper.. . “ C.A.K.” : Write
to WoRKiMAN office... “L.L.”: The N.S.W. Worker, in-
fluenced by self-advertising Parliamentarians and the
Paraguay-expedition promoters, hates The Bulletin like
pois On. Our troubles! The man who toadies to a politi-
cal party is as great a snob as he who toadies to a king.
We live, and have always lived, by our right hand. AVhen
it fails, w T e die. We want no charitable admirers, no
pitying friends, no gratitude. We don’t expect the
world to stop turning over its tobacco-quid when our
funeral goes by at a Chinese trot “ J.J.” ; Thanks
“ A.AI.”: The hotel “barber” sleeps in hotels, the
“hatter” only goes through them—distinct larcenous
professions “Ponte”: (1) Love-story neat, but too
brutally true and common; (2) Verse raspy “P.M.”:
Alechanical rhyming. Give us leave also to curse the use
of the pronoun “ye” in the “objective ” ease ; w'hat’s
the matter with “ you ?” “Fermented”: The loaning
of the paper’s columns to squabblers about transub-
stantiation and the “Kilburn Sisters” doesn’t interest
this office “Ailsa Craig ” (Croydon, N.Q.): Verse
promising, but your similes are hackneyed, and some
rhymes are bad ears of doggerel. Write from the life
right under your nose ; read little, observe much. Your
prose subject handled better over and over again. ..
“F.R.D.” : A squatter J.P. was chairman of a Bench
which adjudicated a case brought by a selector against a
brother-squatter ; though the selector got a verdict, the
squatter Justice refused to allow him any costs. You
ought to be surprised at the J.P.’s moderation, especially
when the defendant was to lunch with him. ..“ J.AI.D.”
(Alungindi, N.S.W.): Sorry to say, unsuitable “ J.R.” :
Appropriately enough, the drum-music is the same for
the National Anathema and the Dead March “ Ajax ’ ’
(Cairns, N.Q.): Clever, but “off” by this time
“Alaori”: Cycling yarn a humourless rigmarole. Short
stories barely passable “Pauline Jones”: We don’t
know who wrote the lines:—
“ I have another life I long to meet,
Without which life, my life is incomplete.
Oh, sweeter self 1 Like me art thou astray ?
Trying with all thy heart to find the way
To mine ! Straying like mine to find the breast,
On which alone can weary heart find rest.”
However, it’s only Heine’s “Pine-tree and Palm-tree”
over again....“H.M.H.” (Namoi): “Love’s warm and
honest hand” is the drawback in your poem. We know
the hot, damp, onion-smelling hand which its owner
is always surreptitiously wiping on his handkerchief
under the table, and we never found it particularly honest
“ T.P.S.” (Lismore) : Horse-narrative received
“Waster” (Adelaide): Thanks... “Vice Versa”; Plain
drivel, naked and unashamed “ Hamish Rhua ” : The
democratic cause wants a strong leader whose influence
will extend all over Australia, but The Bulletin can’tpoint
him out anymore than you can. Aloreover, when he is
found the democracy won’t follow him. They had the
man required—Higinbotham—and they rejected him for
the bull-voiced Bent. The N.S.W. Democratic party
won’t even look for a leader; the Queensland one has a
leader and won’t obey him ; the Maoriland democrats are
already straying after a strange god—Stout, K.C.M.G., he
of the Midland land-grant railway. The democracy won’t
try any leader long enough to find out whether he can
lead-or n0t..., “ V.G.C.” (Oh. Oh,, M.L.): Thanks...
“Bank Overdraft”: Aloral, in one sentence, a bank
manager’s chief qualification is a surprised and expectant
cast of countenance. He looks surprised w'hen you ask
for an overdraft, which makes you humble, and he looks ex-
pectant when you offer security, and that makes you offer
more security —“Gebbaw”; Thanks. Will print soon.. .
“ Peter” (Hobart): You ask wildly “Wasthere ever such
a thing as Hope since life began ?” We can’t say for
certain. What are your views upon pigs’-feet, for
instance ?... “R. Murphy ” : The spirit is willing in your
case, but the orthography is weak “ Radical ” : The
Bulletin doesn’t agree with you that Dibbs’ apostacies
are the result of long premeditation. Dibbs is about as
irresponsible as an india-rubber ball, which bounces in
any direction. Very often, in The Bulletin’s opinion, he
doesn’t know' in the morning what his political programme
will be at night, and he forgets what it was last night.,.
“Barwon”: Very ancient. He was serenading his girl,
and a dog as big as a meat-cask rushed out at him, and
took 2 lbs. of him as he fled over the fence “I. J.” :
“ If people were better able to appreciate him the house
would be fuller.” It reminds us of the polite sailor who
wanted a lady to trim the boat. “If you sat a little fur-
ther this way, miss, then you wouldn’t be so far that
way.” —“Scribe”: A painfully-exact story, written in
a beautiful hand. But then this paper isn’t a copper-
plate exhibition “Phillip R.” (Gippsland): A clever
poem which we can’t afford to publish. The sort of thing
the Social Gimlet Society would wallow in when no one
was looking.... “Theta Minus”; The hero is too noble
for this world; he ought to be killed....'“ Nathalie ’’: As a
provender-bard there are some points about you. For
instance:—
No matter what your trouble is,
Women, wine, or turf losses,
The folly of love, or drinking wine,
Or ruin born of “ backin’ hoises,”
You won’t care a hang who wins the race
Or if “ the Eleven ” is licked by Surrey
If only you’ll go, for a year or so,
To Gol Gol on the Alurray.


icA to ||uit all Sights
Pitted by a thoroughly. Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
' 5 - per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS.
JBWEU.BRV Showrooms,
«S HI NTKK STREET, SYDNEY.
I’IiOSSA I! I• S SWISS.
A. G-opc3. a»d Cheap Cigar,
HIGHEST. AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
fds
MAjnjPAfrrrnKn m:
J. FROSSARD & CO
I* iVI'.RVK (MwitfrrlaiMl).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Struck Oil.”
Theatre Royal “ Belphegor, the Mounte-
bank.”
Lyceum “ The Mountebanks.”
Criterion Walter Bentley.
School of Arts Steens.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s ... “ 1 Pagliacci” and Ballet.
Theatre Royal “ The Right Man.”
Opera House Variety Co.
Fh-lis’s Circus.
An audience that included every remiiaut
qf “ society’’crowded Melb. Princess’ on Saturday,
anxious to sample the production of an Italian
opera, followed by a spectacular ballet, both of
them new to this country alike in spirit and in
truth. When the last leg had been shaken, at
IfCSO p.m., there was generally but one opinion as
to the artistic virtues of the double bill, whilst the
question of a business success for W. and M;
remained as open as before. This notwithstand-
ing that the blushing management bad during the
evening been dragged across the stage in triumph
by their imported friends. “I Pagliacci,” newest
of a new brand of serious opera, is capable of
affording much pleasure to most people. In the
strictly musical world, of course, fashions change
and cant varies, but national taste for melody is
governed by those antique institutions, the ear
and the heart. High-class music for the million
must include plenty of the “ something resembling
an air.” An unmelodious opera, built on con-
sistently original principles, may flourish aw Idle in
Australia when, out of alarger population, there is
a cult big enough to support its fad. In the mean-
time, a mechanical “ masterpiece ” would have no
chance; therefore, one is glad to find that the
new kind of opera is not too advanced. “I
Pagliacci,” by the lately-discovered Leoncavallo,
is an attractive composition set to a libretto that
speaks fairly intelligibly in all languages. The
principal numbers are apt to break off abruptly
(more for the sake of tricky effect, seemingly, than
because a sudden stop is beautiful) but they are-
excuse a vulgar word —tuneful. One chorus is
especially charming, and the orchestration is
sweet and delicate throughout. The drummer at
the far right end has strict orders to keep quiet,
a rule that might well be enforced in operas more
grand than this. If “ I Pagliacci ' f is not loaded
up with sublime music, like “Faust,” or with
melody that tickles the senses, like the third act
of Verdi’s “Un Ballo,” it is more satisfactory in
this respect than, say, “Carmen.” The action is
very rapid.
* * #
Four of the five principals come along in a
cart, d la “The Mountebanks,” and invite the
village to roll up to their strolling play presently.
Then they go off to get a drink, like true Thes-
pians. One mountebank is a Quasimodo who
would fain seduce the leading lady, but she pre-
fers a young farmer, the Alfredo of this piece.
The rejected Quasi thereupon fetches the low
comedian, and convinces him of his wife’s weak-
ness for the farmer. When the mountebanks come
to give their little play, the plot happens to repro-
duce the real state of affairs, which so agitates the
low comedian that he knifes his giddy wife, and
subsequently dispatches the farmer, who has
sprung forward to the rescue. Then, in a moment,
he realises the awful situation, and, with a really
startling display of terror and nervous collapse, he
says: “The comedy is finished!” Signor Girand,
the tenor who stars in this strong character, here
proved himself a true tragedian, and “knocked ”
the house. His singing voice was absolutely nil
on Saturday. He had caught cold, or his
throat is not yet acclimatised, and in the
words of an apologising stage-manager, “ Signor
Giraud hadn’t a note ”he could utter. How long
he will take in coming round again, and how far
this calamity will injure the operatic season are
soiious questions for the management. The
second tenor of the company is a painfully shrill
“ rubusto.” Signor Caruson, as the hunchback,
was a full success, and a lighter baritone, in the
part of the farmer, sang better than he acted. Of
the prima donna, Italia del Torre, more was ex-
pected than her performance on Saturday seemed
to justify. She looked and played her part very
well, and sang very well, for the matter of that,
but her'voice, at a first hearing, is not wonderful.
The chorus is first class, the voices being about 20
years younger and fresher than those usually
heard in the background of Italian opera. For
the orchestra, and its management by Signor
iluerrera, unqualified praise.
» • •
The Blue Ballet music, and Gordon’s
beautiful blue scene with its illimitable cerulean
distance, were distinctly more voluptuous than the
ballet itself. “ Turquoisette ” is a magnificent
series of groupings rather than a revelation in
graceful movement. It excited constant admira-
tion, but very little enthusiasm, on Saturday, and
would, undoubtedly, have “gone much better”
on a larger stage. The effects seem to be cramped
for space, particularly when some eighty or ninety
Sfirls, in handsome costumes, have to make room
or the two principals in their midst. Dancing of
a serious kind is restricted to these two principals,
who wear (to the surprise of youthful johnnies)
the short columbine skirts of the classic school,
and whose visits are a? brief as their skirts.
Signorina D.’Argo is a muscular bounder, but
she did little beside a few tout's de force, whilst
Catherine Bartha, the star, accomplished a clever
circuit of the stage on her toes, concluding with
the neatest of pirouettes. Rartha’s skill and
elegance of style will grow on young Australia,
which is as yet unversed in the poetry of the toes.
As for the eight coryphees from London, it is hard
to spot where they are, and what in particular
they have to do with “Turquoisette.” If they
be clever dancers* it is a pity for them not to be
distinctly trotted out. Certainly, the two solo
performers will have to elaborate their work in
order to make themselves fully appreciated here.
** » m
Williamson and Musgrove were advised
that their tenor’s voice would probably recover
itself if allowed three clear days’ rest. To this
end the Princess’s closed on Monday night,
but a perfect performance of “ I Pagliacci ”
was promised for Tuesday night, and Signor
Giraud is by this time, The Bulletin trusts,
making a complete success of the new opera.
* * * *
At Melbourne Royal a furious melodrama,
Palled “ The Right Man,” stirred a limited audi-
ence to its vitals on Saturday night. Through
several sceiles the wrong man was persistently
captured and accused of a murder he didn’t
commit. At last they got hold of tiie right man,
and tiie tumult ceased. There is a Gipsy encamp-
ment, also a quantity of Wandering wickedness in
this play, which was specially written for all those
who loVo to have their imaginations knocked out
in four acts. Charles Taylor acts 50 pet cent, of
“Tiie Right Man,” tiie rest of it falling to the
lot of EUa Carrington and a full oast; Very little
glory is shared amongst the cast.
* * * *-
Professor Miller’s show at St, George’ 8
Hall turned out to be a cheerful variety entertain"
ment, dignified by a faint suspicion of a plot. The
Professor won a wrestling match at tiie outset, and
finished up by proving himself the rightful heir to
certain estates, the bulk of tiie show taking place
whilst he was waiting to come on and claim his
property. At the Alhambra and Gaiety matters
progress as usual. Exhibition concerts, where De
Beaupuis, basso Holder, and Miss Bessie Doyle
appeared on Saturday, seem to flourish vigorously.
Fill is’ Circus booms always, and several other
places remain open with varying success.
# * * *
Cardinal M’Richelieu from Inverness (this
gentleman is not to be confounded witli Cardinal
O’Richelieu from Kerry, begorra, as played some
time ago by “ Jim” Tooliey, M.L.A.), retired from
Sydney Criterion on Friday. Tiie last public act
of that potentate was to write to theS.M. Herald
in defence of his Scotch accent, and to take a
stupendous advertisement out of the impervious
old publication. In the course of bis letter he
pointed out that almost all the prominent men of
Australia were Scotch, that ho was sorry for any-
body who had tiie misfortune not to be Scotch,
and that he loved his native country with a great
love, was an enthusiast in his art, and came of a
family which had left a No. 12 footprint on the
sands of Scottish history. But the one point of
discussion—should Richelieu be played with a
powerful Hielan’ brogue ? —wasn’t even mentioned.
A more original individual than Bentley would
simply have announced that he was going to play
Richelieu with any accent that he darned well
pleased ; also, he might have scored by pointing
out that there was absolutely no legal evidence
that Richelieu didn’t possess a Scotch accent. But
he missed both points.
# # •
“David Garrick” and “ Cramond Brig”
formed the double bill at the Criterion for the first
half of this week. The former piece was played
respectably by Mr. Bentley, and particularly
well by the balance of the company. Messrs.
Stoneham, Fabert, and—we forget the other
man’s name—as three heavy men from tiie city,
Miss Kate Bishop as the hysterical mother of
seven children, Mrs. Molyneux, and Lachlan
M'Gowan, were all satisfactory, and so was
Miss Ina Lawrence, in a bony character
with a falsetto giggle, “Cramond Brig,”
however, was a triumph for Mr. Bentley, who
was able to let his Scotch accent loose in the
part of Jock, and made it a whoop of glory from
beginning to end. At time of going to press,
“M’Hamlet” was announced for the rest of the
week. Also, Mr. Bentley has sent round free
tickets to the principal parsons of Sydney, and
thereby keeps on good terms with the kirk. But,
unluckily, the blessing of the kirk doesn’t amount
to much in Australia. Moreover, the kirk has
been on bad terms with every really great actor
who ever visited this country, and if it approves
of Bentley that fact is a solid evidence that he
isn’t great but only eminently and horribly
respectable.
« * m *
“Monte Gristo,” with Mr. Dampier as the
subterranean captive, is doing rather better busi-
ness than usual at Sydney Royal. The enormous
dimensions of the story make it a difficult object
to compress into five acts, but most of the facts
are there, though somewhat flattened by extreme
gressure. Apart from Dampier himself and Mr.
uller, whose Faria is a capable and intelligent
priest, there is nothing about the company which
requires special enthusiasm. In fact, one member
of it, who will not be otherwise specified at
present, generally wants a large dog started after
him more than anything else.
* * * *
Owing to the unexpected enthusiasm of
the public, Signora Majeroni has found it neces-
sary to remove her show from Sydney Gaiety to
the more commodious Opera House. The per-
formance is for two nights only, but if the
Signora’s voice proves, upon trial, to be suffi-
ciently recovered, there is a chance that that
brilliant actress will return permanently to the
Stage, to be at* unalloyed blessing to the com-
munity at large.
« « * *
“Struck Oil ” shows no sign of decadence
at Sydney Majesty’s, and it is just possible that
the management may keep it on for some time
longer. In these days it is hard to find a piece
that will even pay the gas-bill, and the manage-
ment is vaguely supposed to live on the tailoring
advertisements on the back of the programme.
Therefore, when any manager lays his hand on a
drama that more than pays expenses, he can only
be torn off it by wild horses, or some equally
Vigorous motive-power.
* * m m
The Steens, at Sydney School of Arts,
have adorned their show this week with the
inevitable “Georgia Magnet”—in this case a
Sydney girl, aged somewhere about 15 years. Th e
Magnet shoves a heavy chair and a big man in a
state of violent resistance about the stage wit],
apparent ease, and holds up a billiard-cue whic^
is being held down by six perspiring citizens, who
are further ballasted by a big committee-man
sitting on their extended arms. But the public
is beginning to realise the fact that Georgia
Magnets are rather a solemn institution, and are
not what they seem. The present writer oiioe
made the acquaintance of a powerful Magnet who,
being out of an engagement, was doing some-
thing in the millinery Way at a Very small salary,
and in private life she hadn't magnetism enough
to put up an ordinary shutter without assistance.
Since then his regard for Magnets, Georgia ot
otherwise, has become an attenuated sentiment;
-jf * # ¥t
Mr. Utting’s “ White Slaves ” faded away
some time last week as silently as the beautiful
consumptive at the end of one of Mrs. Henry
Wood’s novels; It went out so silently that no-
body knows the exact date of its blessed extinc-
tion. The author is vaguely reputed to have
thirty-one original dramas of the same kind con-
cealed about his person, which is a dreadful cir-
cumstance, but is alleviated by the fact that lie
isn’t going to play the balance in Sydney just at
present. During the run—or rather the crawl —of
the deceased production, the dress-circle at the
Sydney Opera House began to be halm ted by that
kind of audience which keeps its hat on most of the
time, and hails its female friends as “Sal” across
four tiers of seats. The next fall would have been
to that other kind of audience which brings a pie
and a bottle of beet with it for refreshment
between the acts, and drinks the beer out of the
pie-crust after eating the meat.
“The Mountebanks” continue to pfifc
more than a penny in the slot of Sydney Lyceum
treasury, and the clock-work portions of the show
keep on raising most of the loud enthusiasm, in a
manner that casts a serious reflection on the
superiority of giblets over cogs. The spectacle of
Alfredo Tapley warbling on a pedestal, in a
Captain Cook attitude, seems to point the moral
that at last the stage-tenor sings from the position
Nature intended him to adorn, while the baritone
stands down. By the way, Tapley’s red velvet,
fur-edged, gold embroidered ducal cloak is doomed
to be re-produced by the fat woman who haunts
dress-circles “on the nod.” It is the very thing to
appeal to the frivolous instincts of a welter-weight
lady squeezing in on a “border.”
*m * *
A Jew is probably five times more likely
to go upon the stage, in one capacity or other, than
an English-speaking Christian is. The Jewish
proportion of actors and actresses is compara-
tively great, chiefly because they have more
natural talent for acting than their Christian
brethren, but also because they have a heap
more “cheek.” After all, the chief essential
for success on the boards is faith—faith in one’s
ability to stand up and entertain people. The
Jew has it in nearly all cases. Some young
Israelites make fearful objects of themselves as
tragedians, comedians, or comic singers, until
their own people, who are generally sensitive as
regards Hebraic failure in public, chaff them into
taking a back seat. “Vat do you vant to make a
fool of yourself for, Lazarus—didn’t you hear the
biankers larfin’ at yer?”
At Poverty Point.
May Pollard gets a good chance at last in the “ Mounte-
banks,” at Sydney Lyceum. This clever young Aus-
tralienne—she should lower the pitch of her speaking
voice a little—has had very tad luck more- than once. A
while ago, when she was under-study to Leonora Braiiam,
in “ Princess Ida,” her chance seemed to have arrived, as
Miss B. was too ill in Brisbane to play the Princess. May
had a bad touch of cold, and in trying to fix it up in haste
to take up the part, swallowed too much eucalyptus oil
and was nearly poisoned. Someone else got the chance.
What is to become of the syndicate which lias lately
[nflicted upon Australia the—er—veteran British musical
“ stars ? ” Having exhausted the “ have beens” (with the
exception of Sims Reeves) perhaps they will now bring out
someone worth listening to—say, a tenor like Ben Davies,
a baritone like Pierspoint, or a'mezzo soprano like Alice
Gomez; someone who has some voice as well as reputa-
tion. But perhaps we get what we deserve.
It is said that Toole is in part responsible for Irving’s
disinclination to accept offers for an Australian tour,
J.L. thinks that Irving's expenses would be entirely too
large to afford any hope of money being made, and Irving
would not like to undertake a trip whichgave no prospect
of profit to the managers who engaged him. The Bulle-
tin’s correspondent “cannot vouch for the truth of the
story, but it would be just like Irving, who is a most just
and considerate man.”
Arthur Garner reappeared in Melbourne last week, to
the astonishment of everybody who had forgotten that
his money would be mostly invested in the blighted city.
Like a number of other prosperous members of the pro-
test!, Mr. Garner had shares which ceased to pay divs, and
“calls” that came to him across the sea, and his “pleasure
trip” is presumably sicklted o’er with the pale east of
financial business. He looks well, and as happy as though
there had been no crisis at all. He carries a thick
malacca cane, too. If he can find it convenient to knock
sheol out of a few reconstructed hanks, and administer
severe punishment to certain people who were considered
honest when he last shook hands-with t hem, Garner will
earn the everlasting gratitude of a much-trampled-on
community.
Harwood walks moodily around declaring that life is
a blank and sandy desert—all sand and no sugar.
Veteran Dick Stewart is another one who had “con-
fidence,” and now regrets that he didn’t stick his worldly
goods in the stocking which washes better than a balance-
sheet. And daughter Nellie, with her stake in the
Theatre Royal property, &c., &e., where is she? One of
these days the bare tidings will be telegraphed from
Adelaide—as in Garner’s case—that among the first-class
passengers for Melbourne, by the “ Oriole,” is Miss Nellie
Stewart. One oan almost sniff the sweet announcement
in advance.
Tom Cannain. always travels with “ mamma,” just the
same as VV. & M.’s new Italian prima donna, though per-
haps lie doesn’t require a chaperone so much as that lady.
C innam differs from most alleged comedians,, by the way,
in having a keen sense of humour. Lonnen once or twice
tried to be funny in private when,Cannain was round, but
with disastrous results.
Two more Melbourne aspirants have deserted the ama-
teur for the professional stage—Ethel Haydon, who
appears with W. & M.’s comedy Co., and Aim die Moore,
who joins the Eloise Juno Co. at the Royal. Aimee Moore,
who is also a past grand mistress of the Austral s»lon,
used to lie pen-lady on Melbourne Herald, and is the
chum of Agnes Murphy, of, Punch, pen-lady-in-chief to
Melbourne “ sassiely.”
De Beaupuis, the pianist, has had about enough of Mel-
bourne, and last week his admirers gave him a farewell
concert. A brilliant performer, Be BeaupuU might,
under ibore favourable conditions at the outset, have
made much moneyas a “star.” He came to Melbourne
four years ago, and the multitude know him not.
A real Lady, who can never lose her title in the Divorce-
court, is doing song and skipping-rope-dance business at
a New York variety theatre. She married Sir Richard
Hansel whilst playing- “boy” in a Portsmouth panto-
mime. Sir Richard died twelve months later, of happiness
on the liver, or something.
Ada Orossley more than consoles Melbourne for the loss
of Antoinette Sterling.
Melbourne opera prices: Cs., 45., 2s:
Edward Terry says he will invade Australia in 1894,
opening in Adelaide.
It makes Tub Bulletin smile to read that the Much
Travelled is “endeavouring to induce Mr. J. F. Hogan,
M.P., to undertake an Australian lecturing tour." In
this matter there are two alternatives (1) Hogan is a good
self-advertiser (2) Smythe’s brain is getting soft.
Adelaide daily papers have teemed with complimentary
correspondence concerning the Brough and BOucicatilt
Co., and the Register gave them a most eulogistic
leader besides a pictorial article. Result—a theatre so
crowded as to do justice even to their merits.
Sass shows himself at ease, in a lady’s presence, by
pulling up his cuffs. Cecil Ward by scratching the nape
of his neck with a middle finger.
Sterling Whyte acted Deacon Skinner long ago. When
the play was last revived in Melb., Williamson wrote to
the press, in protest against the idea that the part Was
fatal to the actor, pointing out that about 13 of his
Deacons survived. _ Whyte wrote complaining that J.C.W.
had overlocked him. Others were dead, but not for-
gotten; he was “forgotten, but not dead.” Perhaps the
malignity applies only to Australia, where the cemeteiised
Deacons are O’Brien, Sefton, and Redwood—Redwood
whom everyone loved, and who joked from his very heart
When he was dying,
“ Cold as a danseuse."— Balzac.
Madame Melba is beginning to have accidents happen
her. Rather cheap this. Better revive the divorce-case,
or lose a peck of diamonds,
A coUsin of evangelist San key (same iiatiie) is an opera-
singer in Australia—now with the MontagUe-Turner Co.
Terry turned up at the Wat-randy (e (Vic.) Chinese corpse
snatching case with Buzfuz Bartrop, P.M. A comedy on
the same lines as the ghoulish joke would suit Terry.
“ A man is most sober when he’s otherwise,"—Dick
Phenyl.
“ Acting in Australia is of more recent growth and
importance than in America, yet what do we find there ?
Why, comic operas are mounted and sung infinitely better
there under the direction of J. C, Williamson—a native-
born American, who won his spurs in San Francisco and
New York—and his partner, George Musgrove, an Aus-
tralian, than they are in vaunted Paris. Shakespeare is
well cared for by George Rignold—the ‘handsome
George’ of ‘Henry V.’ fame—and Bland Holt produces
melodrama in a way that London and New York might
occasionally envy, and which often puts- Paris to the
blush. While, for excellence in comedy and domestic
drama, 1 have seen many and many a play performed
under the direction of Robert Brough, of a talented
English theatrical family, and Dion G. Boucicault (‘Dot ’),
the clever son of the gifted Irish dramatist, that blows to
the winds the theory that there is no acting but that of
France, no perfect playing out of Paris. To name at
random only a few of the pieces which I have seen pre-
sented with special ability by the Brough-Boucicanll
organisation, ‘ She Stoops to Conquer ’ and ‘ Money ’
among the classics, ‘Sophia,’ ‘Joseph’s Sweetheart,'
‘ Diplomacy,' ‘ Peril,’ ‘ The Magistrate,’ and ‘ A Pair of
Spectacles,’ among the modern works, would vie with the
French school in general excellence.”— Tub Illustrated
American of 22nd July.
R. S. Smythe and Searelle are “ pourparleying” in
matters of business, and it is quite on the cards that they
will in a way join forces-that the “Much-Travelled,”
after exploiting Australia with stars, will hand them over
to Searelle to work South Africa.
One can hardly think a married man relishes photos, of
his actress wife being hugged by an actor. V
It will soon be hard to find a theatrical not a teetotaller,
Holloway does not go to America witli Irving.
Anson’s matinee was poor, but he is engaged for 11. A.
Jones’s new play, Haymarkct.
Authorities differ as to when the divine Sbekinah of U e
Circus Aroma descends on the building. Some say it
comes with the tan, others with Hie sawdust, others that
the final eliampagny smack of flavour does not arrive till
the cry rises of “ Orange, nuts, lemonade !”
Maskelyne, the London conjuror, &c., &c,, advertised
that on the day of the Duke of York’s wedding he would
admit bridal couples to the Egyptian Hall as one person
on production of a marriage certificate 1
Now, really, is Terry a better comedian than Lauri?
The London actor-manager surrounds himself with in-
different actors, but the Australian manager insists on
good ones.
Grace Wixon, the large and beefy Gaiety angel, is
sft. llin. high.
“How like Melba!” exclaimed the English brigade
when Signora Del Torre appeared.
Writes a Melb. correspondent of the Finn’s two star
danseuses : “ D’Argo, plump, pluggy, exquisite, came on
with a bound, to the music of Boccherini’s Minuet, The
dancing of Bartha and D’Argo, like that of the DUvallis
of old, is absolutely pure, classical and beautiful. D’Argo
is a flash-light. Bartha is more of the gliding sylphide
order, and her toeing is simply miraculous. She is the
suaviter in roodo, the other the fortiter in re. The skii ty
is mere fudge to this. Tiie rivals ended with a pas
together, laughing into each other’s eyes.”
Van Atnbargh tamed his wild beasts by pulling rut
their claws.
Dear Bulletin,— Since interest lias been awakened in
the career of the lamented G. V. Brooke, the follow i g
hitherto unpublished incident may lie woith chronicling.
Brooke was playing at Hobart Royal, and was billed for
“Hamlet” on a certain evening. The night came and
the house was packed in every part. At eight o’clock,
when the silent expectancy of the audience had become
intense, the lessee appeared before the curtain and
announced that as Mr. Brooke had been seized with
sudden illness the “ Lady of Lyons” would be substituted
(or the programme in hand. But the apologist was
bowled off, and “ ‘ Hamlet,’ nothing but ‘ Hamlet!’ ” was
theory. At length G.Y.B. appeared, supported by Dr.
Smart (who is still practising in Hobart, by the way), and
attempted to speak. It was then only too obvious what
had caused the indisposition, and the howls grew fiercer.
Finally the lights were turned out and the money
returned to the audience with promises of “ Hamlet” for
next night. Among the disappointed ones was a
Liverpool-slreet draper who rejoiced in a splendid
memory, a strong love of Shakespeare, and an
overweening belief that he was born to im-
personate “ Hamlet,” in Which lie was letter-
perfect. This individual slept little that night, for a
great project occupied his thoughts., And, in pursuance
of his plan, he waited on Brooke next morning,, and
offered to play Hamlet that night for him. The sobered-
up tragedian, entering into the spirit of the tiling, asked
Rags to recite some of the lines, and, appearing to ho
greatly pleased, dismissed the bold aspirant by informing
him that if he felt at 7 that evening unable to take the
part, the draper would receive word to “go on.” Need-
less to say, the would-be actor lost bis chance, for Brooke
that night scored the biggest success of the season. But
—and here is the curious fact of the story*—(lie unfor-
tunate draper was fated to play a part with the great
tragedian far more terrible than either had ever aspired
to, for they were accidentally fellow-passengers in the ill-
fated ship that sucked then down to their death at the
same moment. Who will say that the enthusiastic
Shakespearean amateur did,not glean a ray of consolation
in his last agony that he was permitted to die with “ the
master?”—Yours, Scotia. Hobart.,
For 15cl. in. stamps, vyill be posted from
Tiik Urr.i.KTix Office to any Australian address
‘■Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning.”'
Ljlley’s health has been almost completely
II,is re appearance on the platform may
be expected any day.
Graham Berry's son, (lie only one by lii*
present marriage, is among the latest departures
to Coolgardie Gold-fields.
On Friday last Dean Cowper, of Sydney,
completed his 09th year as a clergyman. He is 83
years of age, and saw Governor Macquarie lav tho
foundation stone of Old St. Andrews.


nburgh.
The Old Blend
WKisKy
=f^. r c horse
Cellar
WHI'
DIRECT PttOH OISTIUERS
AIPfAYS THE SAME. PURE, MEU.OH
MATURED iCOTCH M«T
The Wild-Cat Column.
At a meeting of the Bank of North Queensland
shareholders, held on Monday at Townsville (Q.), a pro-
position was mooted that the three Queensland banks
should amalgamate and form one bloated institution.
Considering the relative size of the three banks this
practically means that the Queensland National should
devour its two rivals which will afterwards sink or swim
with it. The Royal and N.Q. should think hard over
this Their establishments are both known to be sound,
and if they joined together they might form a big and
solid institution. But the proposed third party to the
transaction is too “ mixed up” to be a desirable partner.
One province, one bank, isn’t good policy.
# * *
The Q.N. Bank Agreement Act gives the Q.
Treasurer power to make the necessary reconstruction
agreement re three millions of Government funds. Sub-
section 3, Sec. 4, provides for payment of 41 per cent,
interest thereon, “commencing on date of agreement.”
Has that agreement yet been signed ? Each week’s delay
means a loss of fully £2503 to Queensland, and a gain of
a like amount by the bank.
* 9 9
Rumoured in Melbourne that several suspended
institutions are now buying up their own deposit-receipts.
They can get them at about 15s. in the £, and save the
interest. # , *
A scheme is on foot for the resurrection of the
very much deceased Federal Building Society. The idea
of resurrecting anything with the name “ Federal ”
attached to it is an ill-omened project and should be
viewed with suspicion.
# # •
The defunct Colonial Investment and Agency
Co. (Melb.), that awful institution of the “ Davies group ”
which is now paying Is. 6d. in the £, distributed £65,000
in dividends in the last four years of its existence, and
professed to build up a reserve of £130,000. Yet in all
that time, as is proved by an overhaul of its balance-
sheets and its ledger, the actual p oils were only
■tUl—equal to £l5 ss. per annum. Its one legitimate
source of income w»as profits on land-sales, and the gross
sales for the four years were exactly £7OOO. Even in the
boom days, apparenily, the boom wasn’t anything like
the boom it was supposed to be.
* 9 #
The reason of the increased banking rates is not
so much that the public want money as that the banks
themselves do.
• # •
Someone has written a weird story of a Yankee
f amier _one of five brothers—who had a ten-acre patch of
hungry land valued at something like 400 dollars in all.
One of his brothers dreamt there was gold in the land
and bought it off him for a thousand dollars giving his
p.n. for the amount. Then another brother took the gold
fever and bought the land for 5000 dollars, giving his p.n.
for the amount also. The third one likewise got the
disease badly and took over the property at 14,000 dollars,
and later on sold it to brother No. 4 for 19,500 dollars,
each of them giving a mortgage on the land for the pur-
chase money.
* 9 *
An Adelaide depositor recently received inti-
mation—with a twopenny stamp on it—from the liquidator
of a Melbourne boom company that he was entitled to a
first and final dividend of one-sixteenth of a penny.
Whereupon he wrote back stating that the liquidator had
omitted to enclose the sixteenth of a penny, and unless
it were forthcoming within three days legal proceedings
would ensue.
9 9 9
Miss Elizabeth Jane Spence, the aggravated
lady who lately ran several actions against a Melbourne
baiik, has filed—liabilities, • £2512 ; assets, £3,772,408.
The assets consist of interests in three N.S.W. gold-
mines. The lady’s faith in N. S. Wales gold-mining
is indeed enormous. She must have gone a little
off her centre of gravity through studying the mining
tips in a Sydney Sunday paper.
9*9
Thus the Investor’s Review on certain Aus-
tralian banks : “More scandalous proceedings never took
place in the history of any country, but it will not be
long before the iniquity bears fruit. Their balance-sheets
have been false, for many years they have been con-
ducting their affairs on the most approved style of the
Liberator Building Society. Within a year’s time or less
most of these reconstructed banks will topple over
again.”
• 9 9
The case of the Australian Deposit and Mort-
gage Bank will set a good many people ruminating.
When the A. D. and M. Bank reconstructed, a year ago,
it was upon the basis of a 5 per cent, guarantee to
preference shareholders. That guaranteed dividend has
come down to 2 per cent, already, with a fair prospect of
falling to “par” next half year. What a ghastly satire
on the protests of other bank directors, who' lately
assured wretched depositors that preference shares would
find eager purchasers at their face value—were quite
equal to cash, in fact ! How soon will the howls for
liquidation begin to make respectable bluffers shake in
their imported boots?
9 9 9
Bayley’s Reward claim, W.A., is a daisy. A
halo of mining glory will surround Sylvester Browne’s
smart purchase, while Bayley, for selling, will be set down
as a “ mug.” It is quite the exception for a mam who
sells quickly on a good face to be “ left,” and this is a big
exception. Result of last three months’ work—23 bars
smelted gold, weight 36090 z.; also, a heap of specimens
got at 50ft., estimated to contain 600 oz. gold. About
U'.OOOoz. have already been won from the blow, all got by
dollying at the rate of 2owt. a day, and there are upwards
of 50 tons at grass awaiting plant, and worth, it is strongly
averred, from 6 to 20 ounces per ton.
# # • *
' What on earth is Sydney D.T. giving us about
“ Captain ” Rogers and his Bingara (N.S.W.) diamond-
mine? “A ton of diamonds in sight! ” “2500 diamonds
to the load ! ” “The Rothschilds want to buy.” “A
mountain of diamonds,” says the Captain. It all reminds
one of the D.T.’s splurge in Narrabeen Natural Gas. The
Captain “ would not sell to the Rothschilds but for the
fact that he is 80, nearly blind, and therefore requires an
J®„ anfc to pick out the diamonds.” Fortunately for
the Rothschildren, the Capt. is 80, for if he were 60 he
probably would not take £2,000,000 for the property. If
N.S.W. had a Brazilian Premier he would collar the
Monte Cristo mine and pay off the national debt with it I
* 9 #
Bayley’s South, recently floated, was originally
held by Mr. Gorrie (late of Mount Morgan way?), who sold
three-fourths to Sylvester Browne.
* 9 9
■ from a Sydney broker’s last report re min-
private lands:—“On some of these lands
we nave practically unlimited quantities of ores cpntain-
mg gold to the value of from loz. to sozs. per ton.'” Fine
cram.
* * #
Mt. Lyell fails to float in London, then the
v; n UB trAliau “ flotator ” who. goes there should get the
c. Gross for cheek. In three days recently the silver-
output ' v ® 9 25,000 oz.—which would have been doubled for
!r e l vee * but for the influx of water. Wonderfully rich
inn nl ° otm ng from a winze which has already put out
too OCKJozs from 83 tons ore. Total output to date, 116
132,0640z5. silver. By comparison,
nroken Hill m Us best days stands in the shade,
* 9 9
®°-- 900 tons for the month; vield,
7 " . I".' ‘hie 1 dirt. With 35 heads constantly
K 1 ! 1 should pay an occasional div. There is unlimited
Hn.. °» ’ " * ,en ,; bere is plenty of plant it may shut
down for want of water.
* • #
Jl'n 1 ' ydraulic sluici, ig on the Manar Ground,
.T."’ one nozz le can wash away 6000 to 8000 cubic
rc.i weekl - v - With their gravitation scheme, this
nf -„u i a *’ a cos *' loss than £5O ; hence, if one grain
o-i-m. i recovered from one cubic yard of wash, the
ground will pay.
* * #
J'™ t* 10 V(>r .V b’ vv consistently good N.S.W.
®Vf i lt Prake, owned by the Rivers family, and known
? Lady Jersey.” Some thousands of bzs. have been
mm ton 3 crushed by the Elephant stamp-
battery I * S ' eina dnown out for an ordinary 10-head
Bad news for tin-workers—the price of the
metal continues to drop.
9 9 9
Antimony, also, on the wane. Metallic dull in
London at £3B, crude £l7, and 50 per cent. £lO. Why is
it that 50 per cent, is but a little more than one-fourth
the value of the metal ?
* * #
lb was a masterly act of Labour Bureau red-
tape ignorance to send a party of destitute men,
in the depth of winter, to Annidale (N.S.W.), to
prospect for gold on the frosty tableland of New England,
without tents or sufficient blankets.
# # •
Editor Bulletin,— While admitting the truth
of your remarks last week re Spa Proprietary Co., I think
shareholders have still much reason for grumbling. 1,
myself, was informed at the office in June last, that
cleaning-up would begin at end of month. When that
time came, I was told that it had been postponed for
another month, and at end of August, when I re-enquired,
was coolly told that they didn’t even know if the clean-up
had started—hadn’t got any wires from manager, and
hadn’t wired him to know the reason of delay. They
now advertise that a new manager has been despatched
to the mine, and that cleaning-up will certainly start
Sept. 12, hut, in fight of past events, they might as well
say Deo. 12.—Melbourne Shareholder.
# # *
The lessees of a Broken Hill mine, lately sold in
Melbourne for £25, once tried to float the property into a
00. with £26,000 capital.
* * *
They still try to work the Broken Hill platinum
deposits. The ore bodies are limited and patchy, and
seldom give more than a few grs. to the ton ; rarely have
assays gone over loz. One of the most promising show s
is that owned by the Mulga Creek Platinum Co.,
primarily worked for gold, but the ore body was found to
contain several dwts. platinum. Metallurgist Govett
treated the ore by crushing and smelting in lead; the
bullion from 15cwt. ore and 9cwt lead assayed 2oz. 16dwt.
gold and 17dwt. 18grs. platinum per ton.” The Co. con-
siders the result satisfactory, but it can hardly pay, failing
richer platiniferous ores.
* # *
Broken Hill Proprietary Co. is erecting a 10-
furnace roasting and chloridising plant which will put
through 2000 tons ore we ;kly. The special class to be
operated on is a low grade siiicious ore averaging, say,
20oz. to 250 z. The silver contents exist in the form of
iodide of silver, consequently the ore cannot be leached
raw, while it is too dry for smelting. This new plant will
allow the long shut-down leaching works to re-start, and
will add largely to the great mine’s output.
• * *
The working of the open-out system at the
B.H. Proprietary mine is a bigger operation than is
generally supposed. The scheme involved the removal of
the immense ironstone outcrop with the double object of
getting at the ore beneath and preventing it collapsing
into Ihe underground workings—itself one of the biggest
quarrying operations on record. The workings extend
for 2000 ft. along the lode, and a recent estimate shows
that 425,000 cubic yards of material have been removed to
date, and 1,000,000 superficial feet of timber fit for use in
other parts of the mine recovered. Also, the Proprietary
is now obtaining all the ironstone flux required for the
smelters from this source, and is likewise recovering large
quantities of ore which could not otherwise have been
made available.
# # #
Gympie, Q., seems itching for a boom. Ib
would he a charity to work one up in the interests of the
stiff Brisbane Stock Exchange.
* * *
The future of Block 14 will resemble that of the
British if the S.A. clique gets its way and keeps Lane off
the board.
* 9 *
Rumoured at Broken Hill that the Tarrawingee
tram-line will soon be run out to the Corona iron-leases, a
dozen miles away. The Proprietary will need iron flux in
a year or less, and the right people have their grip on the
tram-shares and may seek to so fix freight charges that
the producers of the iron will perforce give up their
leas-s, which may then be added to the limestone areas
held by the Tarrawingee co. The bare possibility of this is
a lesson in “private enterprise” and the sale of State
railways.
# # #
Every little N.S.W. mining community has an
occasional good crushing or washing-up. “ The reef,”
it is wired to Sydney, “continues to look well, and is
believed to be permanent.” But, alas! one mine, one
crushing, and then the judgment,-day. As a country of
many separated mining places and few real mines, N.S.W.
leads the world.
* 9 *
Authorities still insist that only a big lottery
can save the Melb. building-societies.
* # *
During the last two months some two millions
sterling in gold have been exported from N.S. Wales, the
land of paper-money.
• * «
Ohannon’s patent gold-amalgamator is likely to
takes its place beside many crushing batteries. Most new
amalgamators’ destiny is the scrap-heap, hut this one, the
writer thinks, will live for practice and improvement.
Briefly, it consists of a funnel-shaped hopper, a pressure-
tube, a special worm, and a perforated disc submerged in
mercury. Its object is to supersede tables, mercury-
wells, and other amalgamating contrivances by forcing
the sand through a body of mercury. This has been
claimed by many other machines, but the writer has never
seen it so effectually accomplished as by Channon’s in-
genious contrivance. The inventor does not claim that it
will save gold that is not fine, but that it enables mercury
to do its work under more favourable conditions than
usual, and in that the writer believes it has succeeded.
The machine is simple in construction, involves small
cost, and can be easily worked.
# # #
Some excellent amalgamating work is done by
the Fraser grinding-pan at Mort’s Dock, Sydney. Recently
20 tons stone from the Alpine Pioneer, Delegate, was
crushed—some part by a battery and some by the Hunt-
ingdon Mill. The gold saved by mill treatment was
190 oz. The pan got 12oz. gold out of the tailings, which
represented 90 per cent, of their assay value. Better
work than this could not be wished for.
* * #
Nothing but the firm rise in lead has saved
Tas. silver-lead mines. The percentage of lead at Zeehan
and Dundas is greater than in any of the Australian silver
fields.
#99
Dear Bulletin, —The Salisbury and Beacons-
fleld Hydraulic Sluicing Co. (Tas.) have begun a survey of
their race. This means more monopoly. The Govt, have
given the 00. a grant of 1000 acres at Salisbury, with one
year’s protection against all leases for reefing save those
already in existence—not a bad thing for the Co., as their
grant covers an area rich in specimens and where there
are several parties prospecting for a reef with every pros-
pect of success. But the Sluicing Co. are not satisfied
with a year’s protection ; they want the Government to
cancel all existing leases. The present Govt, are pretty
hard-faced, but they couldn’t quite do that.— Yours,
Tambo. Beaconsfield, Tas.
• • •
The Bulletin said a year ago that the time
would come when Baker’s Creek Co. would perforce buy
the adjoining property—Baker’s Creek North—where
work had been laid out for deep sinking in a miner-like
fashion, while in the parent mine, with all its divs.,
after exhausting the tunnel-levels, the main shaft was
sunk on the lode—always risky where the lode is small.
That time arrived last week, when a deal was made.
Money would have been saved had the purchase been
made two years ago. Now, the big mine has a splendid
main-shaft and a big pumping-plant, and can run levels
ahead on both reefs.
* * »
‘‘A practical miner ” writes a note of warning
re the attempt to float, in Ballarat, a 00. to work a
certain Tawonga reef. His estimate is 7 grs. per ton, and
he asks why, say, 200 tons dyke formation is not tested at
the local mill.
9*9
Again tlie poor—very poor—minors of Wallaroo
and Moonfa are- told that nnles« copper ritti they must
take stilt smaller wages. Thirty-five years ago, a good
miner could earn £1 a day in those mines by tribute and
contract. A few remain to work at about 6s daily ; the
great majority are dead, but many are managers else-
where—even in South Africa.
* * •
Rock vale Freehold, N.S.W., closed down. A
good newspaper mine. Seouller failed to make it pay;
others took the helm, and accused him of bad manage-
ment. Fact has come right home—scarcity of gold.
* • •
Geo. Smith, of Baker’s Creek, is slobbered for
his successful management of the Eleanora —bought, with
his strong concurrence, for £‘30,000 cash four years ago.
So that the least the doughty George can do is to
endeavour to steer it out of debt and into divs, which he
is trying his best to do.
• • •
The last evolution of Sunny Corner is a three-
years' tribute on 5 per cent, royalty, with right of pur-
chase in two years for £7500. Mr. Charleston, formerly
manager of the mine, is tributor.
• • •
The striking of a big body of 15dwt. stone in
Bonang mine, Gippsland, is reported. _lf true, then they
have all they want. Hitherto the mine has lived and
languished, to live and liquidate again, on a small shoot,
but with a big reef and water-power it would boom again.
Minister Copeland swears by this mine.
# # •
Tumbernmbah sluicing claim let on tribute;
royalty, 35 per cent. Interesting to watch if tributors
with 35 per cent, handicap will do what the owners failed
to do without any.
« * •
From the quiescence of the prospecting associa-
tion, recently formed in Orange with such fervour, it is
thought that the object was “ more electioneering than
prospecting." A similar remark applies to the enthusiasm
displayed by quite a number of dying politicians on the
N.S.W. mining on private-property movement.
# # *
The Warden reports seeing 6oz, washed from
half-a-dish of stuff at Cargo, N.S.W. Gold runsin threads
and patches at Cargo, where an English co., the Ironclad,
dropped money, as did the Sydneyite who put up 20-
head to crush a big dyke-deposit.
* * *
The Mundic Miner, Etheridge, Q., lets go no
chance of creating a local mining boom. It shows the
returns from every local claim since starting. Total,
98,638 tons, 165,1710 z. gold. The Durham mine, 10,117
tons, for 20,3260 z. ; dividends unstated.
# * *
Some months back, in a N.S.W. Western dis-
trict, an old cousin Jack, who worked his claim with a 12-
year-old youngster, was driven out by water. A small
pump was secured, but as it was necessary to increase the
staff he agreed to let two miners work on a 10 percent,
royalty. The first crushing went over an oz. Cousin Jack
regretted the tribute and divided the proceeds thus : One
share for himself, one for the 12-year-old boy, and one for
the pump ; 10 per cent, was deducted from the tributors,
who regretted having no written agreement.
* * *
Last year Pambula gloated over having bought
a large second-hand battery from Gundagai, where it did
lit! le work, because there was little to do. Now Gundagai
has its revenge; “the very excellent machinery going
up" on one of its mines “ was purchased at an alarming
sacrifice at Pambula.”
* # #
Some Bendigo men, headed by Bob Beeston,
have revived the old Costerfleld Gold and Antimony
mines. Operations commence on 60,000 tons tailings,
50 tons whereof have been tested to prove gold contents.
3Jdwts. to the ton will cover the whole working.
# * *
Lansell’s latest move is to fence in several of his
old tailings-heaps for vegetable-gardens. Tailings un-
oxidised are a sad destroyer of vegetables, but when
oxidised by the atmosphere they produce the mammoth
turnip and the artichoke.
* * *
Hillgrove and Armidale Electric Power Co.
means business. Tenders called for clearing road and sup-
plying poles to carry wires.
# « 9
Something like a patchy crushing. Foley’s
claim, Wood's Point; less than two tons returned
350 ozs. gold.
# 9 #
The Companies Act Amendment Bill (Vic.)
prohibits companies from lending money on their own
shares, or lending money to their directors, officers,
auditors, or solicitors, or paying dividends from any
source but profits.
# # #
Tasmanian News compositors have struck
because of a proposal to reduce their pay from 9d. to Bd.
per 1000. The lean, gaunt ghost of Caxton !
# # *
The Hero (N.Q.) silver mine’s present struggle
is to erect crushing and leaching plant by issue of 25 per
cent, debentures! Ere long the debenture-holders will
surely hold the property. Faith in the Hero has half-
ruined many a Sydneyite.
# * #
The Tarrawingee Co. is almost as bad as the
Silverton Tram Co. The paltry amount saved by reducing
wages is scarcely any advantage to the co., beyond the
feeling of pleasure in the exercise of power. The silver
co.’s had an excuse for cutting wages when silver fell so
heavily, but there has been no reduction in the price of
limestone.
* # •
The decision of N.S.W. Full Court re the
Corona iron leases much restricts the jurisdiction of the
wardens’ courts. Hundreds of such cases, in which tho
wardens’ courts have no jurisdiction, have been tried by
these courts on the Barrier, and the fact that the parties
had no locus standi was well known to at least one Barrier
lawyer. But as he got many of the cases, he declined to
kill the goose that laid the golden eggs, and so never
raised the question of jurisdiction.
9 * 9
Significant that the chairman of Silverton Tram
shareholders’ meeting should record his opinion that the
Menindie line will never be built. Yet a cont ractor is re-
ported to be moving a big plant from Kohuca to Menindie
by steamer.
9 9 9
A shareholder in South (8.H.) mine, writing to
an Adelaide paper, says that the real motive of the pro-
posed transformation of the 00. from a limited to a no-
liability co. is thatshareholdersunable or unwilling to pay
oalls, may drop out of the co., the ultimate object being
to simplify realisation by sale to some other mine
—say, the Proprietary. Under the No Liability Act,
failure to pay calls within a specified period entails for-
feiture of shares without resolution on the part of the
directors. South contributors, seldom quoted, figure
about 9d., and a call just now would bring them to zero.
Pew shareholders would pay the call,
• « »
The Via mining law forbids one person holding
two contiguous residence areas, and reckons a man and
his wife as identical— i.e., one person. In Broken Hill
(N.S.W.) husband and wife are reckoned two persons. In
a case in which the compliance of a married pair with
residential conditions was Questioned, it was sworn that
they had their residence equally on each area, with the
family double-bed half on one side and half on Ihe other
side of tho boundary-line; also that (he man slept on the
half of the bed that was in his area. Plaintiff lost his
case.
* # *
About this time the last brother—tho original
holder—began to realise his folly in parting with an enor-
mously valuable property for a song, and he bought it
back for 30,000 dollars. As the united cash assets of the
family were only 80 cents, he also gave a mortgage on the
iand to secure the purchase money. Then the third
brother dreamt that there was no gold anywhere within
100 miles of the locality, and the boom burst, and all the
five brothers took to drink by reason of their losses. That
story is the tale of the Melbourne boom in a nutshell.
• * #
Capt. J. B. Carpenter, in a letter to S.M.
Herald advocating the re-esUblishment of the whaling
industry from Sydney, gits heavily ou one Moser, who
maintains that not ons single “ right ” whale has ever
been captured in the Southern Ocean, and that w-hallng
was a pursuit abandoned 40 years ago. Says the stolid
captain:—“ In 1870, 1 saw 72 whalesbtps at one time and
not one complained of the quantity of their catch. Later
on I saw 109 whaleships anchored in a single bay hump-
backing, and all successful. In the earlier years of the
whaling industry in N.S.W. it paid well. . . 40 ship#
employed bringing in from £150,000 to £200,000 of oil
and whalebone yearly. The same quantity at the present
time would be worth 10 time* that amount.” Further
on he proves conclusively that the “ right ” whale does
exist in the Southern Ocean, and huge fortunes await ite
exploitation.
9 * 9
A list of the N.S.W. attorneys now under
suspension for embezzling clients’ money would astonish
the public.
• • •
It is usual, in blasting operations on Kimberley
(W. A.), to hang up a red shirt as a danger-signal when
an explosion is being awaited. At one mine, there is no
red shirt in the whole camp. The boss, being a ready
man, displays the red cover of The Bulletin.
Still another attempt (which from its clumsiness
promises to he unsuccessful) is being made to work the
Terrible Dick (Barrier) mine, lately sold with aB
machinery, including a smelter, for £l5O.
• • «
Enthralling news from Lithgow :—“ A horse
has been taken out to Willie w-a to cart the wash to the
creek.” The Bulletin’s blessing goes with that horse.
N.S.W. is a great country for sensational mining news.
# * •
In the American financial crisis a cry is raised
for the resumpt ion of hydraulic mining in California. Years
ago nearly all the great sluicing concerns were stopped by
law because of the filling-up of navigable rivers and the de-
struction of farming lands. Rut the industries thus pro-
tected have languished, and the gold output has fallen 10
million dollars yearly.
* * *
“ Things are looking up ”* in the Mudgee dis-
trict. Ah Jack, the Chinese magnate of Windeyer, has
bought 140 oz. gold from European diggers knocking
around Limestone Creek.
* * *
Ironbark Gully, Avoea (Vie.), is apparently
another storekeeper’s rush.
• # #
Over 200 miners are now employed in the Vic-
torian coal mines, whose weekly output is considerably
over 1000 tons.
Francis Adams.
To those who knew Francis Adams well, the
news of his death by his own hand, and with the
connivance of his pitying, devoted wife, will
come with no shock of surprise. He was a man
to whom the idea of suicide was familiar. For
years he carried with him the means of calling
Death to do his bidding. It was his Aladdin’s
lamp. It was the weapon he kept in reserve for
the last desperate moment of the fight he was
daily waging against want and mortal disease.
So it is no matter for wonder that in the torture
of the final death-struggle—the same torture that
only last year in Queensland made the closing days
of his younger brother one long agony—his mind
should have turned to the way of making an end
of it all.
# # •
No estimate of Adams’ life or work can be
adequate that leaves out of view the fact that
almost since boyhood he had lived in the very
shadow of death. Much of his work was done
under conditions that with most men would have
made work of any kind impossible. His pen was
his one means of livelihood. He lived a frugal
life, his wants were few and simple, his pleasures
were those of the scholar, and a very modest in-
come would have sufficed to keep him in comfort.
But that income even his marked literary talents
could never make secure. No care could ward off
the attacks of the malady, that time after time
prostrated him, draining his strength, eating
up his savings, driving him from country to
country, and laying him helpless for weeks
at a stretch. Even ere he was able to lift
himself from his bed, he would be at work
again on some bit of journalistic task-work that
was to pay for his daily bread. And no one who
lived on terms of intimacy with him can ever
forget the simple, cheery fortitude with which be
bore it all.
• # #
It was not only life’s enjoyment of which
disease robbed him ; what he felt much more was
that, as life slipped away, he was losing for ever
the opportunity of delivering the message that he
believed it was in him to deliver to his fellow-
men. On the night's starr’d face he beheld “ huge
cloudy symbols of a high romance,” and his
sustaining hope was that he might live “to trace
their shadows with the magic hand of chance.”
But the opportunity did not come to him—he was
only thirty when he died ; the little space he
asked of leisure and freedom from racking disease
and importunate want was never his, and his
message remained for the most part unspoken.
• • •
No need to say anything here about the qualities
of his work. Something of the powers of the
man, and most of his weaknesses, are familiar to
those who know him only by his writings. His
knowledge of the literatures of the world was
profound ; and his literary sympathies were broad
and generous. If he lifted up his voice against
some celebrity of the day, some little clay god at
whose shrine the popular incense was burning, it
was because he lived in familiar intercourse with
the immortals. Singularly quick to learn, Adams
was yet a model of patient, methodical industry.
Sprung from a line of scholars, he inherited the
scholar’s aptitudes, and intellectual labour was to
him at once a necessity and a keen delight.
• • »
But at this moment, standing, as it were, by his
open grave, we think not so much of the poet and
man of letters as of our dead friend. We remem-
ber his eager, passionate enthusiasm for the' cause
of the helpless and the outcast, his impatience of
illusion, his earnest desire to see all things in the
clear light of truth, his fearlessness to speak his
utmost thought, his steady gaze into the eyes of
relentless fate, and with all this his ready
sympathies ever prompt to rejoice in his friend’s
joy and to make their sorrows his own. Now
that his friendship has become a cherished
memory, many an eye will be wet with tears, and
many a voice from the hither shore call out the
last sad message of farewell after the brave spirit
voyaging alone into the great dark.


mum
r- --TA •**
& /A
nsssm>
\rw
Gro to JEIELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (>d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STUKKT, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
n
til!
L I Km
mm\
itftm
m
/m
'zm
\
lSaoc maQc
”4
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers In the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition,
Balchin, Johnston Sc Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Four-fifths of the jokes accepted by Lon-
don PUNCH, from outside contributors, are fur-
nished by Scotchmen. The fact that Punch
depends so largely on Scotch humourists is pro-
bably the reason of its extreme badness—or else
the reason why it isn’t a great deal worse.
As a weird example of how old tilings
keep on living in England simply bee ruse of their
age, a London city church still gathers in an
annual allowance to buy faggots for the burning
of heretics. It hasn’t burnt a heretic for more
than three centuries, but the income goes on just
the same.
THRICE IS HE ARMED,
WHO HAS HIS QUARREL JUST,
CLEMENTS TONIC.
THE WORLD’S GREAT RESTORATIVE
HAS CURED MORE CASES OF INDIGES-
TION, NEURALGIA, WEAKNESS. DE-
RI LITV, DROPSY, HRIGHT’S DISEASE,
AND LIVER COMPLAINT THAN ALL
OTHER MEDICINES PUT TOGETHER.
If you are sick and value your life, insist on
having Clements Tonic, and no substitute or yor
will bo disappointed.
READ THIS CASE.
Mr. Chas. Strange, hairdresser and tobacconist,
Auburn Street, Goulburn, N.S. W., who writes on
May 23rd, 181)3 I have been a great sufferer
from dyspepsia for the last two or three years. I
have tried several so-called cures for the above
complaints, but never received any benefit from
them. Hearing so much about Clements Tonic —
in fact, I could hardly take up a newspaper but I
saw the cures performed by your wonderful
medicine—I resolved to try it, and I am happy to
say it has performed a perfect cure in me, and I
can strongly recommend it to anyone suffering
from the same complaint,—Yours respectfully,
Chas. Strange, hairdresser and tobacconist,
Auburn Street, Goulburn, N.S.W.
To Readers of “The Bulletin.”
Attention is directed to The Bulletin’s
Missing Word Competion (No. 6) announced on
cover of this issue.
For more than forty years, Ayer's Cherry
Pectoral has been successfully prescribed in cases
of consumption. This medicine always affords
groat relief in pulmonary diseases. Ask your
druggist for it.
Post
Ersohelnt jeclen Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis 3' J
Zu haben iwi alien Zeitungs-Agentcn.
Abonnement 10 sli. Jiihrlieh direkt bei dor
Foreign Publishing Office, 20 Hunter Str., Sydney.
Personal Items.
George Gordon M‘Crae has a novel in the
pressk
Tummy is said to ho ogling Madame
More than one Melbourne boomer is now
studying Spanish.
A dolls’ house, amid Matthew Davies’s,
effects, was valued at £5OO.
A Melb. appeal is made for a son of Irish
novelist Garleton, boom-broke.
“The Complete Australian Letter Writer.”
— W. E. Abbott, Wingen (N.S.W.)
A Melbourne medico now proudly cuts.
Ids tobacco with Beaney’s fistula-knife.
James Harrison, on the Geelong Advert
Tiser, used to set up l his leaders, without writing
them.
The magic of the letter “’M” to Melbourne ;
—Mercantile, Matthew, MillkJge,Muntz, Measles,
Munro.
Two of Governor Norman's claims to dis-
tinction are that he wears three war-medals and
has been thrice married.
Millionaire Sam Wilson is 00 his way to .
the vulgar country of Australia. Sammy will
miss the old nobility terribly.
Captain Armit, the new private secretary “
to Governor Macgregor, of Papua, is a relative of
N.S.W. ex-Cbief Justice Stephen.
Gerald Supple is leader-writing for the 1
N.Z. Herald (M.L.), and lives a secluded life at;
Auckland with two maiden sisters.
Mrs. Malleson, whilom leader of Mel-
bourne society, was' the veteran Capt. Devlin’s
daughter. Another married A. T. Dickens.
L. F. De Salis, M.L.C. (N.S.W.), has had
h’s aln ady great wealth added "to by the will of
his brother who left him large estates and much
money.
How many of the Bench (by one member
< f which Matthew Davies was committed) did not
1 clong to a certain secret society of which Matthew
Davies was an ornament ?
Viceroy Norman’s appointment, one of the
outward and visible signs of Gladstone’s “ Liberal-
ifin,” is a heavy blow to the classes, whose squeals
resound all over the earth.
“Sir Duff,” writing to a London friend,
says that ho likes Sydney, but the snobs who
incessantly run after him are much more trouble-
tome than the mosquitoes.
There are nine Illawarra natives in
the present N.S.W. Parliament Campbell,
Canuthers, two Cullens, Ewing, J. D. Fitzgerald,
Fuller, M'Oourt, and Moreton.
Carrie Swain is now, says an exchange,
going through a course of training at Paris under
Madame Marches!, who “ brought out ” Madame
Melba. And Mr. Carrie Swain ?
How are the mighty
fallen ! Speaker Tom
Bent (who, as a cabbage-
gardener, beat Higin-
botham!) barely escaped
defeat at the late
Brighton (Melb.) muni-
ci pal elections. Ere
long, every Victorian
Eminent Personage
connected with the land
boom will have to right-
-abont-face.
When “Old Jack”
Robertson was N.S.W.
Premier, he visited a
Northern town which
had a most convivial
Mayor. There was the
inevitable banquet; and
a lino assortment of
the district’s hardest
drinkers rolled up.
When the local reporter
called for the “ copy ”
that the editor was to
have had ready for that
morning’s weekly issue,
he found the editor
under the table, with
the rest of the revellers,
but no “copy;” and
the Premier and his
son (then his secretary)
had disappeared. The
paper came out, how-
ever, and merely re-
corded that the banquet
was a great success;
that the Premier and
his son were the only
ones able to get to bed.
Old Jack moved on
early in the morning to
the next town, and
three days after re-
ceived a telegram from
the Mayor addressed
from “Under the
Table”; “Still drink-
ing your health.” The
answering wire real,
“Still returning
thanks.”
The friends of Mr. M'Millan, M.L.A.
(N.S.W.), will not be surprised to find him aban-
doning politics wholly at a near date to devote
himself to the work of social reform.
Charles Eagle Knight, an old Eureka
Stockade man, died at Hobart, the other day.
Unlike most of bis old-time confreres, Mr. Knight
died a wealthy man, but a liberal one withal.
One of the proprietors of an unlucky
Melb. variety show is but a couple of lives from
the dukedom of Manchester. Like “Thiele Kim,
and . others of the Montagues, he caught stage-
fe.er as a boy.
On dit that Barr Smith, the S.A. king
squatter, has scores of thousands of hard cash
locked up in a “reconstructed” bank. He is
chiefly interested, however, in the Bank of Ade-
laide, which did not even waver during the recent
financial tornado.
George Stevens, who represented the Age
and Sydney Telegraph at Broken Hill during
the strike and lost his position owing to his Demo-
cratic views, is now a press mining-correspondent
on W.A. goldfields.
“The Vagabond,” in a recent article,;
■wrote of James Harrison, the veteran Vic. 4
journalist, “writing without glasses,” and
“ walking five miles without fatigue a few days
later, Mr. Harrison’s death was announced.
“Nosey Bob,” legalised N.S.W. man-
butcher, lately tipped a Redfern station porter
for helping him with his portmanteau. It is a
little thing like this that brings home to a man
the lowliness of his lot. A tip from a hangman !
A Sydney parson declares that he will
have, within 12 months from date, Edward
Trickett, Thomas Walker, A. C. Taylor, and
W. P. Crick on one platform singing church
hymns. If so, it will recall “ the happy family ”
at the Zoo.
E. T. Smith, the Gough phonograph, has,
perhaps, never read the most awful “temper-
ance ’’-poem in the English language, which hap-
pens to have been written in Australia —Henry
Kendall’s “That Street.” He should sandwich it
into one of the orations.
An English paper announces that “Princess
May takes care that her clothes are purchased
from shops that pay their wages and do not over-
• work their hands.” Which makes about the 700th
beautiful trait discovered in May’s character since
..she became prospective Queen of England.
Postmaster-General Kidd (N.S.W.) is a
man of highly reflective and original mind. His
impressive mot. made during voyage from
Queensland to Noumea of the French cable-
i steamer Francois Arago, will be immortal —
“Why, this ship is manned by Frenchmen !”
There was only one unforeseen obstacle in
the York-Teck marriage procession, and that was
a hearse, which had somehow got across the track.
Considering the care taken to keep the roadway
clear, the intrusion of that corpse-van was nothing
I short of an omen. The prospects of the Fifes are
’ looking up again.
Mr. Piguenit, the well-known Tasmanian
I artist, whb paints such charmingly restful, dreamy,
s lagoony pictures, and is denounced as “ oleo-
graphish ” by the “flash” school which works
with a paint-pot and a shovel, appears not to be
dependent upon Australia for his artistic income.
His work sells readily in England.
Marshall Lyle lately visited Gippsland to
lecture on Freetrade, and, after being introduced
to the meeting, essayed to speak, but was met with
loud cries of “Tell us about Deeming ” ! All his
efforts to speak were futile until he promised to
go up another time and lecture on Deeming,
the proceeds to ;/o to the Church fund.
An 'unostentatious semi-politician in the
N.S.W. whisky-importing line declares that he
has been offered and lias declined a 0.M.G.-ship.
Which brings ns quite near to the prophesied
millennium of the late David Buchanan, in which
only publicans and servants at Government House
could be induced to accept that mark of extinction.
RECIPROCITY OF SENTIMENT.
TOMMY THE NUT : “Jimmy, what’s your opinion o’ ‘cops’ and 'd.’s?'”
JIMMY : “Same as theirs is o’ me.”
Robert Herbert, who acts temporarily as
Agent-General for Tasmania, was Queensland’s
first Premier. He acquired a reputation for
scholarship, but was a man of small initiative
ability and too much ceremony for a newly-opened
country. Macalister and Lilley contributed most
of the ideas which then steered the State. As
bead clerk and nnder-secretary in the London
Colonial Office ho was more in his element. He
never became Australianised, and till the present
day regards these southern lands as places in
which to make money, and from which, when
money has been made, to expeditiously retire.
His health has also needed constant care.
Lord Jersey’s donation from over the seas
to a Sydney suburban bowling-club recalls the
speech he once delivered after an afternoon in
shirt and trousers : “ Of all the happy days in my
life,” cried the elated Governor, “ this day spent
in bowling is the happiest. I’ll never forget it; it
is impossible I over can forget it.” He probably
meant it all, for be was very boyish in his heart.
Douglas Sladen gives a new version of the
death of John Wilson, the circus-man. Ho white-
washed an elephant, and showed it to a crowded
house, in Bangkok, as a sacred animal. The
priests were shocked when the clown rubbed off
some whitewash on his trousers, and said there
would be a judgment. The elephant died on the
voyage to Singapore—Wilson died at Singapore.
How are these letter-
titles conferred ? enquires a
Bulletin correspondent.
Take the Buchanans, for
instance. W. F. Buchanan
is a F.R.G.S. and something
else, while old Nat. the ex-
plorer, the bushman par
excellence amongst bush men,
is still plain Nat. Buchanan,
and will probably pass right
out “Plain Nat.” W.F. is
a smart man of affairs, but
the other is the geographist,
the man of the forest, the.
river and plain, * the man
to be bracketed with John
M‘Douall Stuart, and Sturt,
and the Gregorys.
One day the venerable
philanthropist, Dr. Single-
ton, was at Collingwood
(Melb.) Police-court looking
for brands to snatch from
the burning. '‘Anything
on the list to-day, sergeant;”
“A few drunks, doctor,”
replied Fenton, the preacher-
policeman, handing over
the sheet. “Patrick Mur-
phy, drunk,” recited the
venerable Singleton, with
a shake of the head; “onr
countrymen’s only failing,
sergeant. Take away the
drink and they’re as good as
gold.” “Thmc for ye, doc-
tor,>’ chimed in the Killarney
man, “put a Inmdhred
sober Irishmen and a luni-
dhred sober men of any
other.conn try, and I’ll back
the Paddies for good be-
haviour.” “Tin’s Murphy,
I see, is a native of Vic-
toria,” observed the old
doctor, “ but I suppose ho
got the love of liquor in Ins
blood from his father.”
“ Silence ! ” bawled a police-
man, and Templeton, P.M.,
took his seat on the bench.
“ Pathrick Murphy ! ” called
the sergeant— and a bare-
footed aborigine without a
hat was produced and fined
five shillings.
Mr. Chris. Bennett, of Town and
Country, who died last week at Darling Point,
Sydney, made several attempts to continue the
“ History of Australian Discovery and Colonisa-
tion,” commenced by his brother in the Empire of
the early days, and afterwards issued as a book,
now rare. The attempts never, however, came to
more than the collection and Classification of
manuscripts and printed matter.
Ex-Agent-Geneval Garrick's love of living
in England enables him to bear personal contumely
with a placid face. MTlwraitb’s dismissal of him
was of the brutal order of State procedure, and it
was for a while expected that the old Brisbane
man would retaliate by returning to politics. But
there is no fight in him. He will stay in London,
and if Forrest can’t go he will act for him, and if
Forrest’s successor can’t go, he will act for him,
too.
“ Canterbury ” Hutchinson, ex-M.L. A.
(N.S.W.), while preaching teetotalism, used to
relate how he once opened a Good Templar Lodge
amongst a farming community in Bega district,
and how, when lie visited the place a couple of
months later, an old man quietly arose and asked
if taking rum-and-milk in the morning was a vio-
lation of the pledge. “For if it is,” said the
agricultural patriarch, “wo have all broken it
right enough, as we’ve never been able to leave
that off.”
Mr. Justice Foster, whose retirement
from N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench is being
talked about, was related to Stawell, late Chief
Justice of Victoria, and to two or three Fosters
of judicial rank in Ireland. In early life he
showed marked scholastic aptitudes, and it was
not clear for many years whether he would shine
best as a lawyer, a cleric, or a dominie. He
seemed to solve the problem by turning fanner.
Afterwards, however, he joined the N.S.W. Bar,
and by working legal, ecclesiastical and political
influences with assiduous attention he secured a
vacant seat on the Supreme Court Bench.
Murray and Kibble, Vic. Railway Com-
missioners, have retained Duffy, Deakin and
Coldliam against the Argus, and Purves has a
general retainer for that paper. In the Age case
Duffy and Coldliam are at present endeavouring to
prove that under Speight everything was faultless,
while Purves is trying to prove that everything was
wretchedly managed then, but under Murray and
Kibble things are AT. If the action against the
Argus comes to trial, Purves, Q.C., as in duty
bound, will, no doubt, say that he (Purves) drew
upon his imagination for his facts in the Age case,
and similarly Duffy and Coldliam that their former
statements were romance.
Orange (N.S.W.) Leader objects to The
Bulletin’s recent article that places “James
Joseph Dalton, Esq., of King’s Inn, Ireland,
barrister,” in the list of “foreigners ” admitted to
the N.S.W. bar without any of the fusS required
of native-grown lawyers; and says that Mr.
Dalton was born in Orange. James Joseph
Dalton may bo a Cornstalk, but “James Joseph
Dalton, Esq., of King’s inn, Ireland,” is, in the
forensic eye, a foreign gentleman. In fact, it is
only because he is a foreign gentleman with a
foreign qualification that N.S.W. Supreme Court
admits him so easily and effusively. -
Editor Bullktin, —Why object to Arthur
of Connaught getting the Aldershot command?
It is no prize for a poor man. A man is no use
there unless he has .£3OOO or £4OOO a year to spend
in entertaining royalties, &c. As for the Com-
mand-in-Chief, the very worst man for it would bo
a genius. It was a bed of thorns for Wellington—•.
the only real genius who ever held it. Hardinge,
who was no genius, but a good, plodding, working
T
YOUNG QUEENSLAND.
POLICEMAN XI.: “Does oo know that long joker, sonuie?"
Y.Q.: "My word! Is name’s Smith."
POLICEMAN XI.: “Does ho belong here? To the town, Oi mane.”
Y.Q.: “No fear! ’E come yer with sheep. We don’t breed em
that shape in Mulgatown.”
officer, was nearly worried to death. George of
Cambridge just suits because he sticks to routine,
and has the sense to let the thing work itself. As
for Roberts, he is too much bated by those in
power to got any employment except such as will
bo too costly for a poor man like him. They are
too much afraid of him to send him to India as
Governor-General, and his bad habit of telling the
truth will probably cause him to be shelved like
Haraley. As for Gov. Norman, they hope lie has
enough of the soldier to bo useful, and lias for-
gotten all that would make him troublesome.—
Yours, &c.,
J.R.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Iloyal Arcade, Sydney.
selve^f 8, study to keep them
f.,1 8 a least "’hh the various new and beauti-
Ulproce6s es in photography,”
THIS TWO
GENUINE ARTICLES:
CLEMENTS TONIC,
FLETCHER’S PILLS,*
IMITATED!
BUT UNRIVALLED
AND UNEQUALLED.
CLEMENTS TONIC is a scientific chemical?
food and restores the tissue wasted by the voca-
tions of every-day life, is a prompt and safe
remedy for neuralgia, nervousness, weakness,
debility, liver complaint, dropsy, and chronic in-;
digestion.
FLETCHER’S PILLS cure heartburn, back-
ache, headache, liver torpidity, dyspepsia; and all
complaints of the stomach and bowels.
These two remedies have been thoroughly tested
in all the hot countries of the world. They are
sold everywhere, but care must be taken that the
genuine are obtained or the money and time are
wasted and the disease so much the more serious.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MILLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
STEAM PUMPS,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES & BUGGIES'
William Fleming,
22 & 24 Clarence Street,
SIIEVEV.
Sf. -
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-,
plied to suit the various/
strata.. WILLIAM 1
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
/B
POLITICAL
POINTS
England, America, Australia-Past, Pre-
of contract. ” Yes ; but Fair-
of contract, first.
“The secrets of a Cabinet are sometimes
urn the folds of a petticoat. ’
""wood is the weakest of the S.A. Labour
members, and MTherson the strongest.
There are 2000 “aliens” in the benevolent
institutions and lunatic asylums of N.S.W.
It,tli the Argus and the Aan fax oui a
t ,for,n in the existing system of electing ministers.
Under the present management, on “ com-
mercial principles,” Vic. Railways are losing over
JlOOO a day.
How many Sydney lawyers are calmly
selecting themselves for country constituencies as
‘ Democrats
Cabinet Ministers Politicians whose
actions are as sweet as the odour got in washing
40 a shot-gun, . , J ,
five thousand and nine pounds, cost et a
railway station, mentioned in Speight v. Syme.
Kevenne, £2 a month.
Politicians— tilings as valuable and as com-
mon as Fiji bananas at 24 for sixpence, and as
slippery as the skin thereof.
The “loyal” press reports a brilliant
sweoli by the Duke of Argyle in denunciation of
Home Eule. Argyle brilliant !
MTlwraith claims that he has never put a
friend or relation into the Government service.
But they get there just the same.
“The market for flour is not the man’s
empty pockets, it is the man’s empty stomach,”—
COONAMBLE (N.S.W,) INDEPENDENT.
The methods of that greasy hypocrisy, the
Australian New Hebrides Co., will shortly come
fully to light in N.S.W. Parliament.
Workmen—lndividuals who can’t yet
understand that the destruction of their misery
rests in the hi How iof their own hands.
The Marrickville (Sydney) constituency is
asked to elect to Parliament the Great Dissolving
View. This time he poses as a Freetrader.
There has been a great demand for sack-
cloth and ashes at the N.S.W. Colonial Secretary’s
office ever since a certain speech at Penrith.
The liquor-bill for the last Northern trip
of the luxurious (Q.) Government yacht Lucinda
ir supposed to run into hundreds —several of them,
AK.C.M.G. is, after all, accounted only
» “oommoner,” He has not been ennobled
only “emiobbled,” a new and blessed word, and
Bulletin copyright.
Reid, the great N.S.W, bogus-Freetrader,
after all his thunder, only meditates a land-tax of
Id. in the £ on unimproved value, with an
exemption below .£5OO.
The great N.S.W. State-railway-steal is
still being insidiously agitated. The latest: An
English syndicate will give for the lines half-a-
million over actual cost.
Alfred Allen, M.P., the N.S.W. teetotal
demigod and poet, is to be opposed at next election
by bis brother William, colloquially known as
“Soapy.” Soap v. Water.
In Melbourne, the multiplicity of village -
settlement schemes is, by dissipation of energy in
want of unity, leaving the bona, fide applicant for
settlement to shift for himself.
The Norwegian “system” defeated Pro-
hibition at a meeting of Melb. Presbyterians, on
an amendment by Rev. P. J. Murdoch, who re-
marked— 11 All extreme steps court defeat.”
Richardson, the new Vic. Minister of
Railways, told a deputation complaining of the
low rates paid to workers, that he could live on
three shillings a day. Meaning thereby
Grainger, M.P., the black beast of the
Kingston Ministry, marched with the Moonta
jnmevs in the Adelaide Eight Hours Procession —
nut, after all, was not asked to speak at the
banquet.
Bogus Freetrade wire-pullers are anxiously
scanning the electoral map for likely spots on
which to deposit P. W. Ward, “Tommy” Kelly,
ana J. A. Hogue as candidates for next N.S.W.
1 aniament.
, le Argus delights in the discovery that
icreal cost of the U.S. President, with wood,
■iter, gas, housing, and subordinates, is .£25,000
year. About £5OOO less than that of the Vic.
gubernatorial guy.
Should one of the S.A. Judges be retired,
oucaut will probably be the man. He is possessed
,A n , am P‘ e fortune and makes a hobby of his
win * arm Mount Barker. He avers that he
lesunie politics if he leaves the bench.
tnr move d in Vic. Assembly to substi-
tbnnrl bud- v alue tax for the primage duties, and
reemv a.v P ro P OS£ d had been enthusiastically
. fcc J; hrou ghout the province, the motion was
mst by 20 votes.
c °i (Q-) cranks are advocating the
- ri P tlon on account of some half-hearted
onlv ' :jl !™ ents - Good ! but let it apply
'the s, non t”) u' ei ' asta^e in the ■ country.” If
votes tb«t fc keh ?e ld6 t S aren ’ fc safe to with
both ways. * " afe t 0 trUSt 4t cuts
Bogus-nationalist M* 11 wraith now declares
Thvn e il oP sT d fc ° Home Rule Bill.
■ l f m es-bot!) members of the Cabinet,
wnte i? -« H T e R ? leM » and the Holy Roman
ote is a power to reckon with in Mac’s electorate.
Prernfer SPIk ° * n the G ° ffin of the bull ' heft(ltd
tei Kidt and Speaker Abbott
wi. * iave H en t° Bundaberg (Q.), and have
both approved of the town as a Eat Man’s
|' e ™ and a nigger’s paradise. One by one the
members of the Dibbs Government are publicly
professing the Tory faith of their bebaubled
renegade chief.
Labour-member Wood opposed the S.A.
Govt, proposal to establish a wine-depdtin London
ana urged that the money should be spent in
providing for the poor. “That’s what Judas
Iscariot said about the pot of ointment,” com-
® ar^e^} * a champion of the pro-
John Colton, Premier years ago of the
Ministry which unearthed Kingston, lives in
retirement at Hackney (S.A.). Politicians always
V0 ,c 1 ,5i r f d why the “pious Wesleyan saddler”
paddled with the wayward Kingston, but old
•John Golton had an eye for brains and made no
mistake.
M llwraith s new Land-bill is a naked
device to make land-grabbing easy, create ruinous
monopolies, and provides a novel method of
Peacocking.” It is the legislative John the
Baptist crying aloud in the wilderness of greed,
of the coming of the Lord of the “ biggest steal on
earth. 1
Norman’s Indian vice-royalty means that
concession is to be made to the Reform spirit,
v iceroy Ripon and Justiee Ilbert were the authors
of the measures which so provoked the ire of ex-
V iceroy Lytton in the House of Lords. They
were conceived in an eminent idea of fairness,
particularly with the extension of trial by jury.
The alliance of the Single-taxers with the
old and democratically-discredited N.S.W. Free-
trade-party should forever sever them from the
Labour-Democratic movement. They cannot run
NOT UP TO THE MARK.
with both. After all, lb is another millstone
removed from the neck of the Labour Parlia-
mentary movement.
A N.S. Wales M.P. spends £4 weekly of
his official salary in paying men to visit public-
houses and mix with open-air crowds and intro-
duce his name with favourable comments. Yet
this member protests that he entered Parliament
at the solicitation of the public, and that on the
day their confidence in him relaxes he will gladly
resume private life.
Extracts from a leader in S.A. Register*
Sept. 12, 1891
Clearly • there can be no natural right on the part
of an individual, or any number of individuals, to a
°iven. area of the earth’s surface, . . . Wheie the
right to property in any given area of the earth s surface
is admitted there must of necessity be a dominant and
a servile class.
What does the Register of 1893 say ?
The jawful Frank Stuart, M.L.A. (Vic.),
thus accounts for his presence in the Legislature :
“The reason we are all here,” he says, is because
we have more trains than other peop e. Other
people used to think that Stuart was there princi-
pally because he was a particularly vociferous
advertising tailor ; but, after all, itdoesn t matter.
The calamity is that he is there.
Treasurer Nelson’s (Q.) cure for Central
Separation is to complete the N. Coast radway to
Rockhampton. He was a member of the Moreton
Bay Separation League, led by Dr. Lang, who
termed the appropriation of the penal settlement a
surplus revenue by the Sydney Government as
robbery, just as Central and Northern Separa-
tionists do now re Southern Queensland.
The Vic. public service hasn t got a kick
Ipft in it. The amending Bill, which makes a
wholesale slaughter of the servants’ rights and
privileges, was allowed to pass m a week, with
only a weak protest from the feeble Public Service
Association. So it wi Ibe with all bo, ed-sh.rt
slaves until they recognise kinship with the now
snobbishly-sneered-at “ working man.
Premier Milwraith : “I would sell my
In mV debts, and I may have to do it
f.s He proposes to sell the land of Queensland
five shillings per acre, In a word, he is selling
tfJoSJ' man’s lhirt~the shirt of the fellow whom
he has disfranchised. , , , , .
Advice to Young Men-Dr. Richards ad., p. 1.
A small war would bankrupt Victoria-
Whenever a hold local soldier boy hurts himsi f
by falling off a gun, or fooling with a horse, or
blowing dowh his rifle, he straightway proceeds
with great energy for compensation, and the
Government anoints his hurts with .£lOO or so.
■lt is dreadful to contemplate the possibility of a
few thousand wounded 'rising up from the field of
battle, and stumping away 'to besiege 'the
Treasury.
Awhile ago Gov. KiutOte publicly said he
would be only too willing to sacrifice part of his
vice-regal salary owing to ‘the bad times. The
point now arises whether an Act to reduce the
Governor’s salary would not have to be reserved
for Imperial assent. To save trouble, the Govern-
ment will probably ask H.E. to pay the amount
involved into the Treasury.
Chief Justice Sam. Griffith considers that
Sir Henry Norman’s new billet is “a very great
honour to Queensland.’’ The honour must lie in
'the fact that the toy Governor Of the country has
influence in London, and is regarded as a man of
ability, whereas he might have been nothing more
than a decorative earl. Ye gods ! how easily is
Australia honoured.
M‘M.illan, M.L.A.-, says that the result of
next N.S.W. general election will be such as no
ofte ever dreams of. Well, if no one ever dreams
of it, then M'Millan doesn’t dream of it either,
and if he doesn’t dream of it, then be can’t tell
whether it is something that nobody else dreams
of or some other thing. Also, if he doesn’t know
what it is, how does he know that he hasn’t
dreamt of it?
In a late S.A-. division re the establishment
of a wine-depot in London, 35 members ranged
themselves on one side, and the three chief talkers
of the House—Grainger, Ash, and Solomon—on
the other. Then an observant critic noticed that
the initials of their names spelt G A S, and when
the garrulous Bartlett changed his mind and
crossed the floor to join them, the word BAGS
was formed.
Surprise is expressed that the late Chief
Justice Higinbotham should, in view of his Aus-
tralian opinions, have been an Anti-Home Ruler.
There is a parallel case in that .of John Mitchell,
transported from Ireland to Van Diemen’s Land,
in ’-18, for treason-felony. When in America,
Mitchell adopted 1 he cause of the Southern slave-
owners, and followed their fortunes all through
the \yar, while Meagher and others stood by the
North and freedom.
A Grafton (N.S.W.) man had several
cattle, including some valuable milch cows,
grazing in a paddock on agistment rental. The
paddock-owner was in arrears with his rent, and
his landlord (a bank) distrained, seizing, amongst
other stock, the cattle of the Grafton man, and
selling them before he even knew anything about
the distraint. Similarly, a house-landlord can
seize the private furniture of a person renting un-
furnished rooms and furnishing the same. An
iniquitous capitalistic law.
During the retrenchment proceedings it
transpires that one Vic. Civil servant has drawn
a big travelling allowance for many years, yet all
the travelling he has ever done is a distance of
40yds. down a passage to his chief’s room. Also,
another man, who is so rheumatic that he couldn’t
get on or off a horse unless hoisted by-a crane,
has been drawing forage-allowance for so long
that no one can distinctly remember when he first
began to draw it—in fact, he seems to have been
born with it.
The “retrenchment” of a prominent Q.
railway official seems traceable to the resentment
of the M.P. for his town. The M.P. bragged
that be had got that official’s salary raised by
iIOO a year, and yet the ungrateful man had can-
vassed “the wives of railway employes’’ against
his (the M.P.’s) interests. The tow'n expressed
its opinion of the “ retrenchment ” by publicly
presenting the ex-official with an illuminated
testimonial and 70 sovereigns.
Graham Berry is the only “representa-
tive ” Victorian who has come out of the Mercan-
tile business with any appearance of dignity, and
spoken of banks in general with any candour.
Had he not been captured by the Mercantile
crowd for their London board, Graham Berry
would have been Premier now, and Bryan O’Logh-
len would not be figuring at the head of the Crown
Law Department. Since the rottenness of his
bank was thoroughly exposed, Berry has said not
a word in excuse of it, or its directors.
Vitality and color are restored to weak and
gray hair, by the use of Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Through its cleansing and healing qualities, it
prevents the accumulation of dandruff and cures
all scalp diseases.
I'he Natural Ass. members of S.A. Assem-
bly, assisted by one or two waverers in the Liberal
camp, succeeded in mutilating the Land Values
Assessment Bill. As altered,, the principle can
be affirmed by the vote of the “citizens” of any
municipality, but the date of coming into force 'is
to be decided by the “ ratepayers”—which means
that property-owners in the latter ease will be in
a majority. The Ass. members got their majority
by talking over “Democrats ” elected to support
'the'principle by provincial districts.
Premier Seddon (M.L.) is a man with a
streak Of silent humor in his composition. The
other day a new doorkeeper mistook Jackson
Palmer, M.H.R., for a fatally-beautiful book-
canvasser, and refused to let him enter Seddon's
office, and when Palmer became indignant he was
carried out. The Premier tried to smooth things
over, but the infuriated Palmer demanded an
inquiry, so, in his own cordial fashion, Premier
“Dick” has appointed the Inspector of Lunatic
Asylums to take evidence about the matter.
The difference between the stifling of
M‘Millan’s Conservative utterances by the
“mob” and 'the stifling of all Democratic and
labour utterances by the daily papers is only one
of method and degree. It may be a very ugly
way to prevent open expression of opinion by
howling down a speaker, but is it not just as
“reprehensible ” to deliberately suppress all argu-
ment in opposition to plutocracy? And this is
what is done habitually by the Sydney daily
press.
Minister for Lands Barlow (Q.), then a
follower of Griffith, in ’B9 :
1 am determinedly opposed to the sale of land by
auction. . . . The objection to the sale of country
lands in this colony, is that it enables men to buy the
land to confiscate the unearned increment.
He also then advocated giving land free to native-
born children as against the decoyed British
immigrant. Now the apostate unblushingly takes
charge of a Land-bill, sanctioning a wholesale
alienation of land at ss. per acre, and the confisca-
tion of the unearned increment.
Brisbane Courier unctuously, but untruth-
fully, announced that the Central members had
not made any compact with the Labour-party to
secure their votes for Separation, in return for the
former’s vote for Electoral Reform. The voice is
that of Archer, but the hand is that of Buzacott.
There is a distinct compact, and in writing, too,
between the Central Separationists and the Labour-
party. It is agreed that one of the latter shall
move an amendment—to include Electoral Reform
in the Separation motion, and that all the Central
members (save Archer, Callan, and Murray) shall
vote for it.
'These are the sort of items one constantly
meets now in the Sydney organs of capitalism
Alderman George Anderson, J.R., is a probable candi-
date for the new electorate of Waterloo. He is a staunch
Freetrader.
The name of Alderman Spring, J.P., Mayor of Darling-
ton, is spoken of as a Freetrade candidate for the West
Redfern seat.
Alderman Smith, J.P,, the petty local tradesman
—the person who is always described as “our
respected townsman,” and who says “a few well-
chosen words” at that parochial festivity where
“ the board groans he is the coming candidate
under the single-electorate system.
Both the “ great ” political parties pretend
that the coming N.S.W. general election is to be
fought out on the weary Freetrade-Protection
issue. Let not the Democracy be humbugged.
The issue is not Freetrade (meaning thereby
revenue tariff) v. Protection, but whether N.S.W.
is to be governed by its flesh and blood or by the
middle-men —the attorneys and stock-brokers and
their parasites. So far as The Bulletin can see,
almost every man (apart from the Labour Free-
traders) whose name has yet been semi-offieially
mentioned in the daily press as the coming “ Free-
trade” candidate for such and such a consti-
tuency, is an absolute enemy of the common
people’s pretensions to share in governing, and
would gladly smash the One-man-one-vote system.
It is wasted energy to despatch N.S.W'.
military officers to India to be instructed in
“ every kind'of duty they may be called upon to
perform.” On the British model! This country
doesn’t require complicated parade manoeuvres,
but a simple and easily-understood system,
applicable to our own conditions. The hastily-
levied volunteers of the American Civil War
learnt only three formations —line, column of
fours, and “extended order.” The Australian
“defender” is not wanted as a gesturing spectacle,
but for rare business use when required. As long
as he kills the invader, nobody cares whether he
kills him according to British Army rules, or
“ nohow,”


"f " hi-Rouhcf r
p
■^n?ri<A,
„•(
Ti.r.rr*’ y,
if i
' 7
%
dsf
fell tor a ‘^
f/a/cy ou
Kfl
fe DermtprQtfcgoJ
rjf’c / i
W {Mari
i^r
:
Xt ( s -
+ X ™ Q b 6 j .
■ r h " r - T*
C 0
>•
£
A eonetable brfbgaup a woman on a charge of
»*grancy,- and (wear* that she faai been
wilting about the atreet. M a week pad
irith no sign* or eymptoma on her of
any lawful occupation. The woman re*
pliee, "I was only turned .oat of gaol
on the morning of my arrest, after eer*ing a
fortnight for theft.” The eergeant turn* up
the record and that her etajcment is
correct, and—" The accused it diaoharged. **
1° v „i
Htf
■
■ __ __
y l/ ' } lyyuj ry 1
%
\
/
t
TOP
A GENERAL LOOK ROUND.


TorrunJffo/tiA-
’ZTur 73 *->
lahrj*''
£5 C** *
/"%/
/
<0 /
V
iS
'foTn-e. ha^i- eS
left
is&ji
j>uK^j[
sonn<Um<r
\o?Kita\.
RMTf'TouN b u nc,
Ho^nrr c
X> R 1 9 o
yTo HtBn \
krJ-y
7PE MOTPE/f'S THOSE <fOOD TEOPLIz.
Js A ere -a. vt7 tcZ. tin j /fosfi if a{ V
e v/ e y-
f\n\r luok
' 1 ) <0 »'
On ctrKl ‘
D'nrtL ait i Ci ~
Jbahy~ &■*
//net S k<-
htoVe**
her self- move.
~fk (Xr 'w o-
mdthen
1 to V
[
Jew a do
&/i%y
To p >'i ~f>
IV
7,/HU wft Y
conAi*',Cz
\Wm
yreut'fiKo
'Bh)Br I
TtfUMO, J
I
ySO Tew a. ret
~Fvual o
\7POS 7 &fA/
V . I?
r?wi\r> n
f- F 0 .
V
~To w o
/* •
A Tfi A in
!
Tovh />
tv
aCRK£K
£cn>
/ t l
n p
'Fa'bk
/%e
]S*j&
trULL
\
fa z* ?t. &
At s~f /Lzzs A s?**
/
MAKINANA.


Gold discoveries. Very fields have
been opened at .Southern Cross, Ooolgardie, Mur-
chison, &e., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
,£lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
ds
YVOVOEKIIL DISCOVERY !
HOSE’S
CKIjEBRATED
EYE LOTION.
mills Lotion cures SwelUny and Sandy liliyht,
J- Inflamed Lyes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weal: Lyes, as it
strengthens the siyht. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
I3P”" Manufactured Solely by 11. A. ROSE, (Tu'inist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
.1 -v f. —c-o —.-t.-- Prof ' ROBT - HERMANN,
the gieat, French Specialist. His treatise on “ Woman’s
Salvation sent FREE, in dose envelope, upon applica-
tion by letter, enclosing three stamps to 15 Collins
Place, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
WOLFE’S
AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
THE-
“Won’t be happy
until he gets it ”
OF
Every Enlightened Man
and Woman in the
Universe.
BUY WHOLE BOTTLES.
RESIST CONTEMPTIBLE IMITATIONS
Society
Dear Bulletin, —A man and woman can’t
get married in N.S.W. for half-a-crown, I can
assure you that the cheapest fee for same at a
registry-office is .£1 spot cash, with the stale wit-
ticisms of the Registrar and local policeman
thrown in. I’ve been there. —Regretfully yours,
Stiukealight, Gulgong. [New plank in Demo-
cratic platform—“ Marriage-certificate, 2s. fid. ;
return ticket (including divorce), 4s.” —Ed. 8.l
« • •
A conundrum lately racking the wits
of the N.S.W. Supreme Court. A husband is
ordered to pay maintenance and is gaoled for non-
complianoe. He flukes out of prison on some
technicality. Then his wife dies; his stepson
next brings proceedings to enforce the order and a
magistrate says he mustgo to gaol or pay up arrears.
He appeals, claiming that as the order was made
in the interests of his wife, and as his wife is dead,
he himself is the only person legally authorised to
act against his wife’s debtors, and that until he
sues himself for the overdue money and applies to
have himself sent to gaol for non-compliance with
the order, it is no stepson’s nor any other man’s
business. Problem : Should a dead woman have
the right of gaoling her live husband ? The Judge
says No.
* * # *
The case of the woman Jorgensen, of
Elmore, Vic., just deceased, who for 20 or 30
years had lived as a man, had seen severe Con-
tinental military service, worked in Australia as
a navvy, and had actually been a member of the
local mounted rifles, is by no means unique. She
kept her secret well, for it was known to none but
the doctor who attended her during her last
illness, and was only revealed by him after her
death. By the way, women disguised as men
perform most of the big bank and jewellery
swindles. After the swindle, a rapid change of
dress—and no clue is left.
# * *
The Jorgensen case revives that of “Ed-
ward de Lacy Evans,” who for years worked as a
miner on Bendigo, Her sex was discovered on
her committal to Kew Asylum for insanity, from
which she ultimately recovered ; she was then
hawked round by showmen. She was married as
a man three times, and one of the “ wives ”
actually had a child. Another case was that'of
a groom at Beechworth, whose sex was only re-
vealed on her admission to the hospital, where
she died.
* # #
Are any of Victoria’s brave defenders
entitled to wear trousers ? That’s now the ques-
tion. Faith in the local army has been shaken to
its very foundation, and there are those who
declare that even Major-General Tullooh would
commence to scream if you tickled him. It is
reported, too, that no less than six corporals have
applied for three months’ leave of absence under
peculiarly interesting circumstances. All six,
happily, are respectable married —queries.
# * *
The Melb. Standard
gloomourist, waiting for
palsied Oonder to come
along and die;—“A
noosed rope hung limply
beside the warder on the
scaffold, snake-like in
its undulations, and in
the fascinating power
which seemed alive in its
silken length. The sight
of it caused a highly-
strung stranger to start
perceptibly, and the
fingers clasping his hat
involuntarily relaxed,
allowing it to fall on the
flagging. The unlucky
headpiece struck the floor
in that death-like still-
ness with a dull, hollow
sound like —like that for
which all were waiting.
Five-and-twenty people
looked up and shud-
dered.”
# # *
N. S. W. Justic e
Foster lately recom-
mended from* the bench
that a pair of litigants in
a trivial case should be
induced to come to a
privatesettlement. After
a pause of half a minute,
a parchment-faced junior
arose and confidentially
observed : “ But, your
Honor, there is plenty to
meet costs.”
Five pounds a week for a Bourke-street
(Melb.) shop, good stand, between Swanston and
Russell. This may be calculated as only =£loo a
foot. „
# # *
Johanna Jorgensons face alone seems t”
have prevented her from emulating’ the fainou
Bendigo woman-miner, who married three wives
without being denounced as a connubial impostor.
When Johanna began making up to the girls they
declined her suit on account of her nose.
Suggested by the case of Johanna
Margherita Jorgenson, late private in Colonel
Tom Price’s Vio. Mounted Rifles.
In the U.S. Army of the Potomac, in
1864, there were found 150 women, disguised as
men.
# * *
A prominent Sydney wool - merchant,
apologising the other day to vice-royalty for the
absence of his wife and daughters from Sydney
Government House parties, said he did not like
his women-folk to be brought in contact with the
members of Parliament who cultivate the hospi-
tality of that rendezvous.
MURDER WILL OUT.
STRANGER (at country pub.) : “This meat is extraordinarily tough!”
LANDLADY : “Yes, it’s fresh killed.”
BOY (passing plate) : “More bull, please, mother.”
“ I must treat rich and poor alike in this
matter,” said N.S.W. Justice Windeyer last week
in the Hardwicke contempt of court case. Hard-
wicke was accordingly sent to prison for a month
without the option of a fine. If refusal to accept
a fine in lieu of imprisonment makes poor and rich
alike, why does the Court put on its levelling
humour only when contempt is committed?
#’ # #
One day recently Judge Windeyer
(N.S.W.) granted 21 divorces in a single day. In
1875, nine divorces were the whole year’s record.
There were 11 divorces in 1878 ; 10 in 1879; 15 in
1881; 19 in 1882; and 14 in 1883. The business of
putting asunder those whom God hath joined is
looking up.
# * *
“We have only got,” says a Southern
paper, “to walk the streets of any large city at
nightfall to be satisfied that all the suffering and
almost all the degradation of immorality is borne
by women.” For every pavement-woman there
are three times as many equally culpable who live
in idle luxury at the expense of their kaleidos-
copic admirers who seriatim disappear amid an
avalanche of ruin. Is not the remorse of these
men, for the wrong they have done to others,
added to poverty, quite as great a retribution as
that which occasionally overtakes the woman ?
Only the lowest strata of female social failures
walk the streets ; those of the male species suicide,
or else “go up for a stretch.” That’s all.
# * *
Sectarianism has much to do with that
grotesque row in Parramatta Council, where one
alderman, by eternally moving the adjournment,
has blocked all business and brought the borough
affairs to a standstill. Curiously enough, Parkes’
pal, “ Yooey ” Taylor, is supposed to lead the
Green, while the Mayor, on the other side, has a
name “as Irish as Paddy’s pigs.”
at k &
Dear Bulletin, —The
letter written by John John-
son Lynch, together with
your remarks re lynch-law,
published in last Bulletin,
remind me of a conversa-
tion overheard in a suburban
railway-car, the day after
sentence had been passed on
the late murderer Archer.
The parties were a young,
inoffensive-looking dude and
a fat lady, who occupied
about one and two thirds
respectively of the same
seat. Fat Lady: “I see
they’re going to hang Ar-
cher.” Young Dude : “Yes,
so I believe.” F.L. ; “The
wretch ! Hanging’s too good
for the like of him. If they’d
had him in America they’d
have lynched him long ago.”
Y.D. : “Excuseme, madam,
but they’d have done no-
thing of the kind,” F.L.
(excitedly) : “ Yes, they
would ! and I’d’ve helped
them too!” Y.D. : “No,
no, madam; you’d have
lynched Jeater.” The
Deacon.
#■ * *
A ra a u charged a t
Melbourne District Court
with getting something or
other by false pretences, told
the Bench not to think that
he “earned his living alto-
gether as a rogue.” It is
necessary nowadays for any
Melbournian, before the
Court or otherwise, to put
people right on this point.
SOCIAL TWO
Some Sydney E. News advts. :
"VX/"ANTED, a kind Lady to adopt a fine healthy
’ ’ Baby Boy, 3 months old ; premium, £5. Mid-
wife.
"ITTANTED, kind Lady to adopt healthy Baby Boy,
’ ’ 4 months old ;£5 premium.
The “ kind lady,” who for .£5 undertakes to pro-
vide for the whole future of an infant, is still
believed not to be extinct.
* * *
There is a metropolitan hospital, close by
which is a row of disorderly houses. Stories are
told of convalescent patients scaling the walls and
spending the evenings with the occupants of these
dwellings. Anyhow, from the hospital balcony,
cancans, danced by ladies “mid nodings on,” may
be watched daily. And they are watched. This
is surely a case for police interference.
* * *
This week, as usual, two Queensland pearl-
divers have been seized with the inevitable
paralysis through going down in 27 fathoms of
water. One is slowly dying. The other is dying
a little faster because some bright genius on board
the vessel tried to cure him by pouring boiling
water over his palsied limbs.
• * *
Dear Bulletin,— Be “Honest George’s”
remarks anent the deep-diving in Torres Straits
(I see two more divers have died of paralysis !) :
In a Sydney restaurant there is a Kanaka cook,
an ex-diver. His two years’ experiences he sums
up thus;—“l get <£4 month; lay, <£lB. I can
read and write ; every month I look in my small
book and I see I spend on board schooner (slop-
chest) £2, sometimes £2 10s., sometimes £3.
By G—d, schooner-book says I spend £7, ,£9,
=£ll. “Where?” I say. ‘Oh,’ white man say,
‘you all the time drunk like hell, you don’t
understand how.much you spend.’ Well, by-and-
bye I ask schooner captain to look in book and
see how many ton shell my boat get. He say,
‘Five ton.’ I say, ‘You lie, 19 ton.’ He fight
me and kick me out. By G—d, all rogues
those fellows up there.”—B.
• * *
One N.S.W. daily has now “retrenched”
all but a couple of senior reporters, and “lines ”
its columns out to callow boys.
* # #
Dear Bulletin.— “ Who is George Ed-
wards Buhner, gazetted to the N.S.W. Artillery’”
lie is a native of N.S.W., a nephew of Geo.
Thornton, M.L.C. He took fairly decent honors
in England as a militia officer.— R. de S.
N.S.W. Art Society: Pub a ■
slot and watch the explosion lta 111
** ' *
Last week three N.S.W. men m ,
owing to melancholia induced bv the “v^ U1 ° lde( *
tion ”of their savings. If all the ruc '
by the banking legerdemain could be coilTii't’
one mats, the cubic contents of «,e
trahan set of banking vaults would ho* Aus ’
to hold them. Ulcl be too small
* • *
William Chapman (killed by Melb \
vegetated with his wife and five children on
a week, earned as gatekeeper at football w
Wa'terby occupation-no banquets nowloeS'ov
champagne?’’ W^ere ««- of figg
* * #
In Paraguay a gentleman must always km
a lady on being introduced to her This *
doesn’t prevail in Argentina, which is p rob S
one reason why the New Australia crowd oho
ITALIA DEL TORRE.
(Prima Donna of the Williamson Musgrove New Opera Company).
the other place. Even a little thing like that
adds a lot to the comfort of being alive.
# # #
Madame Sterling & Co. should be inter-
ested in the case of a sweet little seraph living
with her parents in Melbourne. This innocent
child is not yet ten, and has already got one man
two years, with various floggings, for an alleged
indecent offence. Inspired by her former success,
she tried again a couple of weeks back, and told a
most circumstantial story of an outrage to whioh
she had been subjected by a villain whom she
described with surprising minuteness. The
doctors proved that one-half of her story was the
work of a diseased imagination, and the police
discovered the rest to be a varnished lie. The
authorities assert that “ no further action is to be
taken” —which will be a great comfort to the
wretch already in prison, and a stay to him when
he’s again hungup to the triangles in the near future.
The State that looks after dangerous maniacs and
homicidal cranks might save wear and tear on the
hangman by taking official charge of this charm-
ing little girl for a few years.
* * *
From the very first tire Melb. police mani-
fested the greatest anxiety to lay hold of a male
prisoner in connection with the local baby- planting
industry. A certain knot in a string around
baby’s neck, which “didn’t look like a womans
knot,” inspired them with a great hope. Must
have somebody to hang.
* * *
A Sydney constable charged a woman with
vagrancy one day last week, and swore that he
had seen her about the streets every night for the
preceding seven nights. The woman proved that
she had been doing a sentence of 14 days on
Cockatoo Island for stealing, and that the seven
nights referred to were portion of that time, the
Court found that the “ constable was mistaken,
and discharged the woman. In view of curren
theories regarding the infallibility of police evi-
dence, this finding of the Court is a serious mat ten
Why on earth was nob some attempt made to
prove that the woman had forged the entries o
her conviction and punishment in the P rln( ] "
records before the Court was allowed to set e
down to the revoltingly sacrilegious finding tin
the “ constable was mistaken ?”
# # *
The Victorian police-constables’ instruc-
tions in making baby-farming enquiries are to
THE SOLDIER.
For many years through falling tears
We viewed the soldier-man,
Whose gaudy coat did ne’er denote
His name was Mary Ann.
In soornful tone we muttered “ Drone 1”
As he went riding by—
A useful thing for queen or king,
A friend to monarchy.
But, wondrous strange this sudden change!
With admiration warm,
We now behold the trooper bold
In tasty uniform.
Who is the party we’d like to mash ?
The Soldier,
Who is the ducky that cuts a dash ?
The Soldier,
Teaching big brothers the way to ride ;
Strutting along with a martial stride—
Who is the blossom to make your bride ?
The Soldier.
In splendour dress’t, his swelling chest
Was looked upon as pad,
Yet, how unjust I a “crummy ” bust
The darling really .had.
Ilis rounded hips, red ruby lips,
We never noticed much ;
His shapely leg we did not beg
Permission for to touch.
To think, you know, of aiming low,
And putting crowds to rout,
When, all the while, one winning smile
Would surely “lay ’em out!”
Who is the kitten to kill the hoys?
The Soldier,
Vision delicious of nuptial joys—
The Soldier,
Turning aside with an artful sob,
Making the soul of a “ striker ” throb—
Who with a whisper could quell the mob ?
The Soldier.
In time to come the rolling drum
Will be a summons sweet
For every one unmarried son
To hurry forth to meet
The fair brigades ; we dream of maids
In masculine disguise, •
Who may perchance return a glance
With “ such a pair of eyes,”
The coryphee has had her day,
For Johnnie nevermore
Will seek her heart—he’ll pick his “ tart ”
Outside the barracks door.
Who carries arms we would like to pinch ?
The Soldier,
Who is a rifle-man every inch?
The Soldier,
Outwardly seeming as cold as ice,
Taking curt order from Colonel Price—
Who can be tenderly kind and nice ?
The Soldier.
“GOOD SECURITY.”
■WILL kind Gentleman Lend Widow Few Pounds ;
” good security. A.8.C., P. 0., Elizabeth-st.
south.—Sydney Evening News Advt.
No more, with such a prospect, thanks,
I’ll patronise Australian banks ;
For ’twere more safe, methinks to trust
My money on your swelling bust,
Your ankles, neatly-padded hips
And gamboge hair, your carmined lips.
Your eyes alive with soft desire —
And alcoholic fire.
For “ Scotch depositors ” would ne’er
Invest their godly savings there.
The men of “ kirk ” and “ whusky-hot,”
Would never come to blast my lot.
For well I know, my pretty love,
That you are very far above
The economical embraces
Of Gaelic races.
D.W.


Mrs. Anna Ftixppert,
The World-renowned Complexion Specialist,
pace
ABKI
BEGS to inform her
numerous Clients
that her SKIN TOXIC
is absolutely harmless.
Some of the most cele-
brated London doctors
and chemists have
analysed all her pre-
parations, and abso-
lutely found nothing in
them to injure the most
delicate skin.
SKIN TOXIC tones,
invigorates, does not
blkacii the natural
colour, is excellent for
all eruptions, dis-
colou rations, etc.
Price—Single Bottle,
12, 6 ; Three, 32 6.
SKl\ 50.41% unexcelled, Is. 3d.
Mrs. RUPPERT wishes it to he distinctly under-
,™°, D r t ”at all GENUINE GOODS hear the address of
the Head Omen, SO REGENT STREET, LONDON, on tub
.abf,i,s, and that her on!;/ . I r/rnfi/ In A ust ral in is
No. 12, The Strand, SYDNEY.
Cole mane <fe Sons (Ltd.), Lucalypte manu-
facturers Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893 as follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to ) je signed bv the manager of the shed, and for-
warded°to Colemanc & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Gold Medal Artificial Tbetii, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)
ToThk Deaf.—A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings. 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OE PIANOS IX
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and"”" BELLING' PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL and LECH LETTER, CARL ECK.E,
THE “ VICTOR ” AND THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
*”"■ . n i easan fc way towards the women they
behave ma P Unmarried constables are debarred
SKVIe-ntri-.,
the Wimmer<a^ ie d that the fee was £3O; then they
authorities Doeg Governmen t regularly
rescinded t managers of shows, &e., at the
hire out • The bulletin is in a position to
ftbove^raie^ y muoh more entertaining man at 30s.
a day. # * *
There are so many outdoor subjects, with
\„ Australian sunshine, that one is com-
roastmg umbrella into N<S .W. Arb
EiVty’s exhibition this year to avoid
The competition subject for the Triennial
„ Scholarship of the Yic. National Gal-
TraV - 6l fhf hackneyed theme of “Too Late,” and
If y !i S e cr ee d that the work must be entirely done
it school, thus limiting the picture to indoor
H ies Under Folingsby, students were allowed
scen ,® p fheir own subjects, but with the advent
Sthene* d£33. Bernard Hall, the school was
revolutionised. # *
Whv don’t the Australian Art Exhibitions
’ hold of some of the works of “ Tommy
XT‘frae ” the aboriginal artist, well-known to all
Riverina people, or, at least, he was six years ago?
Tommy made a pretty fair living by travelling
about ui a spring van peddling his paintings on
onm-egKS and gum-leaves-sometimes far more
• ■editable productions than many of the works of
white self-styled artists. During summer Tommy
would doff his civilised costume, assume the
Sum-rug of Old Australia, and carry spears
and boomerangs; but these were only advertising
“properties,” and the new-ohum would often
J’ e open-mouthed at the sight of a semi-nude
savage putting down his weapons and gravely
producing a black japanned colour-box and start-
ler work Perhaps if Tommy painted blue trees
and pink kangaroos he might obtain recognition
in artistic circles.
# * *
Cheese has been sold lately in Adelaide
retail at Id. per lb., and good fresh butter at 4d.
* * *
Electric tramcars are now to be seen run-
ning in Hobart streets. They would be sightly
additions to the traffic but for the advts. upon
them. # # *
Lie, the will of “Shane’s Park” Harris,
late of Sydney, N.S.W., who left an estate valued
variously up to half-a-million sterling, 32 persons
have been determined as next of kin ; but as some
of them are dead, their next of kin will now have
an innings, to the intense delight of the local
lawyers with whom business has been slack of
late. An ominous sign of the times is the fre-
quency with which seniors have been ‘ out of
and juniors “in ” recent big cases.
* * *
The present lion of Launceston (Tas.) is
Constable Michael O’Meara, who was bold enough
to arrest Minister for Lands Hartnoll for refus-
ing to “ move on ” when ordered. The Bench
promptly discharged accused. A politician’s oath
even outweighs a constable’s. Police Super-
intendent Coulter appears to have been under the
impression that Mr. Hartnoll had agreed to ‘ plead
guilty,” and was to that extent unprepared to sup-
port the police case.
• * *
The Speight v. Syme case has changed
colour a good deal of late. Definite statements as
to the increase in Vic. railway expenses under
Speight’s management have been made, and a
definite explanation from the ex-Commissioner is
looked for. There can now be no question about
“Dicky’s” going into the witness-box, and
making a long stay when he gets there. The pre-
diction of a CO days’ trial has already been ful-
filled. When will a juryman fall ill or die ?
A very, very old woman
named Thompson (her age is
reputed to be 107 weary years)
lives in Camberwell (Eng.) work-
house. Some morbid person
sent the poor, old, toothless
crone’s photo, to Princess May,
and the Princess wrote to Mrs.
Thompson “ congratulating her
on having attained so great an
age.” Think of that! Con-
gratulating her on being a bed-
ridden old misery in a work-
house—a being far beyond life’s
allotted span living on skilly.
The irony of it! And yet the
London papers say that she was
“greatly elated” at receiving
the letter. What a land it must
ba !
# * m
The captain of the Car-
terton (M.L.) Salvation Army
announced recently, at a Sunday
service, that he “ hadn’t sinned
for 14 years.” What a fate
to be the wife of a man like
that!
The good ship, Mount Macedon, the casus
belli of that big libel-action that never came off, is
now to be turned into a “Bethel Mission.” Tern-
pora mutantur. When the early Christians gained
the ascendancy, they immediately adapted all the
Pagan temples to their new religion with the ex-
ception of those dedicated to Venus, which were
firmly destroyed. But this is a utilitarian age.
• « •
One Sydney publican advertises “a pint
of beer with two glasses for 3d.,” and a Sydney
brewer announces that he sells bis beer at a price
based on its being retailed at a penny a glass. At
this rate Sydney should soon be the “ Bender’s ”
paradise.
* # •
The latest N.S.W. tinkettled bridegroom
has shot his persecutors with rye instead of lead.
The next victim should load his gun with hunks
of a cake made by the bride, and aim at his
torturers’ stomachs.
mm*
On a Tasmanian station there are now a
parson, a doctor, and a lawyer, occupied as cook,
rouseabout, and rabbit - trapper, respectively.
Which somehow recalls that a few years ago the
present writer saw, in the back-parlour of a
Sydney hotel, all very drunk, a welbknown trio,
two ex-Anglican parsons and an ex-priest.
# • •
wiseheads of N.S.W. Department of
Public Instruction ukase that all children living in
the same house as a measles patient are not to
attend school for a month, but that a teacher,
similarly situated, is to resume duties after the
lapse of a week.
• * *
At Melb. District Court, lately, a book-
maker was fined three “quid ” and costs for
using strong language to a barmaid whose virtuous
conduct in the hour of danger had excited his
indignation. It seems that Hebe went for a
Sunday drive with the bookmaker. “Upon
reaching Brighton, the defendant, as the com-
plainant alleged, behaved very improperly to her,
and she, resenting his conduct, took advantage of
his temporary absence while he was seeking
refreshments in a handy hotel to return to Melb.
in the equipage he had hired for the occasion.”
The shameless bookmaker came back to town by
train and abused the barmaid, instead of bringing
a bunch of pure white roses as a mark of respect—
Have you noticed it ? In the S.M. Herald,
the “staff "now always “ attend ” Commanoant
Hutton; it used to “accompany’ Gen. Richardson.
* # *
Councillor Grayson (Fitzroy, Vic.) accuses
Marvellous Smellbourne sanitary laws of permit-
ting 150 Hindoos to reside in a five-roomed house.
They use the goods which they hawk about in the
daytime for bedding at night!
THE N.S.W. ART SOCIETY-LATEST DEVELOPMENTS.
The Melbourne Mohometans have no
mosque, but hold a religious service annually in
Government Domain.
* * *
Sydney Central Board of Health has dis-
covered that a package of rain-water sediment
from a Broken-hill main street hotel-roof con-
tained over 30 per cent, of lead and traces of
arsenic, and has intimated to the B.H. Council
that the deposit of such stuff is a menace to
health, and that steps must be taken to have the
nuisance abated. The Corporation already feels
like the small boy who is bidden to go to bed in
the dark ; it has sent a copy of the board of
Health’s letter to the smelter people, and will
await results. There will probably be no results,
however The Lead Commission, several months
ago, reported that over ten tons of lead, with
quantities of arsenic, was being launched into the
Broken Hill air daily ! most of which was lying
deposited within a small radius of the mines.
# * •
The latest occult fairy-tales from England
tell how, on the night of the wreck of the battle-
ship Victoria, several lady-guests at Lady Try on s
ball saw and spoke to something they veritably
believed to be the Admiral. Good samples, these,
of the kind of female who always turns up to give
police-court evidence of haying seen a suspected
murderer pass a compromising spot, with Ins bat
drawn low over his muzzle, just as the clock in
the neighbouring steeple struck five quarters past
thirteen.
* • *
Seven pounds ten shillings a week for a
shop in the best part of Collins-street Block, Mel-
bourne !
—, m tk
Editor Bulle-
TIN,—Y o u say
Cairns (Q.) is “ the
mean white town
that doffs its hat
to all Asiatic and
Polynesian scum.”
What about Bun-
daberg and Mackay?
Never in Cairns is
seen the servile
orawlsomeness exhi-
bited by the white
tradespeople, pro-
fessional men, bank-
clerks, and general
labourers of the
two other towns. 1 n
Mackay a white
storekeeper will
come to his door at
the call of a planta-
tion nigger in a cart
who is too lazy to
get down and bring
his owner’s order
inside the store.
And the white man
will carry out the
goods and put them
in the cart for
“Bobby Tanna.”
He’ll tell you “ I’ve
got to do it, 6r lose
Mr. ——’s custom.”
One reason the Bun-
daberg and Mackay
“common white
men ” are such
trucklers to the
haughty man in a
pith helmet is that
the planters there-
about are scions of
“good” English
and Scotch families,
and wherever they
arc gathered toge-
ther you will find
the “common”
white man [i.e., the
man who is any-
thing else but a
planter) a lickspi ti-
tling parasite. ’Tis
the same in India
and Ceylon. So
don’t be so hard
on Cairns. It’s a
fine place to die in
—there are so many
worms there. —
Yours, &c., Barron.
■Mr
A certain country Mayor is now round
with the hat begging substance to doctor the
defalcations of the Town-clerk —a kinsman of his.
Every Council meeting brings to light fresh evi-
dence of the weakness of the .£ s. d. column of
the clerk’s ledger.
* * *
F. G. Nye was arrested the other day at
Bendigo for deserting from H.M.S. Diamond five
years ago. He will, of course, be taken to Eng-
land, and if he happens to have married an -Aus-
tralian wife since he left his ship, she and her
children will be left here to starve.
* * *
A spokesman of one of the suburban
“pushes ” called on a Sydney solicitor in Phillip-st.,
one day last week, and inquired the lawyer s terms
for undertaking the defence of the push ‘ rough
and fine, as the case may be ’’—for twelve months
from date.
# # •
A retrenching Western N.S.W. borough
has struck off its inspector of nuisances, the aider-
men bravely alleging that they fear neither
typhoid nor smallpox. #
Judge Hodges, immortalised by Deeming,
seems to be getting up a Pulpit and Bench Guild.
Following up his success as a Pleasant Sunday
Afternooner, the learned Judge appeared at Mel-
bourne’s Diocesan Festival last week and dis-
coursed upon the awful ignorance of children m
the witness-box. Hodges told of a bright, intelli-
gent little girl, aged 11, who, being asked if she
understood the nature of an oath, replied, “No—
if you please, sir, what is it?” This was probably
a poser for his Honor, who got out of the difficulty
by asking the maiden if she knew anything about
her Heavenly Father. “O, yes; he’s at home
with the influenza!” was the answer. And
so on. The distress of Justice Hodges, as he
poured forth his anecdote, and the groans and
head-shakings of the Festival as it listened to
him, were most touching.
# # *
Sydney Stipendiary Magistrate Giles last
week let off a well-dressed barrister with “ im-
prisonment till the rising of the court ’’—and “the
court then rose ’’—because of his plea that he had
committed the larceny of a suit of clothes under
the influence of drink, and promised to “humbly
apologise to the prosecutor, and assured them it
would never occur again.” This does credit Doth
to Mr. Giles’ common-sense and humanity. But
The Bulletin would like to hear of one instance
—only one—where a larcenist, in workman’s garb,
has got off lightly by pleading drunkenness as an
excuse. Again, if a larcenist is to be excused on
the score of drunken aberration, why not a mur-
derer on the plea of drunken insanity(?_
Sydney E. News leading columns talk
again of “a widow woman” (Irish expression).
Alfred Bennett seems determined to thrust this
peculiar variety of female on Australian anthropo-
logists. # f ,
A Newtown (Sydney) parson has discovered
a fresh sphere of usefulness. He proposes to
establish an association for the cultivation of a
taste for beauty. The members of the association
will pursue their cult while passing along the city
streets. When a lovely man or, much better, a
beautiful woman conies along, the member will
begin his devotions by ejaculating “Ah. and
striking an attitude of “ respectful admiration.
# # *
Dear Bulletin, —It’s not likely that that
absconding Hobart attorney is living “ in luxury
in Chicago. It probably took him all his tune to
get away at all, for he is horsey, &c., and spent
he money as he got it. In fact, he borrowed a
MELBOURNE AS SHE IS.
NEW ARRIVAL (to friend): “Has Melbourne a—aw—Rotten Row?”
FRIEND : "Great Heavens, man, look at it!"
fiver from a Hobart Hebe one race-morning, and
never paid it back,— Hobart.
Quoth the bookie to the barmaid,
“ Let me take you in my trap.”
No objections dear mama made;
Off she started with her chap.
But, away at breezy Brighton,
Bookie acted fit to frighten
Any girl who is a “ right ’un.”
So she gave him such a slap.
He had sported a bell-topper
And his watch-chain was a whopper,
But his conduct—most improper—
Made her shudder with distaste.
He tried to kiss and squeeze her,
Thinking vulgarly to please her ;>
(Did you ever strike a “freezer,’
With a timid, shrinking waist ?)
“ Pretty barmaid,” quoth the bookie,
“ At this pub. I’ll get a drink.”
She responded with a look he
Reckoned equal to a wink.
He left the trap, the sinner.
She galloped home a winner,
Having done him like a dinner,
Bookie said she “ did him pink.
Let us mention, in conclusion,
That we pity his contusion ;
For to hug a sweet delusion
la a natural mistake.
And a man inclined to hover
Round a barmaid as a lover
Is so likely to discover
That she’s pretty wide awake.
Election Memories.
The matter-of-fact routine of elections nowadays,
in this colony at least, are seldom relieved by the
cutting 1 sarcasm or irrepressible wit that used to
distinguish the election speeches of such men as
Aspinall and Ireland, both eminent Q.C.’s of the
Victorian Bar. Once, when addressing a meeting
where he met with much “ barracking ” and noisy
interruption, Ireland exclaimed : “ What can I
expect from scoundrels, one-half of whom, as
criminals, I have prosecuted, the other half de-
fended.” Could that be beaten for scathing,
relentless scorn and derisive contempt ? As in
law and politics, so in medicine there are remedies
which are above all competitors. One of these,
and the most widely-known, is “ Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine,” for since the introduction of this un-
rivalled preparation, disorders of the nervous
system, and the acute agony of neuralgia and
toothache have been reduced to a minimum. Mr.
Ernest Ransome, of Bathurst, says: “ I have been
freed from my agonising complaint (neuralgia),
and I want everyone to know it.” Mr. Edward
Robson, of Bourke, writes: “My complete restora-
tion to health I owe to your sovereign remedy.
Let all the world know.” And this is why
“Marshall’s Tonic Nervine” is without a rival in
the field of remedial nerve agencies.


CLIMATIC CHANGES.
The sudden changes of temperature, so charac-
teristic of the season, are the cause of more in-
dividual and domestic trouble than is generally
supposed. Most of the evils which result from
these changes originate in the little-thought-of
“chill” with which we are all so familiar. The
only really effective remedy, and one which should
be kept at all times, and under all conditions,
handy for all members of the household, is the
standard favorite, St, Jacobs Oil. It can be
bought from any chemist or druggist, and carries
with it a sense of security to the possessor shared
by no other remedy. It is
JUST WHAT IS WANTED,
for, whenever any article has stood the crucial
test of public use and opinion for any lengthened
period of time, and the public demand for such is
continuously sustained, you may be sure that it
fills a public need. When, in the case of that
article being a proprietary medicine, the demand
is not only steadily sustained but continually
increasing, you may be absolutely certain that
there is some extraordinary merit in it, and in the
case of St. Jacobs Oil this is borne out by the
testimony of the press and of thousands of
reputable citizens in all parts of the civilised
world. Apropos, Messrs. Eranois, Newbery, &
Sons, London, one of the oldest drug houses in
Great Britain (established nearly a century and a
half), write —‘We have sold St. Jacobs Oil for
years; demand continually increasing on its
extraordinary merits.”
rflHE DAY HAS PAST for “ poking borak ’
J at the faithful, old long-winding series of
the WATERBURY Watch. Old-time Con-
servatism has gracefully acknowledged its past
errors, and now admits the WA IERBURY to be
undoubtedly the VERY BEST LOW-COST
TIMEKEEPER ever offered to the public. The
ink of good-natured satire, as applied to the
Water bury, lias run dry, but the pen of interested
malice will run till the crack of doom. The new
short-winding WATERBURY WATCHES are
perfect models of horologica! skill; while the old
series Water bury—paper dial and two minutes to
wind to boot—is a more reliable t imekeeper than
any of its would-be rivals, in spite of the visibly-
hard - polished - nickel - plated - extra - polished-
cylinder intestines with which some of them may
or may not be fitted to special order.
WATERBURY WATCH CO.’S REPAIR
DEPOT,
5G Margaret-street, Sydney.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
II T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to Suffer. Send
at once for rny TREA TISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing fora
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MV AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
11. U. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Banking.
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
NOTICE is hereby given that a SPECIAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders of
the BANK will be held at the Chief Banking
House, George-street, SYDNEY, on WEDNES-
DAY, the 27th day of SEPTEMBER Next, at
Noon, to consider the propriety of increasing the
capital of the Bank, by the creation of new
shares.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, July 31, 1893.
Bank of Uew_South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office:-ÜBORCiE STKGET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital .. 1,'250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,010 000
Directors :
Thomas Buokland, Esq., President.
James R. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq.
James Milson, Esq.
Thomas Oadell, Esq.
Robert C. Close, Esq.
Auditors :
Alfred G. Milson, Esq. James S. Harrison, Esq.
London Oitlcc OLD lUM)AI> STItUKT.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India, and the East,
the United States, Hamburg, and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the Agency of other Banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes, and letters of credit; and conducts all customary
Banking busim as.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
i. 20, negotiable on the continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
GEORGE MILLER, General Manager.
“ A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold!”
TAYLOR BROS.
Pipe Mahers & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET,
SYIDItTIE^r.
tj*v
The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking- Pipes.
Needle Wood I’lpe
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stem), 4 o
Myall Mood I’lpe ditto 4 0
Varran Wood l*l|>c ditto 4 0
M ood I’ipc, Silver Mount and Amber Stem, * 0
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
Sipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
Agents wanted for Australian Native Wood Pipes.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be forwarded (post free) at above prices.
Public Companies.
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE 00, (Ltd.)
CHAIRMAN:
The Hon. JO// V SEE, M.P.,
COLONIAL TREASURER.
HEAD
(H IK ES s
35
Pitt St.,
SYDNEY.
asms
Capital,
1500,005,
Subscribed,
£150,000.
THIS Company is purely Australian, with a
large and influential body of Shareholders.
Security undoubted. Rates lowest. Settlements
prompt and equitable. Cash Bonus paid to In-
surers annually.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 11,1893.
1 1 TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20,
Erection of Residence for Engineer Pumping
station, Moss Vale Water Supply
Galvanised Wire Fencing, near Ricketty-streefc.
Shea’s Creek
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge with Iron
Piers over the Murrumbidgee River at Wagga
Wagga. Time extended
Excavation and Filling-in and Erection of Retain-
ing-wall, Garden Island
Erection of Pavilions, Benevolent Asylum, Rook-
wood
•
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4.
Construction of Concrete Dam and Timber Flood-
gates, Clybucoa Creek, Macleay River
NOTE. —Tenderers are warned not to begin any
work until they receive the official acceptance of
their offer in the usual way. The Department
will accept no responsibility contracted by a
tenderer prior ta receiving the official acceptance
referred to, and any liability incurred, or any
work undertaken, will be solely at the .risk of
tenderers, and will not be paid for.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery.
JUST PUBLISHED, our NEW PAMPHLET of Elegant London Specialities, a Copy of which will be sent, Post Paid, on Application to S. D. & Co., SYDNEY.
Usually
Sold
at ilO 10.-.
Usually
Sold
at ±lO 103.
Toadies’ IS-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2lO.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
518. —G.11.M. O.ct. Gold Brooch, 9,'6.
Dit’o Silver, 2 6.
fds
True
Lover’s
Knot
Brooch.
514.
With Charm Lucky Bell.
-O.H.M. 9cf. Gold, £1; 15-ct, £1 15.
9-ct. Gold Brooch, 15/6.
Ditto, Silver, 4 6.
a
The
New
Lucky
Bell.
51(5, Brooch of unique design,
G.11.M 9-ct. Gold, 12,6.
fee
513.-G.11.M. 15-ct. Gold liroocb, £ 1 5.
388.-Suite Studs, O.H.M.
Very Slronjr,
9-ct. Gold. 12 6; 15-ct. £1 5.
Silver, 3s.
226. Set O.H.M. Links.
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
The “Nuptial” Brooch.
605.-O.H.M. 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, £3 3.
227.- Set O.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18,6;
15-ct., £1 15; Silver, ss.
224.—0.H.M. 15-ct,
Gold, 12 6; Silver, 2'6.
sJW.II
225.—Combination Pin and
Stud, Diamond Centre,
15 ct. Gold, £2.
fdsfds
305.
Ladies’
Albert. 9cfc.
Xi !t ■
15 ct., «» is.
Silver, 10 «.
The New Lucky Hells. Latest London Novelty.
756.—G.H.M. O ct. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, t‘2.
755.—G.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 3 Bells, 7/6.
f
50C.-G.H M.
Diamond Centre,
21 IS
‘qooo.ig
757.-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-ct. ditto £4 10.
dsf
Charm
Bell
“ against
Fascination.”
517.—Elegant Brooch, New Design.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 18 6 ; Silver, 5 6.
768.—G.H.M. !)-ct. Gold Bracelet, .£1 10.
Ditto Silver, 10 6.
-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, Set with Fine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
ds
f
106.—Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £4 4; 15-cfc. £6 15; Silver, 15 6. 107.—Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6; 15-ct £5 17 6-
126.— Elegant Seal to match either Albert, G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 21/-; 15-ct. Gold, £1 17 6; Silver, 4 6.
Silver, 13
6
35. - Single Stone Diamond
King, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10s
Special Value.
36.—Ladies’ G-st. Diamond
18-ct. Gold Ring, £5 5.
82.—18-ct. Gold Ring,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £2.
33. —18-ct.. Gold Ring,
7 Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
£4 10
m
25.—18-ct. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same price.
For size ot Ring, cut hole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
15-ot. Gold Earrings, 15/6.
dsfds
m
v.
m
,' v ;Y-. - .-i";;
601,—G. H.M. Silver Match Box, 11 6.
A size smaller, 8 6.
<3.H.M. 9-ct, Gold, £2 10.
G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, handsome
design, Diamond Centre, £3 5,
SOVEREIGN
f
PUHSE.
606.-G.H.M. Silver, 96. Plain ditto, 86.
G.H.M. 9 ct. Gold, engraved, ‘‘2 10.
621.—Elegant Bow Brooch.
G.H.M. 9-ct., 17 6; 15-cl., £1 10.
Silver, 5 .
fil.-M: p-niIUM-nt 0,1 k r.iul Silver Electro,
.id. Electro • Silver Break- Mount id Liquor Frame, g # •,, e
fastCruet.and Spoons, 10/6 Botlli 8 (U inches lonu, 13 liijfli), t 3 10
Delivered free, Is. extra. Delivered Free, 2 « extra.
NOTE. Tin LII i.' H.M stand toi “Qo eminent Hut! Marked.
Koch Article being so Stomped Ouarautees the Quality and protects the Buyer ; at the same time our Prices are about Half the Colonial Charges.
Add to Remittance for Post and Register; One Article, Od.; Two, 9d.; Three, Is.; Six, Is. Cd.
We despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address—
STEWART DA WSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY, NSW
“ Of all papers, I hate the religious ones.”
—Archbishop Whately.
Q. Colonial Secretary Tozer, at Bunda-
berg, let the ministerial skeleton out of the cup-
board : “I have seen the Chief Secretary
(MTlwraith) borne down with grief at the want
of loyalty of the Government.” Michael Duffy
and O’Connell, Ms.L.A., were both present.
Both were returned as independents. O’Connell
told Tozer so, but Duffy sat still, twirled his
watohchain and looked ’umble.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Flowers, who lately stood for South
Sydney at a bye-election, with beautiful disinter-
estedness says that Traill is not up to the Demo-
cratic mark and should be cast out. As Traill
was long associated with The Bulletin, this
paper feels somewhat restrained in saying any-
thing very nasty concerning Mr. Flowers. But it
will say of Traill that there is no man to whom
the Democratic cause in Australia is under a
greater debt of gratitude.
Labour-member Hardacre (Q.) points out
that clause 8 of Barlow’s Crown Lands Bill will
permit land-grab railway syndicates, when they
have obtained their special blocks, to exchange
them for better areas ; while clause 9 will enable
Eurasians, Kanakas and Japanese, indented by
the land-grab railway syndicates, to obtain large
areas in their own names and hand them over to
their employers. Short of revolution, can anyone
suggest an effectual checkmating of this network
of tyrannous legislation ?
Facilities to a ready and reliable market
for fat stock are of inestimable advantage to the
breeder and grazier. Much depends on the busi-
ness character of the central organization that
executes the orders of different patrons, and per-
forms all the multifarious details of work neces-
sary to satisfy both sellers and purchasers. In
these respects the Homebush Fat Stock Agency
Co., which has just opened offices at the Wool
Exchange, Macquarie Place, Sydney, seems des-
tined to fulfil every requirement. The manager
and salesman of the co. is J. J. Howell, and the
secretary is J. H. Patterson, both lately with the
well-known firm of Joseph Leeds & Co., and both
of whose names carry assurance that business
tact and prompt energy will be characteristic of
the new co. The opening sale of the co. will
be held at Homebush yards on Monday, Oct.
2. For further information, those directly inter-
ested are referred to a business notification else-
where.
The Cure of Piles.
Mr. A. Sharp prescribes bis “Cannalin ” Treat-
rnent daily to sufferers with this painfuland distres-
sing complaint. Amongst those who testify tobeing
cured are—Mr. E. J, Mulholland, of Elong Elong
(12 years a sufferer); Mrs. Anslow, of 95 William
Henry-st., Ultimo; Mr. A. Renclell, of Bingara
(15years); Mrs. Spence, of 209 Goulburn-st., Surry
Hills, who suffered terrible agony (nine physicians
unable to do anything for her—bad 12 years),
Ac. The treatment relieves pain very rapidly,
even in the worst cases. Consultations on this
and other stubborn complaints personally or by
letter, if preferred, at 257 George-street (close to
Bridge-street), Sydney.
A second art union. Is. a ticket,'in con-
nection with theN.S.W, ArtSocie ysExhibition,
has been opened, on similar lines to that drawn
last Saturday, when 12 prizes, ranging in stated
values from £52 10s. to £3 35., were distributed to
the holders of winning numbers.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
. \fntual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
The Oldest MUtu gr DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES It. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.
“»• s,r
Two Millions sterling
Annual Income.
" a et.
87
i -• - - THOMAS LITTLEJOHN,
J. KINO, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, P.1.A., F.F.A.
Accumulated Funds; Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year
of over One Million sterling.
fitt STREET, SYDIXTEY.
, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. IV. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBX
1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
METROPOLITAN STAKES —Sepl. 19, 1893.
25,000 at 10 25,000
MEIuBOURME cup Flcmiiigtoii, November 7, 1893.
100,000 {y at 30 _£& 100,000
‘ TAITBKSALL,”
Care of George Adams,
‘The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane, Uueeuslaud.
ADAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
-1- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
enirmleted arrangements can be effected for accoinmoda-
-1 ’tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
pittings Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality . Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.ra.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings,
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
F»itt Street;, Sydney.
Carter & Cor
j3uauTabijE
NON REVERSIBLE
rpHIS Ingeniously Constructed It 11,1,1 A ltl> IU MN -
JL TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com,
plete Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PlilOES—3s to Guineas, include cover
balls cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
XX an d PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,
“ Crown Diamonds.” “ Lucrezia Borgia, ‘“' n
TpII ” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera, II Troya-
S.. ■■ r es Huguenots.” Is. 6d. eaoh-Of all Music
or from the Publishers. W. PAXTON & Co
London, and 251 Swakston Street, MELBOURNE.
qTiteeTon theatre
WALTER BENTLEY SEASON.
Every Evening at 8.
TO-NIGHT (Thursday, September 14) TO-NIGHT
“ HAMLET.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
~ MADAME ARAMARDA,
the celebrated clairvoyant,
From VExposition Internationale, Paris, may be
Consulted at
149 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
Daiiv, 2 to 5, and Mond., Thurs., and Sat., i to 9 p.m.
Madame secured highest awards at Kensington Hall
t\ nnrlonl Challenge Competition for recovery of lost
property, documents, missing friends, &c. The only
trained exponent of purely
Scientific Palmistry
in Australia; pupil of M. Desbarrolles; holding high
credentials from Parisian police for identification of
criminals Phrenological Charts Prepared. Inspection
of credentials Invited, •
Four Weeks Only. Fees: as., ns,, 10s. fad,, and a Guinea
Theatre royal.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
Stage Manager .. Mr. A. Harford.
Bus. Manager .. Mr. QEO. BULLER.
To-Night (Thursday) and To-morrow Night,
“ MONTE CRISTO.”
Saturday Night, “BELPHEGOK tub MOUNTEBANK.”
Box I’lan at Theatre. Day sales at Maokay’s Hotel.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Chairs, 25.; Stalls, Is.;
and Family Circle, Sixpence.
HER MAJESTY’S theatre
Sole Lessee .. Mr. George Uignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Miss MAGGIE MOORE
in
“STRUCK O I X..”
Followed hy the Amusing Faroe,
“THE CHINESE QUESTION."
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE,
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pit t-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lcssees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
TO-NIGHT and EVERY EVENING,
at 8 O’clock,
“The Mountebanks.”
By W. S. Gilbert and Alfred Cellior.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
A RT SOCIETY OF N. S. WALES.
70 PITT STREET.
THE 14th ANNUAL EXHIBITION
of
Oil Paintings, Water-Colours, Sculpture,
IS NOW OPEN.
Ureal Ail Union at Is. per Ticket.
To bo Drawn on Closing Day.
Prizes vanying from £3 3s. to £53 10s. value.
Tickets obtainable at the Exhibition.
C. VAN DE VELDE, Hon. Sjc.
KTotice.
HER MAJESTY'S OPERA HOUSE, BRISBANE.
The Trustees having resumed Possession of this
House are Prepared to LET on EASY TERMS
for Short or Long Seasons.
For Vacant Hates, apply to George Harden,
Manager.
24th August, 1893.
CHEAP IVS USI C.
The celebrated BARN DANCE, by Leonard Gautier;
ami 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duels, &c., at 3d. each.
Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application.
enclosing business card. _
PATENT JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Send for Price-list and Photos.
NEWTOWN CARRIAGE CO., SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
iRELIMINARY
NOTICE.
TO THE PASTORALISTS and Others
of New South Wales, Queensland, and Victoria.
The HOMEBUSH FAT STOCK AGENCY
COMPANY will commence business in all
branches of Stock and Station Agency on MON-
DAY, 2nd OCTOBER, 1893.
J. J. HOWELL, Manager and Salesman (late
with Joseph Leeds and Co.); J. H. PATTER-
SON Secretary (late with Joseph Leeds and Co.).
Offices, 3 and 5 Wool Exchange, Macquane-
abovJ Offices opened on FRIDAY, Ist
September, 1893, and all communications will
receive prompt attention FROM THIS DATE
The OPENING SALE of the Company will
take place at Homebush Yards on MONDAY,
the 2nd of OCTOBER. Friends will kindly
note this, and arrange concerning consignments
accordingly.
References and further particulars in a future
J, J. HOWELL, Manager.
bal d unt e s s
Cured and Prevented with
“B A.XJ HOR KT.”
It removes the cause, viz.: Congestion of the Follicles,
and provides food for the hair. 5 - per Bottle.
m Ryu
m
GREY HAIR,
Whiskers, Eyebrows, Ac.,
Quickly resume their own rich natural
colour with
Horn’s ii Acesma , ”
Non-poisonous, free from grease and
smell, does not stain the skin.
2 (> and 5/.
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
“ Horn’s Hair Solvent ’ (Reg.)
Leaves no mark.
2 « and 5 - per Bottle.
Testimonials from Medical Men, Clergy-
men, and analytical reports and press
opinions with each bottle. These mil con-
vince the most sceptical. Prepared by
Dr. O. E. HORN, Hair Specialist,
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne,
and the New Zealand Drug Co., Wellington, Christchurch,
Auckland and of Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
or for 1 6 extra from the Proprietor. A valuable Treatise
on “The IIiMAX Hair” (illustrated), post free for Six
stamps.
M.&J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT Sl|{i;i:i (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
S Y D U E ,3T.
S£ r Commissions Executed on following events
Epsom & Metropolitan.
300 TO 1.
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup-
Straight-out books on ttie above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
V-E-0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to I this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
W I’iJUEE CHANCES.
‘Yorkshireman’s” selections
—FOII
EPSOM AM) METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP.
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should ho obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be bad as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Referee, News
and Star. “ YORKSHI REMAN,” c/o W. J. Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
ll6a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
jag* 4 eg
' ■ :
Member of Tatteisail’s (London), Tattersall’s (Sydney),
and Victorian Club (Melbourne). Executes Commissions
on all events throughout the Colonies. Double or
Straight-out. USUAL WEEKLY DOUBLES. All Tele-
grams, &e., must be pre-paid, and no Commission must
be considered executed until a reply is received.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
i T having come to our knowledge that certain Post-
masters have refused to register Letters addressed to
“Gala,” c/o H. Alexander, Box 171 G.P.O.
Brisbane, Q.. our clients are notified that the new
Postal Act only applies to N.S.W., and cannot interfere
with our business in another colony. We shall esteem
it a favour if subscribers will at once notify us of any
refusal on the part of Postal Officials in their district
either to register our letters or issue money orders, so
that immediate action may be taken by us.
“GALA” would feel greatly obliged if clients will
circulate this information amongst their friends.
Drawings will take place in Sydney, and can be wit-
nessed as usual.
5. EACH.
33853
5. EACH-
MO*® 1
dsf
ds
On the Followim; Events:
Metropolitan Stakes, 19th September.
At 5 each. 20,000 At 5 each.
First .. .. 1500 j
Second .. .. 500
Third .. .. 250
S. (d) .. -- 600
N.S. (d.)
20 at 20
50 at 10
100 at 5
.. 400
.. 400
.. 500
... 500
175 Consolation Prizes at 2, 350,
CAULFIELD CUP, 14th October.
At 5 each. 20,000. At 5 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November
At 5 each. .50,000 At 5 each.
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November.
At 10 each. 20,000 At 10 egch. (For Horses only.)
jpg'" Register and Address Letters to
“GALA,” co H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
..morjionoirii
hi;inirri.riJTM
h=
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE < KKSCEXT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “ I*OST OFFICE, ” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
I'roiu’U'tor GEO. W. ELLIS.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
<i.ni!TSMAN “ The weakness of the Aus-
tralian cricketers lies in their bowline.” Their flowing-
■
Trnmble’B explanation of “Why the Australian
1 * Xi ed ” doesn’t seem a very valuable contribution
Eleven Uffea, Tq begin w ith, the Eleven hnsn t
to cricket l t f , mal)eea critically considered, have been
f! “ i’ten ly good. and much better than those of any pre-
teams since the time when Australian cricket
v ‘ ou * ■ . „ re at improvement in the British article.
eff6C f slovenly fielding to be replaced by the smartest o
causing sloi e y Kg that all would have been well
Australians chosen Murdoch, omitted Giffen, and
en home a fast bowler like Jones. What the fast
S r go Id have done in the matter is only apparent to
boaler cornu The Australians have themselves
hPiten bv the fast bowling of Richardson and Lock-
heea That’s admitted. They are not used of late to the
'Tilt dehveries of these ‘‘pace” men. But the
n nfahprs are in proof of which we find Surrey low down
Bn t Tlst of counties for this season. Surrey, that fairly
?»»f h AustraUa twice, was itself beaten by teams that the
beat Aust , ick _ xhese teams would have preferred
hatting alnst Jones to getting bamboozled by Giffen.
KWrdoeh, he isn't at the present time quite good
Hl for an All-England Eleven on his batting average,
Tit T umble savs “ Billy ” would have been invaluable to
the Australian Eleven, he is giving his own countrymen
away. # #
Hricket statistics to the end of August permit
nf a fair comparison between English and Australian
averages The Australian figures include all matches
nlaved by the team, those against picked elevens as well
as those against second-class counties, like Warwickshire
and Derbyshire. The English averages are compiled from
flrst-olass—m vinly county-matches, therefore conditions
arc about equal
English.
Innings. Average.
Gunn 34 48.42
Stoddart 30 48.10
Shrewsbury 27 42.50
Jackson 22 42.50
W, G. Grace 32 41.10
0. Brann 26 38.30
A. Ward 28 35.46
W. W. Read 29 30.81
Bean 40 28.86
Hevvett 24 27.59
Australian.
Innings. Average.
H. Graham 38 29.18
Lyons 39 26.70
Gregory 38 26.65
Giffen 36 26.61
Trott 40 26.10
Bannerman 32 21.65
Taking 11 batsmen who have each played in big matches,
and done plenty of work during the season, it seems that
g of them come out better than Graham, whilst another
15 Britishers, ranging from W. W. Read down to Tunni-
clitfe have done better than Bannermftn, the sixth on the
Australian list. Among (lie bowlers, Brockwell only, with
an average of 13.19 per wicket, has beaten Turner’s 13. <O, the
latter’s performance being finer because he bowled nearly
twice as many overs. Peel, Wainwright, Richardson and
Hirst come out in front of Trumhle, then there is Lock-
wood in front of Trott by a fraction, and Briggs, Mold,
Humphreys, the two Hearnes and Martin, all of them,
more or less, in advance of George Giffen. Of these
“crack” English howlers, 4 had bovyled from one to five
hundred overs more than either Giffen or Turner. The
cry about Australian bowlers being overworked should
shut uo immediately.
# * •
Murdoch, up to August 1, was fifteenth on the
list of English batting averages for this season, Ferris
being eighteenth. These arc very good performances,
hut why, in Heaven’s name, does the cable worry us with
occasional hysterics concerning the marvellous prowess of
the ex-Australians? S. M. Woods is -another Anglo-Aus-
tralian excitement of whom we have bad too much. He
comes No. 50 on the batting list, and No. 21 on the bowl-
ing list!
« * *
Last week the Australians were really handi-
capped a little by travelling arrangements. From Soar-
borough on Wednesday at 6 p.m. to Hastings on Thursday
at noon was decidedly rough. The cable says: “The
Australians were evidently wearied with the travelling
which they had done.” Good. Stoddart and tire two
English howlers, Lockwood and Richardson, had done
exactly the same travelling, hut the cable doesn’t men-
tion their weariness. The paragraphist has got his
dander up against biased cricket cablegrams, hence this
barracking for the absent Britisher.
# # *
A friend from England informs the writer : '* I
had a chat with one of the Australians, the other day.
There has been much trouble. The teetotallers complain
that-they are doing all the heavy work. . . George
Giffen howls splendidly, hut the English public say he is
not within streets of their best batsmen. . . Lyons is
the popular favourite ; next come Bruce and the two in-
fants, Gregory and Graham ; the latter is reckoned
superior to all English fieldsmen. Blackham has been a
great failure. Jarvis—well! To give them their dues the
men have had terribly bad luck. Grace said, when he
won the toss at the second test-match, that he had won
the match.”
* * ■ •
Ikey Mo’s Black Fast falls on 20th September,
a date thoughtlessly chosen fora race-meeting at Sandown
Bark (Melb.). Ikey drew attention to the fact that he
couldn’t go betting when he was hard at work atoning, on
an empty stummick. The Sandown management accord-
ingly put the meeting back another eight days. This
incident shows us that the “ sport of kings ” would come
to a sudden stop if the Jews were called back to Palestine
m a hurry. Or perhaps it would go off to Palestine with
cm.
# # *
.Sam Cook, owner of The Admiral, finds fault
with the V.R.C. handicapping, whereas the public com-
plain that Cook’s horses, as a rule, could do with a little
more weight on their backs.
* « *
At the last race-meeting at Mentone (Vic.), a
bet of £6OO to £6 was laid about Scrip (brother to Malua)
for the principal race. He didn’t win, but next day he
"as backed pretty heavily for Caulfield Cup.
* # #
In three years, Tattersall’s sweep has turned
rrand distributed a million sterling. By the way,
should the sweeps (now conducted from Brisbane) be
legally expelled from Australia, they can easily set up in
Noumea.
* # #
In six “ classic ” races won by the unbeaten
'singlass, the equally consistent Ravenshury has been
Placed—second on four occasions, and third on two. It
w lime that the V.R.C. and A.J.C. stewards sat down to
consider why this sort of running is never seen in Ans-
'alia nowadays. Evidently punters in England don’t
io rush hither and thither before a race, seeking
nitonriation as to whether Isinglass or Ravenshury is
a goer.”
* # *
~^ rewer > Corrigan, Scobie, Reid, Nolan—in fact,
ail boldest riders, think that hurdles should be brushed,
as to give horses a clear view.
'» # •
!rf a certain big July meeting there was a
general desire to know whether X.’s horse would be
no, 1 i ” for a certain race. Then came the disturbing
iho v . Z - ' vou,d aho “ slip” his horse if X. did, because
1 1 ’’ ®fable had a special “down ”on the X. stable. In
~i, n i* they both slipped and got beaten by something
- ■ i hose “ fly-flats ” whose horses are always supposed
ready if wanted ” make ludicrous exhibitions of
their cleverness at times, and as a result they are mostly
brokers. Of all Turf nuisances the shallow-pated rogue
is the most irritating.
* * #
John Crozier, the wealthy owner of Fulham and
Vakeel, has backed those horses for Caulfield and Melb.
Cups. Vakeel is a sterling racehorse, and will not be last
in the big race.
# * *
At Sydney Bicycle Club sports on Saturday the
five-miles Australasian championship was won by A. C.
VVilmot (Maoriiand) in 16min. 1 l-ssec.; W. L. Kerr,
(N.S.W.), second.
• • •
Surprising how often Kelso’s horses win, and
how seldom the public are “on.” At the Hawkcsbury
meeting, Rostellau and M.L.A. were friendless and at any
odds when they won their races.
The two-year-olds in N.S.W. have, so far,
shown in-and-out form in the three races run, each race
having been won by a different horse. Circumstances of
the races, however, have had much to do with the results.
At Rosehill, both Regina and Loch Isle were hopelessly
left at the post, and Mooroongie won; at Randwick,
Regina did not start, and Mooroongie had to concede
51hs. penalty to Loch Isle, who won. At Hawkesbury,
both Mooroongie and Loch Isle had to allow Regina, the
winner, slbs.
» # *
Walter Hall will want another Mount Morgan
before he is done with Straightfire. Heavily backed at
Randwick and at Hawkesbury he went down both times.
* * *
The North Shore (Sydney) Rowing Club are
becoming “quite English, you know,” in their style of eight-
oar rowing, their two honorary coaches hailing from Cam-
bridge University B.C. and the London R.C. respectively.
The N.S. rather surprised rowing men by winning at St.
Ignatius Regatta, and should they win at the Association
Regatta, the English style of oar-handling will, no doubt,
become the correct thing locally. The leading points are
—a dash through the water, a slow recovery, and an
almost total absence of feather, which, they reckon, assists
in a fair and square catch at the commencement of the
stroke.
# * *
Mr. S. H. Gollan, the prominent Australian
raoehorse-owner, rowed No. 4 in the Thames (Eng.) Row-
ing Club crew, who won the Challenge Eights at Henley.
# # •
South Adelaide has won S. A. football premier-
ship from Norwood. The “Sowths” boss football as well
as cricket in Adelaide.
Madame Aramanda, a clairvoyant lady,
whose strong point consists in inserting herself in
a trance and there explaining the whereabouts of
lost friends, lost property, missing wills, and
revealing the misty, the far-off, and the unex-
pected, has started business at 149 Elizabeth-
street, Sydney. She is armed with a mass of tes-
timonials from ladies whom she has put on the
track of the gold-washed deceiver and others, and
who write gratefully to say that they can never
be happy again.


PILL PALACE
ft BLOODiHF.KVE DISEASES
io «ra[ *■
m
:HRI
;
Herr Rassmussbn’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT: „
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
'RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
'George-street, Sydney, lias devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
His Registered and World-renowned ALFA LINE
VITALITY TILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
tif the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
say that his Remedies have cured more than all others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALTAIAN E VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, arid all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. KSf A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
■Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at Cs. and 12s.
WARNlNG.—lmitators tv ill be Prosecuted.
igg" IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
ramsnss!
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS.
rtP;
MEDALS
m
THE
angev
ofHsp^
MV
ALFA LIME PfLLSf
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD NERVES.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. fid. Boxes, (is. and 12s.
Registered and. Purely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
>< Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”— Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli'
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
« Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Coortown
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23, 6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12 - and 23 6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3,'- and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautilier.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/-; posted, 1,6 and 26.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 16.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD.
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure ~
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS'
SORE'S. BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA*
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS*
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT*
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted,
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Leucorrhoea Powders.,
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box,
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr RASSMUSSEH’S HEAD DEPOT: 547 George Street, Sydney.
ALSO ALT HIS ZBIR-ALIIsrGIEEIES :
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne. j 160 Queen Street, Brisbane. i 154 BnndlG Street, -Axlelaicle, |9l Bambton Quay, el ton, N.Z.
Bismarck’s mother was the daughter of a
Hebrew.
“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc, from Tub Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Co. (Ltd.), 2i Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Wr
T(
Mi,
K
&
I
“GRATEFUL RESULTS*'
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennyslvania, U. S. A.
A Life of Suffering and Misery, without
Sleep, without Appetite, with Bowels al-
ways Out of Order.
Restored to Health by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Spring.- I was grievously afflicted
with Biliousness and Liver Complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every morn-
ing, my tongue thickly coated, my breath was
offensive ; food distressed me, I suffered much
from headache, my skin was sallow, and my
bowels were always out of order. Sleep did
not refresh me, nor did the many remedies,
recommended do me any good. At last I com-
menced using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and my im-
provement began almost from the first dose. It
relieved the distress about my liver, regulated
my bowels, caused food to set well on my stomach,
cured mv headache, improved my complexion,
and restored my appetite. These unlocked for,
but grateful, results were accomplished by only
two and a half bottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Mrs. Lydia M. Tat,box, Altoona, Pa., U. S. A.
Ayer’s ‘Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
f
m
m
NOW READY, post free
]g. fid., THE LIFE,
ADVENTURES, and CON-
FESSIONS OF A SYDNEY
i BARMAID.
Highly Interesting. .
To be had only of And Unique
MADAME PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
Sydney
31 Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
ds
ss
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of miik, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk,"
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-IWL valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants. '
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
'Wholesale Agents :—
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, E.C.
& L/y
< .ipRY C/
/sV
<s> V
■w
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
°nd Stre^
Beware «•/ imitations.
/£&£&&&? "b c
TRA9C MARU ;=HOSl DIEB
ds
“ The field is more valuable than the seed,
the mother than the father.”— Hindoo,
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
GEOEGE & MAEKET STEEETS,
SYDNEY.
6
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
Ihe panel Portrait.
Size, 9x7 in.,
15s. j>jsr nozKm 15s.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Go<
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
9k
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C;
“ There is no courting in French society,
except of married women,” writes a French lady
in N. American Review.
Dear Bulletin, —Yes, Bill Jennings (erst
of Sydney, now of Salt Lake, which probably suits
him better), as a kid-gloved contractor, ivas a
nigger-driver, and used to “sack ” men whom he
caught straightening their backs. But he didn’t
“sack ” Micky Dooley, the hod-carrier, although
he caught him doing a full-blast smoke behind a
stack of bricks. I was mortar-mixer, and I saw
Jennings “cop” Mick, and heard him angrily
vitupei’ating. Then I saw him laugh and go
away, I believe Mick’s answer to some protest
concerning a fair day’s work was something like
this—“ Misther Jennings, sorr ;do this be a day
to be talkin’ about days?” But Mick wouldn’t
own up to that. “ What did the boss say to you,
Mick ?” “ Shure, he toult me was Oi workin’, an’
I said, ‘ Was Oi?”’—Yours, Outdoor Overseer.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
A certain wild-looking N.S.W. M.P. from
Monaro way has a voice like a dynamite-
explosion. A member who sat near him during
an impassioned speech of his in committee on the
reduction of a local poundkeeper’s salary by two-
pound-ten, complimented him on his voice.
“ That’s nothing,” replied the incarnated thunder-
blast, “You should have just heard me before I
lost my front teeth!”
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex, is the strongest.
Late portraits of Jules Yerne show him to
be the very replica of J. P. Garvan, M.P.
(N.S.W.)
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool.— At the last auctions the biddings lacked anima-
tion, and a number of lots were passed in for private sale.
Sheepskins.— There was a large attendance at our auc-
tions this week, and, although the biddings were spirited,
there was no improvement in prices. Best full-woolled
from 4jd to 4Jd; superior to 4|d ; medium growth, 3Jd
to 4d ; shorts and pelts, 2|d to 3d per lb. Green tops,
50d to 65d ; firsts, 36d to 48d ; seconds, 24d to 34d ; short
and inferior, 17d to 23d each.
Tallow.— This week there was an improvement in
prices equal to about 5s per ton on last week’s rates ; best
mutton from £22 to £22 7s Cd ; best mixed, £21 10s to
£22 ; trade lines, £18 to £20 per ton. The principal lines
in their catalogue were Tester, Gearin looks and JG
brands.
Hides.— The market is without alteration. We sold
every line offered, and quote prime extra heavies from
2|d to 3d ; heavies, 2Jd to 2|d; sloppy, l|d to l|d; medium
weights, l|d to l|d ; light and dry, ija to 2d per lb.
Hair.— Horse-tail, 12d to 13Jd; mane, 8d to lOJd;
washed cow-tail, free of stumps, 7d to 9£d ; stumps, 3d to
5Jd per lb.
Horns.— Large, 25s to 31s; medium, 10s to 19s ; lips
and small, 2s 6d to 9s per 100.
Bones.— Shanks, £4 to £5 10s ; common, £115s to £2 2s
6d ; knuckles and sheepshanks, £3 to £3 10s ; hoofs, £2 to
£2 10 per ton.
Marsupial Skins. -A slightly easier tendency was
noticeable, all descriptions suffered somewhat, but al-
though the decline is yet trifling, there is very little
prospect of any improvement. The supply of opossum
skins was hardly so large as last week, but this is only
what can be expected now that the summer is
approaching. Rabbit skins were again exceedingly
dull and oulv one lot "was placed at auction,
lai-6-e grey kangaroo, 33d to 50d; medium, 21d to
32 ,f- small, 2id to 18d; wallaroo, Id to 19W.
Lar°’6 red kangaroo, 20d to 29d ; small to medium, Id to
18dt wallaby, swamp, 2d to 14Jd ; rook, Id to 24d ; scrub,
Id to 151d each. Rabbits (nominal), 7d to 8, ( d per lb ;
opossums, top greys, 11s to 15s ; medium 6s to 10s;
roii'di lumped and small, Is to 5s ; best black furred skins
from 16 i to 22s ; good skins, 11s to 15s ; best reds, 6s 6d
to 10s per doz.
9th Sept., 1893.
J. H. Young, M.P., ex-N.S.W. Speaker,
was formerly a pilot up Hastings and Manning
way.
Premier Patterson suffers from rheuma-
tism and mental worry in seeking for an Agent-
General who will “restore confidence.”
Quong Tart’s definition of the Dibbs N.S.
Wales tariff : “S’posa you take cut leetle piece off
coat-tail, sew him ona collar again. That the
tariff,”


V
MBURNBY, WALLIS and CO.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & 00. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
sNt MBVJtNIA \
[ iff, 8. WALLIS \
\A. HENSON J }
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS* HIDES, TALLOW, BARK* HORNS, BONES, HAIR,
j£lacli j_iepartna.en.t xn.a.zia>ged lay a memtoer of tHe
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores; Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
and ANY OTHER PRODUCE.
Firm.
A COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
the best
»9
*
M
4
m
BLOOD
Purifier
AND lONIC
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’sSarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
HP" Beware of cheap imitations.
The name —Ayer’s Sarsaparilla—is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
JOURNALIST, with eight years’ experience
on Sydney metropolitan press, desires en-
gagement as Sub-Editor or Reporter—or as Editor
of country paper. “Journalist,” Bulletin office.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
m
SHARPS
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
S TANDARD\ NEEDLES,
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for <£l9
PJs. Gd.
4-ROOMED HotTSE FURNISHED for £32 175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for =£so.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£lOO,
Departments •
Furniture and upholster^
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CIIINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all slKes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES,
If unable to pay its a personal visit, write fot olit
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone No.. 66.] [Established iB6O,
6 6 HP ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM."
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893
NAMBEOK and MELTON PAEK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
Tlie only Agricultural Property Distribution t
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments
“NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties:
Nambrok House.
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated value
Also, 59 Properties ~
£12,000
each 1,050
H fijnr z . .1 f include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required.
On 15th JULY, only 1 00 addition* »a 1 j conjunction with not less thru Ten Shareholders and the representatives of the Press) is to take place without
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gene cui , are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure. P. P. LABERTOUCHE. Esq., Melbourne; Major
fail in NOVEMBER, and results will be Z-. Adelaide; Captain J. WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z.
*l. Oil ICER, Melbourne, CHRIS! ~ .rpnoir » Wtfate which (as will be seen from the above Schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (out of a total of
, The FIRST BALLOT, will be from the > NA3IBBOI I ,
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
APPLICATIONS for SHARES should be made by Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
c/o J. H. A STROP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, N.S W.
n, , „ , „Hrlrp«P,d envelope with 2d. stamp for reply (two, if
State amount forwarded, and enclose one aciaies. IST S W Add exchange if payment is
results required direct). Do not attach stamps if other than m.o. •
made bv cheque
, M-l. the e.„e of tile extra J»,700 „otbeio. B S
f»‘r for tl„. t ««!»,.ribe.l trill be included >n B ’
T °n‘:r “ OTigi,m ” y ,f S „„ cent, .hort, the IWoto. b»v. agreed to
Should (he amount required be not more than 10 I - . „j] owe j the Shareholders,
uorego t 0 tlmt extf . nt> jn der that most liberal terms may be allowed
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
IBOS.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
Nam e .
£ : :
A ddr ess ■ -
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co. I
c/o J. H. ASTROP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’CoKKF.i.I Street, SYDKRY, N.S.W.
fT REFERENCES cr
made to the well-known Firms
ot Messrs, ALEXANDER WILSON & CO., of Sydney, and Messrs. RICHARD NEWTON & CO., of Brisbane.
“ We do not want the oily parson, rolling
in wealth, and swaggering in the forctop of the
State.”— Joseph Cowen.
Mr. Austin, president of the Vic. Vas-
toralists’ Asso., stated in his annual address that
1048 shearers had applied for 50 vacaht stands for
thi? edming season.
Labouchere, Wilfred Lawson, and W. S
Caine continue to be persecuted by the practical
joker. One recent Saturday font undertakers
called on Caine to measure him for his coffin.
This kind of thing, it is stated, has been going oil
for the past seven years.
A firm of provincial provision-merchants
(England) burst out witli placards and circulars
announcing—“ln commemoration of the Royal
Wedding we are selling our butter at lOd. per
pound.”
THE BUTTER GLUT.
Last Winter drear was butter dear
In Merrie Hingerland ;
A scant supply, at prices high,
Sufficed to meet demand.
One’s Gracious Queen is never seen
When streets are snowy bound.
In weather cold good butter’s sold
At half-a-crown a pound.
Few feeble cheers salute the ears
Of princes riding by ;
None seek to grease the Northern breeze
With pats of loyalty.
The days are short, the blue-nosed Court
Shuts close the outer door ;
Old leaves drop dead, a cry for “ Bread”
Comes wailing from the poor.
In summer bright, reporters write
Of Britain’s happy state,
Because a maid of royal grade
Has found herself a mate.
Forgotten then the starving men
And women, too, that weep,
All sorrows cease in grovel grease,
And butter’s very cheap.
The fatted Mayor infects the air
With rank and rotten lies ;
Snobs big and small, delighted, crawl
And slobber, infant-wise.
Bless Thrones and Drones! Grim Hunger’s groans
The drums and trumpets drown.
Ring wedding-bells ! your music tells
The price of butter’s down.


“Be Traist.” What does it mean ?
Messrs. Innes & Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Head brand of Wines, informs us that it is old
Baxon, and means “be true.’’ As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines which
are sold at all grocers from Is. per bottle upwards.
I heir invalid Port, at os. fid. is a wonderful wine,
full of health-giving properties.*
“The Bulletin's”‘Missing Word Competition.
Attention is drawn to the date on which The
Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition, No. 6,
closes. The coupon is to be found on the red cover
of this issue.
I
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, Subscribers and Others.
Messrs. Fitzgerald Bros,, of Launceston, are
no longer Sole Wholesale Agents for sale of
“The Bulletin” in Tasmania, Agents and
Subscribers can be supplied from Head Office.
Terms upon application.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to maks
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of 'all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine ”:~
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.’’—Prof. Wm, 0.
Lkube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI,
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator. j .
On SCROFULOSIS. —Vol. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfkld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO'S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, cleaver, and more ethereal oil than any
1 have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
HAYMAN’S
BALSAM
IS A MCiST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &IL
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold hy all Gkemigtg hi Bottles Is. ]W. ?s. M.j,
4s. 6d., and 11s 1 ■ j,
Prepared only by A. KAYMAN * CO.,
16, Albemarle Street, London, Enj.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& 00.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
2781
FREEHOLD PRIZES
TOTAL VALUE,
£85,500.
FIRST PRIZE,
2781
FREEHOLD PRIZES!
TOTAL, VALUE,
£85,500.
£85,000 worth FREEHOLD
To be DISTRIBUTED amongst the SHAREHOLDERS in the
Mutual investment and Building Society,
H HIS BA NE. Q UEENSLA ND.
(INCORPORATED ACCORDING TO ACT OF PARLIAMENT.)
i*r 85,500 SHARES only at £1 each. tar 18 SEPARATE CHANCES for your £l.
So that £1 may secure £48,153 worth! Compare this with other Societies.
LIST OF PRIZES.
Cn Cl Oi O
1 PRIZE
1 PRIZE £2500
1 „ 2200
1 >, 2000
1 1800
!> „ t'lifli 700
:: 11 udo
J „ „ 4*0
« .. „ CW
dsfdsfdsfds
790 Prizes, each
yso „
Total value £SS,.' a '
I'or SHARES and all particular* apply to Secretary of Society, 186 Queen-street, Brisbane, or
T. A. BOND, Broker, Queen-street, Brl»»»“«'
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
September 13, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
A dress I saw at the theatre the other evening
reminded me that one of the tricks of the English
society actress —this side'of the pond, at least—is
to bequeath old stage-frocks to rampant she-
admirers, who subsequently come forth in the
dress-circle looking like Camille in the giddy act,
with a husband in tow who appears to have not
quite made up his mind as to whether his
“party ” looks respectable or not.
An actress’s wardrobe may be the very thing to
quote poetry about in the fashion-columns and
drink in through opera-glasses, but sitting next to
it in a drawing-room when it is on a woman who
hasn’t the foggiest notion how to carry it is quite
another thing. She who shakes a Fedora dinner-
dress at a small tea-party always gives a “dress-
rehearsal-for-the-star-only ” aspect to her more
reasonably-garbed environment. But the ladies
who gushingly receive actress's semi-soiled more or
less property frocks and even proudly tell you that
Madame Decollete gave them “the very dress she
wore in So-and-so,” probably enjoy the sensation
of looking like a peacock in a barn-yard.
I don’t think spring fashions for ’93 will be very
differently-cut from the present mode, but I arn
told on the best authority (I counted 57 pins in
her dress while she was talking) that new colours
are to be very “ chemical.” Designs will be worn.
I was shown a bit of new stuff, evidently inspired
by a stenographer or a telegraph-operator—it was
all dots and dashes. Spots, stripes, checks and
flowers, either separately or together, are “ straight
tips ” for springs, and the louder your mixture the
better your form. Any two colours that swear at
one another, as the French say, are in the very
best possible taste just now, and the fat lady who
has all along mingled yellow and scarlet in her
bonnet will be on the topmost bough of the style
if she only sticks to her colours at this critical
juncture. Everything comes to her who waits—
but what are the odds that the king-parrot ladies’
miserable luck will lead them to tailor-made drab
now that spruce people are drawing sartorial in-
spiration from the chromotrope?
The scandalous slaughter of innocents in Sydney
has at last provoked Mrs. Grundy into seriously
considering the question of a Foundling Hospital,
to be run on the lines of the Parisian homes for
the rescue of tangible wild-oats. The modus is
simple : a basket hangs on the bell-pull; the baby
is put in the slot, so to speak, and “we do
the rest.” That is to say, the weight of the lost-
ling rings the bell, the mother slips round the
corner and nobody is any the wiser. This is the
Parisian idea.
The Sydney foundling demands more compli-
cated treatment—judging from the prospectus.
“When the mothers are known they will be re-
quired to do what they can to help; when the
fathers can be traced they will be made to pay,
either with or without legal interference.” And
all this ferreting out of “ Who is she? ” —“ Who’s
the man?” simply means that a policeman or a
gimlet-saint will be told off by the tabbies to
watch the bell-pull in the Australian translation
of les enfants trouves.
The “humane” ladies of Sydney who sit on
vigilance-committees and so on, discussing what
sounds like Zola expurgated, with tame curates
also on the “ board’’—are too morbidly fond of
their “fallen sister”—too keen in pursuit of the
minutice of her mistake to tolerate a breezy insti-
tution where she simply puts her accident into a
basket and goes her way uncatechised. The
by-laws as to who shall .pay and so on, prove that
the proposed Foundling Home will be run on the
good old Benevolent Asylum lines, where the in-
mates are cross-questioned and “ poor dear’d ” as
only morbid professional philanthropists know
how. I don’t think the new Foundling Home will
quite cut the backyard from under the baby-
farmer who asks no questions—and answers as
few as she can.
It’s just this way, so far as I can see. The
mother who will abandon her infant, under any
circumstances save knowledge of the fact that she
can’t possibly support it, is unfit to be in charge
of it. The utter indifference to the fate of their
offspring shown by several of the mothers con-
nected with the Makin case may not have
amounted to murder, but can anybody tell me
wherein lies the difference in real guilt between
the actual murderess and the sane woman who
professes to expect another woman to permanently
maintain, as a matter of business, an utterly
strange child for a consideration of £5 ? If the
Foundling Hospital is to do any good—that is to
say, if it is to preserve the lives of the scores of
healthy, but inconvenient, children who are now
cold-bloodedly murdered, there must be no in-
quisitor waiting to see who rings the bell. It is
the social inquisition which is the real assassin
after all.
“But,” shrieks Mrs. Grundy, “ see how your
free-and-easy system would encourage immo-
rality !” I don’t think it would. No woman
deliberately falls, and it surely is the public duty
to see that murder is not used to cloak other
immorality.
It came out in a Sydney libel-action the other
day that a woman who had had an enlarged
photo, of her husband prepared as a “surprise
present for his birthday ” told the photographer
that it rested with her husband to pay for the
picture. The only hona-Hde gifts poor, exploited
man ever gets are the red-blue-and-green slippers
that pinch him, and the gaudy, crewelled smoking
cap which invariably falls off and puts his pipe
out, but which, all the same, are proofs of his
fiancee’s affection before the ring-season sits in.
Married man pays for his own “gifts”; he also
must, under pain of gaol, give his wife money to
sue him for divorce.
A Melbourne rumour engages a daughter of a
Soustralian millionaire squatter to a very popu-
lar private secretary whom a lot of people
regarded as already bound in the fetters of Hymen.
There are, furthermore, hints at an engagement
between the daughter of a vice-regal " house and
one of papa’s A.sD.C.
One of the lots offered at the sale of the family
effects of a northern man, who lately took ship for
“the Better Land,” was a basket of visiting
pasteboards. The seller-out was a society man,
and his card-receiver was a thrilling collection of
little white slips setting forth the titles of Sir
Blank Hiatus and the Hon. Captain Sraiffkins,
A.D.0.; also, of large, staring, highly-glazed
pasteboards bearing the names of Lady Spruce
Nouveau and the Misses Orcesus —all the cards of
the most imposing people being luckily on top.
Just imagine the soul of the person who could bid
frantically for the paper ghosts of another man’s
visiting-list, wherewith to “ salt ” her own middle-
class card-tray !
Tasmania isn’t the Paradise of the working
woman either, judging from this Hobart Mercury
advt. :
TA/"ANTED a Wet Nurse, also a Lady-help, to do
' ’ washing, cooking, and teach music, drawing,
German, and French. Apply to Mrs. , \Vatch-
house, ,
Bub when all the shock is exhausted, the curri-
culum of the average married woman embraces a
good many more subjects than these! And she
gets no wages either, except a garment here and
there and perhaps a new bonnet in the wattle-
season. Any doubtful spinster trembling on the
matrimonial brink and afraid to launch is warmly
advised to try for, say, three months the position
advertised.
In “Struck Oil,” at Her Majesty’s, Maggie
Moore hasn’t any chances for dressing, but then
M.M. always was an actress and never a mere
gown-trotter. In her short, dark-blue dress —
black tights masquerading as stockings and long,
fair pig-tails, Lizzie Stofel looked a very taking
little Dutch girl. Sydney theatre-goers evidently
run away with the idea that Maggie is only pre-
vented from singing and dancing all night through
the trams stopping and inconveniencing the
audience.
Governor Duff’s speech at N.S.W. Art Society’s
banquet, in which he cast reflections on the artis-
tic tastes of his vice-regal predecessors, “judging
by the pictchaws at Government House,” showed
a deep and edifying lack of “colonial experience”
on the part of Sydney’s social head. Certainly
some of the works of art that help to cover the
walls of Government House are obviously not
“ old masters’’—but they are not necessarily
criteria of the artistic tastes of the long lists of
potentates who have probably suffered by those
pictures just as Gov. Duff is suffering now. And
if His Ex. more particularly alluded to the lovely
frames presented to the “ kawliny ” by the various
vice-regalities to commemorate their escape, the
thing becomes more amusing than ever. Surely
he doesn’t measure a man’s artistic discernment
by the pictures he gives away in—haw!—Aus-
twalia? You might as well question the taste in
jewellery displayed by the trader who gives blue
beads to a cannibal.
Mayor and Mrs. Manning have issued cards for
a ball to be held in Sydney Centennial Hall, on
Wednesday, 20th inst. An agreeable and spirited
break in the gloom of this “reconstructing ” time.
I have received a copy of the “ Dawn ” waltz,
from Messrs. Paling & Co. As a dance-tune the
“Dawn” is entirely unobjectionable—but I cannot
prophesy for it a success such as Maude Fitz-
Stubbs’ “ Heather ” waltz (now on the way to its
fifth edition) has enjoyed this season.
Some Samaritans have a very confused idea of
how much clothing the naked require—or I should
say, rather, how long they require it for—judging
from a recently-printed appeal for clothes for the
expectant and destitute mothers of a N.S.W.
Labour settlement. It was said that a parcel of
nightgowns, and other etceteras, would be very
welcome at the settlement, for they could be used
in turn by the women, each giving them up when
she had finished with them !
It is a complicated sort of thing to be a “ per-
fect lady ”in Australia. It really isn’t half so
easy as it looks. The difficulties of social explora-
tion and the sometimes impossibility of discover-
ing people’s grandfathers leave Stanley and Emin
Pasha (now happily eaten by his enemies !) mere
specks on the sun of the Australian society female
who cannot afford to encourage “nohodies” and
who has to gain her information of social status
as best she can ere committing herself. The other
day a Sydney matron, who doesn’t advertise hel-
ped igree by hyphenating her maiden-name on her
visiting-cards, was astonished at hearing Lady
Too-lofty (calling for the first time) thus cate-
chising the house-maid : “Is Mrs, Blank at
home?” “Yis, mum.” “ And—er—your mis-
tress was the youngest Miss Dash, was she not ? ”
The hireling again assented. “Then will you
please tell her I am heah ! ” urbanely said the
visitress.
I was amused to read (in London Life) that
“the Prince of Wales is having his portrait painted
by Professor (Blank, say),” And a little further
down came the announcement, “ Professor Blank
is the greatest animal-painter in Austria ! ”
A well-advertised Sydney evangelist recently
was remonstrating with a bluff barrister on the
earthly nature of his ways. The barrister pleaded
his profession. “You should attend to your
business Above,” said the evangelist pointing up-
wards. “If I attend to my business in Heaven,”
said the other, “my business below would go to—
well, Nicoderaus.”
The A. J.C. Spring meeting at Randwiek next
Saturday (16th), promises to be the usual four days’
success. lam glad to see the card doesn’t include
such dismally-named items as were lately run off
at Brisbane. They were the “White Ant,”
“Faux Pas,” “Bonesetters,” “Plaster of Paris”
and “ Crutches ” Handicaps !’ Cheerful nomen-
clature for the riders !
I have just heard of a new English fashion
which will hardly commend itself to Australia,
where the feet of so many daughters of the nation
might be mistaken for palm-leaf fans, it is o
have a transparent flounce round the lower cnci ot
ball-dresses, so that the twinkling of th.e daisy
rootlets ” beneath may work havoc with the male
onlooker. This is a step towards the dress-
hoisting Parisienne’s idea of making her feet and
ankles (unabridged) help her profile in the admira-
tion-hunt. Which reminds me that 1 haven t
heard just how deep the transparent flounce is .
Woman’s latest mission in Australia seems to
be honey-making. One speaker at the recent bee-
keepers’conference, a minister(trust the cloth to en-
courage the women!) was “ very glad to see so> many
ladies present, as bee-farming was an industry
which the fair sex might, being generally of more
amiable temperaments than men, engage in with
more success. Bad-tempered men had no business
to have bees at all.” Bees certainly are a little
difficult to argue with, but I think all the blame
should not rest on the hive-keeper. For instance,
hasn’t it occasionally happened that most of the
bad-temper came from the bee?
A Sydney suburban cleric called upon an owner
of many marvellous racehorses the other day, and
begged him for a subscription. The horsey man
became excited, and the parson at length beat a
hasty retreat before the profanity and vigorous
personalities of the scoffer. But scarcely had the
Rev. Spalding reached the gate when “Come
back !” roared the enemy. “What the (expletive)
are you going for ?” The visitor returned timor-
ously—to receive a five-pound note for the “cawse,”
and a bunch of garden flowers for himself. But
that’s just the way with the turfites ; you never
know what they’re going to do till it’s all over.
Professional Christians should certainly culti-
vate a meek and lowly spirit; but I scarcely think
it ought to go as far as helping yourself with your
hands, as one Australian Anglican Bishop does.
During a country visit someone entertained his
lordship at dinner, and when the vegetables came
round—“ Ah, potatoes !’’ said the holy man, fish-
ing out a murphy with his fingers.
It strikes me that music is the very last thing
that ought to be encouraged in Australia. If
you think that a Philistinism, just count the brass
plates and peradventure the educational advts. in
the newspapers. The other day a teacher “of 20
years’ experience ” was still advertising her terms
at ninepence per lesson ! Better the mangle.
This really happened in Maoriland the other
day. Father, mother, uncle Tom, a few assorted
visitors, Miss Smith (the governess) and a penetra-
ting female infant, were peacefully breakfasting,
when the last-named suddenly broke out with —
“ Mother, I saw Uncle Tom in Miss Smith’s room
this morning as I was going to my bath.” Mother,
however, thought herself equal to the occasion.
“ Nonsense, dear ; don’t talk such rubbish.” But
the “dear” wasn’t to be bluffed. “Well, if it
wasn’t Uncle Tom, it was father !” Another
“accomplished lady seeks an appointment as
governess.”
Sydney now has an amateur walking club, the
members of which took their first toddle abroad
the other Saturday. Judging from their proceed-
ings on that occasion, there is a strong tendency
to take the train that goes nearest to the end of
the expedition.
“Society ” journalism in Sydney is a fine art-
judging from this description of a youngsters’
tea-party which I encountered the other day in
Sydney D.T. :
Master Patrick Duff came, on his way from the Zoo, with
Lady Duff, and among the other little guests were Mrs.
Merival’s pretty trio —Miss Angel, Bud, and their brother
—and Master Willie Laidiey,-who looked quite a picture
in his smart sailor suit.
Also, little Jack Horner looked in on his way to
the corner, and the picturesque effect of Baby
Bunting’s bib was the theme of admiration. It is
indeed thoughtful to let the outside world into the
secret and distinctly precious dissipations n f the
society nurseries !
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Dear Bulletin, —In a recent issue you
unwittingly gave currency to an untruthful
rumour touching my relations with the trustees of
the Brisbane Worker. The impression somehow
got abroad that in my editorship of that paper I
was cross-hobbled and otherwise fettered by
■vexations restrictions, and you seem to have fallen
a victim to the inaccuracy.' As a matter of fact I
had a perfectly free hand. Indeed, it was only
upon that condition that I went to Brisbane,
and I must say that I found no disposition on the
part of the trustees to break the contract.—Yours,
&c., Ernest Blackwell.
The Bulletin learns that the big Q. law
case has come to an end. The appeal proceedings
were suspended when the Q.N.B. put up its shut-
ters, and since then plaintiffs have been induced
to let the matter drop, on the ground that they
“see little hopes of recovering the fruits of a judg-
ment in the present critical condition of Queens-
land finance, and that a further great sum must
be expended on an appeal.” But in face of the
advice of Sir Horace Davey, the greatest of
English Equity lawyers, who told the Investment
Co. that Chief Justice Blileys judgment was
good without doubt in every particular, the latest
development does not smell sweet.
-Favourite Australian timbers used iTTT
manufacture of tobacco-pipes are “needlo*
“myall ” woods. “Needle” wood whS a , ncl
its name from its acicular markings
absorbent, a valuable qualification in ninp-mm ■ Y
This class of manufacture on i la™* 1 ’ 11 '-
can bo witnessed at the estahlicLkT ® cale
Messrs. Taylor Bros.. pipe-malSs of
turners, 248 Pitt-strect, I Sydney! ’ The \rTT
property of the myall wood is eliminated
thoroughly exhaustive process which is a r i
secret, and these “native” pip es are hi ii
appreciated by fastidious smokers Tavlor P* y
import amber in its raw state in wholesale c ™'
signments, and manufacture mouthpieces
vanous sizes and designs and of unimpeachable
excellence of quality. They will mail sa n®
pipes, as per advt. elsewhere in this issue. 1


Established 1876.
asthma
CURE
D?
HAIR’S
(treatise
I «H
ASTHMA
'fc.i y
✓
SYDNEY: BllOttßrOf
IffßfOfi
rsiiil/
BmSBAWE: ElllOtl BfM>(
iaipe l-.H>auldins«f(r
WgfiTM!
nd: Sharia:
and » (° . s>rs>.
stud Truhae amJ lutimoniala
snrAdai
v 2/6 '
reliable medical advice
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.F. AND S.
(ttIt(HBTBKBU 11T the Medical Boabd of N.S.W.)
Mojr be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoi o,
(hat our now departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been n ccorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
ANO CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT —
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A, BETTS
Of itw PmuDW-rHiA College of Dental
Sukgebt.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Ok. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence. promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIAN", CHEMISTS. & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVSCDRATdr
FOB
LADIES, MAIDS, girls,
BOYS.
Tlio CGUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug
„' . sa J’ s : —“ 1 think them such vert
JL n , ® ta J’ s > and those you sent for mt
daughter answered admirably.”
‘‘SALON” May, ’9O : “It is the Queer
orsets. They are delightfully comfort
e ’ aud give great relief to the back.”
litres i>’;?+T LY , L.R.C.P., Edin., says lie be
imiirovin.l S +i 6 est invention of the bind fo
figure witHwv.r carriage and appearance of tin
aarv rnrii? U T.’irS Ul .l ur i°us effects of the ordi
J EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED
bavfnVV, °? wi th old shapes; insist 01
Obtainin'- fr^ W ' vaist ‘- it any difficulty 11
Claremont ,l lu t>apers‘ write Patentee, IS
«uwemont, Hastings, England.
Itching Skin Humors
Torturing, Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
'Jr
-a:
s:
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospitals, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and irri-
tated surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Ctrl ICUKA
SoAl’, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces.
CUTXCUKA Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. Hence, the
Cuticura Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
JB6>-“How to Curb Diseases of the Skin and P.i00d,”64 pages, 300 Diseases, 5° lus-
trations,Too Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price. C uticura. 50c.: Cuticura .oaf,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Core n, boston, U. o. A.
Pimply Skin
red, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails
are prevented and cured by Outicura Soap*
comparably the greatest of skin purifiers and bcaullficrs.
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps-
The only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin and simple humors of infants.
xmmm
ds
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Ask for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester ; Crosse (?• Blackwell, London, sc., sc. ,
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Aobntb : Messrs. VIRGOE, SON ane> CHAPMAN ; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively the Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS HARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
AFTER USB.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned DAT From whatever
Remedy FU S\ £> fV lJ JjOO cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskevs a.nd IVT oustarhios it has never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey H»ii< to its Original Colour, never fails.
oooooo
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
f
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
f , enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate hut by their general action please all whc
use them. The stand rd F‘ll of the U. S. Medical Profes-
''oil The smallest and easiest to take, . forty in a phial.
Tales of the convict system
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
/eve^
n%o. NG -
Pleasure to U3 E
Sfisjj
KRQPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUND
RAZOR
Mr. HENRY 1
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Razors excel-
lent."
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
[Square, London, W.
The People’s Pay.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
‘ Democracies are proverbially ungrateful.”—A hols.
Ambitious youth, aspiring to assume
The power of place, to please the public press,
To ape the flattered parvenu on whom
Shines full the dazzling sunlight of success,
On whom his Queen a shoddy glory lays,
Who worships riches, and by wealth is wooed,
Seek not amongst the people for your praise—
The people pay with rank ingratitude.
The man who, for the wretched and bereft,
Fights cruel Custom, consecrated Wrong,
Or tyrant Privilege and legal theft,
With sword or pulsing syllables of song,
Nq glittering jewel on his breast will wear,
Will win no flattery from Fashion’s brood ;
Humble will be his garment and his fare—
The people pay with rank ingratitude.
Think not an easy honour to secure,
To flourish with the famous of a day
By teaching power, ambition to the poor,
Or risking all to lead the weary way.
Hold off from wretches stifling in the mire.
Waste not your gifts upon the weak and rude.
The Classes offer all that you desire
The people pay with rank ingratitude.
At best the vulgar herd can only give
Their hearts on which the covetous may rise
To knock where Privilege and Prestige live,
And posture there within the monarch’s eyes.
No liveried glory and no gold reward
Their champion with constancy imbued.
The renegade becomes a noble lord—
The people pay with rank ingratitude.
That man who sells his eloquence and lore
To bolster Greed and spread the classes’ sway.
With honours swelled, and stuck with baubles
o’er,
Goes glittering and jingling through his day.
He’s courted, petted, pensioned and extolled.
His virtue’s magnified, his sin subdued.
The people’s friend in poverty grows old—
The people pay with rank ingratitude.
Black lie! the shallow sneer of him who looks
To have the praise of Class, a prince’s cheers.
And leave a memory entombed in books,
Not springing in a people’s hearts and tears.
With fame of frippery and tinsel gaud
Let pimps and pandars little minds illude —
The people give their all, and they reward
With living love and lasting gratitude !
Melb.
EDWARD DYSON.
la there any physiological law hidden in
this item of statistics ? In Little Bay Hospital
(N.S. W.) the measles cases embrace —15 male and
7 female adults; 21 boys and 5 girls; or 3 male
cases to each female one.
Colemane & Sons’ Bucalypte Pills stir one up.
An ex-Broken Billionaire and his wife, a
one-time music-hall fairy, areon their way to Cool-
gardie. The lady was seen at Narragin (VV.A.),
a week or two back. She was well armed for the
t r jp—i,a.d about a dozen trunks and 17 sunshades.
The K.C.M.G. is given by the Imperial
authorities to loud and aggressive political pirates;
theC.M.G. usual!) adorns the meaner and more
contemptible kind of political greaser. AK.C.M.G.
reminds one of a butcher’s bulldog with a brass
collar; the C.M.G., of an obese poodle with a
ribbon round its neck.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards' ad., p. L
Extract from a circular issued in connec-
tion with the proposed Hobart (Tas.) exhibition of
1894-95: —
The city of Hobart is most favourably situated. The
colony of Tasmania has a population of 150,000, and with
the neighbouring colonies the total population numbers
about 4,000,000 inhabitants.
This way of estimating the population of Tas-
mania is unique. Come to think of it, the writer
of this paragraph, with the rest of the Australian
population, also numbers 4.000,000 inhabitants.
And, taken in conjunction with Europe, he num-
bers fully 350 million inhabitants. A man who is
so numerous as that ought to have his salary
raised.
O’Connell, M‘llwraith’s warming-pan for
the Musgrave (Q.), argued democratically for
adequate payment of members after the great
syndicator had spoken against it. This was a
revelation to many, especially so when Burnett,
farmers’ representative, told them he was not
bound to any man or party ; he had a free hand.
Last session when “Willie” was seen in full
dress all knew that he was going to dine with
“Sir Thomas.” There is something wrong with
the lion when the jackal leaves it.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
The jury which complained to N.S.W.
Judge Docker the other day, at Forties, about
having been locked up overnight without any
bedding, gob, in reply, the airy Dockerish sally:
“Gentlemen, you were locked up not to go to
sleep but to consider your verdict.” Take the
case of Kops v. Regina, lately decided by the
seven N.S. W. Supreme Court Judges. It is well-
known and admitted by the Judges themselves
that they met frequently for consultation and
argument upon the points of that case, but were,
time after time, unable to arrive at a unanimous
decision. To all common-sense intents and pur-
poses they vvere as jurors in that particular matter,
and if taking a man’s bed away have a virtuous
effect, why were not these J udges’ beds taken
away ?
“The French Government has, within the
past few months, made a grant of .£15,000 to the
French New Hebrides Company for the purpose
of promoting settlement and encouraging trade.’
Which means that in a few weeks the old, subtle
agitation of a year ago will be renewed in Sydney.
The tentacles of the Australian syndicate are
already deep into the vitals of the New Hebrides,
and Premier Uibbs promises his aid to get
them in still deeper. The “horrors of French
misrule” ( i.e commercial opposition) were de-
picted in the Sydney Herald and Telegraph—
for reasons. The which reasons are that a crowd
of saintly sharks have bought an immense area of
land in the group at 2§d. per acre, and are trem-
bling at the idea of France annexing the islands.
Their cry of “ruined Australian enterprise” is
merely the wail of disappointed avarice.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s ad vt. on page
10 of this issue.


A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Skin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
(Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons, England.')
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin."
The in ie pen dent testimony of Scientific Experts
end the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps.
sSSS:'
\\v\v
pm
Wilkin.
Willi.
ZlB
mm
mm
m
m
c .
Rangers of the Tia Kau.
(FOR THE BULLETIN. )
Between Nanomea and Nanomaga—two
of the Ellice Group—but within a few miles of
the latter, is an extensive submerged shoal ; on
the charts called the Grand Cocal Reef, but by
the people of the two islands known as Tia Kau
(“The Reef.”) On the shallowest part there are
from four to ten fathoms of water, and here in
heavy weather the sea breaks. The British
cruiser Basilisk, about 1870, sought for the reef f
but reported it as non-existent. Yet the Tia Kau
is well-known to many a Yankee whaler and
trading schooner, and is a favourite fishing-ground
of the people of Nanomaga —when the sharks give
them a chance.
* * *
One night Atupa, King of Nanomaga ?
caused a huge fire to be lit on the beach as a signal
to the people of Nanomea that a mulaga, a party
of voyagers, was coming over. Both islands ar e
low —not more than 15 feet above sea-level —and
arc distant from one another about 38 miles. The
following night the reflection of the answering fire
on Nanomea was seen, and A'aipa prepared to
send away his people in seven canoes. They
would start at sundown so as to avoid paddling in
the heat (the Nanomasrans have no sailing canoes)
and be guided to Nanomea, which they expected
to reach early in the morning, by the reflection of
huge fires kindled at intervals of a few hours.
About 70 people were to go, and all that day the
little village busied itself in preparing for the
Nanomeans gifts of foods—cooked puraka, fowls,
pigs and flying-fish.
# # *
Atupa, the heathen king, was troubled in
his mind, in those days of August, 1872. The
John Williams had been there and landed a white
missionary who had pressed him to accept Chris-
tianity. Atupa, wise in his generation, had de-
clined ; but the ship had come again, and the
king having consented to try the new religion, a
teacher landed. But since then he and his chiefs
had consulted the oracle and had been told that
the shades of Maumau Tahori and Foilagi, their
deified ancestors, had answered that the new
religion was unacceptable to them, and that the
Samoan teacher must be killed or sent away. And
for this was Atupa sending off some of his people
to Nanomea with gifts of goodwill to the chiefs to
beseech them to consult their oracles; also, so that
the two islands might take concerted action
against this new foreign god, which said that all
men were equal, that all were bad, and He and
His Son alone good.
* * #
The night was calm when the seven canoes
set out. Forty men and thirty women and
children were in the party, and the craft ■were
too deeply laden for any but the smoothest Sea.
On the ama (outrigger) of each canoe were the
baskets of food and bundles of mati for their
hosts, and seated on these the children ; while the
women sat with the men and helped them to
paddle. Two hours’ quick paddling brought them
to the shoal water of Tia Kau, and at the same
moment they saw to the N.VV. the glare in the
sky of the first guiding fire.
It was then that the people in the first canoe,
wherein was Palu, the daughter of Atupa,
called out to those behind to prepare their asu
(balers) as a heavy squall was coming down from
the eastward. Then Laheft, an old warrior
in another canoe, cried out that they
should return on their track a little and
get into deep water; “for,” said he, “if we
swamp, away from Tia Kan, it is but a little
thing, but here— ” and he clasped his hands
rapidly together and then tore them apart. They
knew what he meant —the sharks that, at night-
time forsaking the deep water, patrolled in droves
of thousands the shallow waters of the reef to
devour the turtle and the schools of tafau uli and
other fish. In quick, alarmed silence the people
headed back, but even then the fierce squall struck
them, and some of the frail canoes began to fill at
once. I rnatagi ! i mdtagi ! (“head to the wind”)
a man called out; “head to the wind, or we
perish! ’Tia but a puff and it is gone.”
# # #
But it was more than a puff. The seven
canoes all abreast, were still in shallow water,
and the, paddlers kept them dead in the
teeth of the whistling wind and stinging rain and
called out words of encouragement to one another
and to the women and children, as another black
squall burst upon them and the curling seas began
to break. The canoe in which was Atupa’s
daughter was the largest and best of all the seven,
but was much overladen, and on the outrigger
grating were four children. These the chief’s
daughter was endeavouring to shield from the rain
by covering them with a mat, when one of them,
a little girl, endeavoured to steady herself by
holding to one of the thin pieces of grating; it
broke, and her arm fell through and struck the
water, and in an instant she gave a dull,
smothered wail. Palu, the woman, seized her by
her hair and pulled the child up sitting, and then
shrieked with terror —the girl’s arm was gone!
* * #
And then in the blackness of night,
lightened now by the white, seething and boil-
ing surge, the people saw in the phosphorescent
water countless hundreds of the savage terrors of
the Tia Kan darting hither and thither amongst
the canoes —for the smell of blood had brought
them together instantly. Presently a great grey
monster tore the paddle from out the hands of
the steersman of the canoe in which were the
terrified Palu and the four children, and, then,
before the man for’ard could bring her head to the
wind she broached to and filled. Like ravening
wolves the sharks dashed upon their prey and ere
the people had time to give more than a despairing
cry those hideous jaws and gleaming cruel teeth
had sealed their fate. Maddened with fear the
rest of the people threw everything out of the
canoes to lighten them, and as the bundles of mats
and baskets of food touched the water the
sharks seized and bit, tore and swallowed,
Then, one by one, every paddle was grabbed
away from the hands of the pullers and the canoes
broached to and filled in that sea of death—all
save one, which was carried by the force of the
wind away from the ivst. In this were the only
survivors—two men.
* * #
The agony could not have lasted long.
“Were 1 to Jive as long as he whom the
faifeau (missionary) tells us lived to be nine
hundred and sixty and nines I shall hear
the groans and cries and shrieks of that po
malaia, that night of evil luck,” said one of
the two who lived, to the white trader at
Nanomea. “Once did I have my paddle fast in
the mouth of a little devil and it drew me back-
wards, backwards, over the stern till my head
touched the water. Tah! but I was strong with
fear and held on, for to lose it meant death by
the teeth. And Tulua— he who came out alive
with me, seized my feet and held on,
else had I gone. But look thou at this’’—and he
pointed to his scarred neck and back and shoul-
ders—“ere I could free my foe (paddle) and raise
my head I was bitten thus. Ah, Papalagi, some
men are born to wisdom, but most are fools. Had
not Atupa been filled with vain fears, he had
killed the man who caused him to lose so many of
our people. ”
“So,” said the white man, “and would st thou
have killed the man who brought thee the new
faith? Fie!”
“ Aye, that would I—in those days, when I was
po uli uh (heathen). But not now, for I arn
Christian. Yet had Atupa killed and buried the
stranger, we could have lied and said he died of a
sickness when they of his people came to seek him.
And then had 1 now my son with me, he who
went into the bellies of the sharks at Tia Kau.’’
LOUIS BECKE.
Recent Sydney divorce proceedings have
illustrated the fact that a wife, worth between
.£50,000 and £OO,OOO, can get a divorce from her
husband—worth, while working, a salary of >£lso
a year, and gaol him if he cannot pay the costs of
her suit, which, in the illustrating instance,
amounted to .£7B.
Despite the dull times, an advt. accepted
at the counter of a Sydney newspaper, one day
last week, was returned to the customer by
messenger, in the afternoon, for alteration, and
alteration being 'objected to was incontinently
rejected. The advt. described a proprietary soap
which, it was stated, was used by a well-known
magnate of the newspaper referred to, and wound
up with, “Just look at him walking up King-
street !”
Parson J. B. Rudduck, of Melbourne, at
Mrs. Sterling’s meeting : “ The times were now
past when statesmen could keep their mistresses.
Our Queen had made a pure court.” What
a miserably innocent old man ! And what a flying
start a red-hot paper conk! make in London with
a full-page portrait of that Prince’s “ morganatic”
wife and her two children !
Talking of Knox Darcy (we beg pardon—
D’Arcy), the Mount Morganaire, who has been
making a splash in London society by giving
balls which cost ,£lO,OOO each, reminds the his-
torical student of the final departure of the
D’Arcys from Rockhampton. It was in 1889,
after a long sojourn in London, that they returned
—ostensibly to “wind up their affairs.” After
the winding-up, Mrs. D’Arcy resolved to take
away Rockhampton society’s breath by a ball and
supper, just to show how we do things in London,
don’ty’know The cream of 18-carat Rockhamp-
ton society attended, including all the local bank
officials out of gaol at the time, the few uninsolvent
drapers, grocers, and other tradesmen, the current
aldermen of the borough and the Councillors of
the Gogango Divisional Board, the local editors
(then sober), the local medicine-men, the clergy,
the prominent footballers, and the local in-
spector of nuisances (who was popularly sup-
posed to have been “well — 555
Ihe supper was a glorious 'g ec - ted at ’(W •
literally shrieked [copyright! K llr ' The (iV
things provided TheerJf 1 beneath the i j
triumphs of Finney Isles’ skill °! t J e kdie « C
very latest fashions that had f We,e the
harnpton. The gentlemen worflr/" as R-k
cuni,r >erbunds' V 11 lir With Eton
should it be Mrs. A. ?—perhano D - (or
would be as well to say fts i
her ‘swaggerest” dresses a Da -)woi-!
glacier in the sunshine. The fnn Parkled ,ik " a
earnest about supper-time, wh ent !' n r nced in
disappeared rapidly. After eha »Paene
editor succumbed, and was borne ° ne S
shutter, with a hlack-uyr ™ £“*”
op two fiR its were settled out on H 1 J ad : «».
joining. Three or four ladies ol, R ° Unds ad-
heat and the champagne, were’eol j® the
vehicles in a highly hysterical to their
characters were, later on diseL 1 Jr’ Sha dv
the . lady guests, and were °eS
mmiously. after exchanges of bid f ,gn °-
Lardy in the evening the local wit
confederates filled the rows of shS *h his
off by the men when assuming dariilrT t lrowr >
with oyster soup, and awaited
When the developments occurred, the nS ntp-
called in, and afterwards beaten Q P ollCfi Were
they were mollified with champagne m/?" 8 "''?
ness and bless.ngs were exchanged !] ,V ':
Strong _ citizens embraced strong polio/* 01 '’/
mingled tears and sweat in the
the police, with the sober residuum fir Jll, ‘ n
formed themselves into committees of W 1
safety to see home stray revellers wlLli P ~ ilc
failed them. When the light of iad
over the lofty Berserker ranges, the sun sL >rol<< ‘
many a pale and sleepy guest str iMdin T° n
with Ins skinfull of chainpagne’and hfs
of oyster-soup to begin a, Lit he Snld
struggle against the sinful, sweatful and sormT
environment of ordinary Rockhampton life Th
event will never be forgotten in Rock harm,/,
when Sir Knox or Lord Knox, or the Ma/is of
Knox D Arcy is laid in the family vault of r
newly-purchased ancestral home, and his man!
forgotten in England Rockhampton minds and
hearts will treasure the recollection of that !
wild weird and fearsome debauch which preoeeL
the final exit of the D’Arcys.
Tæ dium Vitæ
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Death is the doom of Life—graveward do all
things tend !
Man, from his birth, is doom’d-Death is his
certain foe.!” ....
So is it surely writ. Yet shall we dread the end
We, who are dead to Hope—we, who are
steeped in woe?
Death is no foe to us ! Death is the outcast’s
friend.
What has the world to give? Sorrow and shame
are rife !
These are our guerdon grim ! Life at best is a
span
Of Wrath, and Fear, and Hate; Pain and pas-
sionate Strife!
Why should the dread of Death sadden the soul
of man ?
Life is not doom’d by Death—Death is the Crown
of Life !
E.F.S.


“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition--No. 6.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Coupons received to 23rd September,
1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps; when the
latter are sent, a penny to be added for
exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word Competition Coupon.—No. 6.
XX
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received hy Saturday, 23rd ! September, 1803.
The cornered Parkes says he is willing to refer to a plebiscite the question of
payment of members in N.S.W. If payment of members can be settled
by a plebiscite, why not also every other vexed question 1 ? Parkes endorsement of
the plebiscite foreshadows the abolition of Party Government and the absurd English
custom of endeavouring to settle five hundred questions at one election.
Name __
Address : . ——
Missing Word ~ ———
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received — no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
«
Bulletin ” Series, 3XTo. 3.
tt
The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note hy liolf Boldrewood.
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under Arms” In these “ Tales of the Austral Tropics ” will be found the
strange romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Aus-
tralia. That they are not less true than terrible, 1 take it upon myself to affirm. That such is lar from being the case with tie
larger proportion of literary manufacture professing to describe Australian life and character, I must distinctly assert. “ Those
who know seldom write, and those who write don’t know,” remarks the veteran colonist with accentuated emphaas. Rut this
author’s name is a household word among bushmen and bookmen from Albany to Thursday Island, from “ The Cult to the
Snowy River—
“ Alike to him the sea, the shore,
, The pen, the bridle and the oar.”
To him, familiar as highways are the endless solitudes of the “ Never Never Country” he has tempted Desert Sphinx, gazed
upon gold matrix and opal hoards which gleamed in mockery of the exhausted wanderer. Trusted for dear life in forest glades
to a steady eye and a true rifle. Listened in a canoe on the Coral Sea to the moaning of the approaching tempest.
Long a leading actor upon Dame Nature’s stage, he has turned scene-painter for the nonce, and limned with litebko
effect the drama of the Waste. , vr , A IDno
“Rolf Boldrewood, Albury, N.S Wales, Nov. 10, 1892.
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
c«
Bulletin” Series, KTo. 2,
a
Tales of the Convict
By PRICE WARUNG.
3
I
..Tli6 series of powerful stories which have from time to time appealed iiixlei this heading in the columns of Tin.
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke, before
m oducinc ‘ His Natural Lite,’ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict sVstom The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer s know edge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. Price Warung, as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things arc unmistakably apparent throughout : his thorough
aeouaintanoe even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, aqd the distinct literary ability with which
ll e sTibieot is treated of It will bo questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
Price ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tb.e Bulletin,’*
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
It the only paper which hat a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One P erson, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
. Education.
Reform of the Criminal 06de and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started IS years ago with no capital but brains,
and- has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin's conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its_ lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin, proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
With the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form— printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
Thk Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress ; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the chums of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, Tub
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially .prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
Thk Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushinan of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sholler of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of Thk Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, Tfiß Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per -4 tv fit iTii,
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maclbod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial cotnmuni-
atioiis to be. addressed to J. F. AkcHIBAUL


NOW PUBLISHED.
“THE LAST OE SIX:”
Tales or the Austral Tropics,
nr
EBITKST FAVEITC,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limitbd),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper , and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
“The Wedding Morning.”
THIS CHARMING ACADEMY PICTURE,
Or Firth's “So Clean*” or Dorothy Tennant's “Head over Tails*”
■Will be sent FREE
On receipt of 25 Sunlight Soap Wrappers; with 50, Framed ; and with 100, Framed in Gilt.
ADDRESS:
LEVEE, BROTHERS, LTD.,
232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
From Weldon’s Illustrated Dressmaker.
“ It is full early to remind my readers about the spring clean up, but ‘ SUNLIGHT SOAP’
will be always welcome by those who take a pride in their home and surroundings, while to help
one over the trial of washing day, and make clothes as white as snow, ‘ SUNLIGHT SOAP ’ is
without exception the best and most economical preparation in the market. Its cleansing power
is wonderful, and yet its purity enables it being used for even the most delicate cambric or lace,
or for cleaning the most choice paint, while for washing woollen goods this soap justly deserves
the attention of those ladies wishing to keep their flannels soft and equal to new. ‘ SUNLIGHT
SOAP,’ cleans anything and everything, is very economical, and greatly lessens household labour,
therefore what more can be needed of a soap.”
Sunlight Soap is used in Her Majesty the Queen’s Laundry.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. (a»cL.
»OUC(
jmvw MVUi N
EJUV^AWGI)
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Ba. 6ti.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
GS-. XX. S3VEIT3E3C & SOU,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
eaf Look Out for
“THE EAST OF SIX:"
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; .... per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
OLXIMIITIEID),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
■ inaQf 11 n m
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies,
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlxe “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
ds
ds
■
Knowles’ Steam Pumps,
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
Your attention, please, to ike Fashions which
hloom in the Spring.
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coining season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
(rreat is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Faris,
London, and elsewhere.
I*
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
.
LADIES I—One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Nkak HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WynyardL Square, SYOMBX.
[ESTABLISH!!) OVIK A QUARTER OF A CItRTIJRY.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
fW~ Tcrms-lOs. 6d. per Pay. WfitltST SidUGJT (l»t* Of HeWCMtl*),
-PRIVATE HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN NOI SE. Mi Ison ’s Point, , SYDNEY.
Vj
Resident Medical Officer- Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, MRC-S., Eng., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical .Officer, Brisbane, etc.
3E32513E 3 »3ES3Et.IDE33SrO3E!I3 XT S I 3XT <3- S* T-A. J? * OR.
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE -inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and OYN .ECO LOG I CAL CASES.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
THE LAST OF SIX’:
