

w.
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
■ •- , ' - ■ - ~ '- :V * . - ■ ■■■ • •v*'- • . . .
R. a. WATKINS «fi6 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOE —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
c°-
X
<>
o
0
S’
$
4
&
x*
s>
*>
*
*
s
o
Jr
<>
m~ A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S BILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thee » grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxkord-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
snurious
<O>X !
OP
HE
*5
5*2
rHI
li!'|
nTS
npvi p% o-yford. Hotel, 3EjdiMLg Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE Proprietor.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh sood and (Ice Company, Ltd.
Fiali! Fish ! Fislx!
/"AWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.— as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates - equal to about
|d. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & 1. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 Kiug-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note We shall be pleased for country \isitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at liarbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs - Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &e.
Hy. Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WALKER'S WIISKT. ALLSOff’S ALE
JOECPff WALKER, 24 BOWI3
SYDNEY.
Soles
■ J A_sEs’o3tx'fcs in 3ST«=S"W Sox*, tlx
■W ales
fjr
Mlessrs. Clayton and Simttlewortb..
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
•. 1 i—
. wnun:i WiUWiHi. -■
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Riding.
u
wm
cL.AYtni\i « jMuin.normiM-.ou> -ws
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Bh
1
IMPROVED PORTARLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. Wi
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Sinirlu Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Tollable and Seim-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all snjes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Sliellers.
Eeliable for Deep, Wide Worb
tightness m Draught, Strength,
AND DUK ABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each.
Convertahle to ordinary ploughs if desired.
iECTRIO LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION
j. & C- Howard,
ENGINES. S3T Full Catalogues ol
2801 Pitt
Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on
Street, Sydney,
application.
The Bulletin
Vol. 13.—N0. 687. j
[Saturday, April 15, 1893.


TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
PERCE’S
Chain BeuJ
PJIRADEMAB
WEAK MEN.
“Or. Pierce's fialvanlc
Chain Beit” (with Electric
| Suspensory) is the latest im-
I proved and only perfect body
battery now in use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
parts and restores them to
Health and Vigorous Strength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best!
Send for Pamphlet No. 2.Wash. H. Soul&Oo.
Sydney, and Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents.
UA9HSTIC SLAB. TRUSS CO.. Baa Francisco. u.S.A.
LADIES I
OLD, and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
HSMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Bar None.
IF
OLD
RMS
SUNBL)
fing
uO
■<*
HA
'V
&.C
•A
2/Vr
N
y
P^op
r, etors . i,r
Edward Row & Co.,
SYZDJSTjEY.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined/’ — Chas. EL Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S,, &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
o
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOB
AUSTRA LI A.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Pebseevattvis.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
JT. 3PE3RII 33,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Hint Him Utmi'S
MARVELLOUS
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address-The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 51 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O,
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Use none but Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Essence.
ATKINSON’S
OPOPANAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. 8e E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only-Genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label andusue
L Trade Mark—a“ White Hose”— ,
EV and address in fall. Ml
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
o
The only Infallible. Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Essence of Life restores Wealth and
Strength to the. most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Us, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Aus'ralasia—Perry d ' Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Filzroy. MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales—W. irvSoul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
fa^W^SQNs
v*
c«$ f S
* y
J
f
f/
THE ONLY PURE EUCAIYRTE.
EXTRACT IN THEiWORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Drapery.
o
THE
JAEGER
TRADE MARK.
ATTENTION of the Public
is respectfully called to the
fact that only goods bearing
the above Trade Mark are guaranteed by Dr. Jaeger to be
genuine and in accordance with his system.
No round Trade Mark is used 6 y this Company.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Go., Limited,
LONDON - SYDNEY ■ MELBOURNE.
The bank oe new Zealand
SttnMO'wv awprr tp a »
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET,
Paid-up Capital ... £900,000
Reserve Liability ... „ 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Business Announcements.
H
WEATHEa
•OT
■A.X mw EAR
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3a. 6d. & ss, 6d.
V
3s. 6d. JBz Sts. 6d.
Q, H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
G. XX. SMITH & SOIXT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE WARUNG."
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tbe Brighton of K"ew South "W"ales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
-o-
BEST BRANDS OP WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mr s. KIIiMIIWSXBR Proprietress.
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
A .CAJ I J JJW - '
First-class Accommodation, Tariff from 10s, 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs.
s
S
|s.Always fHD Best
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
“ THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year , - ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
6s. per inch per insertion, nett,
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
25 ~ „ „ .
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ Tlie LAST OF SIX;”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
E E 3ST E S T E -A. TT E ZfcT C.
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf BoldrOWOOd.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they,
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian, address, Is. 3d.


Medical.
D R SP;
Assisted by Dr. ELMSLIIS,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A-, L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Spare,
SYDNEY.
F.O. Bos ©SO.
ESTABLISHED in ISSC.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
nf N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours: 10 to a.ui. ; 2 to 4 aud
7 to 8 p.m.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
lo those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER. .
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PIL'LS.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &c., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. 6d.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A.-EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B— EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C.—ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURB.
Mention this paper ivhen writing.
Mon I have Smiled with.”
w E STAY at BVuton’s,
MnnaTfiosi
wagg-a.
Q.ive 3E3. Krau.gb.ton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A GALL.
ALBURY.
the globe hotel
(T. K. BROWN, rilOPHiliron)
Being now under Now Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
New Sample Room just Added.
Opposite Parliament House,
Treasury Gardens.
o
MELBOURNE).
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKEB, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
ASK for,
Schweppo’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the queen.
Medical.
✓
o
Co
■I K- -
• czm
O
CO
Legally Qualified and duly Registered toy
the medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer ; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE NO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ORE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be car-eful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions :—Ho you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, 1 ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Reel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
OME POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate oases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
test them free,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they,
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, bo you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Fatients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, I ure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect
weakness, should write
Advice and Treatment
Complaints, and thus
honourably.
taint in their blood, or
to Dr. BURGOYNE for
; he will cure all Local
enable them to marry
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—11.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—H,3oa.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
ggp Address all Communications :
Dr: J.T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
m
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Hia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentednoss, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send fid. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but Gd. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr.. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CON S U LTATION EilEJi
Shipping.
Ij'lN GLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with *
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £O3 and £GG.
Combination Ticket, =£s2 10s. and ,£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 13s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON. Manager.
MESSAGERiES IARmiES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal ooniract with the Government ot
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAHE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACTIEK. BOMBAY.
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of A ERICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which w ill be despatched
as follow’s:—
And thencefonvard on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £K),
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates ;
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at tha
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-plaee.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent,
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep ;
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
SAS!; Kill Scrub Co.’s
DE STRUCT A NT,
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYUKrEY.
KW Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
v This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New Sontb Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of .1. L. Thompson, Esq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednio Browne (Director General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
Minas
jshoi Misna
nmPBI 6 !«W s.as
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world
Sold by all high class'ferfamers.
GUSTAV LOHSE. Berlin.
Q H> FOR A MOUSTACH K U
Ca pilla rino !
{3B~ Tuk Lightning M>.ustaciik Pnom ckii.
Btdialde, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, ant*
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine 10s. 6d., Post Free.
UKJlii .V AITKIIV, S«!c Incuts,
680 and OS2 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 158 PALMER STREET.
<£49,460 worth for <£l«
See Amusement
Column.


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
o
{Sjg- POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. H.S.W.
i 1"
m
foi
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. BROWN, I’roprletor.
o
Sim& eST
&SEST
_@/VINS
machine
WeRHa
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
&
home
o
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarketj, SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
> 167 QUEEN-STREET, BRISBANE.
WERE ARE MANY
SAPOLIO
o
To clean tombstones.
To polish knives.
To clean dishes.
To renew oil-cloth.
To scrub floors.
To whiten marble.
To renovate paint.
To -wash out sinks.
To remove rust.
To brighten metals.
To scour bath-tubs.
To scour kettles.
EVERYBODY USES IT.
Dentists to clean false teeth,
Surgeons to polish their instrumental
Confectioners to scour their pans.
Mechanics to brighten their tools.
Cooks to clean the kitchen sink.
Painter* to clean off surfaces.
Engineers to clean parts of machines.
Ministers to renovate old chapels.
Sextons to clean the tombstones.
Hostlers on brasses and white horses.
Artists to clean their palattes.
Wheelman to clean bicycles.
Housemaids to scrub marble floors*
Chemists to remove some stains.
Carvers to sharpen their knives.
Shrewd ones to scour old straw bstfl
Soldiers to brighten their arms.
Renovators to clean carpets, /
EVERY ONE FINDS A NEW USE.
SOLD BY GEOCBES, CHEMISTS, AND lEONMONGBES
NEWTON & LAMB,
SPRING and O’GONNEI/L STREETS.
Every Style of Household Furniture within
the Means of Everyday Purchasers.
BEDROOM SUITES.
£6
<£9
£l2
£l3
£l6
£l9
10s SUITE, comprising WARDROBE, with silvered plateglass door, DRESSING
TABLE, TOILET GLASS, WASHSTAND with TOWEL RAIL and CHAIR.
SUITE, comprising WARDROBE, with silvered plateglass centre door and drawer,
TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached, MARBLE-TOP
WASHSTAND with tile back and TOWEL RAIL and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
SUITE, comprising LARGE WARDROBE with silvered plateglass centre door and
long drawer,’ TOILET CHESI' OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached,
Marbletop Washstand with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD and TOWEL RAIL,
and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
10s SUITE, comprising BEACONSFIELD WARDROBE with*’ silvered plateglass
door TOILET CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS attached, Marbletop
WASHSTAND with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD, TOWEL RAIL, and two
CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
If, s SUITE, comprising BEACONSFIELD WARDROBE with silvered plateglass
door LARGE DRESSING CHEST OF DRAWERS with SWING GLASS and
JEWEL DRAWERS, double Marbletop WASHSTAND (tile back), PEDESTAL
CUPBOARD, TOWEL RAIL, and two CANE SEAT CHAIRS.
ASH and WALNUT SUITE, comprising WARDROBE with bevelled silvered plate-
glass centre d<x>r, TOILET TABLE with SWING GLASS and JEWEL DRAWERS,
Marbletop WASHSTAND with tile back, PEDESTAL CUPBOARD, TOWEL
RAIL, and two CANE-SEAT CHAIRS.
SPRING & O'CONNELL STREETS SYDNEY.
AM ATE 1R PHOTO G RAPHI.
S ~ FOE
THE EASTER HOLIDAYS.
COMPLETE
OUTFITS
FROM
£2 2s.
UPWARDS.
Easily Worked.
No Trouble.
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
-0 y
r .
I r-
V
js
P
ff f
i 5 o v
f
PHOTOGRAPH
YOUR
FRIENDS
ON
PICNIC,
YACHTING
AND
HOLIDAY
EXCURSIONS,
Send, for KTew Illustrated Catalogue
BAKER and ROUSE.
375 —GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY — 375
Directly Opposite SYDICEY ARCADE.
And at 256 Collins-st., Melbourne; 69 Rnndle-st., Adelaide; 46 Qneen-st., Brisbane.
SAYWELL & CO.
depot
MARVEL
PBA C C O
££?rce V
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
E P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
*£>o
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stea m Engines, IB oilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
I3T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.,
INSTRUMENT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL, ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
FHOTOG-B.AFHEE.S’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Illustrated Catalogues post FREE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over S<x> A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
ORIGINAL and BEST TONIC. OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED;
CAPTAIN FISHER. Stipendiary Magistrate, writes; -“I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and 1 am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic properties.”
CAPTAIN HESEI/TON, J.P., Chairman Port Jackson Steamship Company, writes:—“For many years I
used'MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE, anti I can therefore personally testify to its many excellent strengthening
properties. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of (he company, and alway
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative,
thing which even the robust sometimes require. I gladly subscribe my name to endorse the merits of a remedy
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.”
J. M'Farlane, Esq., M.L.A., writes“ Having been a great Sufferer from INDIOESTION tor a numnei
years and having used a number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVU ,
and after three weeks’ use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed foryu
Tonic has been fully borne out, and 1 can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted."
N.U.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
MARSHALL’S TON 10 NERVINE is warranted to he absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs-
N.B.
On Snlr Everywhere at 2*. and Bn. lid. a Hattie.
BROS., Sole IVEanufacturers-
“TALliS OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM."


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—No. 687.
SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1393.
Price, 6d,
o
THE GREAT GRIDIRON ELECTION.
LILLEY: “Well, my little man, and who arc you?”
THE YOUTH: “My name is Piebald Australia, and the fat man in the gridiron suit is my father.
LILLEY: “Well, Piebald Australia, you've got to die young.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wares.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ivhom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to he addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknoivledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will he regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But ice desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can he obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:- R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny•
postage by the Australian amd Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 15, 1893,
Queensland on the Gridiron.
No more patriotic service has, we claim, ever been
rendered to Australia than, the publication by
Brisbane Worker of the eloquent Land-Grab
Map of Queensland (reprinted in. last week’s
Bulletin), with the accompanying letterpress
exposure of the largest and blackest design of
political scoundrelism ever hatched in this
country.. That such a scheme of national en-
slavement could deliberately receive the sanction,
of Queensland Parliament,, gives proof that a
majority of its members deserve to be hanged
as high as Haman. Eyen the minor rascality
of the province might well shudder at the deep,
damnation of such a national crime, and join in
the good work of politically stoning to death
those by whom it is contemplated. Were one
charitable to the point of imbecility, and capable
of believing that the Queensland Parliament
bad only in view what it conceived to be the
public interest, it has yet done more than
enough to establish, on a foundation of granite,
its unfitness to be legislatively af large.
# « #
Parliament is supposed to be a body of
guardians and trustees of the national estate.
The duty of every member thereof is to make
as good terms for the people, with persons
desirous of using Government lands, as he would)
for himself were such lands his own. Now,
suppose one of these members personally owned
the unalienated portion of Queensland, is it
conceivable that anybody, even from among
the usurers and magsmen 6f the commercial
world, could be found brazen enough to propose
such an arrangement with him as the present
Government is ready to enter into with the
syndicates? And, if such a miracle of nerve
appeared, and persuaded the suppositious mem-
ber to listen to him, what would.the member’s
family do—presuming him to have ever been
hard enough in the head to beget a family—or
such members of it as were not as imbecile as
himself? Can any ordinarily sane person,
honest or dishonest, doubt for an instant that
the attention of the police and medical authori-
ties would be called to the member’s condition,
and that, within a week, he and his property
would lie within the jurisdiction of the Com-
missioner in Lunacy?
# # #
In the case we have imagined, A, the
phenomenon of nerve-centres, would say to B,
fool, as the syndicates now say to Queensland :
“ 1 want to become your benefactor ; therefore,
let me build railways through your estate. All
I ask is that you should assure me twice the
cost of doing so ; also, the whole of the returns
from these railways for the next half-century.”
And this would be putting the matter very
mildly—breaking it gently, so to speak. The
lowest estimate of experts sets the increase of
value which a new railway brings land through
which it passes, at an amount exceeding the
cost of construction, save in very rare cases.
Often this increment is double the cost of the
railway—more often so than otherwise. It is
absurd to suppose, too, that, if this syndicate
game can be started, the powers benefited by it
cannot secure undervaluation of the lands con-
ceded to them. Compared with the nobbling
or blindfolding of a Parliament, this should be
easier than falling off a log. Thus it would
probably come to pass that, by the time the
lines were completed, the syndicates would own
lands worth live or six times the value of the
work done in return for them. This, of course,
quite apart from the absolute certainty that
enormous mineral wealth will be discovered in
some of the land—for of all the but-partially-
prospectcd lands of Australia those of the Far
North are undoubtedly the most tempting.
Twenty Mount Morgans might swell the steal-
ings of the syndicates.
8 # #
Outside the gains to be tints filched from the
people, there would be unlimited opportunities
afforded for injurious inter - combination
by the monopolist syndicates. All future
railway construction would be in their hands.
With their freeholds gridironing the whole
province, no railway could be carried from any
point to any other point save with the purchased
permission of some or all of them, and, even
then, no such work would be possible unless the
project played into their hands. Nothing could
be done that would not suit their interests—
interests, for the most part, absolutely opposed
to those of the people generally. Coercive and
preventive games of infinite variety could be
played along the black lines separating from each
other those areas with even a miserable modicum
of liberty. There are two methods of making
money earning it and preventing others
from doing so. The power of the eleven pro-
posed railway proprietaries to tax produc-
tion could be exercised in many ways besides
levying freight-charges and rent—blackmail.
The imperious money-strength behind them
could set aside agreements and obligations and
become a law unto itself which nothing amid
withstand. The first great naked robbery of
handing over a fivefold or tenfold payment to
railway builders might be as nothing compared
to the injury the people of Queensland would
suffer from not having, and not being per-
mitted ever to have,'' railways of their own. If
this infamous thing be done, the Queenslander
will have no place of residence or means of
support. He will be a starveling competitor
with black and yellow and spotted cheapnesses
—an outcast and a pariah in his former country,
“ a brother to dragons and a companion of
owls. ”
* « #
At the present moment, public feeling in at
least a dozen States of the American Union
is at boiling-point over the swindlings, oppres-
sion, and promiscuous lootings of the indi-
vidual and the State by railway corporations.
Everywhere the outcry against the Avhole sys-
tem is definite and unmistakable, not on any
one ground, but on every ground. The primal
purpose of the private-railway company, which
everywhere wields a far greater power than that
involved in the mere ownership of the land, is to
secure and retain a monopoly which leaves
customers at its mercy. Moving and counter-
moving to effect this purpose is the chief
work of an American railroad-director.
Only recently we have seen engineered
to success a combination of private lines
which gave the control of the whole anthracite
coal supply of New York and Boston into the
hands of the ring. Similarly, production has
been paralysed in many districts, and huge for-
tunes suddenly amassed, through the machina-
tions of railway-owners, who have come to be
regarded as a blight and a murrain on the
of American nature..
# * *
To illustrate what threatens Queensland, it
may be- well first to give a few particulars con-
cerning the operations of private-railway com-
panies in the State of California. On January
30 th last ex-State-Controller Dunn gave evi-
dence before the Senate Committee on Corpora-
tions, which fills nearly four columns of the
paper. It is, as the San Francisco Star
remarks, “an exhaustive exposure of the
infamous manner in which the railway monopoly
of this State has deliberately, systematically,,
and continuously robbed its people by evading
the payment of its taxes ;■ also, the. deliberate-
undervaluation of its property by the Board of
Equalisation.” What appears is, that the taxes
levied upon the railway properties are based
upon a valuation which is steadily reduced as
the companies grow in prosperity. One extract
from the Star’s report should impress the
common-sense and honesty of Australia. Here
it is
In 1834 the gross earnings of the S>P.B.R, were
$4,413,509.00; for 1891, they were $9,279,822.50, more
Ihan double, while the mileage had increased from
1,022.33 to 1,701.40, yet the value of ils propoity had,
according to the State Board of Equalisation, declined
from $10,000,000 to $15,800,000 in 1892. Its mileage had
increased nearly 70 per cent., and its earnings had more
than doubled. The State Board of Equalisation must,
therefore, have deliberately perjured themselves and
swindled the State and should be impeached. In 1885 the
total assessments of railroads by the Board were
$49,036,750, on 2,682.46 miles. In i 892, $41,056,000, on
4,118.36 miles. Yet the taxable property of the State, ex-
clusive of railroads, had increased during the interval
from $810,743,745 to $1,233,876,510. In 1891 a mile of the
S.P.R.R in &an Francisco was worth, according to that
Board, $465.92 less than in 1890, and in 1892 it was worth
$79.82 less than in 1891, while property bordering on it
had increased in 1892 over 1881 from 30 to 53 per a n‘.
That is not all, it is only a little. They don’t
pay the taxes on their property even sifter it
has been artistically assessed far below its
value find on a scale of rating lower than is
applied to individual property. An individual
tixpayer who does not pay up is liable to have
his property seized and sold, but the railway
monopoly is too strong for that. It is cus-
tomary to allow several years of arrears of
taxation to accumulate and then fight the State
for most or all of it in the courts, squaring all
who can be squared and securing the dismissal
of all State attorneys who cannot. The present
phase of the ever-present war between the
people and railway boodlers arises chiefly
through an attempt of one railway company to
wriggle out of the payment of 3,000,000 dollars
taxation, which they will probably do. The
Stab says:—
Aa State Controller for 12 years, Mr. Dunn had the
amplest opportunity for becoming’ familiar with the
details at every step of this systematic effort of the mono-
poly to defraud the State ; therefore, neither his facts nor
his inferences can be reasonably disputed. The monopoly
would have purchased Mr. Dunn had he been purchasable,
as they seem to have every other official, judge, and
legislator needed in this matter.
And it adds in conclusion : :
Private railroad corporations are a danger to the State
and to the nation more than chattel slavery ever was, and
even the existence of the nation itself is threatened by
their far-reaching corruption. The only safety is in their
Seizure by the Government, at the first convenient oppor-
tunity. The Legislature cannot, even if it would, pass
any law which they will not baffle, evade or resist; but it
can prepare the way for Government railroads and tele-
graphs. There is no' other possible remedy for railroad
monopoly.
This is not a partisan opinion, but that of every
honest, tinmuzzled American newspaper which
touches the subject—and there is no subject
more frequently dwelt upon. But the Cali-
fornian plotters are humble beginners beside
those of Queensland. The best they can do
in the U.S. is to win a two-cent gamble, com-
pared with the magnificent Monte Carlo that will
be broken in Queensland if the plot succeeds.
The liberty of a whole people is the stake in
the nefarious game now being played there, and
which will be won or lost at the election. If it
is won by the plotters the people are lost.
There would be no law in Queensland save that
dictated by the gridironers, and no observance
of even that law when it suited them to set it
aside. They would own the press —they have a
big lien on it now—the pulpit, the Bench, the
Bar. They would fatten out of the starvation
of the many and thrive greatly amid a growth
of wild desolation,
* # #
This is not altogether Queensland’s affair. It
concerns, very intimately, the welfare of all
Australia. As The Bulletin has shown,
there is a timid hope growing in certain
quarters that the railways of the other Aus-
tralias may be grabbed and converted from
being agencies of service into weapons of spolia-
tion. Intimations, hints, whisperings, the
leading articles of influential local newspapers,
and the comments of British correspondents,
show the processes that are working, as yet in
the dark and secretly, to encompass private
ownership of the Australian State railways.
» * *
In Western Australia the construction of new
lines on the land-grant system has already been
begun, and already the Government is embroiled
with the syndicates. In Victoria, there is a
decided movement for the sale (cheap) of
the national railways, and the construction
(dear) of new lines by “ private enterprise ”
—enterprise the wise it call. A marked
tendency in the same direction is observable in
New South Wales. So far, what has been done
in Queensland has been against the people’s
will. Anything that could be construed into
popular endorsement of it would give boldness
and strength to covetous hands that in every
province are furtively stretching out towards
the railways that are, and the lands on whicli
those of the future must be built, if they are
built at all.
# # #
“ The lion and' the stoat have isled together
in time of flood.”' In the prospect of a supreme
calamity minor differences should be forgotten,
and the efforts of all concentrated on one chief
purpose. If the present land-grant proposals
are carried, Queensland will have fallen among
thieves, who will leave mo vitality in her for
Samaritans of the future to revive, for her
wounds will be too deep for healing. The
other provinces will then be attacked. No-
issue so momentous ever came before a body of
Australian voters. Labourer and Capitalist,
Socialist and Single-taxer, Protectionist and
Freetrader, Unionist and Non-Unionist, Pro-
hibitionist and Publican—everybody, rich and
poor,, drunk or sober, not in the swim, should
march to the ballot-box with an equal mind.
However they wish to fight each other after-
wards, they must fight the common enemy
first. There should go up from Queensland one
prolonged harpie-scaring yell in the voices of
all men who are mentally complete and morally
better than the traitors and despoilers who arc
even now upon them.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Commercial and Leisured Classes.
It now becomes plain that the abortive l “ Rise
of the New South Wales People ” (at the insti-
gation of the- “National” Association and its
organs, the daily press), having for its main
immediate object the abolition of payment of
members, is merely a result of the democrats in
Parliament having proved too honest and too
loyal to be caught by the old-time politicians’
game of boodle and wheedle, “If they won’t
let us buy and sell them—and it seems they
won’t—why, we’ll have to starve them.” Syd-
ney Daily Telegraph accords the distinction
of “ leaded ” typo to a letter by Mr. Reginald
Black, a high-priest of the National Ass (and
an owner and director of the Daily Telegraph
itself)calling upon “thecommercial a,nd leisured
classes to take their part in public life,” and
endorses Mr. Black’s cry by imploring “ the
best of our citizens” {i.e., the commercial and
leisured classes aforesaid) to offer themselves
upon the altar of their country. Now, who
are the “ leisured ” classes? Why, merely the
persons who got out of Broken Hills when they
were at £B, and out of Mount Morgans when
they stood at £l6—the people who, during the
boom, sold suburban allotments to the fraudu-
lent building societies and land-banks in which
“little people’s” money was invested and:
managed to hold the money —in a word,
the people who are on top to-day but who
may be in the gutter to-morrow. “ Men
of leisure—commercial men !” The electors
now know too much to believe in the stability
of anyone who is vaunted as stable. We know
of, say, fifty rich men—but who are the others?
Just as the bloated man is rotten as a pear, so
the apparently “ bloated ” capitalist, the “man
of leisure,” or “ the commercial man,” is very
likely full of mere wind and secrets relating
either to prospective arrangements in the Bank-
ruptcy Court or to the axe he is going to grind
when he gets into Parliament. Who”is to give
us a certificate of stability ?
♦
The Big Bank Failure.
The cheap trash with which the ordinarily
canny James Service decorated his rally-
ing speeches to' shareholders and depositors
in Melbourne Commercial Bank was passable
under the circumstances, but the inconsistency
of his leading statements escaped criticism only
because his hearers had for the moment lost
their heads. In moving the reconstruction
motion at the' first meeting he said :
We are regretful certainly, because loss to some extent
is inevitable, but not desponding, because we hope touch
at any rate will be saved, and that hereafter there lies
before us a course progressive and prosperous.
A foot further down in the speech he ignored
the previous suggestion of inevitable loss.
Thus :
The beauty of the present proposals is that, while they
conserve the interests of the shareholders to an extent
that must be highly gratifying to every they
do not ask the shareholders to make any dangerous cbn
cession, or any concession which could possibly be accom
panied by any danger.
Shareholders having been made perfectly easy
in their minds, Mr. Service pointed out:
If this scheme be carried out the result to the depositors
will be that they will not cease' to get interest on their
capital for one single day—(applause)— and that the ulti-
mate payment of all their deposits will be an absolute
certainty.
Shareholders, it appears, run no risk, and
depositors are quite safe. Therefore, the
“ inevitable loss ” will fall upon the man in the
moon, and make no difference. But when he
came to consider the possible results of liquida-
tion, Mr. Service’s arguments became badly
contradictory :
It will take years for the capital to be called up, and, if
the bank be thrown into liquidation, nobody can tell what
the result will be—even to depositors. At the present
moment, I have no hesitation in expressing my opinion
that it is an utter impossibility that depositors can lose a
farthing.
Liquidation by the Court might mean disastrous
results even to depositors, but liquidation of
the old bank by the new bank means no loss for
anybody. The same assets that, in one case,
would be worth Heaven knows how much less
than their paper value, would, in the other case,
be so realised that the ultimate payment of all
deposits will be an absolute certainty. Say that
the new bank in the next seven years earns a
million sterling (a liberal computation), and
allow the same period for liquidation of the
old assets. The million of profit is to ensure
the solvency of the concern in 1900. That’s
just about what Mr. Service’s optimistic
speeches amounted to, and it is bis secu-
rity for the suggestion that depositors in
the old bank can get their money imme-
diately by converting said deposits into 5 per
cent, preference stock in the new bank, and
selling it in the open market. “Preferential
shares at 5 per cent, interest before the other
half of the shareholders received one penny,
would, without doubt, he easily sahab'e at par
as soon as they were issued,” said the hopeful
James. He couldn’t say where the buyers for
300,000 shares at £lO each would come from,
any more than he could say how the £150,000
of profit to pay interest on those shares could
be guaranteed. Nor did he show how the
original shareholders (who, on the reconstruct
tion ticket, will be called upon to pay up their
£6 liability quite as fast as they would be called
upon by an official liquidator) have a rosy
prospect of getting any dividend for years- to
come, if dividends are to be paid out of legiti-
mate profits only. To do Mr. Service, justice,
he didn’t attempt to prove how anything could
be done except the setting up of a new bank on
a large foundation, stuffing it with the old
bank’s assets, and calling it solvent. By all
means let the Commercial Bank be recon-
structed, if its reconstruction will ultimately
benefit Australia. But, in the meantime, let
the city wiseacres cease rejoicing over the
glorious prospects of this particular concern
with such fury that simple outsiders wonder
why every other bank doesn’t suspend payment
and force its unhappy depositors to provide
new capital wherewith to extend its useful
sphere of operations.
+
Home Buie’s Last Ditch..
The strongest point of fair,, deliberative anta-
gonism to Home Rule lies in the matter of
representation. The proverbial three courses
are open to Gladstone —he may wholly exclude
Irish members from the Commons, he may un-
conditionally admit them, or they may be
admitted for some purposes and excluded for
others. The first alternative was proposed in
’BB, and even the opponents of Home Rule
hailed it with cheers till it was discovered that
to shut the Irish wholly out either meant the
taxation of Ireland without representation, or
else the full abandonment of supremacy by the
Imperial Parliament. That scheme has since
been buried beyond hope of resurrection-
Gladstone is now inclined to think that the
British will not be disposed to permit the Irish
to have a voice in the settlement of purely Engr
lish, Scottish, or Welsh affairs while alone deter-
mining for themselves in a separate legislature-
matters that concern Ireland only. Seven years
ago, Gladstone stated that how to retain the-
Irish members for Imperial and Irish purposes,
and to exclude them when purely British affairs
were under discussion, “ passed the wit of man.”
He seems to have changed his mind, but the
difficulty still remains, and will remain until the"
Constitution is altered, or Government by party
wiped out. It is hardly necessary to give an
illustration. Without the Irish members, Glad-
stone has a scanty majority. Remove thenv
from the House and they may be defeated by
20 votes oh an English question. Having re-
signed, Balfour takes bis place, and is at once-
defeated on an Imperial or Irish question by the
full House. An appeal to the country would
not alter the position of affairs, and so this-
scheme of in-and-out representation for Ireland
would make government impossible to a minis-


fry that had not an absolute majority in
England, Scotland, and Ireland, when viewed
separately. Looking at the matter from a dis-
tance, there seems to be only one way out of the
difficulty' A maintenance of the present
nosition is merely a continuance of an evil.
With Scotland and Wales agitating, like
Ireland, for Home Rule, the one way to settle
the matter fairly and effectually would seem to
lie in granting that extension of local govern-
ment to each province, while leaving the con-
duct of Imperial matters to a Federal Parlia-
ment. It will be argued, of course, that
England is not ripe for such a marked
divergence from the governing methods of nearly
a hundred years, but if the slavish adherence
to ancient methods and prejudices, characteristic
of most Englishmen, is to become an immovable
obstacle, then farewell to progress. One thing is
evident. Home Rule for Ireland, Scotland,
Wales and England must eventually be brought
about. The supremacy of the House of Com-
’ mons hastens to decay.
Lilley’s Address.
Ex-Chief Justice Lilley’s election address
to the North Brisbane (Q.) voters is un-
, compromisingly Radical in tone, and advo-
, cates the repeal of the Land-Grant Railway
Act which it describes as “an enactment for
; the benefit of and a concession to the sellers of
scrip, gamblers and syndicators, and a dangerous
j instrument for the creation of a monopoly of
t the railways and lands in vast estates worked
i by Asiatic, African and Kanaka labour, to the'
. exclusion of the white population and to the ruin.
,of the coastal cities.” He stigmatises the black-
]labour system as “immoral and destructive
tto the races in the islands.” Under it “Queens-
! land will be excluded from Australian fedora-
, tion for ever, and the inheritance of our des-
rcendants will be given over to coloured races.”'
He thus touches the vitals of the apoplectic
. gods of Queensland : i
There must be no new loans, and enquiries should be?
i-made as to where the balances if any of our loan moneys;,
. savings-bank and trust moneys, and our current revenue',
i have been placed, and whether the whole or any part cam
I be drawn for the public uses for which they were raised or
, deposited with the Government. Whatever arrangements'-
, may have been made as to the past, our future financial
■ work must shut out the use of public money for purposes'
. of private speculation.
After this, it may be interesting to watch the
' fluctuations of bank-shares in the Brisbane
Co-operation in grazing, farming,
i fining, &c., is part of his political creed. He is
vscumdon the .One-man-one-vote question, and
beeves in womanhood suffrage as a “future”
'.eventuality. Also in—a progressive land-tax,
li homestead and village settlements, land-blocks
i in cities for workers, the protection of white
L labour,.and free universities. He stands alone,
(‘ free flci/i party ties, yet calling for volunteer
I followers-:
We ar?£ace to face with the leaders.of a party who, for
! fifty years atjeast, have sought to make Queensland, from
the Downs to, the Gulf, a squattage or plantation, with
Chinese, coolie,, or black or yellow cheap labour of any
kind. If you do not return me, I will be in no worse
position than that of a patriotic soldier who offers his
sword to his country in her need and finds it has been
rejected, it may be, to the country’s own loss and cost.
. The Queensland Democratic party should gladly
i accept the proffered sword. It is by far the
most powerful weapon available. f
Piebald Australia. i
, j
The S.A. Government has a settled Northern
> Territory policy degradingly in harmony with
»the cheap-nigger ideas of the average English
Tory, the imported British “ nobleman ” of the
Kintoke stamp, the hireling gasbag of the
> -Stanley sort, and others who urge that a
glorious future awaits Northern Australia as a
second Mauritius, or coolie-infested Fiji, or
slav6-dumped Jamaica. Port Darwin railways
ihavebeen made by Asiatic navvies, and now
the obsequious coolie is becoming a recognised
institution as a railway-clerk and messenger.
Some 70 of him are employed in those capacities
in the Port Darwin settlement, and quite lately
a European messenger was discharged in order
to make room for a Cingalese who had been
obliged to serve three months in gaol. The
explanation was simple and
candid. The Cingalese had been messen-
ger for three years, but had unfortunately
been sent to gaol for a mean offence, and a
European was put on in his stead, but only as
a warming-pan. The white youth was unsuit-
able, because he would not be likely to consent
“ Iff perform the menial work which the Cingalee
ypsuM cheerfully do. “Coolie work,” in this
connection, meant rouseabouting, gardening,
and general slaving to petty
officialdom. V. L. Solomon, ex-M.P., a can-
didate for N.T., and who claims to be anti-
coloured-labour to the backbone, tells his
constituents that, because the firing-out from
N.T. railway department of these Asiatics and
the substitution for them of white men, would
mean an increased expenditure of £7OOO a year,
therefore the Coolie must stay as a State ser-
vant in an alleged white - man’s country.
Solomon, or any other man, must not be per-
mitted to hedge on, or temporise with, this
question; the Coolie must go at all costs,
whether he be of the sooty, the yellow, or the
copper variety. Piebald Australia has got to
dm young.
Lenten Diversions.
Those who believe and say that the gibbet
■ and triangles have declined in popularity, as a
source of excitement and amusement, with our
°f the baser sort,” must have been
disillusionised by the scene which took place,
the other Saturday, at Woolloomooloo lock-up,
ydney. A crowd of nearly a thousand, men
and women, girls and boys, had assembled to
assist ” at the flogging of a young man sen-
96 hours’ imprisonment and “20
ashes ” for indecency. It would almost appear
hat the disgusting nature of his offence im-
parted a peculiar piquancy for females to his
Punishment, inasmuch as the big crowd included
scores and scores of elderly matrons, young
married women, some with babies in arms,
gmlS; Long ere noon, the time fixed for
he flogging, the crowd had begun to foregather,
and had not the locality and the conversation
ot the various groups made the occasion appar-
ent, they might well have been mistaken for
Eastertide holiday-makers waiting the an-
nouncement of an cd fresco dance, or entree to
some show. There they were, lying about on
the grass, outside the lock-up, or actually
squatting under the lock-up walls, eagerly
awaiting the groans and howls which the lash
would extort from the flogger’s victim, whom,
if they could not see, they might,
at least, hear. Eastertide entertainment
in Sydney—Good Friday devoted to pony-
racing by the impenitent thieves, and
just as the Christian world prepares to
hail with joy the resurrection of the Lord, a
concourse of Christians anxiously listen for the
swish of the flogger’s cat. And, when it came
to be known that, owing to a legal formality,
the flogging was temporarily “off,” the dis-
appointment of the baulked pleasure-seekers
was unfeigned. “ What d—d rot ! ” hiccupped
one beery tough, as he reeled off. “ What a
pity !” mildly protested a tidy, buxom, young
woman, bearing a baby in her arms. And then
the Sydney Morning Herald asks, “Are we
deteriorating?” Certainly not. We retain the
tastes and instincts of our forefathers, who in
Lag-time founded this great and glorious
nation.
Minister of Justice O’Connor (N.S.W.) thinks
that flogging in the backyard of a lock-up is
“ demoralising,” and that all floggings should
be administered in a large gaol, where the cries
of the man writhing under the torment of the
lash cannot be heard outside. The Minister
splits straws. Judicial torture is demoralising
to the community under any circumstances ;
and the fact that, while a Judge and jury are
essential to many insignificant legal processes, a
citizen may be flayed alive, body and soul, at the
mere behest of a couple of insignificant beaks
who roll on to the Bench, it may be, after a “ bad
, night,” is unspeakably degrading to a free com-
munity. Minister O’Connor is a native of
convict-founded Australia, and to his shame, be
it said, is endeavouring to extend, instead of to
minimise, the use of the lash, although legal
torture has been abolished everywhere through-
out the civilised world, save in Britain
and Australia. No Frenchman, no Ger-
man, no Italian, no Swiss, no Swede, no
Spaniard, no Hollander, may be flayed alive
—that useless brutality is reserved for English
law alone ; even in the United States but one
offence is floggable, and that only in the smal-
lest and meanest State of the Union, Delaware,
where the punishment is applied to wife-
beaters. Flogging is a penalty enthusiastically
approved by the capitalistic classes and ex-
tended only to men in the garb of workmen.
The Bulletin hopes that, ere the N.S. Wales
Labour-party allow Minister O’Connor any
more flogging facilities, they will die of exhaus-
tion on the floor of the House. It is a brutal
satire on justice to see “ common ” men sen-
tenced to the lash for the very offences' which
others are permitted to commit daily because
they have money. The name of one Australian
politician who used to vigorously administer
the flogging law was synonymous with assaults
on little girls, and the systematic seduction of
poor waitresses. His name ? Quite unneces-
sary. If you posted it on every fence in the
country it couldn’t be known any better.
—
The argument in favour of reprieving Mrs-
Makin, the baby-murderess, because she is a
woman, is well enough met by the other
argument that, because she is a woman,
maternal instinct should have restrained her
from the crimes alleged against her. But both
arguments are bad for the matter in hand. The
death penalty, whether proper or improper as
a punitive method, becomes an obvious
absurdity if tempered by sex. Death itself
knows no sex. Nor does maternal instinct
apply in the Makin case. Even where the
child is the mother’s, numbers of motives daily
supersede the thing called instinct. In many
countries, as in China, there is no instinct
whatever where female infants are concerned.
A mother’s fondness grows with the growth of
her child and with her continued intimacy
with it, until it becomes a passion which
frequently subjugates all other feelings; but,
in the beginning, the infant is merely the answer
to the limited mental and physical wants of
the mother. Instinct may be thus illus-
trated : A cow refused to yield milk unless the
dairyman kept her calf by her side so that she
might lick it while the milking proceeded.
The dairyman killed the calf, but to please the
cow he stuffed the skin with straw and put it
beside her. This fully satisfied her, and when
after a day or two the calf’s head was cut off,
her instinct continued to be satisfied. One day,
when the straw began to protrude, the cow
quietly ripped the rest of the stitches, ate all
the straw out of the skin, and went on placidly
yielding milk. What was the maternal instinct
there ? And what application has the term at
all when it is the young of another that is in
question ?
In the first wild cry for the reconstruction of,
every bank that fails there is a fatuous forget-
fulness of the fact that most of the “ lucrative
business ” which it is so necessary to “ save ”
has already been lost. A big trading concern
that goes through the Court with a payment of a .
few shillings in the £ is ostensibly recon- ■"
structed on very favourable terms. All that it
has to do is to resume operations on the same
scale as before, unhampered by the old weight ’
of bills. But the business has generally slipped
away —not “ melted away,” as the daily
journals express it—to other firms in the same
line. The Commercial Bank scheme of recon-
struction is based upon the theory that by
immediately increasing its capital four-fold
(five-fold ultimately) the business of the bank
can also be increased sufficiently to yield a
satisfactory dividend to shareholders. Other
banks are expected to lose customers instead of
gaining them. The views of those other banks
upon this important point would be heard with
interest.
Mr. Crick, the fiery New South Wales poli-
tical attorney, last week failed to obtain
the conviction of Proprietor Higgs, of Gosford
Times, in which paper Crick had been loath-
somely libelled. The accused’s plea that the
libel was published without his knowledge or
consent during his absence so far satisfied the
jury that they declined to hold him criminally
responsible. Now just see what this decision
involves. Crick, though he has exhausted
his criminal remedy against Higgs, can yet
prosecute him civilly ; and, should damages be
awarded, he can, under New South Wales law,
put Higgs in gaol for a year in default of pay*
merit, and thereafter for ever hold him as his
bond-slave in insolvency until the judgment is
satisfied. Therefore, Higgs, who has been de-
clared, bya jury, not to be responsible criminally,
not to have committed any offence deserving of
punishment as a crime, may yet have to go to
gaol for the worst crime of all—that of having
no money.
“ And what will you do with me then ? ” asked
Rebello, a married man whom the Sydney
Bench last week sent to gaol for not contribut-
ing to the support of his wife. “ Detain you
there till you do pay.” Now, there is no prison
regulation under which men in Rebello’s un-
happy position can be set to remunerative work.
They are given some tinkering job, work on
which is supposed to partly pay for their food
and lodging, and for the rest they simply rust
away. In 50 years’ time they are in no better
condition to pay than on the day they went in ;
far otherwise. How long will it take society
to see that the man able to work must not be
allowed to idle, and that idleness or unpro-
ductive employment in gaol is as criminal as
idleness or unproductive employment outside ?
If it was Rebello’s fault that he did not sup-
port his wife, then he ought to be punished by
being made to support her in gaol; if it was
not his fault, then he ought not to be sent to
gaol at all.
The management of Parliamentary affairs by a
committee elected by Parliament instead of by
a Ministry nominated as at present is not the
mere speculative and experimental conceit
which several N.S.W. politicians affect to con-
sider it. During the existence of the Common-
wealth in England, the Parliamentary affairs of
that nation were conducted by a committee
elected by the House ; and, so far as domestic
policy was concerned, the system then worked
with smoothness and despatch. The Sydney
Daily Telegraph, in a leading article in last
Saturday’s issue, endeavouring to discredit
the Ministry or the Retrenchment Party, or
both, observed : “If the shareholders of a public
company were dissatisfied with the way in
which the directors appointed their officers they
would not be so foolish as to cut out tire work
and apportion the salaries themselves; they
would elect a new board which couM be better
trusted with that responsibility.” But how,
under the present system, are the shareholders,
the electors, to get at their Parliamentary
Board of Directors ? Obviously, only through
a Parliamentary majority. But if such a
majority now displaces a Dibbs Ministry, a
Reid or Parkes Ministry, with exactly the
same Civil-service policy, steps in. It follows,
therefore, that a majority of the House must,
as regards this one particular question at any
rate, either elect a Ministry to give effect to its
will, or take into its own hands, for the time
being, the management of this branch of affairs.
An old countryman having fixed £4OOO
7 per cent, in a supposedly very stable Sydney
bank, visited town -last week and demanded his
cash, losing five months’ interest. The manager
asked him if he thought the bank was going to
burst, but he “didn’t trust no etc., etc., bank
except Government,” and took his money to the
Savings Bank at 4 per cent., the fun of the thing
consisting in the fact that he accepted his money in
the bank’s notes’ “short.”
When “Jack” Hamilton, member for
Cook (Q.), was on the Palmer in tlie early days,
he established an hospital on his own account,
which the sick were welcome to enter, whether
they had money or not. If they had money they
paid; if not, he presented them on leaving with
an account, to be settled as soon as they “ made a
rise.” Hundreds of men thus passed through
Hamilton’s hands, yet, in nearly all cases, Hamilton
was honourably paid at some time or other. How-
ever, there was one notable exception. A h uge Dane
once came along, sick and penniless. Hamilton
took him in, and fed and cured him. The man
expressed unbounded gratitude, and swore that
Jack should be paid at the first opportunity.
Months passed, and Hamilton had moved to
Cooktown. One day, he saw his friend, the
Dane, standing at a bar, in gorgeous array, pro-
viding champagne for a crowd. Hamilton walked
in, but the man from Denmark to
nemember him. Thereupon Jack quietly reminded
him of his obligations. The answer came in a
strain which soon involved an adjournment to the
yard. After three rounds, the Dane was carried
to a bedroom, where Jack set his broken jaw
and rib. He attended the sufferer until he
was convalescent, then handed him the old account
with the fresh items added. This time he was
paid in full. Jack has now had to file his own
schedule. He bought Mount Morgans at a
Pattisonian figure.
The story of a recent Texas lynching. A
negro, guilty of a hideous crime was caught, taken
from the police by a mob, carried through the
town, in procession on a cotton float, to the public
square and thence out to the prairie, where a
scaffold had been built:
As the waggon approached, Henry Vance, the father of
Smith’s victim, appeared on,the platform and asked the
crowd, now densely packed for hundreds of yards away
: and numbering quite 20,000 people, to be quiet; that he
wanted, for a while, to glut his love of vengeance, and
then he would turn Smith over to any that wanted. Here
came the waggon, and Smith was carried upon the plat-
form, stripped to the waist and placed against the stake.
His legs and arms and body were securely corded to it,
and he was delivered over to Vance’s vengeance and to
expiate his crime. A tinner’s furnace was brought and
filled with irons heated white. Taking one, Vance
thrust it under first one and then the other of the feet of
his victim, who, helpless, writhed in agony. Slowly, inch
by inch, up his legs the iron was drawn and redrawn, only
the nervous jerk-twist of the muscles showing the agony
being endured. For fifty minutes the victim was tortured
by red-hot iron brands thrust against his quivering body.
By turns Smith screamed, prayed, begged, and cursed his
torturers. When his face was reached his tongue was
silenced by fire, and thenceforth he only moaned or gave
a cry that echoed over the prairies. When his eyes were
put out and not a finger’s breadth of his body was un-
scathed, his executioners gave way. The clothing about
Smith’s lower limbs was then saturated with oil, and fire
simultaneously set to his feet and the stack below'.
Slowly the flames crawled up Smith’s limbs and wrapped
him in their bluish veil. A moment they burned, then a
shudder shook Smith, his head slowly raised, and a
broken, quivering cry broke the silence, and was echoed
By shouts and cries from the more thoughtless
below.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“A Member of New Australia 1 ’: You really
answer nothing. All Australian workers are interested
in the exodus of a large number of their comrades,
and. though emigration is free to all, as losers of so many
hitherto cpadjutors, they may be excused much (even
otherwise unreasonable) curiosity.... “ Edward G. Made-
ley”: We dare not turn your thoughts loose on an un-
prepared world “The Wirroo”: Poetry on a yam-
slick. Better hire yourself out as a corroboree with a
dingo accompaniment “ T.H.Q.” (Redfern, N.S.W.):
Don’t know which is sadder—the asylum pauper’s “tup-
pence a day,” or your verse about it “ W.J.S.” (Mel-
bourne): (1) Too insignificant. (2) You are welcome to
its use—it served its purpose in print “R. Thurr”:
May possibly use in part ... " Watercress ” (Cressy, Vic.):
(1) Your juvenile’s humour isn’t humorous. ..“George
Mackay ” (M.L.): The poet who hopes to see the uni-
verse’s “egress gleam,” wants to chew more than he can
bite off “6xB” (South Forbes, N.S.W.): (1) “ A
Mistake” is staggering drivel “Nino” (Hastings,
M. (1) Wonderful rubbish, j our story. (2) Likewise
your love-yarn “Plain Home Talk”: No, sir; such
thing aren’t hair-lotions “The Liar Bird” (Texas,
Q.): An old Yankee tramp-story “The J.T.” (Ad.,
N. We abhor dialect , “ Percy A.” : May use
“Rosa Dartle ” (Perth, W.A.): If used, must lie re-
written. Common-place ejaculations with women, strong
oaths with men, italicise the emotions in real peril
“ Claude M.” (Tas.); Hopeless (N. Melb.):
Noted .. “Juvenis”: Unnatural, palpably unlikely ; also
without a strain of the morbid exaltation necessary to
the supposition of such a self-sacrifice.... “ A.R.T.” ; Not
bad ; and unusual “ Queensland Cocky ” (Bundaberg):
Doggerel as shaky as your faith.... “ Myrtle ” (Brisbane,
Q.): The advertising joke 50 years 01d... “J. P.” (Broken
Hill, N.S.W.): (1) Can paragraph it. (2) We pay for
accepted original matter ; rate much depends on labour
incurred in editing and revision. We are literary solers
and heelers—also, patches put on verse and prose
“ Waihoa ” ; We fear you are wrong in your theory that
the grog-trade would almost die out if not fostered by the
close protection of the licensing system. Look at drunken
Switzerland, where liquor is sold cheaply and in a free-
and-easy way ... “Tom A.” (Walgett): Irreproducible
“ B. Cleaver” (Perth): They say they return on receipt
of stamps for postage. Try them and let us know...
“The Rabbit” (Booligal, N.S.W.): As you confess,
“atrocious doggrel.” “ Cyrica ” : Neat, but album-
verses only. It needs a genius now to sing tobacco’s
praises “Crosscut”: Can't you give us the story’s
name and author? “ Scrutator ” (Q.): Can only deal in
generalities “ Mulga ” (N.T.): Thanks. However,
general denunciations are wasted slops “ O. 0.0.” :
Not likely. A Chinaman never beats his horse. “As fat
as a Chinaman’s horse ” has become a proverb. We have
known white men’s dogs desert their owners to take up
with Chinamen “H.G.G.” (Mur.): We haven’t dis-
continued. By the way, if Dibbs had known he would
have grabbed it himself. He needs it just now “ J.C.”
(Maoriland) : “ Written expressly for Tub Bulletin,” was
it ? Then more fool the fellow who wrote ten slabs like
this:—
I lay in my tent at midnight*.
The morepork’s fav’rite hour;
The moon shone full on the gully
Beyond the old dead “ Tawa.”
“ P.L. J.” (T.): A swagman could play the piano, and
you have spoilt three sides of f’cap over the fact. It
would have been a wonder if he couldn’t play the piano.
The world is cursed with pianos. There are more pianos
than baths. Sing-song and rumty-tum and terrace-
houses are afflictions worse than leprosy. Music drives
more into the asylum and the grave than drink..
“Thomas Turvey ”: Unhappily for your “Song of
Moses,” somebody wrote “Sound the Loud Timbrel” ever
so long ago. But, anyhow, the world is tired of the song
of Moses, the dismal refrain whereof is shixty per shent.
Send “God Bless Australia” to some gladsome paper-
say, Sydney Echo... “Bill Sykes” (M.L.): Try us
with items of one side—if less all the better
“A. 0.”: The Argus was first published in 1846
“Fosko” (Redfern): Why blather re a self-evident
absurdity? “Henry W.” (St. Kilda): Thanks
“Q.”: We apologise “John Smith” (Georgetown):
Thanks “ Y.Z.” : The Bulletin aims at quality.
Quantity is supplied by the numerous scissor-written
papers... “ Nota Bene”: Certainly not " Flooded-
out Miner” (Gympie): (1) About £2O. (2) We are not in
a position to advise you “Miriam V.”: Quite un-
suitable, . “ Praira Paroo ”: Your homely verse is as
funny as it is pathetic. Try again “The Scamp”:
“ANeivAdvt.” would be almost punishable were the
system not a widespread one “Try Again” (Bab):
Practically there is no market. Anything in the strain, pf
“A Short Review” would be hopeless,.... •“ S.M.C.” :
Most of the “ rare ” postage stamps in private collections
are imitations. It pays to forge old stamps “A Pe
Laide”: Melodious but hackneyed “ W.H.” (8.H.):
It appeared at Christmas two or three years ago, and is
included in “ A Golden Shanty,” at present out of print.
“ Loco.” : It was, we are reminded, Nick Fitzgerald
and not Fellowes who epigrammatically formulated the
creed of Money Miller in the Vic. Legislative Council....
“O.O.”: Lilley has always been the avowed enemy of n
puremerinoism which has ever been at the bottom of
political corruption in Queensland “Miner” (Alec-
town) : Don’t write any poetry like that down your shaft
or they’ll bring it in suicide....“ Sassafrass ” (Cundle-
town, N.S.W.): A tragedy totally spoilt “Airlie”;
May condense. Why overload with tawdry description ?
“ Honest, sober, hard-working people are
being turned out of their homes.”—Teknwith.
A Japanese merchant in Sydney states
that he is being ruined by imported cheap and
nasty Birmingham imitations of his wares.
There is a N.Q. commercial traveller who
for the last ten years has neither smoked, drunk,
played cards, made a bet, or told a lie. N.B.—
He died in ’B2.
Michael Joseph M’Laughlin is taking
badly to Sydney gaol fare, and is likely to be
transferred to a country house within a few weeks.
The penalty—.£soo or twelve months—inflicted on
him for running a private still at Lane Cove was
among the heaviest recorded by the Sydney Bench.
But, then, M'Laughlin had done six months
before, and the Bench believed he knew so much
about whisky-making that the cash would be
forthcoming from some quarter. M'Laughlin was
one of Barton’s right-hand men in several East
Sydney contests. More than one of Barton’s most
democratic platform utterances were adroitly put
into his head and extracted from his lips by
M‘Laughlin, who was a capable man in many
regards, and looked to running for a con-
stituency in his own person. He was a captain in
the U.S. army, but transferred his services to the
sea, and came to New Guinea with the naval com-
mand of the unfortunate Marquis de Ray’s expe-
dition. He is an accomplished linguist, and a
much better lecturer than many who travel on the
game. The pinnacle of his ambition wrs a lec-
turership or inspectorship in the N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture, but the door was kept closed.
Anyhow, Parliament has temporarily lost a pro-
bable member and retail whisky-sellers a source
of substantial profit.


IT LEADS THEM ALL,
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to, and
eluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows :
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS
£35,900,000 ; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
in-
are
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENNIE, General Manager.
principal Agency—l3l gift (Street, c Sydney, S-S-W-
Branches—47B Collins Strut. Mblbotjrn* ; ... ... 223 Qurkn Strikt. Brtsban*.
In vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
Innes’ Boar’s Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
e; eel lent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar’s Head
brand comprises wines of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, muscsats, hocks, and others too
numerous to specify.
Old Blend
WMsKy
Cell/
Divm ftOM DISTIUC!'
P 3
jn
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
12th April, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
I think it a terrible pity that Governor Duff has
arisen Sir Robert before coining out. It would
have been an eloquent comment on the true in-
wardness of the local nobility to have had a plain
couple of people royally chosen to take command
of a small section of society absolutely stiff with
titles “for bearer and wife only.” But the social
value of the striped ribbon —the gaudiest thread
jn those silken bonds—has to be kept up even if
royalty wears out a sword a day in the dubbing
process.
There was some smartness about the clothes at
the reception given by Acting-Governor Darley
and his wife at Government House the other
Friday, and the affair was in every way more
successful than “M.E.J.’s” last gasp, when
“fainting” ladies complained of the absence of
alcohol, which was lacking, because the vice-regal
cellar had gone under the hammer the day before!
The host and hostess received the human influx in
the red drawing-room, and I am quite sure the
Acting-Governoress wouldn’t put so much grip
into her how-de-do if she had six years of that
sort of thing before her. But in one thing the
coming chatelaine of Government House might
take a hint from the lady who is now keeping the
position warm for her, and that is to wear dark
gloves on mob-days. They (the gloves) look ever
so much more poetical than light ones after half-
an-hour’s continuous pump-handling.
The first festive appearance of Gov. and Mrs.
Duff will probably be at the Fresh Air League
Ball, on May 30th ,at Sydney Town Hall. Mrs.
(Dr.) Mailler Kendall is honorary secretary, and
the tickets will be lower in price than last year,
“to meet the times.” The Fresh Air League is a
sort of hospital-preventive which sends tired
working-women away for needful change of air
and rest, so the tickets for the ball in aid of it
oughtn’t to need much push.!
Pretty Miss Maud Roberts wore one of the most
modish frocks —a black serge trimmed with black
braid and made with immense shoulder-puffs of
tartan velvet, fawn hat with fawn and green
feathers; somebody else, in leaf-brown woollen
Bengaline trimmed with brown velvet fur and gold
galon and yellow ribbons in her hat, seemed too
conscious that she had her best frock on, and spoilt
the true inwardness of a very stylish turn-out;
Mrs. (Dr.) Mailler Kendall had on black cr6pe de
chine designed in pink and trimmed with pink silk
covered with black guipure, hat of fawn and pink ;
Mrs. (Judge) Wilkinson wore black silk with a
lace visite and magenta roses in her bonnet; Mrs.
Delohery wore sage-green silk and white honiton
lace. The oddest dress on view was a bright red
silk slightly modified with black and a black
Alsatian bow doing duty as a bonnet. The whole
thing reminded me of a brand plucked from the
burning. There was any amount of brass-band
to encourage people, and the coming and going
were very brisk.
About the smartest turn-out at Randwick last
Saturday, or off-day, was an invisible-blue
streamer with big orange sleeves and zouave of
dark-blue and green-and-gold tartan —black crino-
line-straw hat trimmed with a large bow of the
tartan —all very Parisienne, right up to the long-
handled gold and tortoise - shell race - glasses.
Otherwise, there wasn’t much frocking on the
lightly-patronised Members’ stand, and most of
the dresses were not this season’s blend, so to say.
One or two girls looked taut, and that’s about all,
in coats and shirts, with vests and ties—the sort
of get-up that the wily shop-keeper is now busily
engaged in marking “ as now worn ” to catch the
guileless hayseed seeking a frock in which to
paralyse Jatnberoo. A very furniture-coverish
frock was of blue, with a flaring pattern of red
and yellow nasturtiums—flat hat trimmed like a
plate of cottage salad. Certainly, gay colours are
popular, but the popularity doesn’t go the whole
length of the prism, and, unless your gaudy
garments are correctly garish, you are as much
behind the style as a paper fan.
Hats were rather a feature of off-day. One
belle had on a sort of reversed basket of gilt straw
trimmed with red and white currants, which
looked like the sort of ornament you find hanging
from a gasalier in houses where they dine with the
street windows open. One woman had an Esme-
ralda hat—quite flat and trimmed round the brim
with rows of gold sequins, which gave rather too
stylish an effect in a land where most folks get
home from the races per train.
Steeplechase day at Rand wick, last Saturday,
was graced by a real Governor—the braw Kintore
and his Roman-nosed consort, who wore a
crumpled-looking gown of pink and blue, checked
and shaded silk, trimmed with cream lace and
black velvet, small floral bonnet with black
velvet strings. By the way, Lady K., who is en
route for that bourne from which no Governor’s
wife returneth if she can help herself, seems to
have developed some of the jerkiness of Lady
Jersey—though, perhaps, it is the correct vice-
regal caper to behave as if you were strung on
wires. The Earl of Kintore sported pale-grey
with a white vest, and did the lawn with Mrs.
Pilcher, who wore a handsome gown of black
passementerie and violet silk. The Lieutenant-
Governor’s wife, who occupied the vice-regal box,
wore black, witli a black bonnet lightened with
geranium-red velvet; Miss Darley had on dark-
green trimmed with brown fur—black hat.
Mrs. Burdekin’s turn-out was one of the most
effective on view. It was shot silvery-blue and
brick-red silk made with a Spanish jacket and
gigot sleeves of brick-red velvet, hem round the
skirt of velvet, small bonnet with a cluster of jon-
quils. Mrs. Gordon looked very well in black,
and the new violet-black bat with spikey feathers.
Mrs. Molyneux came forth in brown epingle
trimmed with liquor-pink velvet, wide felt hat en
suite ; but most of the dresses on view had made
their debut on Easter Monday, and there was
little real thrill to finish up with. One welter-
weight society lady unwisely sported a pair of
rainbow-silk sleeves of voluminous cut, and I was
rather interested in observing the get-up of a two-
year-old society widow who balanced a long
purple feather in her dashing hat, a purple veil,
and about four inches of pigment upon her
bereaved countenance ! If there are such things
as ghosts, the wraith of the old man must have
fled to haunt one of his late lady friends when he
saw that violet feather and the bloom of roses
going on.
The saddest features of the lawn at a recent
race-meeting were two little damsels theatrically
attired in pea-green and pink silk greenaway
frocks and rickety shoes. I waste a great deal of
sympathy over the offspring of a woman who obvi-
ously only regards the poor little victims as a
means of self-advertisement.
Truly the frivolities of the mother are visited
upon tlie olive branches, for the patch-work mamma
who dyes a chemical yellow, and touches up her
eyebrows with Indian ink and her lantern jaws
with carmine, isn’t likely to tow about a small,
anEemic babe with ash-coloured hair and no eye-
brows. The result is the artificial infant with
neatly-darkened eyebrows and peroxide curls and
the glow of ruddy rouge on its little cheek offering
you its earmined lips to kiss. I have encountered
these things, not where the theatrical infant grows
—the theatrical baby is mostly very natural—but
in other and (reputedly) less fantastic places.
What hope is there for a genuinely blooming
Block when even the nursery powder-puff has so
enlarged the sphere of its operations ?
Which all reminds me that a little niece was
once witnessing her aunt’s toilet, and as the auntie
unpinned most of her hinder hair, she said, to
disarm the open-eyed babe, “ Your mama can’t
take her hair off like that,-can she?” “No,”
bristled the loyal infant, scenting a disparagement,
“ but you tant take all your teef out!”
“ Robbery Under Arms,” at Sydney Royal, goes
more on four legs than on two, and the applause
when a gee-gee gets his cue to come on, seems to
point the'moral that “the profession ” has evo-
luted from a horse. There is over-dressing in
“R.U. A.” “Old Marston’s ” shirt is too clean,
and his other garments too spick for a “cockatoo ”
who probably constructed his own “ clobber ” on
the wattle-and-dab principle. Also Lily Dampier,
as Aileen Marston, is altogether too block-belle-
ish. The real bush-girl doesn’t tong her hair as a
general thing, and loaf gonteely in front of the
paternal humpy, in a frilled-muslin apron and a
pink umbrella-skirt—nor does she ride to country
race-meetings in a silk hat and pipeclay on her
saddle-girths. These incompatibilities I mention
out of respect for Mr. Dam pier’s staging, which is
fearfully and astonishingly Australian, even if it
is just a little too green and shady now and then
The “ Bohemian Girl,” at Sydney Lyceum,
seems to me to be principally written to expose
the stupidity of remaining to pray in A sharp
when a strange man is running riot in your
nursery. Any unoperatic parent who stopped to
pray while his only che-yild was being visibly
abducted would, I’m sure, be viewed in a very
Makinesque light by people who knew about it.
The strangest feature in the opera was that Arline
alone felt the flight of time. There was a
necessarily-long wait between the first and second
acts to admit of a small baby growing up into
Annis Montague, but nobody else was affected in
the same way except Sid. Deane, who obeyed the
Unities by flouring his mustivey. There was
festive dressing in the opera. Annis Montague,
in the multi-coloured short-skirt and spangles of
the gipsy, looked very chipper, and her last full
dress of mauve and grey brocade, trimmed with
plain mauve silk and plearl embroidery, was gor-
geous. Miss Staunton, as the Gipsy Queen, was
exceedingly bizarre with a border of snakes around
her skirt; and Mr. Rosevear (Florestein) pre-
sented a melting combination of pale-grey, sea-
green and silver. Also, the natural way in which
the singers had their faces painted was very
soothing, after the red, white and black of Gaiety
loveliness gone before. Which reminds me that
the “Bohemian Girl” ballerinas were very awk-
wardly dressed. Lethbridge, herself, wouldn’t
inspire you with a pinafore reaching to the ankles,
chassecing to a “page” in a stiff doublet almost
down to the knees.
Ballerinas somehow remind me of an amusing
incident which happened at a Southern Queens
land township, the other day, when a local
evangelical tobacconist was accused at a church
committee-meeting of demoralising the local small
boys by selling them cigarettes. It wasn’t the
mild smokes themselves that were supposed to
sap the moral rectitude of the purchasers, but the
little snap-shots of well-ventilated damsels con-
tained therein. However, the defendant main-
tained his innocence. “I own,” he said, “that I
sold the packets—but I was careful not to injure
morality and decency; because, when I sold a
packet of cigarettes, I took care to cut the legs off
the pictures .” Quite an ingenious device for the
preservation of original virtue, isn’t it? But, if
my experience goes for anything, those seraphs on
the half shell, so to write, would be far more
aggravating than the other kind. The innocent,
but inquisitive hobbledehoy would naturally begin
to wonder whether ladies supported themselves on
mermaids’ tails or what, if all his pictures of them
ended mysteriously at the waist.
Captain Gibson (H.M.S. Curagoa) is a
“ skipper ”of the good old family-worship order.
He was, I am told, disgusted with the frivolities
of Hobart society during Lent, and absented him-
self from his ship during an afternoon dance given
by his officers just before Easter.
There are but two frocks in the “Village Priest”
at Sydney Criterion, and both worn by Mrs.
Brough as the Countess. The first of apple-
green silk, covered with black lace, and made with
very full sleeves, and square Zouave of black jet;
jet fringe round the waist, and skirted frill of
black, edged with silver; small bonnet to match,
with all the trimming in the front—as fashion
now insists. The second dress is a vision, and
reminded me of the girls’ dressing in the Gallery
picture, “Stealing the Keys.” It is made with
perfectly plain, long, trained skirt and Rembrandt
sleeves of sunlight-yellow satin, and just slightly
trimmed with yellow chiffon round the neck, and
pearls round the edge of the short bodice; diamond
ornaments. Brenda Gibson, as Marguerite,
becomes rather tiresome in white. By the way, I
hope Titheradge will get his portrait taken as the
Village Priest, if only to show how a devoutly-
inspired expression, that would make the fortune
of a Pope, -an radiate the countenance of a sinful
actor-man, .vho doesn’t really mean a wink of it.
Ladies who encourage both church and stage
should remember Titheradge’s heavenly but
hollow glare when their pet parson turns his eyes
up and gazes fanatically roof-wards.
The Naval Commanders’ good-bye dance at
Nithsdale last week had more the aspect of a
church congregation than a hop, for there were
about six women to every one man. The reason
was that the gallant tars had left the invitations
to local Johnnies, who scattered them broadcast to
ladies, with the lop-sided result above recorded.
The men were actually giving half-dances, and
one society youth revenged himself on one or two
belles by trimming the doorway all the evening
and refusing to pirouette in spite of fluttering pro-
grammes and beseeching glances. Also some of
the girls went in to supper with their chaperones.
If there is anything in omens, the failure of this
first society ball of the season argues a good crop
of wall-flowers at the coming events, but I am
surprised that naval men, who usually do things
so well on board, should score so badly on terra
jirma.
The proprietor of Coogee Aquarium tells me
that the statement that the baths there have
been at any time reserved for the use of the
lady and gentlemen members of the Gaiety Go.,
is—er—unhistorical. The Gaiety artistes have not
indulged in dual bathing there. If they applied to
have the baths so reserved, the manager would
(he says) certainly comply with their wishes, as he
also would for any other ladies and gentlemen
who desired it, “as, unfortunately, there is
always a spare hour for a private family.”
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SVDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Man to Man.”
Lyceum 11 Mari tana.”
Criterion “A Village Priest.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ Robbery Under Arms.”
Centenary Hall Jubilee Singers.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “Tlie Mountebanks.”
Theatre Royal. .. ..* “ Life for Life.”
Bijou New Dramatic Company.
Opera House Variety Company.
Alexandra “Fritz.”
“A Village Priest,” an emotional play by
Sydney Grundy, and tolerably well-known to all
Sydney playgoers, is being produced at Sydney
Criterion by the Brough and Boucicault Co. with
a fatal attractiveness that fills up every part of the
house-plan and creates rebellious discontent in the
minds of the improvident who have neglected to
reserve seats before the solemn hour when Abbe
Dubois (Titheradge) holds his nightly celebration
of preserving the secrets of the confessional. The
plot is full of dark points. Madame D’Arcay
(Miss Romer), a blind widow, and Armand
(Ward), her son, believe they mourn a just and
upright Judge as their defunct relative; Comtesse
de Tremeillan (Mrs. Brough) knows a little better,
for she has in her youth been the lover of the
bewailed deceased. The Comtesse has a bitter
excuse for her mistake in the belief that her (also
departed) husband had toyed with a gamekeeper’s
wife (quite as dead as the rest of the past-actors),
and had been murdered by the jealous game-
keeper, Jean Torquenie (Brough), who, from
being sentenced to death, is let off with
life, and escapes from Rouen prison to turn
up on the Criterion stage; Jeanne (Miss Tem-
ple), Torquenie’s daughter, has been adopted by
Widow D’Arcay, and hates her father by reputa-
tion, never having seen him, and is, in her turn,
believed by the Comtesse to be her murdered hus-
band’s illicit offspring; Marguerite (Miss Gibson),
the Comtesse’s daughter, is equally in part of
“ the know,” and otherwise equally in the dark :
while the old Abb<5, who has secretly loved
Madame D’Arcay ever since he was a “fii-tle
boy,” is the only living human who knows all
(viz., that the upright Judge was both an adul-
terer and the murderer of the Comte) through the
confessional, which his creed binds him to hold
inviolable. Since the Abbe is asked to bless the
marriage of Armand and Marguerite, on the one
hand, and to cleanse Torquenie’s hands of blood
on the other hand, he has to agonise in spirit t(i
first let slip manly ejaculations and then hedes
with ‘‘Jesuitical’ generalities. Madeleine (Miss
Major), his 35-years-service-with-35-times-a-vear
giving-notice housekeeper, throws in the least-
flavour of low comedy into a play that depends
upon psychological delineations, supported onlv
by one lawyer s-study scene, two clerical-garden
scenes, one boudoir scene, and one “sanctuary”
set in which the chief accessories are a howling
wind outside, and a moonlit escapement-breezn
that turns a leaf over in an open Bible and teaches
the Abbe, as by a miracle, that his duty is to quit
the Church, to make freshloveto MadameD’Arcav
and to clear the unjustly-sentenced Torquenie’
Then Torquenie elects to continue to be a martvr
for the sake of the “second mother” to Jeanne
and all goes well, with the left-handed brutality
of modern justice, since everyone’s sins are pub-
licly exposed and the wrong man suffers after all "
* * #
Brough is hideously tragic as the escaped
convict and gets right into the souls of the worldly
audience, most of whom probably love him
vicariously for taking a society hypocrite’s sin on
his galled shoulders. And we suppose it is the
correct thing for an escaped prisoner to expect the
first lawyer he meets to help him, not to clear his
innocence, for that he believes to be impossible
but to find his daughter on purely emotional
grounds—which is the dramatist’s little joke; also
to flop down wailing over a hassock at the lawyer’s
feet when the latter laughs at him—which is the
actor’s stage idea. We suppose, also, it is the
correct thing for a young lawyer to break his
mother’s heart by proving his own father an
adulterer, a murderer, and a mean hypocrite
and to throw over his sweetheart and poison
her life by proving her mother a person
qualified to be divorced ; in short, to let all
his own heaven fall so that strict justice may
be done. Ward evidently felt that the situation
was too much for him, but the audience didn’t
mind it a bit, and gave him kudos for his most un-
natural brutality—which fitted his hard voice and
callous manner like a glove. Similarly, Mrs.
Brough earned plaudits for falling prone at the
feet of the lawyer, her designate son-in-law, who
had surprised her secret, though nine healthy
women out of ten would have ordered him off the
premises, and lived his threats down as the spawn
of lies or madness. Titheradge’s Abbe is a unique
production, in which one constantly expected the
priest to become human enough to estimate beauty
in the feminine animal, but he never gets further
than to confess his life-long adoration of an old
lady to a young girl. Miss Romer is a gropingly
blind woman—a statuesque infirmity that is sup-
posed to be angelic. Miss Gibson’s Marguerite is
earthly enough for most bachelors, who would also
prefer Jeanne not to be their daughter.
# # #
It is a great success —this pelion ef
“ Village Priest ” on the Ossa of “ Niobe.”
* * *
The English opera season at Sydney
Lyceum opened with “The Bohemian Girl’’last
Saturday, and, as that unorthodox female has not
explained herself at the top of her voice for some
time, people gathered to hear her as if she had
only been copyrighted last week. Annis Montague
was Arline; her childlike and sweet soprano
sounded best in the “Dream Song,” and later in
the interpolated “Home, Sweet Home,” which
was sung with enough pathos to bring tears to the
eyes of a man with a bailiff among his recollec-
tions. But the fair prima-donna did not make
the Bohemian gal as Bohemian a gal as she might
have been, since the gipsy’s camp isn’t a seminary
for Shakespeare and the musical glasses. The
ever-popular Charles Turner, who was encouraged
with “Good boy, Charlie!” from the gods, was
in spirited voice for his two solos, “ Then
you’ll remember me” and “The Fair Land of
Poland.” Mr. Turner certainly is the biggest
tenor at present in this baritone-haunted con-
tinent, and, when he leaves off singing with
a haw-haw articulation, he may take prece-
dence of all-comers ; but Balfe never meant
his hero to sing “when othah lips, and o-o-thah
hearts.” Cicely Staunton made a success of the
revengeful Gipsy Queen, and artistically sang.
“ Devilshoof,” by Mr. F. Wentworth, in place of
Farley, who was “indisposed,” was better acted
than sung, and he expressed the feelings of the
audience when he shook his fist at Count Arnheim
(Sid. Deane) in the first act. Mr. Deane has a
pebbly baritone which seems to be produced with
much facial exertion, and, though “The Heart
Bowed Down ” was given as lugubriously as if it
had been “ The Horse Backed Down,” it was not
an artistic effort. Mr. Rosevear made a conven-
tional stage dandy of Florestein, and the
of fifty voices sang very neatly and sweetly. Ihe
“Girl” was fittingly staged and dressed; and
Balfe himself couldn’t have conducted better than
did Mr. Harrison.
* * * *
George Leitch opened on Easter Monday
night at Hobart in “ The Old Homestead.
George was persuaded to present some prizes won
at Easter sports. With a vivid recollection of his
experiences in a similar capacity at Paddington
(N.S.W.) Barracks some months since, the little
man was extra-careful as to the bona,.tides of the
recipients, and approached them somewhat in the
following (sotto voce) manner: —“No flies, now,
my friend —er —are you—really, now— Bill Jen-
kins?” The answer was generally satisfactory,
there being no record of the “ innocent stranger
being left.
* 0 *
At Sydney Royal, Alfred Dam pier and hi*
bright daughters, Lily and Rose, with Kathenn
Russell, and a well-balanced dramatic company)
have added a week’s laurels to their past successe
in “Robbery Under Arms,” it being a moot
point whether the equestrianism or the busn-
ranging is. the most admired virtue display6o-
- shows no sign of present discon-
tinuance.
* * * *
According to Harry Rickards, the “ Little
Nipper ” is the Australian National Anthem. Out
of the six songs he sings nightly, four, vociferously
demanded first by the gallery, are “ coster songs.
It was only Rickards’ blindness to his own special
gifts that prevented him utilising the rich pa
he has since struck in Chevalierism until Ees
cleared the way with “Yus.” His latest e fi° r .
the tale of a dear little innocent barmaid who got
“ lumbered for pinching the brass. I he car !r


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January , IS9S, its accumulated funds amounted to £23,202,010 sa, Id.,
audits SUJt PLUS over all liabilities to £3,457.808 ss. Id., being the LARGEST
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
Conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Refore insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
ROND STREET CHAMPERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
NOTK.-This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate"of Examination, of recent date, from the State
Insurance Department. The Assets, Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal ot
the State by the Insurance Superintendent.
BURROUGHES
AND —
WATTS, LTO
BILLIARD TABLE
M ANUF ACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
m' Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE. LONDON.
of the ordinary barmaid, by the way, seems to
oscillate between “ pinching ” and being pinched.
There’s money in both. The risk in each case is
run by the pinoher. Anew sensation is afforded
by the appearance of the “Electric Queens,” young
ladies who wear flashing crowns, brooches and
earrings lit up by electricity. G. H. Wood, the
eminent negroist, joins the show on Saturday
night.
fa * * * *
The ever-popular Jubilee Singers and
Virginia Concert Cos., at Centenary Hall, are
singing their swan’s songs to Sydney, and their
spirited dirges have been highly successful
throughout the season. The ostensible favourites
a re Mattie Allan (“the only lady tenor”), Julie
Wormlie (whose recitations thrill her subjects),
baritone Hodges, and the great O. M. M‘Adoo,
basso - prof undo - below - zero. Next week, the
Singers take to the suburbs—Balmain, Petersham,
Ashheld, Burvvood, and Parramatta; after which
they start across country in pilgrimage for Mel-
bourne. Duncan Macallum is their Moses.
** * *
“ Man to Man ” continues to be spectacu-
larly presented at Her Majesty’s (Sydney), the
public rolling up to unflaggingly hooray George
Rignold as James Gordon, and being quite con-
tent to nightly regard the railway smash as
miraculous, and the next evening’s resurrection of
its annihilated remnants as an ordinary occurrence
well within the forecast and expectation of all but
the surprised victims. It is understood that “ A
Midsummer Night’s Dream,’’ with Madge Sey-
mour as Titania, is in course of rehearsal, and
will be staged when the railway collision gets
wrecked beyond immediate stage-surgeon’s repair.
** * *
Melbourne Bijou, closed since the sad
occasion of B. and B.’s farewell, was re-opened on
Saturday. The electric-light burned dimmer than
in days that are fled ; a change had come over the
drop-curtain; the most adjacent portion of the
adjoining pub. had become a silent sepulchre—but
the theatre was still the Bijou. Time had not
softened the back dress-circle seats that used to be
so hard, and a certain odour of pleasant recollec-
tions filled the air. Unfortunately, the new
management ran no risk of a summons for over-
crowding. “ The Adventuress ” is a long and
strong drama from the French, rather clumsily
told in hackneyed terms. At its most exciting
moments the heroine moans, “ Heaven help me,
lam lost! ” or, “ Will this torture never cease? ”
thereby conjuring up a horde of ghosts of other
heroines who have been heard to moan exactly the
same thing. In the prologue the Adventuress is a
fair-haired Camille. Thereafter, disguised in
.dark hair, she does her best to forget the Sinful Past
and marry her natural son into a virtuous family.
She is penitent and possessed of ample means,
but the irrepressible Past pops up when least
expected. She is recognised as the guilty creature
of 18 years ago, notwithstanding that she looks
quite as young as she was before, “ Have you
no pity ?” enquires the converted adventuress, but
the evil Past rattles its bones and replies in the
negative. Her sin has found her out, and when
the stage Past puts in an appearance you know
that it has come to stay. The lady who trans-
gresses in a prologue is casting grief upon the
waters, or buying shares in a Bank of Retribution
which ultimately calls up the unpaid capital. The
drama of any country and all periods seems to
take a fiendish delight in making things rough
for lovely woman, and The Bulletin thinks
it is time she got a chance to hide
her shame in a safe place. Miss Maud
Williamson puts much fire and feeling
into the name-part. Her performance is very fine
at times, and if her son (in the drama) only took
after his mother there might be a lot of money in
this production. The gentleman cast for the alleged
offspring is, however, as emotionless as a rocky
coast, and the breakers of other people’s passion
dash against him all in vain. Walter Howe im-
personates the sinful Past with uneven ability,
and Cathcart is always satisfactory as' an aged
father. Miss Katherine Hardy labours under the
disadvantage of being betrothed to the son, but
she doesn’t attempt to do more than look charm-
ing. Two or three others are fair to middling,
and the show is mounted in quite the old Bijou
style. But they are bound to require a change of
bill immediately.
** * *
“ The Double Event ” is pulled off every
evening without fail at the Royal. Sometimes
Caloola wins the Cup by a long neck, and some-
times he has a couple of lengths to spare at the
finish, but, anyway, George Darrell’s horse is a
“dead-bird.” If the handicapper were to put ten
tons on Caloola’s back, it would make no differ-
ence, because a stage-carpenter at the wings gives
him a shove behind whilst the other unhappy steeds
have to stagger across without assistance. Caloola
gets all the luck. Another notable feature of
George’s latest is a Blue Ballet, in the last act.
This is not too blue, but just cerulean enough.
The weather is presumably warm at the time,
otherwise the girls (who dance in a garden at
Toorak) would certainly catch cold below the
waist. As for the premiere danseusc, she is prac-
tically a child of Nature decorated with a few in-
candescent lights and protected from the mosquitoes
by a net. Though very good business has been
done with George’s racing romance, it is likely
that “Life for Life” will be staged m the usual
unprecedented style on Saturday next.
** * *
“The Mountebanks” continues to send
large audiences away from Melb. Princess’ in a
dissatisfied state of mind. The music is not what
they had expected from the composer of
“Dorothy,” and the humour of the opera is some-
times less noticeable than its faint tinge of sadness.
Pretty portions of the story are sung instead of
spoken, and partly because May Pollard’s lower
register isn’t clearj but more especially because the
orchestra makes too much noise, these links in the
chain of evidence are lost. Then the potion-drink-
ing incident which finishes the first act is not
brought out with any striking effect. The care-
less, hurried way in which they pass round the
liquor (some of them don’t appear to take any)
conveys no suggestion of the consequences tha b
will result from it presently. In fact, it is impos-
sible to accept this situation as the fulfilment of
Gilbert’s idea. A first impression that “ The
Mountebanks ” might be much better performed
deepens under further consideration. Lauri, as the
Melancholy Mummer, is heavy at the outset, and
not brilliantly grotesque when he turns into an
automaton. Nor does Flora Graupner sustain her
clockwork character thoroughly. A quaint trio
for the chief mountebank and his figures, begin-
ning “ Ophelia was a dainty little maid,’’ has been
cut out because they didn’t make it funny.
Howard Vernon neglects to assert the fact
that he is suffering the pangs of death
by slow poison, and Violet Varley fails to per-
suade one that her sham old age has become
a stern reality. These, and a few other
shortcomings, chiefly on the part of Ryley and
his monks, weaken the result of a libretto which
is set to tame music, Oellier’s best form is shown
in a gavotte air, sung as an absurd tra-la-la
chorus, and most of the other numbers are what
musical critics call “graceful,” which, in good
truth, means not at all snappy and very unlikely
to produce a tumultuous encore.
** * »
The Opera House variety show is doing its
hardest to give an appearance of novelty to well-
worn material, and the halls have been doing like-
wise. Next Saturday the Cogills will produce
some American Mystifiers (the Steens) who are
said to be rather startling. One of their tricks
the silent clairvoyance business —has been already
adopted by clever Professor Davis at the Wax-
works, however. At the Alexandra they have
abandoned Irish drama for “Fritz,” in which
somebody follows poor Joe Emmett at a long dis-
tance away. But “Fritz” should be decently
buried in the same grave with Emmett, who
wasted his genius in making the contemptible
thing famous, and drank all day to drown his
remorse.
At Poverty Point.
Frank Thornton’s proposed visit to Australia, under
Musgrove’s wing, is off. Frank, now a man of means,
could not arrange his affairs so as to get away at the date
“ Muzzy ” wished.
Edward Terry has of late been most unfortunate in the
selection of plays. After many failures he has closed his
little house in the Strand, pending the production of a
piece by Haddon Chambers. But, as Haddon's forte does
not seem to be comedy, it would be rash to predict that
he will be able to fit Terry.
Little Leo Byrne, of Queensland, has won his way to
the hearts of Ellen Terry and Irving by his cleverness and
simplicity, and his future is secured if he decides to adopt
the stage" as a profession. But, at present, we are told,
the lad’s great ambition is to be an engineer.
Apropos dramatists like Haddon Chambers writing to
order, Oscar Wilde has written the Times to deny that his
“shocking,” but clever French play, “Salomd,” was
written for Sarah B. He says, “I have never written a
play for any actor or actress, nor shall I ever do so. Such
work is for the artisan in literature, not for the artist.”
Lucky man, O’Flaherty Wilde, to be financially above
“ pot-boiling.” “ Salomd ” will hardly bear presentation
on the English stage. Fancy representing the daughter
of Herod as so infatuated by the beauty of John the
Baptist, that, when he refuses her advances, she causes
him to be beheaded in order that she may, after death,
kiss the face which she could not fondle in life !
Much heartburning is said to have been caused by the
allotment of parts in a certain new operatic production.
The bewchus baritone threatened at first to tender his
resignation rather than obscure his fatal loveliness by a
moustache, but, all the same, appeared the first night with
the mo. on ; while the dainty and fetching little damsel,
cast to appear in the disguise of an ancient dame, kicked
vigorously, and only consented, amidst tears, to wear the
horrid things, on condition that her fiancd should not be
permitted to see her at dress rehearsal.
“Bush Lawyer” complains of the “downright brutality”
of a criticism in a Sydney paper upon a late performance
of the “Shaughraun” at the local Royal. “The critic
sneers at the ages of men who have done good work ere
now, and names, as their complementary necessity, a man
who is now in the Benevolent Asylum, and who, notwith-
standing his misfortunes, is a gentleman. If poverty be
a crime, the average self-styled dramatic critic is a
criminal.”
“A female lion-tamer, young and fair, beckoned to the
big lion, Nero, and it came and took a piece of sugar out
of her mouth. ‘ Why, I could do that trick !’ exclaimed
a spectator. ‘ What! you ?’ retorted the fair performer.
‘ Certainly—just as well as the lion !’ ” Which somehow
recalls to The Bulletin a memory of the fascinating
Mile. Soherazade, who tamed N.S.W. Premier Dibbs.
When an old man, who thought he had been greatly
relieved by electrician Richard at Sydney School of Arts,
regained his seat alongside his wife, the old lady gave
him a kiss which sounded all over the place, and called
for three cheers for the professor.
Clarence Hannell has been farewelled at Newcastle,
N.S.W., and presented with an address; also, with his
own portrait in the character of Claude Melnotte. Now,
as the burly Hannell happens to weigh about 26 stone,
you may imagine the sort of Adonis with whom Pauline of
Lyons fell in love.
The Jerusalem Cyclorama has a nice assortment of
special days to work upon. Good Friday served as the
common or garden anniversary of the Crucifixion, and the
following E riday was observed as the real date of the
anniversary. This, of course, would be succeeded by the
real date of the Resurrection. Now it was impossible to
find more than one birthday for “ Waterloo.”
Notices of “The Mountebanks” draw attention to
Gilbert’s eccentric humour in such passages as (hat where
the sham monks explain that “ No single word is ever
heard when singers sing in chorus.” A big reputation
makes an “ artistic touch ” of this kind go a long way.
Now, a Bulletin pantomime, of a few Christmasses back,
opened with an irrelevant chorus of fairies, who excused
their nonsense in the concluding lines—
“ Warble what we will, it’s certain
No one tries to catch the words.”
It would appear that The Bulletin was responsible for a
“ delightfully Gilbertian idea,” or something.
Cathcart, stage manager for A. Sullivan, Melb. Bijou.
He supported dhas. Kean in opposition to Barry Sullivan
in Melbourne, but afterwards was Sullivan’s henchman in
travel.
Farley’s return to the musical boards is welcome.
Lyster extracted him from a place called the Old Ship
Music Hall, Sandridge. He struck fire at once, when he
sung the rdle of first officer in the “ Barber of Seville.”
Fillis made a heap of money in Adelaide, and averaged
as much as in Melbourne or Sydney.
The Charringtons, writes The Bulletin London corres-
pondent, are getting some capital advance press notices,
which would seem to indicate that there is still chicken in
the locker.
Quip from “Allendale,” a new 3-act comedy at London
Strand: Widow Norton Folgate (to Widower Gilbert
Crane): “ What is man by himself ? Woman finishes him.
Let me finish you.”
“ One of the Purfesh ” asks : “ Who holds the Austra-
lian rights of ‘British Born,’ now or lately being per-
formed at Bundaberg (Q.)? For supers., plantation
Kanakas are borrowed and whitewashed. This is the
scene that ‘ fetched ’ the Bundabergians every time: ihe
hero, after a fierce struggle with fifty bloodthirsty foreign-
ers, being overpowered, throws open his vest and tells
them to fire and finish their murderous work. A female
springs upon the scene, flourishes a pockethandkercmei
(representing the Union Jack), wraps it round the hero s
body, and squeals that she dares them to hre. me
wicked foreigners all fall dead, amid thunders of applause,
while the small boys yell, ‘ Hot pies ! ’ in scathing allusion
to the hero’s private vocation.”
Cabled that Melba in “Rigoletto” at Milan has made
“ the greatest success achieved there for 20 years.
In a Paris theatre lately two one-armed men solemnly
joined forces to clap Sara Bernhardt.
Gov. Gawler, who was the second vice regality in South
Australia, fought with the 52nd Regiment at Waterloo,
and the Adelaide Oyclorama Co. talk of having his por-
trait painted among the officers in the square and tne
foreground of the picture. Young Gawler led the forlorn
hope at Badajoz, at the siege of which stronghold Sir
George Grey’s father was killed.
A Yankee criticism of Mrs. Bernard Beere ; “ She has
a head superbly poised upon a superb neck ; the cervical
arches denote patrician offspring.”
“An actor may sometimes humbug the public in
tragedy, but not in comedy.”—Garrick.
Little comedians fancy themselves big tragedians.
Penley is threatened with prosecution, by infuriated
London tradesmen, through the rush to see his ‘Charley 8
Aunt.” The pavement is so blocked, that people can C
get into their own shops.
“Midsummer Night’s Dream” follows “ Man to Man
at Sydney Her Majesty’s ; Hilda Spong succeeds Madge
Seymour as Titania.
Monkeying in a farce with an over-loaded musket, Billy
Warner, the other day, blew off Priscilla Verne s fingei-
nail at Sydney Gaiety.
The Wild-Cat Column
James Service, at the Commercial Bank recon-
struction meeting 1 , added his respectable endorsement to
the impudent Action that “there was not a man and
hardly a woman in the colony who did not go m head-
over-heels to make a fortune during the land-boom m
some shape or form.” An echo of Alfred Deakm’s cry
“ they all did it- for the best. But they didn t all do
it, and there are scores and scores of thousands of m®"
and women in Victoria who never spoke nor thought Of
the land-boom, save with misgiving as repids tbe hu es
and with disgust for the gang who had ohaige of the
swindle. # # ,
The proverbial Chinamen’s luck has tem-
porarily deserted them. The Commercial Bank (Kong
Meng and Ah Mouv were among its promoters) did all the
Chinese business and held their deposits, and, faot was
the only institution which printed Mongolian characters
on the notes. Dozens of Chows were to be seen "‘ the
banking chamber and lobby on the morning of the suspen-
sion, howling like children, and indignantly protesting
against the Civil servants getting then Government
cheques cashed.
» *_ _ *
The twelvemonths’ holiday of Gyles Turner,
“at a time when Victoria was in an abnormal stale, is
now declared to have been most unfortunate for the Com-
mercial Bank. In the next breath, however, it dec ' ril ® d
that nothing unfortunate ever happened to the Com-
mercial, except a preposterous run on the deposits.
• * *
Adelaide bank-clerks are superstitious. Just
before the Federal Bank closed a ledger-keeper died.
The same thing occurred at the Commercial.
* * *
It is stated that GOO of the Melbourne share-
holders in the Commercial Bank of Australia are ladies.
# * *
The only man in Queensland who had a win
over Glenloth put all his winnings in the Commercial
Bank of Australia, at 12 months Axed deposit. It s still
there. _ _
# * •
The Commercial Bank suspension cgmpletely
mops up interest in the Mercantile’s affairs, and Agag
goes softly, saving, “ Surely the bitterness of death is
past.”
The memorial-stone of the new Melb. Com-
mercial Bank is very conspicuous in the front, after the
church style: “Laid by Alderiffan Thomas Mouhraj.
“ Oh, that I should have lived to see this day . But he
didn’t. _ _
* * °
The Commercial Bank is just now in the
position of many of its land-boom clients who didn t last
long enou'di to enter into occupation of the gorgeous
mansions built for them. The Commercial was expected
to take possession of the new building in Colhns-street,
Melb., upon the very day of suspension.
# * *
The Wesleyans founded the Commercial Bank,
Melbourne, with Sherrard f >r chairman, and Draper for
manager, but the outcome was not cheerful, ai d a lot ot
agnostics, actors, and what not, took the reins.
* * *
A banking agreement is all very well, but
wei"-h against it the temptation of seeing a mighty rival
go under. It is like a Manchester Lane alliance of soft-
goodsmen, or a holy alliance of European powers.
# * *
The new premises of the Melbourne Commercial
Bank form the most conspicuous object in Collins-street.
Thev tower above the English, Scottish and Australian,
National, and Union (the only bank which won’t cash
the Commercial’s notes).
* * *
Interviewed on the Commercial Bank (of Aus-
tralia) smash, “ Tom ” Dibbs, manager of the Commercial
Banking Co. ot Sydney, sincerely hoped that, if recon-
structed, the bank should change its name. Both hanks
are known as 44 the Commercial,” and the confusion or
names is most annoying lo those connected with the more
successful and older institution.
• * *
Now-a-days bank-shares are easily affected. The
death of the chairman of one Sydney bank a few months
a «-o caused (anyhow that was the only appauent cause) iis
shares to fall £B, although it should have been well known
that he was long past taking any real part in managing
the big institution. The fall in hank-sonp all round
during the last week or two is so astounding that one
hardly dare look at the Agures.
* # *
It is telegraphed that a magnificent 2500 oz.
parcel of gold, from Bayley’s And at Coolgardie, IV ■ A., is
n ow> on view at the Union Bank, Berth. The claim,
recently bought by Sylvester Browne & Go., is chieAy
owned in Adelaide.
# * *
The Broken Hill Proprietary mine at present
turns out considerably over six tons of silver and 850 tons
of lead per week, and it is believed that the supply of
oxidised ore in the mine will give out, at this rate of out-
put iu about two vears from date. The recent alleged
discoveries of fresh bodies of carbonate ore cannot
materially prolong the life of the mine above the sulphide
level when so enormous £ui output has to ho maintained.
• • •
It is claimed that the Proprietary mine will
effect a saving of £50,000 a yearin fuel alone by the adop-
tion of Howell and Ashcroft’s recently-patented invention
for generating steam by means of molten slag from the
smeTtin"--works. The steam-power in use on the mine is
approximately 1000 h.p., while the cost of the fuel
required for generating a single h.p is £5O per annum.
Probably the process will be adopted by all the other
Broken Hill mines possessing smelting plants.
* # *
Another call on Golden Gully (N.S.W.) shares.
It is a mine from which some £".0,000 worth of gold has
been won at a cost of about £40,000. It is a treacherous,
patchy concern where the richness of one month is over-
shadowed by the barrenness of the next.
'# * •
A little clearness is wanted in the reports of the
Golden Terrace hydraulic sluicing mine, Shoalhaven
River. Whatever is mysterious is suspicions. The ordh
nary interpretation of the last report is that 25Joza. vver«
got from 1500 cubic yards, or, say, 16d. to the yard. Ii
that is the average, the mine should be paying big divi-
dends ; if it is not, then what is the matter?
• i* m.
Queensland has not had quite enough of the
Raul) mine. Of course, it was going to be a Mt. Morgan ;
it has turned out lower than the average Queensland
mine. Like the returns, expenses and troubles were un-
foreseen. They started with a ten-head battery and then
sent out 30 additional heads which were smashed up by a
“ rebellious” tribe. Manager Bibby is still hopeful of
better things, but in his last half-yearly report tells a
woeful tale. A mining-manager, recently from the field,
informs the writer that the mine is in very swampy
country, hence to work it by quarrying is questionable.
He speaks more encouragingly of, the adjoining ground
opened up by another co.
4 * # #
About 50 per cent, of the dividends of the
Charters Towers mines go to England.
# * *
Here is a pointer for N.S. W. Minister of Mines
Slattery (if he ever has any time to spare from his law-
practice to enquire into such trumpery things):—Editor
Bulletin,— Re unemployed miners, this may interest you.
In this little settlement where quartz-mining is in its
infancy there are gold-mining leases to the extent of 75
acres, leased by speculators, on which there are only four
men employed, where, if the labour conditions were ful-
filled, there should be at least thirty-seven. Some of these
leases are 18 months in arrears for rent, still they are not
cancelled ; and there are plenty of genuine miners here
who, if the leases were thrown open would he glad to
take portions up as block claims (60ft. per man) by virtue
of miners’ rights, and who would be able to make wages
by so doing, and who at present are out of work. You
may rely on what I now tell you—it is true.— Brumby,
Mogo, N.S.W. [Will some Labour M.P. kindly look this
affair up?—Ed. B.]
* * #
Chandler’s Creek, Dalmorton, N.S.W., 40 tons,
57ozs. ; a thin reef with several shoots of stone, the con-
sistently good crushings from which just enables the
mine to pay its way.
# # *
The Australian Broken Hill Consols mine,
which, in 1891 and 1892, produced some immense slugs of
native silver and paid several dividends on its 500,000
shares, has not struck anything worth having for a long
time, and the prospect of another div. is very remote.
The East Consols, and several other claims of the Consols
tribe, vhichyvere floated mainly on the reputation of the
original Co., have so far found nothing but occasional
stringers of galena and minute—very minute—patches of
fahlerz and native silver.
# * •
Another attempt to treat the Junction North
sandstone by chloridising and leaching by the ammonia
process has resulted in comparative failure. A parcel of
38 tons of the ore, averaging 45 oz., was dealt with,
giving a return of 1000 ozs. fine silver, and another 250
ozs. from by-products, equal to about 33 ozs. per ton.
Not more than 6 ozs. per ton should be lost in the tailings,
and the Metal Extraction Co., which conducted the ex-
periment, is puzzled to account for the loss of the other
6 ozs. It is doubtful what course will be pursued next.
Probably the ore will, in time, be successfully treated,
but just now public confidence in the property is at its
lowest.
* * *
The Melbourne money-lender who is in financial
straits offers his creditors 2s. in the £ down and 3s. yearly
for six years, with no shixty per shent added.
In reply to numerous correspondents, it is
notified that another missing-word competition
will be provided by The Bulletin next week.
Makin, the Sydney Herod, is to be hanged.
His wife has been reprieved.
John Haynes says journalism is the best
training the practical politician can receive. He
instances, in proof, the careers of Forster, Martin,
Parkes and himself.
The crowd who hang around the present
Queensland Ministry are mostly “stiffs,” with a
prospective finger in the land-grant pie. It will
be a sad day for them if MTlwraith falls.
Last Monday Dean Macartney (C. of E.),
Melbourne, entered upon his 96th year. His
father was a member of the old Irish Parliament
and the Dean fondly hopes to see the Parliament
there again before he dies.
Kingsbury, M‘llwraith’s political partner
for North Brisbane, considers “20 years’ com-
mercial experience ” a telling qualification. Not
bad from a director of the recently-defunct Deposit
Bank, and a founder of Brentnall’s consultation.
Mr. H. Y. Arrowsmith, long the energetic
and popular Sydney representative of Messrs.
John Scott and Co., has received a handsome fare-
well testimonial from the firm’s employees. Mr.
Arrowsmith’s forceful personality is now devoted
to the interests of Messrs. Turner and Henderson.
The Globe Portrait Co., Oxford-street,
Sydney, who have been working the “free-portrait”
game, have collided with a snag in the local
police-court, in a case wherein they sued for
ij6 10s. The police-magistrate, in entering a non-
suit, spoke of the company’s methods as jpere
swindling.
Trickett, M.L.C., who has been showing
such fine fighting form on the wrong side in
N.’S.W. Council of late, is fond of the phrase,
“We Englishmen.” In point of fact, be is a
native of Gibraltar, and would, if all countries had
their due, be a Spaniard.
During ’93 the population of Australasia
showed an increase of 85,452, or nearly 21-5 per
cent, of the population—a gain less than that of
any other year since ’5l. N.S. Wales alone
added 31,750 persons to her population, or about
37 per cent, of the total Australasian increase.
If the N.S.W. Ministry get the £45,000
libel damages and costs claimed against the
Sydney D.T., they should “take it out ” in shares
and turn the D.T. right round to a Protectionist
organ. By the way, Treasurer See is already, and
hifs long been, a shareholder, and so is suing him-
self for libel.
The Sydney “ Empire Defence Associ-
ation,” still in the egg, is to be a branch of the
British organisation of the same name—anti-Home
Rule and so on. It will have at its back all the
“ representative citizens ” who have “the highest
stake,” the fattest steal, “in the interest of the
community.” It will be twin-brother of the
National Ass.


mxrrvram
naXKCvEwI
mm
ovw
FOltlllCi.V A A IST KAI.A SI A \
STAMPS.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 all post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Rare stamps bought.
VINDIN <sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot ,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
IN THE MIDST OF LIFE WE ARE IN
Death.—This indicates the unexpectedness of the
grim visitant. We either neglect to tonify the
system or over-excite it by phlogistic draughts.
Use Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Tte * * YOST ’ ’ Typewriter.
UfZ
,u ,’llßJj=g=»=
NO RIBBON. PERFECT ALIGNMENT,
All parts best Steel, and Interchangeable.
Commercial Machines take any sized paper up to 9Jin.
wide.
Brief Machines take paper up to 15in. wide, and write
a line 12in. long. . *
An extra NARROW Carriage (interchangeable) can also
be supplied with Brief Machines.
DIRECT PRINTING.
&T REGULAR INKING.
The YOST TYPEWRITER CO.,
126 Pitt-st., Sydney ; and 144 Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
Personal Items.
Lilley is 63 years of age.
Isidor Lissner, M‘llwraith’s Minister for
Mines in posse, is 4ft. lOin. in height.
Simpson Newland, at one time S.A-
Treasurer, is trying to publish a novel in London
The first Queensland railway, from Ipswich
to Grandehester, was built by the father of the
present Lord Brassey.
Of the first eight names on the Melbourne
Register of the Commercial Bank of Australia,
five arc those of clergymen.
Ibsen’s latest psychological novel, “ Th e
Master Builder,” is advertised in a Melbourne
daily as “The Masher Builder.”
The Maoriland Wesleyan Conference has
“ resolved to send a letter of condolence to the
late Rev. Mr. Doull.” Address unstated.
Justice Harding (Q.) didn’t appear at
“the Bar’s” picnic to Griffith, CJ. Excuse—
“ Absent in Ipswich.” Lilley’s—“ 111-health.”
Wm. Forrest, who supersedes Garrick as
Queensland Agent-General, has a brother a Q.N.
Bank-inspector. Another brother of his is the
Westralian Premier.
Bishop Kennion (Adelaide) married a
sister of Sir James Ferguson and is now off to
England to see what is to be done for him there by
his influential relatives.
Prince Georgie and Princess May are to
have the furniture that was procured for Prince
“ Eddy ” and Princess May, and they are having
some trouble digging Clarence’s monogram off the
articles.
“J.M.D.” in the Argus: “Robert Duff
is gifted by nature for vice-regal office, being a
handsome and distinguished" looking man of the
retired naval officer type.” Now we know why
Jersey was sent to us.
Ednie Brown’s father is a still better
authority on Forestry than is the Slattery re-
trenchment victim. Brown pere is a considerable
author, and resides in England. That is the nexus
between Parkes and Ednie.
Christie Murray (says The Bulletin’s
London correspondent) has been seriously ill, but
after a course at Matlock Bath has returned to
London quite a new man. He has two novels and
still another play on the stocks.
A superior police-official makes it known
that, years ago, a present N.S.W. Minister of the
Crown applied for the blue jacket and white
gloves, but was, on examination, rejected by
reason of educational deficiencies.
The wealthy John Hall (alias “ The Grid-
iron ”), high-priest of Maoriland Conservatism,
works night and day in the cause of female
suffrage—he believes the local Conservatives will
otherwise never again hold power. He is always
prating about “honour” in the House, and is
easily shocked.
Fergus Hume may
or may not be a novelist,
but he has cool, calm,
solid front. Once, in
Dunedin, ere he appeared
in Melbourne, he was
out with some “boys,”
who*“ lifted ” a gorgeous
gate from the residence
of a well-known Hebrew,
which gate they flung
into the fish-pond attach-
ed to the asylum kept
by Dr. Hume (Fergus’s
father). Next day ap-
peared an advt. threaten-
ing penalties and offer-
ing two guineas reward
for information as to
the gate’s whereabouts.
Fergus called on the
Hebrew, saying he had
seen the advt., and had
called for the reward : a
gate answering the des-
cription was floating in
the asylum pond. The
Hebrew and Fergus set
out for the pond. The
Hebrew got the gate
and Fergus got the
guineas, which that night
were drunk to the health
of “ the provider of the
feast,” the company
keeping its hat on.
There is a lying
anecdote to the effect
that “Mister” James
Fairfax was lately asked
when he intended, in
view of other newspaper
reductions, to sell the
S.M. Herald for a
penny. “The Herald
for a penny /” he ex-
claimed —and then, after
a pause, added in a
thoughtful tone,_“Well,
I might possibly be
reasoned into doing it,
but my dramatic critic
might take offence and
resign.”
They say that brother William persuaded
Joseph CUrke to let Clara Parker do her worst in
the “ malicious prosecution ” case, although poor
Joseph protested that another roasting in the wit-
ness-box would be the death of him.
Charles Rischbeith, who died in Adelaide
recently, was one of the directors of the ill-fated
Commercial Bank of S.A., of which the famous
Crooks was the pious manager. Rischbeith’s death
was ascribed to liver-disease, which, being inter-
preted, meant worry.
George Coppin’s directorate of the Com-
mercial Bank was disastrous to many old pals.
Harwood, Grevillo, Dicky Stewart, father and
son, Maggie Stewart, Henry Holmes and George
Chapman are all on the share-list, as are eight of
the ladies of Coppin’s family.
Premier Patterson attended an amateur
performance of “Caste” atCastlemaineon Easter
Monday night, and was so affected by the pathe-
tic passages of that dull satire on the working-
man that he shed tears, and openly wiped them
from his face with his handkerchief.
It is notable that “Tasma’s” maiden
fictional effort—not at all a brilliant one—was
made in the old Australian Journal about the
same time as Clarke’s “Natural Life ” began to
appear there. “ Tasma’s ” contribution was a
sketch of a visit to North Queensland.
It is asserted in Maitland, N.S.W., that a
well-connected miser, who died wretchedly in a
garret while imprisoned by the water during flood-
time, endeavoured to carve his will, with a pen-
knife, upon a brick on the window-sill. Failing a
will, very wealthy Sydney people inherit.
There is one Adelaide politician whose
wife refuses to live with him, because of the com-
prehensiveness of his heart. Yet she is working
hard to secure his re-election to Parliament.
Perhaps magnanimously anxious to give him an
innocent method of spending his evenings.
It is averred that Justice Boucaut, of
Adelaide (S. A.), refused to take a K.C.M.G. when
in England, because the Colonial Office would not
forego the fees. His reverence for money is
proved by the fact that, on Wednesday, April 5,
he gave a man five years’ gaol for stealing £2 6s.
Kingston, the globe - trotter, at Melb.
Commercial Bank shareholders’ meeting ; “ I am
a Unitarian —One God and One Bank.” The god
and the bank are one ? Manager Turner, by the
way, is a Unitarian, and his sister, Miss Turner,
for years acted as local clergyman of that denomi-
nation.
Parkes was lately offered a large sum in
cash—<£2oo was named—by a patent-medicine
proprietary for the privilege of using his name as
a testimonial for one of their medicines. The old
man admits that the stuff benefited him on one
occasion, but, with characteristic ingratitude,
says there was little the matter with him at the
time.
A link with the long past snapped at
Homebush, Sydney, last week. Mrs. Richard
Driver, senior, who died at 86 years, was a native
of Sydney and mother of the late “ Dickey ”
Driver, attorney, sportsman and legislator. The
late Driver, senior, was also a native of Sydney,
having been born in Chapel Row —now Oastle-
reagh-street.
Apropos the latest Maoriland slow-poison-
ing case, the name of Scott is becoming notorious
in the annals of Australasian crime. Offhandedly,
memory records the names of “ Moonlight ”
Scott, and Scott, the Sussex-street murderer, to
whom is now added this “ Bdrgia ” Scott. If
Scotts were as plentiful as Smiths, society would
have to exterminate them.
Those who know Governor Duff (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent) say that
he is sure to be popular. He is quiet and unas-
suming, with' a certain agreeable amount of hon-
hommie acquired in the gun-room of a man-oVwar.
He has abundant, means, too, and is by no means
“ near.” He is somewhat given to sport, and
though he may not start a stud, will smile on
racing.
o
SLOW RETURNS.
SOLICTTOR: “The defence of your friend will cost a considerable sum
in advance for retaining-fees.”
BURCLAR: “Well, that’s unfortunate. You see, the swag has been
sent to be melted down, and it’ll take at least a week
to get the stuff.”
The N.S.W. Bar claims the champion high-
faluter. For instance: “ Gentlpmen of the jury,
I ask you for God Almighty’s sake, for Jesus
Christ’s sake, who came down "on earth to die for
rich and poor alike, for MY sake, gentlemen, I
ask you to acquit the prisoner.” The prisoner
was acquitted and the question arose—for which
person of the Trinity ?
The sleek, shiny, puffy Dr. Bevan passes
for 60, but is only 51. Fat Father Paul, in
Sheridan’s “ Duenna,” says, “ A plague of sighing
and grief—it blows a man up like a bladder.”
Bevan is the image of Maurel’s makeup for
Falstaff, in Verdi’s new opera. Factor Knipe
has fancied himself like Bevan, but is, for another
absurdity, as much like Bob Brough.
N.S.W. Attorney - General Barton was
probe’d as to the intentions of tffo Government
respecting missing - word competitions. “ The
publishers will be—” he responded, blandly, and
then ducked under the table to pick up an enve-
lope. “ Will be what ?” said the interviewer—
“ignored, prosecuted, or what?” “ Oh, go and
find the missing word !” responded “Toby.”
From a Liverpool (Eng.) paper :
PLEASE Take Notice, I, THOMAS BAILEY DEEM-
ING, of 2 Victoria-road, Higher Tranmere, and
23 School-lane, Liverpool, will henceforth be known
as THOMAS BAILEY only, and rny family will adopt
the surname Bailey. 15th February, 1893.
Which only proves how quickly one’s nearest
friends forget one after the last sad rites have
been performed.
Premier Dibbs’ bankruptcy schedule state-
ment that he is “ out of business,” contrasts with
the stereotype of the late Hugh M‘Ooll,
whose memory is now honoured as that of the
father of Victorian irrigation. On all documents
which required the information, he subscribed him-
self, under the head of business, “ Member of
Parliament.” Hugh M'Coll was right; and a
time will come when a bankruptcy registrar will
return such a schedule as that of Premier Dibbs for
amendment in that particular.
o
LONDON, April 3. —Colonel North’s famous grey-
hound Fullerton, which was missing, has been
found. The dog was wandering, footsore, at
Oxted, Surrey.— Cablegram.
Kate Marsden, ,nce of Maoriland, the
“ Siberian leper’s friend ” (she is believed, by the
way, also to be a pretty good friend to Miss Kate
Marsden aforesaid), has got somewhat out of
favour in England. This is the lady who, not
long ago, caused much sensation by her descrip-
tion of how she rode through the Siberian snows
for two months on a wooden saddle and couldn’t
get a bath the whole time. But now the British
public have sized Kate up, and are becoming tired
of that pushing self-advertiser.
Dr. Youll, Melbourne’s City Coroner, who
has held 12,000 inquests in 40 years, is retiring on
his cypresses. Youll is a man of aphorisms.
Pointing, at a post-mortem, to a section of the
engorged liver of a suicide, Youll, loq. : “ Gentle-
men, many a man has been taken from the arms
of Beelzebub and planted in the bosom of Abraham
by a blue-pill and a black-draught.” Dr. Youll,
by the way, is much annoyed at having to retire.
He doesn’t mind the matter of salary much, but
dreads the loss of congenial society.
When Anthony Trollope was at Grenfell
(N.S.W,), a picnic in his honour was got up near
the Weddin Mountains. Things went swim-
mingly until a boisterous bushy-bearded sheep-
owner, on being introduced to the novelist,
exclaimed : “I can assure you, Trollope, I have
read several of your novels ! ” Trollope eyed him
for a moment, and then dryly replied; “I’m
afraid you must have had very little to do.” For
an hour after this the silence was so horribly pro-
found that a cat could have been heard sneezing
in the distant township of Oowra.
Harry Berkeley Fitzhardinge, of the well-
known N.S.W. family of that name, the Wagga
solicitor decapitated by a railway - truck on
Saturday night, had been four times Mayor of
Wagga, and, had he chosen, could have been
Mayor to the end of the chapter. He locally held
an almost unique reputation as a “ safe man,” en-
joyed a splendid legal practice and was the busi-
ness adviser and depositary of the secrets of an
enormous number of people. It would appear
that deceased was struck down while crossing the
line, but exactly how the catastrophe occurred will
probably never be revealed.
Clara Parker, suing millionaire Joe Clarke
for damages for malicious prosecution, omitted to
complain of her mysterious “spiriting away”
from Melbourne Gaol. Neither was Clarke’s
counsel instructed to refer to Clara’s historical
“ absconding from her bail.” Both sides, appar-
ently, agreed to cover up the incident with the
impenetrable statement that Clara “ went away
and came back,” and the conditions under which
she departed from and returned to prison are to
remain open to conjecture only. As for the Law,
it positively glories in having been treated with
contempt, and may be described as winking both
eyes at once.
Editor Bulletin, —You criticise an article
by “ Ladel Barnes Gustafsen ” as the work of a
man. This is surely Zadel Barnes Gustafsen, the
long-named [temperance and social-gimlet crank,
who was in Australia in 1890. Zadel was, prior to
her visit here, an editress, in, I think, Ohio, U.S.,
and I once owned a volume of her verses. She
was a pretty little woman, of under thirty, who
habitually wore, in the street, a dress cut low in
the neck, and looked more like a soubrette actress
than a Woman’s Rights propagandist—indeed, she
boro a slight resemblance to Pattie Brown. As
regards her gush over Jungun, it is probably only
a faked-up yarn to fit a vacant column.—M‘G.
“ Griffith,” drivels a Bananaland daily,
“is essentially domestic. He is also a man of
highly cultivated tastes and a passionate devotee
of Swinburne.” It is also recorded in the
recently-published “Memoirs of Calcraft, the
Hangman ” : “ He (Calcraft) was a tender parent
and devoted grandfather—fond of flowers, pigeons
and pet animals.” Which all reminds the present
writer that when once he went to interview Nosey
Bob, the Sydney stipendiary man-butcher, at his
private residence, Nosey pointed to his trim
garden and said ; “Next time yer come, bring the
missus and I’ll give ’er a big bunch o’ flowers.”
If people who are troubled with colds will tale
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral before going to church,
they will avoid coughing. The Pectoral soothes
and heals the irritated tissues, and controls all
disposition to cough.
Matthias Larkin, the South Melbourne
swindler, has, they say, found his way into a
“ soft ” portion of Pentridge Gaol. He keeps the
ledgers, or looks after the library, or does some
other easy, gentlemanly task. Yet one would
have thought that Larkin, having stolen in cold
blood the savings of several policemen and of
many relatives of prison warders, would at least
be compelled to “ do his bit ” to the full extent of
its paper value. Matthias was such a systematic,
absorber of everybody’s cash —the poorer the vic-
tim the more gaily he robbed him or her—that no
ordinary bank-director is fraudulent enough to be
named in the same breath with the rascal. And
he keeps the books ! Well, luckily the Recording
Angel keeps books likewise.
The enthusiastically-outspoken Socialism of
Prof. Bickerton, of the Chair of Physics, Canter-
bury College (M.L.), would do him much harm
but for his personal popularity. At a recent
scientific meeting he seemed disinclined to refer to
the Bible as an authority. This angered a clergy-
man, who wanted to know if the Professor had
ever read St. Matthew. “Yes, some time ago,”
replied Mr. Bickerton. “ Then,” said the re-
verend, “ read it again and tell us what you think
of it at next meeting.” When the time came, the
parson fished diligently for the Professor’s opinion.
“It is full of a beautiful morality—l never read
anything which so delighted me,” said the enthu-
siastic Professor —“ indeed, so impressed am I
that when the census is next taken I shall enter
myself as a Christian.” “Good heavens! what
did you call yourself before ?” cried the alarmed
pastor. “Oh, a member of the Church of Eng-
land !”
Two In Memoriams in the Age, of 4th
inst., are to the glory of Annie Coffin and
John Hearse. This should have been a
matrimonial announcement.
Dear Bulletin, —Lately you made
kindly post-mortem reference to that well-
known Northern man, old Sam Croker,
who has just gone “farther out.” He was
the best-hearted fellow going, and probably
the quickest whip - maker in Australia—a
green - hide artist par excellence . He was a
good shot, too, and must have had an idea
of this himself. One day, we were practising
at a tree. Croker was firing, but somehow
did not make such good work as he ex-
pected. Later on, someone heard a rasp-
ing noise down near the river, and, investigat-
ing, found Sam filing off a few inches of his
Snider-barrel! He said that he couldn’t
make out how the thing had got crooked.—
Mulga.
Sir George Baden Powell—pronounce it
“ Bad-un Pool ” —who poses as an authority
on all “colonial” matters, is engaged (writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent) to a
daughter of Mr. Charles Wilson, a brother of
Salmon, and an old Victorian identity. The bride-
elect’s pa is very rich ; Baden Powell is ambitious
and poor. He spent some time in Australia, was
frequently in Sydney in the seventies, and was a
bosom pal of “ Willie ” Stephen, then in the Lands
Office. Powell is not friendly with Henniker
Heaton—perhaps because he is just such another
pushing fellow, but he holds a strong position with
the Conservatives and is marked as a man who will
get on. It is possible that he will end his days as
a colonial Governor. He is alert and a very good
speaker. [The cableman reports Mr. Powell as
having married a daughter of Salmon Wilson.]
Weak Nerves.
Nervous prostration has become one of the pre-
vailing diseases of the day. Especially are young
girls, who ought not to know that they have any
nerves, the helpless victims of it. But when we
think what is expected of school-girls now, it does
not seem so strange that many droop by the way.
Read the list of studies pursued in our best
schools, and which it is expected will be mastered, or
rather “gone through with,” in a specified time.
History, literature, art, science, languages, music,
painting, dancing, &c. —the sum is appalling. A
recital of lessons required in nearly every division
of the school-hours, making necessary either
practice or study nearly every hour at home. No
wonder the poor girl’s nerves are prostrated before
she leaves the schoolroom. She cannot think, she
has no time for it; she cannot sleep, the whirl of
the tired brain will not stop long enough, and
unless timely recourse is had to a restorative
treatment, brain paralysis is sure to set in. Over-
work, worry, grief, trouble, and anxiety fill more
lunatic asylums and graves than any other cause;
the only reliable specific for such diseases is Clem-
ents Tonic. It is a radical, safe and sure remedy
for all complaints arising from general debility,
not a cure-all, but a real specific for these com-
plaints. It will cure others as it cured Mr. W.
R. Pickett, Hinton, N.S.W., who writes, February
23rd, 1893: —I have been a great sufferer from
neuralgia; I tried various remedies without
deriving any benefit. My attention was drawn to
the cures effected by Clements Tonic in the above
complaint. Like thousands of others I had no
faith in it, but I resolved to try it, but, wonderful
to state, before I had finished the third bottle I
found myself entirely cured. I believe it is the only
cure in the world for neuralgia. I have proved its
virtues, and am only too happy to add my testi-
mony to the numbers of others you have already
received. You are at liberty to make what use
you like of this. lam a native of this district, and
anyone who reads the above will take it for a
genuine statement. —I remain, Yours gratefully,
W. R. Pickett, Hinton, N.S.W.


Name.
Acres.
Unimproved
Value,
Hawker
84,042
£224.720
Bowman
110,030
271,830
Dr. Browne and Son ..
141,017
508.380
Rlddoch
03,349
210,030
Anwa
78,020
220,100
Robertson
84.820
209,740
Sanders, James and Co.
08,000
170,218
J. Muslin
52,432
131,158
McCulloch ..
74,895
190,478
Dutton
70,323
211,282
J. Clarke
88,004
181,678
Huirhos
42,004
118,014
Duffield
43,168
103,082
Duncan
49,904
115,100
Mi-Kurlutie ..
42.491
71,972
Willow'ie CIo.
44,591
80,208
Melrose
40,233
100,434
Bowler
30,202
15,804
R. It, Smitli ..
32,082
00,152
Murray
37.088
105,932
A. Smith
30,035
35,680
T. C. Ellis ..
85,416
77,(580
Gardiner
27,402
fit DOS
Hutchinson ..
..
86,789
00,312
Harris
20,541
10,446
'(iftldjaw .,
28,871
■17,712
Sir \V. JervoU
24,360
48,720
Gebhatxit,
2U.731
81,8116
Mainrey
Baker
4*
24,014
39,022
28.029
78,388
A. B. Murray
M
28,837
87,4416
MrBain ..
24,805
58,102
Dickson
S3,70S
56,134
Australian Minin# Co.
19,791
81.634
Morris
to 113
24,211
Keynes x,
Crowe
It
HI 913
88/184
tS. ISO
10,218
Lawson ..
13,005
34,686
T. Scott.
S.A. Mortgttxe Co. ..
17,Mil
85,104
10,138
32,206
W. Gilbert ..
19,743
50,760
l,W0,5t8
£4,112,am
PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
R-oyal ArcadLe, Sydney.
c <x>
Messrs. Chariemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
gains rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
will without doubt establish itself* very soon as
the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
THE BANK IS NEXT TO THE CHURCH.
The one is the deposit for onr earthly and the
other for our spiritual effects. Wolfe’s Schnapps
combines both the spiritual and physical welfare
of the patient for whom it is prescribed.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1,
PEMELI/S
A.U.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
22 A 24 t'lsircncc-Strcfl.
SYDNEY.
o
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
o
POLITICAL POINTS
Queensland’s chance—A Lilley-white Aus-
tralia.
Griffith is now about to have his revenge
upon MTlwraith.
Wanted—an Act to limit the number of
lawyers in Parliament.
Barton favours a N.S.W. Legislative
Council nominated for a term instead of for life.
There is a ripening probability of the
electorates downing or crippling the MTlwraith
gang this time.
How long would Balfour & Co. have per-
mitted the evicted tenants of Connemara to drill
by moonlight ?
MTlwraith cynically manifestoes the Bris-
bane electors that he will do all he can “ to stimu-
late the settlement of land.”
In N.S.W., an insolvent alderman cannot
be re-elected “ until certificated.” Yet uncertifi-
cated bankrupts sit in Parliament.
Jawbone Neild, M.P., is of opinion that
G. H. Reid will not be the next N.S.W. Premier.
“The mirror for the gentleman, Mary !”
According to Premier Dibbs, every night’s
sitting of the N.S.W. Parliament costs the country
£5OO. “Retrenchment ” may be spelt “gag.”
Miss Shaw is careful to go with The Times.
She writes of Victoria ; “Labour alone retains its
‘boom’ value, thus presenting various obstacles
to a revival of industry.” Miss Shaw’s ignorance
of Australian affairs has been greatly intensified
by her visit.
To the argu-
ment that a Pre-
mier, whether the
insolvent Parkes
or the insolvent
Dibbs, who can-
not successfully
managehis private
monetary affairs
should not be en-
trusted with the
management of
thenation’s affairs
the reply is that
the two positions
are unlike in all
theiressentials. In
his private life he
speculates in some
fashion or another
and may thus in-
cur insolvency;
but, as Premier,
he merely keeps
the national field
clear for specula-
tors. Money lost
by an insolvent is
rarely more than
a private loss ; it
goes from him to
another and in
other’s hands may
fructify to better
national advan-
tage. As a Pre-
mier, therefore,
his personal insol-
vency is on a
wholly different
plan to that on
which his official
duties lie. His
private business
consists in compe-
tition with other
private indivi-
duals ; his public
business, in afford-
ing legal facilities
to competitors
and collecting from the body the expenses of
Government.
Ex- Agent-General Garrick (Q.) is only an
aristocratic toady the less. With Griffith’s shelv-
ing, Griffithism, of which he was respresentative,
falls.
Q. political probabilities—a Radical party
led by Lilley with a strong Labour tailing. Op-
position—the politically-defuuct Pure-merino-cum-
Syndicatist gang perhaps led by MTlwraith.
Of the team of political eunuchs (it reminds
one of an old-time Parkes Ministry) with whom
MTlwraith faces the electorates, Byrnes repre-
sents the Catholic clique, and Barlow the William
of Orange crowd.
Barlow, the new Queensland Minister for
Lands, graduated from the Ipswich (Q.) debating-
class, and savours of it. He is the author of that
Chinese puzzle, the contingent vote—tacked on to
the last Queensland Election Act.
There is an unaccountable apathy in
Queensland re matters political. With the most
momentous conflict in the province’s history im-
pending, the people show an utterly appalling
lack of interest in the campaign, writes aNorthern
correspondent. It would seem as if the recent
calamities, blow upon blow, have almost stupefied
them.
Ex-Minister Hodgkinson talks of starting
a weekly paper in Brisbane. The Queensland
democracy are obliged to him for having demon"
strated to them the real character of the politician
who will be at the head of that paper.
Ulster (read Bluster) won’t fight. In any
case, it should not be the policy of the Home
Rulers to take up arms in civil war. Their plan
now is to proceed to enlist by hordes and droves
in every regiment of the British army.
Maoriland Government, which is pledged
to borrow no more for two years (making five
years in all), has in two years made up £440,000
leeway out of current revenue. It expects a
£200,000 surplus this year.
Writes the Argus’s own Jeames from
London : “On the principle that missionaries, as
a rule, are vaccinated before leaving this country
for foreign stations, it has been suggested that
Mr. Robert Duff should be created a peer at
once. ”
All the S.A. elections, save those for
Flinders and the Northern Territory, take place
to-day (Saturday, April 15). The only unopposed
seat is that of John Hannah Gordon, who stands
for the Southern division in the Legislative
Council.
The Victorian Government has got itself
into a nasty position with its “ restoration of con-
fidence ” farce. It went through the form, so to
speak, of backing a bill which, on presentation a
week or two later, was publicly dishonoured with
great ignominy.
The long : winded Jawbone Neild, cackling
exponent of miserable puns, scornfully alluded to
the “domino party” as the knot of N.S.W.
members addicted to playing dominoes instead of
listening to debate. “ You drive us to it,” ejacu-
lated “ Jupp ” Gardiner.
Premier Patterson (Vic.) has resolved to
wipe out the splendid official maee-bearer, and let
the plain usher bear the bauble. We begin to
admire Patterson. The work of the patriot who
stole the rnace is almost accomplished. Now, if he
would but steal the Speaker’s wig!
A spectacle unique as the late Kanakilgriff
is that of the good-looking and pious Kingsbury
and the apoplectic epicurean MTlwraith running
in the same leash for North Brisbane. Beauty
and the beast ! Mealy-mouth and ferocity !
Gristle and blubber! Pallor and blossoms !
The Central Queensland Labour camp is
split up into two hostile factions, one strenuously
/// 'th r
J EjMflfr
RESTAURANT
HA, SH AT All I4olirs_
VICE-ROYALTY AND THE HASH QUESTION.
The worst about the Governor-designate of N.S. Wales is, according
to a Sydney man about to open a restaurant, that his name makes such a
deplorable sign. “The Carington, the Elgin, the Jersey, the Duff!” he
mutters, and for the time being he is a man without loyalty.
advocating Electoral Reform before Separation,
the other fiercely denouncing such a policy.
Fiscal issue in N.S.W.—Separation in Queens-
land—these are the bttnes of the Labour cause.
The Maoriland Ministry has almost been
wrecked by internal dissensions following on the
appointment to the magistracy of an influential
solicitor of malodon us reputation.
One of the significant signs of the time B
is the tacking labourwards of Toowoomba (Q.)
Chronicle, owned by Groom, the wiliest and most
continuous M.P. in the province.
J. Medway Day, ex-co-editor of the S.A.
Register and now proprietor of the Voice, is ex-
pected to be returned at the S.A. general election
as colleague of Attorney-General Homburg at
Gumeracha. Three renegade parsons are standing
for the district besides a minister of the Crown.
That perambulating evangelist, Hugh
Price Hughes, is starring Lancashire, Eng. We
discover his pious fist in the Oldham Standard :
“A purely secular system of education in our
Australian colonies has produced the most fright-
ful demoralisation among the children of the
cities.”
The Royal Colonial Institute will probably
be eaten up by the Prince of Wales’ fad, the more
pretentious Imperial Institute. The Colonial
Institute having served its purpose, in getting Sir
Frederick Young his title, will probably go under.
Young, by the way, was once a coppersmith in
the city of London.
Donald Cormack forcibly submits as an
argument for Federation the circumstance that
those concerned in South Australia and Queens-
land are moving towards the liquidation of the
Commercial Bank of Australia, while the head
office in Victoria is making an heroic effort to
reconstruct upon an investment basis.
The unemployed applicant for relief in
Queensland is almost sure to obtain it if he can
only state that he served in the “ Defence Eorce ’’
during the shearers’ strike. At St. Lawrence an
applicant so qualified was recently found to be
possessed of three horses and a bank balance. For
of such are the kingdom of scabdom and its pro-
tectors.
“ Works ” Lyne (N.S.W.) threatens to
discharge, under the plea of necessary retrench-
ment, some 300 more officers in addition to about
100 who have already been told to go, and pro-
phesies that the coming winter will witness in
Sydney a hitherto unparalleled number of unem-
ployed who can expect no assistance from the
present Government.
Party Government— i.e., Parkes-y Govern-
ment, Government by crack of the stockwhip—is
smashed in N.S. Wales, and is being smashed all
over Australia. “ Two are company, three are
none.” The Democratic party plays gooseberry.
Seduction, to use a brutal but forceful image, is
impossible in presence of a third party. “Oh ! ”
groan the old-established politicians, “ Oh, for the
good old times when we sat together in the dark !”
Melbourne Age is at its old game—draw-
ing attention to the fearful cost of the Mercantile
Bank proceedings. The Age, seemingly, would
shake its head over the prosecution of any set of
men whose influence and money were used to the
utmost extent in protracting the trial. The case
against Matthew Davies & Co. can be put into a
nutshull, and it is the defendants’ counsel who
create a dust of irrelevancy around the main facts,
and are permitted to talk, talk, talk against time.
Henry Lucy tells how he saw Mr. and
Mrs. Gladstone, like Darby and Joan, in quaint
homeliness of dress, “doing” St. James’ Park
(London), in a one-horse shay, “ with driver and
groom in seedy uniforms, for which evidently no
tailor had fitted them.” “Surely,” remarks
Lucy, “the humblest in appearance of all there
gathered, yet carrying the fortunes of the most
illustrious man in Europe.” It reads like a
picture of the American democracy in the days of
President Abe Lincoln.
Charles Beer, the ridiculous person who is
opposing Kingston, Q. 0., at West Adelaide,
writes in his election address, “ I court no favours
and fear no frowns, but if elected I will be worth
more than <£loo,ooo to the country.” At a recent
meeting an amendment to the ordinary motion
was carried to the effect that “ Mr. Beer is a fit
and proper person to be removed to Parkside
Lunatic Asylum.” All this humour is on the
Democratic side. A Tory is simply a person who
can’t see a joke.
“Money” Miller’s son, Edward, was
elected to Vic. Legislative Council last week by
more than a 2 to 1 majority over his opponent.
Miller carried the day all along the line of the
Melbourne electorate from high-toned Kew and
St. Kilda to radical Emerald Hill and Sandridge.
These are times when the man who is known to
be very wealthy and not known to have done any-
thing “ cronk,” gets returned on the safety ticket.
Besides, the family connection with a bank (Vic-
toria) that hasn’t failed, counted equal to any
number of enlightened political principles.
Ex-Secretary Balfour’s recent speeches
justifying civil war in Ireland, make it seem as if
Gladstone can tolerate from his political enemies
that which would cost his Democratic supporters
their liberty. Imagine a few thousand workers,
indignant at some proposed legislation, drilling
nightly with the avowed object of armed resist-
ance—and imagine their leaders, Burns and Mann,
openly advising them to resort to force! Such
leaders would be gaoled and their meetings
dispersed at the point of the bayonet, for, although
they might be Gladstone’s political supporters,
they would be his class enemies.
Under the “arrangement” made by the
Adelaide daily papers, in re reporting Parlia-
mentary candidates’ speeches, Jesus Christ, if
nominated for a district, would be reported to the
extent of a third of a column only, while Judas
Iscariot, who carried the bag and, therefore, was
able to pay, would get eight columns. As a
matter of tact, money-lender Cohen did get eight
columns, while Labour-nominee M‘Pherson had
to be content with one-third of a column. News-
papers, nowadays, are mere business speculations,
and their representatives, when they stand up in
public and claim to be disinterested philan-
thropists and patriots, should be howled down
and pelted with bottles.
The following 41 families and companies
own more than one-fifth of the “ freehold ” land
in South Australia :
Minister of Justice O’Connor (N.S.W.) on
Salomons, Q.C. :
“Mr. Salomons, he thought, had not ever shown that
his opinion had any value. His actions had never shown
that he was more than a will-of-the-wisp on the surface of
the political waters, without principle or fixed habitation
which would identify him for a moment with any set of
men or members.
In a word, the Wandering Jew. There have been
and are great Jewish Radicals—the greatest the
world has ever seen. But the Jew, generically,
has no political principle, no fixed political habita-
tion, no political opinions save those which neces-
sarily go hand-in-hand with the predatory desire.
Most of the far Northern papers having
got into the hands of mining lawyers and others,
the newly-established Eagle proceeds to uphold,
at Charters Towers, the banner of white and
Republican Australia. The editor is Mr. R. M.
Cochrane (“ Alaric ”), author of those stirring
and well-known verses, “A Village Commune,”
lately reprinted in The Bulletin. Let the men
of the North remember that no newspaper owned
by boodlers can possibly be honest. Everything
depends upon who owns, very little upon who
edits, a newspaper. That which a man owns he
will control, whether it be a newspaper or a
brothel—frequently convertible terms.
4isf-
—fee
ALL “ON THE CROSS.”—A BULLETIN
DISCOVERY.
The famous Monsieur X., of Panama peculation
notoriety, the question of whose identity now
disturbs Europe.
Dear Bulletin, —The attempt of Tom
Curran, M.P., to take his seat in the Commons
without an escort of two members, reminds me
that Dr. Keneally, on his election for Stoke-
upon-Trent in ’74, advanced to the bar of the
House (by the way, no introduction save sixpence
was ever needed at Tom Curran’s bar), and de-
manded to take the oath, without being intro-
duced. A debate ensued, in which Disraeli (then
Premier), Bright and others spoke. As it was
supposed that Keneally had some difficulty in
obtaining two members to introduce him, Bright
expressed his willingness to act as one. Eventu-
ally Keneally was allowed to take his seat without
the formality of introduction.—J.M.
Thus M.L.C. Hoskins (N.S.VV.) ; “ When
I looked carefully over the Income Tax Bill, last
night, I said, ‘ I cannot give my assent to a pro-
posal of this kind, because I feel sure that the
working-classes will suffer the most; the amount
of money available to employ labour will be
seriously diminished, the value of property will be
reduced, and general distress will be brought
about.’” Hoskins is first of all a hypocrite in
endeavouring to raise the “ working-man cry ” in
order to save his own income; secondly, he is an
ignorant blatherskite in arguing that the taxation
of wealth will result in the disuse of capital. The
greater the burdens on wealth the greater the
necessity for its replenishment, and, therefore, the
greater demand for the labour necessary to
achieve that result.
Cardinal Moran, on his departure for
Rome, was accompanied to Sydney wharf by an
escort of 100 cadets, in regulation uniform.
The Bulletin submits that the State should
not recognise, or in any way subsidise, any
military corps, junior or senior, which pub-
licly dances attendance on any ecclesiastic.
This is not the first occasion on which a similar
tawdry display has been made on behalf of Car-
dinal Moran —who should no more have any portion
of the military forces of the province placed at
his disposal than should Anglican Bishop Smith,
or the head of the Little Ebenezer. How would
it look, by the way, to see Pastor Hellsnort,
Chaplain of the Orange Black Chapter, accom-
panied towards the gilded saloon where he is to eat
his English frozen turbot and otherwise mortify the
flesh on the way ’Orae, by 100 slipslop gun-armed
hobbledehoys from Derryboy College ?
A toilet luxury in every respect, Ayer’s Hair
Vigor never fails to restore the youthful freshness
and colour to faded and grey hair. It also eradi-
cates dandruff and prevents the hair from falling.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN .
MEAL.


j\R
Q?
1?BEa TMENT OF FIRST
OFFENDERS
Tilt Minister for Justice Has decided to
effect some alterations it> tht method of gaol
treatments accorded to young offenders of
dny age URto 25 years. It has either to been
the .-ustom to giyeprisoucra of this character
separate treatment ‘with the same diet as
that allowed tp other inmates of the gaols.
Mr. O’Connpr V-siievea in shorter terms and
sharper treatment.
As regards fifsS offenders
he is altogether opposed to Jpng
f Jt is a mistake, he chinks, tfcrftr prison yopng
'persons for such a of, titae th*t:.the
. horror of gaol associations gradually wosss
off
5 e^/rfsf ffi*% ‘ %/e..i ? M/f'a 4 fid? c/'er
youff fie/sef-s f 7 7faf /fey fa-Kpo*-
TT/f/y
/r~ /fia.'/fi
• rr
C q °J
o
11l I'K In the- new regulations which he
has had drafted after consultation vyith
prison oihjaala and ..the gaol susgeoiisv'h»
provides that v ip nearly all cases in which a
young otfendefvis sentenced fop a short
period he shall. as far as.
have a diet Of bioad water, with'a piank
tied to lie noon
Mm
The effect
oi the new system will h« closely watched bj
the medical officer?, and i> variations in th’t
treatment he thovrghtnccessiyy in particuiai
instances they will advise accordingly.-
sy o/ajp ee_ y p/ay c ~
p //"
yoau/j,/ 7fr rt'y /f> faa fy*?/
tZy of oAa ps fa
s O/ a //*$ S //>^
w f >< %
W?'! /S
V>vv
>. m
A, lfo O Of Vi 7 *
Ld 2^iyLr.
Jtyjotd Off j ro fif
*W u 'lt£ fneW
y -
i
\
u
A
sft Oh)
h t
i
W* 0/ft-i ft*
/yy/S 6ft a/tew*/ /&
**d£7fi'2 £/ * Joui/ery/r °f cu^
t/fe
-f, o rf* s }
rv> c e **
/W „ *»* o, *‘«'““'''
OS “'’““V® ‘•f '
9 ijo.te A xe^>-
Ns^ 6 . . 9 t\^
fe r '
(■»
/>}
y/ f
[%{i °
y\y
J>rijcper~fa/nr* C
r /p a fa gAs
Q beap of* y&r breach
apd KA Wo t
*T u <s
A N.S.W. MINISTERIAL FAD.


«gr£!s^
Way to~ Ije. lsCsT*
A
A
r
#
*y
m, LONDON, March 30.
- thw mornin S publishes a
, r r °m its special correspondent in
Austral,a dealing with the subject of
Victorian finance.
The writer gqps on to state that'the,
community is as wealthy as its individual'
members are active and energetic/
£ a nxjy Ie s oJ- Clctl i/1‘ (y* and. E nerg"y.
COM^fßcifl
i
Corpses
~Vov* IrtCKv'^,
1 '^ox
,lijdon Oan no
i oec a. s ion*
, 77
Uritko'u.l
<?tybreSf rt s
f Ow.rrnO'i r ~
:i ixnc/W
a tvi »r cZliot'
i-l
4**
/ <*•
cf
"A defcuTat'io n -urc\ts D 5 f Q a t
-i hie. CitV Coronet'"Ur/xo
I ? a.lo oxc r-firs*
vefre n. civ e ci,.
Li
/#
/<£
is/////////'"
in in in I jMißir-————
*■■ yy iy -
__—- ——— jy/fl/s '■'k. ? y
"A hjen to ye fore St Service strode*
T\aX reptile fjarJe Tje\it upcnv,
—nor\e sl|all ever Kill ye to a.
"Wholiatli 3. sTo'ole "to s. \t
* ‘ uy cm_ .
Adahfcd.
' _ai'ic("ent IT"
-^ss
/#
XT
w
$
i
I
*/
r
c
c£
-O-L
a
o
H
v
’ ?7
%
O' P T f O^'
ret
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


o o D S. P E C.
SAFE. PROFITABLE.
The Coining Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushinga, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS. PF.RTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, FROM £lO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Fatal). ISS,'i), «0!» riil-sL, Sydney, S.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: SI. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH. W. A
A GOOD REMEDY.
Wolfe’s Schnapps overcomes many ailments
resulting from overwork or confining occupations,
and counteracts a tendency to diseases very apt to
attack a weakly constitution.
PAUSODONOPTIO SPECTACLES
A.xici Eyeglasses.
mHESEf are the most comfortable and most soothing
■ glasses made, and the best preservatives for the sight.
Send for our Treatise: “Spectacles, their use, when
required, and how to purchase." SENT FREE.
Frost 8l Shipham,
THE SPECTACLE MAKERS,
46;>, 474 & 687 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
Gov. Glasgow, of Maoriland, distributes,
through his Private Secretary, Pat Boyle, Colonel
of that ilk, lithographed forms of appointment to
his tradesfolk. In one Christchurch shop is a
framed appointment, “Mrs. , You are hereby
appointed dressmaker and milliner to His Excel-
lency the Earl of Glasgow.” Boyle ! Boyle-
Roche.
• * *
Scotch dances —reels especially—are the
vogue at Maoriland Government House balls
under the Glasgow regime—the music being sup-
plied by Captain Hunter-Blair, A.D.0., an accom-
plished piper.
9 9#
Australian “society” fuzzes over the pro-
mised visit of the two Imperial and Royal sprouts of
the dunderheaded House of poor, old, tottering, un-
lucky Austria. The Austrian ambassador, “ with
bated breath and whispering humbleness,” passes
the word to Rosebery—Rosebery to Ripon—and
Ripon to Darley, who is told that he’d better mind
his manners, if he ever had any, and not forget
his livery when he ventures into the refulgent
presence of these heaven-born inheritors of weak
heads and rickety constitutions.
9 # *
When meat is frozen too rapidly, it decays
internally, and developes what is technically
known as “bone-stink.” At the Flood-sufferers’
Central Freezing Works, Brisbane Town Hall,
the freezing process at the outset was started at
40deg. below zero, and the executive carcase
quickly encased in a hard crust of impenetrable
frost. When it all comes to be finally dissected,
and the core opened up, the “bone-stink” will,
from all The Bulletin hears, require a big outlay
for disinfectants.
Apropos of the penny
meals now served at a
Sydney Mission church.
In Melbourne (Vic.) there
have long been several
semi - charitable places
where a pint of beef-tea
and a half-brick of bread
can be had for a penny,
and more than one purely
commercial restaurant
where “ sausages and
mashed potatoes ” are
procurable for threepence.
Sydney, too, for years
has boasted several four-
penny restaurants, where
“ three courses ” can be
had for the sum named.
If such things can be
remuneratively possible
with the fourpenny res-
taurateur, one of the
surest ways of making a
rapid little pile should
be the running of a six-
penny hash-house.
o • •
An English magnate
who resided in the Aus-
tralias, a few years since,
made a point of never
appearing in public un-
less in the company of
some wealthy groveller.
It usually happened that
a suffering creditor would
bail up the “ nobleman ”
for his little account,
which the gilded one
would really be only
delighted to pay as a loan.
These loans were never
liquidated, however, and
the game was worked
with unvarying success
during his stay in the
Kawlinies.
# 5 *
A smuggling case,
in which a very, very
prominent official is con-
cerned, was lately hushed
up in a Southern capital.
When the flood-waters came down upon
the Victoria Bridge, Brisbane, and the drift giants
were battering at the structure until it reeled,
crowds assembled and excitedly watched the
spectacle. When interest was at its highest
pitch, a well-known lady remarked, with a voice
of shrill, sorrowful conviction—“ Oh, what a
dreadful pity our dear Sir Thomas is not in
Brisbane to save our beautiful bridge!” Sir
Thomas the Omnipotent! The Bulletin wonders
whether the Almighty is a K.C.M.G.!
# # ♦ #
One of the most amusing things at a
recent Sydney picnic was the astonishment created
by a young lady who calmly lit a cigarette in the
presence of a couple of hundred members of the
“ respectable middle class.” One cigarette caused
surprise ; when the second, third, and so on, had
been lit, the rest of the company simply collapsed.
That is to say, the female portion. Not so the
male members who, on the homeward train-
journey, seemed simply lost in admiration.
# # #
The Bulletin hardly knows which to de-
spise the more—the witless wooden-heads of
Sydney University, too dull and unoriginal, even
as a literary syndicate, to write half-a-dozen lines of
bright verse for their Commemoration, or the daily
press which toadies to their vacuity by printing the
badly-plagiarised vulgarisms belched forth, in
chorus, by a gang of mortar-boarded numskulls.
No single ray of literary light has yet, in thirty
years, beamed from Sydney University. The mob
of badly-behaved cubs who affect a bogus Quartier
Latin atmosphere, and whose miserable inanities
are treated by the daily organs of commercialism
as though they proceeded from the pen of a Henri
Murger—what becomes of them in after-life ?
They proceed in accordance with the destiny indi-
cated for them by their student-songs ; Two-thirds
of them become avaricious “ lawyers ” (i.e. money-
lenders), and the balance chiefly develope into
commercial doctors.
» * m
The latest missing word competitions are
supplied by the murdered Miss Harrison’s letter
to her fiance, Jeater, printed in the Sydney daily
papers.
* * *
The Maoriland poisoning-case, in which
Alexander Scott was dry-nurse, recalls the passing
away of the still-lamented Mrs. Woolcott, of
Yorke’s Peninsula (S.A.), only she was “more
so ” than Scott. She had a tendresse for a stranger
within her gates, and she chose mutton-broth and
sloppy mixtures as convenient vehicles for ad-
ministering to her husband irritant poisons—
“ white precipitate ” and other bug-powders, for
instance. Mrs. W. was a personable charmer of
outward religious tendencies, and used to soothe
her husband’s internal pains with audible appeals
to heaven for his providential deliverance there-
from. A hard-hearted jury afterwards found the
prayerful wife guilty of murder. She protested
her innocence, but said she was quite ready to go
to Zion ; nevertheless, she weakened when all hopes
of a reprieve were shattered, and owned up. How-
ever, she convinced her attendant sky-pilots that
she died penitent, which event (if memory serves
aright) occurred on a New Year’s morning. Slie
was dressed for the journey in a white book-
muslin frock, and carried a bunch of flowers.
When she was on the scaffold, a picnic-party went
Miss FRANCES COGULAN, M. B., M.CH. (Sydney University).
by, with a band playing “Such jolly dogs are
we ! ’ A nice, new rope did the required service,
a "d (,-inch-lengths thereof afterwards fetched
fancy prices. A man named Ridgway was under
sentence of death at the time He also was
innocent, and monster petitions for his reprieve
were signed but Mrs. Woo cott s exit had the
grange effect of causing him to confess and ask to
be allowed to swing alongside of her. The
authorities only kept him a week longer. .He
wouldn t keep much after that.
The Under-secretaries for Education, all
round Australia, should lay down for their bush
teaoherssomesuch rule as N.S. W. Inspector-General
Fosbery lays down and acts on in regard to his
bush-police. Service in the bush counts with him
as a special service meriting early transfer to a
town or city. In the Education Departments,
teachers once stationed in the bush find it almost
impossible to obtain a transfer to a. city. There
can be no doubt that Mr. Fosbery’s way of look-
j n ma fct er i s correct, nor is there any
reaB()n w j ly t eae hers should be forced to go on
com pi ;dn i ng f rom year to year of an injustice
w bj o b a simple, common-sense rule can terminate,
# « #
A winch collapsed on the great building
now being erected at Melbourne for the Equitable
Insurance Co. and two men were killed. “The
engine-driver’s head was struck clear off and
lodged on the pavement on the opposite side of
cr( ,wded street, while his brains were scattered
over the road Several ladies fainted at the hor-
nble spectacle. Such are the offerings that
Labour every day lays at the feet of Capital.
MEDICINES
uc j, aH Wolfe’s Schnapps, that deserve well of
mankind, merit a reasonable trial if they are ex-
pected to effect permanent relief.
Salmon, M.L A. (Vic.), gave evidence in
camera last week on behalf of the perennial Butters
v. Wangaratta Chronicle, after which Salmon
sailed for Europe. His interesting examination
and lively cross-ditto will be published when the
Chronicle is called upon to show cause why it
referred to Butters’ big house-boat, “The Mount
Macedon,” as a floating—er—convent. It will
then be found that Salmon on the latter M.M.
subject was as unsatisfactory as Jack Brock on
the Missing Mace.
* # *
The survivors’ description of the Brighton
(Vic.) Easter boating accident, in which the three
men hung on to the bottom of the boat until two
were rescued, the third having dropped off ex-
hausted, reads like a paraphrase of Francis Adams’
“Death Watch.”
* • *
“ Wanted, by gentleman, board and resi-
dence in private family ; £4 per month, Banker,
Age office.”
Minnesota, U. S.,
forces Chinese within its
borders to wear Euro-
pean clothes. Australia
might follow suit to the
extent of imposing the
belltopper upon all
Chows. This, at least,
would have the very
desirable effect of de-
grading the wretched
nail-keg,
# * *
Acting-Gov. Mad-
den thinks there would
be great difficulty in
getting ten Melbourne
men to contribute <£loo
apiece to the insolvent
local Women’s Hospi-
tal. In his opinion the
<£looo could be more
easily obtained by a
series of public balls.
There is humour in the
idea of a city being so
hard-up that you can
only raise money for
charity through the sale
of ball tickets. Perhaps
there is somebody who
would like to have the
stage management of at
least one “vice-regal
set ” before the countess
comes back to the head
of affairs.
* * #
The woman appli-
cant for a divorce who
laughs while giving her
evidence never gets it
from N.S.W. Justice
Windeyer —if he can
help it. Verb sap.
* * *
Adelaide citizens
begin to ask when the
hospitalities of Mayor
Wilcox are going to
commence.
A Christchurch (M.L.) man advertised for
a wife and got 50 replies He selected one and
wrote to her, but when the time came to consum-
mate the bargain, she wrote to the waiting swam
that, if he was in a hurry, she was not, but she had
a sister who would have him. He elected to take
the sister, who was to come down to him and be
married same day. The sister duly arrived, and
was married out of hand, but even she had
qualms when the last moment came, as she
anxiously enquired of a bystander “ what sort of
a chap he was ? ” A few minutes later they were
hitched. And they’re just as likely to be happy
as if they had made love for seven years.
Marriage isn’t merely a lottery. It’s a totalisator.
* * *
The managing director of “Echo Farm”
(Sydney) Inebriates’ Home has written the N.S.
Wales Government Printer, enquiring whether it
is possible to get hold of two or three compositors
who are addicted to the alcoholic habit. Two or
three ? We smile. “ And who want to be cured.”
We cease to smile.
# * *
An eccentric spinster named Spilsbury,
noted as a breeder of St. Bernard dogs, has been
nominated for a seat in Parnell (M.L.) Borough
Council. She was nominated, as a joke, by a
councillor and an ex-councillor, and, in con-
sequence, her only opponent threatens to resign
and let her have the seat.
• # *
The two belligerent priests of Maclean
(N.S.W,), heroes of the now historic “ light
refreshment ” episode, will not, it is under-
stood, for at least a considerable time to
come, pose too obtrusively in public as
agents of the Pope aifft mouthpieces of the
poor Deity, which has a lot to suffer nowadays at
the hands and mouths (also the feet) of its repre-
sentatives. By the way, as the people of Armi-
dale and Grafton R.C. diocese don’t stump up
over-liberally for Mother Church, they have to be
content with cheap clerical labour, with the ser-
vices of the comparatively unsaintly— culls of the
clerical herd. Which suggestive pastoral item
should suit the squatters’ sixpenny organ run by
Cherub Twopeny and Whitely King.
• • •
N.S.W. Minister of Education Suttor: —
“ No boy should be ashamed to follow the busi-
ness of his father.” Yes, he should. A Jewish
boy should be ashamed of being a usurer—and we
are glad to notice that he very often is. And the
publican’s son should be, and usually is, ashamed
of the soul-destroying trade out of which his
father—the gilded pillar of the Church-
made his unhallowed pile. Minister Suttor had
better revise his copy-book maxims.
# * *
That most people can’t let well alone, and
always spoil a good yarn by over-telling it, was
well exemplified by a philanthropic Sydney
butcher, who recently related, on a public plat-
form, the sad case of a man, his wife and children,
being camped in a suburban paddock. They had
been turned out by their landlord, and their
“ sticks ” seized. The husband was workless, and
they were starving, the poor woman,said, as she
tearfully begged some meat. He gave her some,
and afterwards allowed her a couple of pounds of
meat a day, and prevailed on a charitable baker
to act similarly. Now the good butcher (who has
parliamentary aspirations) should have let th«
story end here, but he lumbered clumsily on, and
told how, when the husband had at length got
work as a night-watchman, he frequently went to
see how the poor lonely woman was getting on.
Which spoilt the story altogether, and set the
audience shrieking. This is indeed a wicked
world.
* * *
One recent morning a well-known Sydney
newspaper-man donned a rough working suit and
went pottering around his fowl-yard. His wife
was away for a holiday. Presently he heard a low
croaky voice, and, looking up, saw a Chinaman,
who had just been engaged as cook next door,
grinning at him over the fence. “Goo day.”
“Good day, John.” “Missee away?” “Yes.”
“Mastee away?” Seeing that the Chow had
mistaken him for a rouseabout the paper-man
smelt a rat, and unblushingly replied, “Yes.”
“Nicee gel, slavee, eh?” “Yes; fine girl.”
GOOD ADVICE.
1ST WIFE (in distress): “What would you do if your old man
kicked you?”
2ND WIFE: “Pawn his boots.” s
“ Plentee fun ketchee gel, eh?” chuckled the
grinning heathen. “Plenty fun.” A character-
istic Chinaman-story.
# * #
The first time a lady is introduced to
Queen Victoria, she must only wear one glove—on
her left hand ; the second time, she must wear two.
There doesn’t seem to be -any rigid rule about
stockings. How very (find the missing
word)!
# # *
The chief difference between the corona-
tion of King George Tubou 11., of Tonga, and
that of any other Christian monarch is that the
comparatively new royal convert believes firmly in
the religious mummery that forms part of the
ceremony, whereas the royal Christian-by-descent
simply endures it as a penance that covers much
humbug. A point of genuine contact between the
two, however, is that neither coronation could be
regarded as complete without “drinks for the
crowd. ”
# * *
The' Bay of Plenty (M.L.) Times thus
announces the departure of its editor, on matri-
mony bent: “ One of the great social questions of
the day is whether marriage is a failure. The
proprietors have resolved to make practical effort
to solve this much-vexed question. Our editor
has resolved to sacrifice himself on the altar of
duty. He has left to make enquiries into the
subject down South, and, when there, will enter
into matrimony, so that he may be able by and
bye to give the result of our practical test.”
* * *
In Colling wood (Vic.) it is the acknow-
ledged custom of the councillors to call the streets
after themselves. So, as new members get elected,
the old names give way. In some instances
Councillor Doolan, just elected, gets Murphy-
street, called after Murphy, ex-councillor, changed
to Doolan-street, and so on ad infinitum. The
inhabitants of some localities are almost afraid to
go to bed for fear of finding the street changed
during the night.
* * #
Editor Bulletin, —Will it be believed
that a sick man accredited from the N.S.W.
Government Labour Bureau, Sydney, to receive
rations at the Benevolent Asylum was comforted
with the magnificent gift of 21b. of bony mutton
as a week’s rations ? Will someone explain why
“ black-strap ” sugar is the sort dispensed to those
relieved, when good white sugar is only 2£d, per


EOSE 7 S
LIME JUICE COIiDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
THE BEST DRINK FOR ALL.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold l>y all Storekeepers, etc.
Genera i, Agents:
JULES RENARD <3c CO.,
KENT STREET. SYJ)NEY.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. For external use try Comimank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra, N.S.W
a clear night,
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & CO.
(LIMITED).
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS EEURICH,
UEBEL & LEOHLEITER, CARL ECKE, .
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, Hoosey’s RANT) INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
lb. ? Does anyone know why a week’s supply of
bread is doled out in a lump—bread that goes
mouldy in three days?—Yours, Penalised for
Poverty.
• • #
A gilded “ remittance-man,” who had
taken a run ’Ome, leaving his Maoriland wife
behind him, determined, “for reasons,” to make
his return a surprise affair. He “ trained ” it to
within a few miles of home, and then hired a
buggy and was driven over after midnight. Mrs.
Remxtta'nce was aroused at 2 a.m, “Who’s
there?” “ Your husband.” Out she came pre-
sently to find the body of the buggy empty.
Remittance had fallen out of the trap miles away,
and the sleepy driver had never missed him ! No
divorce evidence that time.
* * #
The now notorious soi - disant son of
teetotal - baronet Lawson, stayed awhile at a
fashionable Canterbury (M.L.) hotel. At last the
landlord suggested a settlement. “ All right— to-
morrow,” replied the distinguished guest. That
afternoon, the publican was telephoned for.
“ Who’s calling? ” The answer was the name of
a merchant of good standing. “ You’ve got an
account against young Lawson ? ” asked the
telephones “Yes.” “Well, he’s going away;
I’ll settle with you to-morrow.” The publican
was satisfied, and for that farewell night treated
“young Lawson” right royally. Next day, he
looked up the merchant and found that —his
boarder had the previous afternoon called in and
used the telephone.
« # #
A Brisbane (Q.) railway-man is said to
have been “sacked” for broaching his chief’s
private office-stock of wine and cigars. He filled
the empty decanters up with red ink. This was
more than even a Scotch judge of wine could
stand.
* * *
The Brisbane Johnsonian Club is supposed
to be the only truly Bohemian club in Australia.
Seventy-five per cent, of its subscriptions are
always in arrear, and its scores for cards and
drinks are usually obtained from the intestate
estates of the defunct members.
* * *
A patent for an automatic flogger was
brought under the notice of the N.S.W/Minister
for Justice, last week. If flogging, as an aid to
virtue, is to continue, some such device should
receive welcome.
* # #
Two recent Sydney advts. :
BIRTHS.
pEB. 20, 1893, at —, widow of the late Henry
of a daughter.
DEATHS.
SEPTEMBER 5, 1892, at his residence, Brown-street,
city, Henry .
She evidently knew, poor woman, how fond her
dear female friends are of arithmetic.
* * #
South Australia has a baby girl, born with
two heads, one of which was successfully sawn off.
The child is said to be now in a private hospital
“doing well.”
* * #
The mystic wail of a tortured soul in the
S.M. Herald :
‘VT'OU can blame only the first day, the rest all
on yon. Last Monday week 1 knew there
was something (or me. Yes, win re is (he country
now? I have a plug dip feather, you can see.
I have no wish for whatever pat-sea me. Shall
not go to exchange a photo. I believe someone
pretends to think it was I; Jet them cry.
If they wish give them fifty ; let them open
their pub.
I advertise in Morning Herald, other quite dead
—poor fellow.—A.D.S., ALF.
• • *
The stupid puns on the new N.S.W.
Governor’s name grow wearisome. An interesting
item : The trans! o inn of the Latin motto under
his coat-of-arms is “Do Fair.”
* # *
Westralia is importiugmarriageablefemales
and Chinamen. Moral ?
• # *
William Thompson, the English solictor
poisoned in Maoriland, and for whose mur-
der the young Victorian, Scott, is to be
hanged, was an old man with a middle-
wife, who dallied with the assassin.
The old man was tough, and the poisoning lasted
nearly a year. In a letter, the amorous Scott
addresses his paramour as “My own darling
wife,” and proceeds :
As I told yon, T. went to town to-day, and has not yet
returned. You can see by the notepaper where I am
writing this. lam sitting in my darling’s chair to write.
. . . . Oh, my darling, what opportunities I am
getting. I can do it at any lime, dear, and I wish to God
it was done, so that I could call you my very own. Oh,
Dolly dear, what difference between this Friday and last.
Ah, my sweet wife, I was happy with you, darling. Are
we going to have any more hippy days ? Dolly, my sweet
wife, do you want to come back to your own Bertie ; do
you, darling? 1 am only just scribbling a few lines. I
saw paper on the table. My Dolly, I won’t wait much
longer. I can’t stand it. Your own true, loving and
devoted husband, Bertie. I think lam writing with your
pen. What do you think ?—Bertie.
The “marriage in the sight of Heaven ” business
over again. Scott is no more than 25, and has no
chance of growing much older. “ Dolly ”is well
over 40, but apparently still as bad as new.
# # #
Lady Duff, as The Bulletin expected to
hear, is “universally acknowledged to be the ideal
wife for an Australian Governor,” Each vice-
regal lady is, in her turn, ideal, but some of them
more distinctly “ dear ” than others.
» # *
The Govt, scent-farm at Dunolly, Vic., is
now a paying concern. It is about the only
Government project that is in good odour just
now.
* * #
Thanks to the reduction in price, Toorak
can now afford to buy the Argus again. The old
paper’s circulation appears to be growing by leaps
and bounds.
Melbourne Tramway Co. has decided to
adopt a cut-throat policy on some of its lines, and
is lowering prices to choke off the few cabbies who
still eke out a poor living running to the northern
suburbs. The Co.’s wording of its notification is
very fine and large : “ Having ample facilities for
carrying the whole of the travelling public, the
Tramway Co. is determined to take such steps as
may be ; necessary to protect its traffic.” “ Its
traffic ! ” Why not have the cabmen arrested for
larceny of fares ?
* * #
Manager Millidge, of the Mercantile Bank,
wrote m one of his letters to London, “We are
sadly in want_ of a wealthy man who has confi-
dence in the institution, and would come to the
rescue.”—
In Sydney Domain, any night, you can,
it is said, hire a man who will kill your enemy for
you for a sovereign.
* * #
The Cheviot estate, which the Maoriland
Government recently resumed, was originally
MR. DUFF (Knighted for Exportation).—The new Governor of N.S. Wales.
taken up by one Caverhill, an Australian squatter
This was in ’4B. To the Caverhill homestead,
came, one day, a debonair artist who was also a
surveyor. He was royally entertained and
allowed to sketch freely and roam over the estate.
After stopping some time he left, and soon after
Caverhill found the freehold of the run had been
bought over his head from the Government by
William Robinson, whose emissary the “ artist ”
proved to have been. Robinson, a South
Australian squatter, rather staggered the Pro-
vincial Government clerks when he went with a
cheque for .£30,000 and asked for the land in ’53.
The clerks viewed him with suspicion and
declined the cheque. Robinson hired a buggy
and drove to the bank, where he got the cash.
Hence the sobriquet—“ Ready Money” Robinson.
Miss Frances Ooghlan, M. 8., Ch. M., whose
portrait we publish this week, is one of the two
women-students who have at last succeeded in
breaking through the barriers which the Sydney
University authorities have persistence opposed
fc o the admission of women to medical degrees.
Miss Ooghlan is a native of N.S. Wales, and was
educated at Sydney High School, where she held
a scholarship. The experiment of medical women
is one that must in the end succeed, despite the
mass of stolid prejudice which stands in the way.
Nothing can be more proper and natural than that
women should administer in disease and sickness
to women and children, and the pioneers whom
the Medical School is now sending out will pro-
bably do much to prove the aptitude of women for
medical work.
How many institutions in
This world of constant need
Would like the confidence to win
Of someone with the “greed "
Of some obliging, wealthy friend
Through whom they might contrive
To pay the good old dividend
And keep the game alive !
Around about, and here and there,
We glance on either hand,
And lo ! the useful millionaire
Is ever in demand ;
Let fortune smile, or be unkind,
Let times be smooth or rough.
All institutions love to find
The person with the “stuff.”
That bank was as a common man
In this respect at least:
The poet fain would strike a plan
To get his cash increased—
His humble friends are troubled by
The cursed lack of pence ;
But who will to the rescue fly
And show his confidence ?
THE MINOR POET.
Not mine are Nature’s secrets,
Not mine the truths of Art;
But sometimes for a moment
I see a human heart.
Melb.
STEELE GREY.
Lovers Women Like.
An Analysis of Woman’s Weaknesses, by a Woman.
[The following curious chapter is taken from a book
just published, called “Amor in Society.” The author is
Julia Duhring.]
Those who have manly beauty and grace are the
lovers whom women like. There may be nothing
in the brain, nothing in the character save selfish-
ness, yet women are attracted and won through
sheer force of beauty.
Next are the picturesque, fascinating men, such
as artists, soldiers, sailors, actors, singers,
musicians, dandies, men of the world. Then
come jockeys, bull-fighters, gamblers, adventurers,
especially those with a Don Juan reputation.
Certain good people profess doubt and express
indignation over such facts, earnestly asserting
that only women who have left the borders of
respectability can be attracted by men below their
own class or known to be good for nothing.
Not so by any means. Both on this side of
Bohemia and within its borders are found the
bold, dashing, reckless, picturesque men, who,
with or without reason, captivate the fancy and
the affections of so many women—and not merely
women of inferior degree or education, but women
of rank, of refinement, of immaculate lives.
Best lovers does not imply best men. The most
ardent, the most daring, the most reckless in
pursuit of love, are, in the eyes of women, the
best lovers.
Women love beauty and grace as fervently as
men do. Women would wish their lovers perfect
in manly strength as well as ardent in love.
Failing that, perfect women accept, as men accept,
the one of opposite sex who approximates the
ideal of the mind. Women of sensibility are
shocked by a thousand ugly habits that certain
men think it justifiable to practice; are repelled
by vulgar modes of speech, by awkward manners,
by carelessness of person and dress. That most
women accept men inferior to an ideal as lovers
or as husbands, in no way disproves the above.
Women in civilized life are for the most part
trained hypocrites. They accept a lover or a
husband, in many cases, simply because they are
expected to do so. They are to be “ established ”
in life. They must ciioose—rather, they must
accept —somebody while young, or rim the awful
risk of missing their market.
To see the choice that beautiful, brilliant women
sometimes make out of a crowd of adorers is to be
at first amazed, and, after due world-experience,
amused, at the so-called inconsistency of the sex.
At the bottom, however, of every fantastic selec-
tion, there is a solid reason. A lover who knows
how to love and how to make love, is the ever-
successful one.
Women like lovers who are eager, demonstra-
tive, earnest, devout worshippers. With these
qualities, real or assumed, lovers are not scanned
too closely as to morals or mental strength.
As women of musical ability seek the society of
musicians of acknowledged skill, so women of
amorous nature delight in the society of men
skilled in the art of love. To be a lover of renown
requires, first, native ability, and, next, much
experience of women and the world. If to love
much is natural for some men, to love well, agree-
ably, and ardently, demands skill, daring, fearless-
ness.
Everyone knows that many severely virtuous
women delight secretly in hearing about or in
meeting men of wicked reputation. Some of these
women do not know themselves, therefore could
never be made to acknowledge their secret delight.
This ignorance does not alter the main fact.
Show me the woman who does not receive
pleasure from even the uniform—the glittering
sword, silver or gold bands, buttons, braid—who
does not thrill at the recital of adventures of hair-
breadth escapes in foreign lands —show me that
woman, let her swear never so roundly that she
does not like those men, and straightway I will
bring proofs that she belies herself. She likes
such lovers often without knowing that she does.
Women like the men who know how to woo,
who have had and are still having experiences in
the great passion. They are attracted by the
strange, the daring, the dashing, the audacious
even. Not that they are in sympathy with what
is bad in the adventurer or the fast man, but that
they dearly love the daring spirit that makes an
ardent lover.
Certain people naively wonder why women love
army and navy officers. That the uniform is an
attraction, no woman would deny. But the
uniform on an awkward, dull-witted, ill-bred man
would be decidedly worse than no uniform at all.
It is the manner of the man in uniform. A similar
attraction is found in men educated as diplomats
—in countries, of course, where a diplomatic ser-
vice exists. That they wear a uniform on certain
occasions is pleasing to the eye and sense of
fitness, but the greater attraction lies beneath the
uniform, in the courtesy, the graceful movement,
the appropriate fluent speech, the desire to please.
That civilians are obliged to wear the extremely
unbecoming costume of the age is not their fault.
They are to be pitied—especially those among
them who have an innate appreciation of form
and colour. But there seems no reason whatever
why civilians should not be taught to use their
bodies with grace and dignity. No woman can
understand why men do not teach themselves how
to hold themselves when in repose, how to walk,
how to move the w'hole mechanism of the body,
with ease. That there are civilians here and there
who do show that sort of self-training is only
proof that many more might.
Lovers they are never quite sure of, are the
lovers women most adore. Obstacles and uncer-
tainty are the best known means of augmenting
the most fickle, most skittish, most puzzling of
human passions. The most faithful lovers are
likely to be least appreciated by even the best of
women. Men of the world soon find this out and
act upon it, often simulating indifference, cold-
ness, even a cynical cruelty, in order to excite un-
easiness or jealousy in a mistress. A quarrel,
with all its excitements and dangers of a rupture,
is often a means of arousing a new, intense love.
A certain brewer of “ colonial ’ beer con-
templates placing 100,000 dozen of his liquor on
the market at Is. 6d. a dozen, with a view of
smashing up once for all the increasing popularity
of an opposition on.’s wares.
A N.S. W. up-country policeman entered
the local bank on the opening stroke of 10. “Oi
want to shtop a sheck Oi’ve losht.” Clerk :
“ Number of it ? ” “Oi doant know.” “Date?”
“Oi doan’t know.” “Whom in favour of?”
“ Well, that Oi doan’t know, ayther.” “ Where
was it drawn on?” “ Troth an’ Oi cahn’t say.”
“ What was the amount? ” “Faith, Oi think it
was for a pound, but Oi wouldn’t be sure.”
“D it! who signed the cheque?” “Be
jabers, Oi disremember altogether. The fact is”
(confidentially) “ Oi was afther havin’ a bit uv a
game of hazards, an’ Oi got the sheck from wan
uv ‘ the school! ’ ” Mystery still unravelled.
The re-appearance of ex-Premier Jennings
in N.S.W. Legislative Council the other night set
several ghosts of the past walking. He is now old
in many senses. In the ad valorem days, or rather
nigfits, when, with Dibbs at his side and Want
and J. P. Abbott skirmishing around, he used to
jump up, slap his white waistcoat, and prepare to
abash Parkes, lie provided thoughtful observers
with food for biological study. 1n a ruddy-faced,
open-hearted way he attacked his enemy, and,
slapping his waistcoat again, sat down cheerily.
Parkes had a fashion at that time of walking
right round the table when his vocabulary of vitu-
peration was in full blast, and on many occasions,
chiefly near daylight, he found himself yelling
and gesticulating within a couple of feet of
the head of the Treasury Benches. Then it was
that Jennings changed posture and feature. As
Parkes blared, the hostile look passed away from
Premier Jennings’ face, and one of genuine admir-
ation took its place. Only that Dibbs knocked
and prodded him, Jennings would have cheered
his antagonist at many turns. As it was, he was
long suspected of being so malleable under Parkes’
oratory that a coalition might any day be looked
for; and one would in all likelihood have been,
formed were it not for the vitriolic philippics of
Abbott and Want. Jennings became Parkes’
“jellyfish’’afterwards and is again a Freetrader,
and if he did not look so intellectually squashed
as in the passages of Parliament the other night,
a coalition would still be possible. Jennings was
never a politician, but a fair type of what used to
be called “the fine old country gentleman,” and
bad he lived that sort of life he would be much
happier than he is to-day.
Herr Rassmussen, the well-known Danish
Herbalist, who has of late years built up so big a
business throughout Australasia, is returning to
Sydney after establishing a branch at Wellington
Maoriland.
IT IS HIGHLY DESIRABLE
That Wolfe’s Schnapps should be resorted to in
preference to fiery compounds which please the
taste without benefiting the body.


MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
mm
c.c.ft'
SHARPS
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
,£49,460 worth for JGl.
See Amusement
i Column.
Amusements.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Buucicault.
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Sydney Grundy’s Great Play,
“A. ’Village Priest.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
Tivoli theatre
(Late the GARRICK) Castlereagh Street.
Sole Lessee and Manager Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
i M r 11 AKI!t C KAROS |
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
49 REAL GENUINE ARTISTS 49
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra. Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
STARTLING and TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
of the
Great English Sensational Play,
IM! .A. IsT T O nyc .a. ;sr.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
£49,460 worth for £l.
IMPORTANT.
TO the present and intending Shareholders
in THE EQUITABLE BUILDING
SOCIETY.
Sirs, Acting under instructions of the
Committee of Management, we have made—
during subsidence of water—a personal inspection
of all the various properties forming the Prizes
for Ballot of May 20th, with a view of ascertain-
ing to what extent any of same had been affected
by the recent unprecedented Flood. We have
to report as follows Out of a total of 2,403
Prizes we found only 34 had been affected by
flood water, and most of these to a very slight
extent, 28 of them being unimproved allotments
upon which ‘back’ waters of flood only just
lapped. The First Prize, valued at .£30,000,
was conspicuous as one of only four Bank Build-
ings in Brisbane well above height of flood.”
We are, gentlemen, Yours faithfully,
GEO. K. JOPP, Licensed Surveyor.
LESLIE G. CORRIE, F.Q.I. A., Secretary.
Anyone can obtain one share upon the payment
of £l, No Shareholder can be made liable for
any payment beyond the £l.
See advertisement in other issues of this paper,
or for full particulars, apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or CORRIE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49*460 worth*
o
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. od., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., 47s. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Od. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
.machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
' Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 855., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TEEMSCash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD-immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.’' Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge Of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
“ Tb.e Boh.emiaxx GHLrI.”
SATURDAY, April 15—“ MARITANA.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Theatre royal.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
EVERY EVENING! (at 7.45) EVERY EVENING !
“ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.”
ALFRED DAM PIER,
Miss LILY DAMPIER,
Miss ROSE DAMPIER,
Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL,
and a Complete Company, of Capable Comediennes and
Comedians.
Box Office at the Theatre, where seats may be secured
six days in advance.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
QENTENARY HALL.
FAREWELL WEEK! FAREWELL WEEK !
of
U‘i|cloo’6 Jubilee Ssinger6.
Change of Programme Nightly.
Saturday, 15th April —Two Performances.
Matinee at 3 o’clock for Schools and Families.
Soiree at 8 o’clock—Farewell.
Children to all parts of the House Is. for the Matinee.
SUBURBAN TOUR!
BALMAIN, Monday, April 17. ASHFIELD, Tuesday,
April 18. BURWOOD, Wednesday, April 19. PETER-
SHAM, Thursday, April 20. PENRITH, Friday and
Saturday, April 21 and 22. PARRAMATTA, Monday
and Tuesday, April 24 and 25.
t.A
*
The poor Barmaid having
a little hit of supper after
, her hard day's work !
' iVow ready, post free Is (Id,
the
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
I a Sydney Barmaid
! To be had only of
M (, m. PANZA, Box 913
0.P0., Sydney
PICTURESQUE ATLAS
AUSTRALASIA.
Grand Exhibit of the Original Drawings,
specially executed by the well-known and famous
American Artists, W. T. Smedley, F. B. Schell
(since Art Manager of Harper’s Magazine), and
W. 0. Fitler; and also by leading Australian
Artists.
H. W. Oallan has been favoured by the
Picturesque Atlas Co., Ltd., with instructions to
dispose, at prices far below the initial cost, of
the above Superb Drawings.
An early Inspection is Invited at
H. W. Callan’s Art Gallery,
318 GEORGE STREET.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES. ■
Dr. Alexr. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
IKT o Car e, 3XT o IE 3 ay.
rPHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
- 1 - cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine (hem, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
NS
electro
belt
i
E
U
V
BAKING
POWDER
9
She; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He : “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
m
»
fet
‘THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE.
GKO Jb 082 George Street, Sydney.
DEAF
NtSS & HEAD NOISES CORED
by I’eck'a luvUibU Tubular Kar Cushion*.
Whl«iior» heard. Successful when all
remedies tall. Writ* for book of proof*
i A. M. HAST
49 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
[FREE.
THE FREE PORTRAIT INDUSTRY of SYDNEY
versus
THE PHOTOGRAPHER'S VIGILANCE SOCIETY
THE BUBBLE HAS BURST.
THE SECRET IS REVEALED.
IT was a “ Free Portrait Friend” who
hiniself —a smiling, thick-set man, of gracious
Energy.
“ I would like you to run through our establish-
ment,” he said in effect; “ The ‘Crown ’ Bromid 6
Enlargement Co., 416 George-street, and see the
whole business for yourself.”
This was one result of The Bulletin’s recent
Article bn “The Gratis Portrait Industry.”
The writer accordingly spent over two hours in
the “ Free Portrait ” benefactor’s company.
A large business office displays a bank-like
chunter, behind which, at desks and tables, work
continually seven clerks, one of whom also occa-
sionally clicks at a typewriter. The manager’s
and accountant’s joint sanctum is partitioned off.
Apparently, nothing has been “readied up,” and
business is simply as per usual. And business is
brisk.
The manager blandly agrees that there have
been disreputable “ Free-portrait firms,” that
have sent out botch work, or forgotten to do any
work except pocket the receipts per post; but
these have been Bnere fungi-mushroom affairs of a
day, run by adventurers whose game was to pile
up a little money and levant. They had got re-
putable firms into disrepute.
“But The ‘Crown’ Bromide Enlargement Co.
has come to Stay, and could not afford to turn out
lad work. See' here,” and the managerial hand
fell slap upon a letter-clip sheaf-full of testimonials
to the number of several hundreds, about one-half
of which the visitor patiently glanced through.
They seemed genuine enough, and were monot-
mously grateful in tone.
“Yes, that seems all right, but how about the
first orders ? ”
“ You will notice that, in our circular, we pro-
mise people portraits free of charge, and add—
The only consideration desired of you will be that you
have it suitably framed in harmony with the portrait, so
that the work will show to advantage ; also that you ex-
hibit it to your friends, and thereby assist us in securing
orders.
Now, there are two parties to every contract, and
each party needs to be satisfied that the other will
carryout his part of the contract. We carry out
our part. If we arrange with a person to give- him
an enlarged portrait on condition that he has it
suitably framed, it must be suitably framed to our
satisfaction, and the only way of securing that is
by our framing the portrait for him. We main-
tain that this is legitimate business, so long as we
give fair value in the frame for the amount of our
charges.
“ Who chooses the frames ? ”
“ We send each person who forwards us a photo,
a price-list with diagrams of frames, and a circu-
lar.” (Both produced).
The price-list was one specifying “a few speci-
ally selected portrait and photo, frames ”; its
prices ranged from 3-inch gilt mouldings, at
255. fid. to “richly-chased 3-inch reeded oak,” at
50s. The business paragraph of the circular
(which was printed in imitation of type-writing)
ran thus: —
If you will send us the number of the one you select,
and a P. 0.0. or cheque to cover the cost of same, we will
forward your Free Picture without delay.
Yours faithfully,
A. Olden, Manager.
The books of the Co. breathed of several thou-
sands of orders given and executed, or being exe-
cuted. The voluminous correspondence. of the
firm is arranged with such methodical minutiae
that any photograph, with all the letters relating
thereto, can be laid hands on at a minute’s call.
Portraits still “in chanceryawaiting
further requests —were “ pocketed ” away in
numbered rows by the hundred. Should no order
come for a frame, a portrait, apparently, remains
“in chancery,” unless the owner forwards stamps
sufficient to cover its return by mail, in which
event the transaction should end by its being re-
turned.
The “frame” being ordered, a negative 6£
inches x 4| inches is taken, and this is enlarged to
12 inches x 10 inches, and photographed either on
bromide paper or opal ; mounted and finished in
Indian ink or crayon. The first “ proof ” is
necessarily rough, and has to be retouched by
hand to cover up the tell-tale grain of the paper
in the original photo., and to cure any existing
defects.
“ The cause of much complaint against dis-
honest firms,” said the manager, “is that they
just mount these rough daubs, shove them in any
sort of cheap frame, and send them along to their
customers. You can see for yourself the amount
of care we take, and I can assure you that we use
the very best materials, where less scrupu-
lous firms use inierior substitutes. Our
prepared paper costs us £6 10s., whereas we could
get inferior for £3 15s. We pay 3s. 3d. per
oz. for ‘silver’; we could get inferior for 2s. sd.
Our opal glass surfaces are all ground, for per-
manency ; we never use the plain surface, obtain-
able at half the cost. It would take just as well,
but it does not last.”
Similarly, and very naturally, the Manager ex-
tolled the mountings, the frame-burnishings, the
real gold-leaf used, &c., &c.
Here were seen, busily at work—frame-makers
in the mouldiqg-room, cutters and gilders in the
mounting - room, artists, male and female, in
the retouching-rooms, &c., besides some.7oo and
odd pictures packed, first in brown paper, and
then in strong deal boxes, ready for transit to their
various destinations.
The frames vary from the homely pattern styles
“ a Plain English Oak with Gilt Slfp,” at 155., to
the 50s. frame of the price-list.
“These particular patterns cannot be obtained
elsewhere in Australia,” averred the Manager. “ I
import them from America, the walnut and oak in
12ft. lengths. I placed the orders with the
American firm on condition that I alone get these
patterns.”
“What could a fellow buy a frame like this for
outside?”—pointing to a “plain oak,” a fifteen-
shilling venture. .
“ Well, I dare say he could get one like it for
10s.”
“That leaves ss. to pay for the Dec photo.,
then ?” .
“ No, there’s the mounting, Lacking, packing-
case, and carriage, you know. All our goods are
sent carriage paid to Red fern Railway station or
boat.” . ,
“Do you mean to assert that this gratis busi-
ness is an advertising enterprise to secure a con-
nection ?”
“Yes.”
“And as leading up to orders for enlarged
photos, to be paid for, as well as the paid-for
f rames ?”
“Yes.”
NOW, WHAT IS THE HISTORY OF
THIS CO.?
Four years ago a gentleman, who owns no less
than four photographing businesses in Sydney,
commenced in a very humble way, and completely
staggered the local photographers by turning out
really good work at very low prices. This was
done as a means to an end — i.e., to establish a
reputation in a strange city. It had the desired
effect, and in twelve months he was able to dis-
continue the ridiculously low price, and still com-
mand a fair share of the business of the city.
Thus a business which commenced with the
modest turnover of less than .£5 a week was built
up as the result of very little money but a lot of
energy.
In two years a more stylish place was opened,
and a good, steady business has been done from
the opening until the present, and to-day it is
looked upon as one of the reputable studios of the
city.
But imagine the feelings of uncontrollable
jealousy in the hearts of the local photo-
graphers when, a few months later, another
very elaborate, and beautifully fitted place was
opened with a direct aim to cater for the elite
trade of Sydney. This business has also estab-
lished itself, and is now patronised by a class
which gives it an enviable distinction,
Just about this time the proprietor of these
establishments received a circular setting forth the
particulars of the “ Free Portrait ” Industry,
and at once grasped the idea as being a good one
if honestly carried out, and so the Crown Bromide
Enlargement Co., of 416, 418, 420 George-street,
Sydney, was started ; an elaborate design was got
as a heading for letter-paper and circulars, an
effective trade-mark selected, and the whole was
registered at the Registrar-General’s office, Sydney.
A number of hands were set to work addressing
envelopes and enclosing circulars and in a short
time every householder in New South Wales had
a communication direct from the office of the
company.
It will be apparent that as the one man runs the
four businesses, it is necessary that each Estab-
lishment should be run under a suitable name for
the convenience of competition. Indeed, two-
thirds of the photographic businesses of Australia
are run under assumed names; therefore, this is
no departure from the rule.
Now, it will not be difficult for any ordinary
person to see that the photographic profession
soon got very anxious about that part of their
business which yields by far the largest profit—
viz., the Enlargement Branch, and as nineteen
out of every twenty photographers make it the
rule to send their enlargement work to the
“artists,” who will do them at the lowest price
they had a double enemy to combat. In the first
place, the frame and picture complete of the above
Co. was only one-third of their charge, and the
work being done by none but first-class artists, is
sure to meet with the appreciation of customers.
Therefore a certain number of city photographers
(about five) banded themselves together and called
themselves the Photographers’ Vigilance Society.
Then the question arose, what can be done to
rob the Crown Bromide Enlargement Co. of the
confidence of the public, and directly after there
appeared in the newspapers letters respecting
certain persons in England and Victoria, but
made to read in a way that, without com-
mitting a libel, bore strong prejudice to the above
Co. Then a leaflet extract from the Daily Tele-
graph was circulated among all the photographers
of the colony for the purpose of exhibiting in their
windows.
Now, what did the Crown Bromide Enlarge-
ment Co. do ? They sent a disinterested person
to the studios of the two most vigilant of the
Vigilance Society, and gave them each an order
for a photo enlargement with the express idea of
getting a comparison between the prices charged.
The price, in one case, was three pounds five
shillings (<£3 55.), and, in the other case,
three pounds three shillings (£3 35.), The
Crown Bromide Enlargement Company sends
out frames exactly like the one for which they
paid three pounds five shillings (£3 55.)
for the modest sum of 305., or a differ-
ence in favour of the Company’s prices of 355.,
and, in the case of the other, the frame is not
nearly so good as the one sent out by the Co. for
255. fid. In each case the Company gives the
enlarged photo free.
This Company now enjoys the patronage of
premiers and ministers, judges of the land, the
bishops of the churches, police and other magis-
trates, and a wide reputation among the masses.
To our numerous Patrons in New South
Wales and Queensland.
We regret exceedingly the delay in forwarding
all the pictures ordered, and our patrons are en-
titled to know the reasons.
In the first place, the floods on the sea-coast
made us very careful in forwarding, because, had
the pictures touched the water, they would have
been utterly destroyed.
In the second place, certain unscrupulous per-
sons partly copied our methods of securing busi-
ness, and brought upon themselves the just anger
of the press and the public. As in times of
excitement the solvent bank has to bear a rush as
well as the insolvent, so had we, and we could not
help satisfying those first who cried loudest for
the delivery of their pictures.
We thank our patrons much for their kind
patience, and will endeavour to repay them in
fidelity of workmanship.
In the third place, our work has been so much
appreciated, that even, without the other causes,
we would have found great difficulty in keeping
pace with our orders.
However, the whole of the pictures will be ready
within one month from date, and will be shipped
to their respective owners.
Yours faithfully,
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.


ATJSTRALIAIN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors -The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A., Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; J. R. HILL, Esc h > A ' W ‘
MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., *.KA.
Accumulated Funds: Ten and a-Half Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head Office: 87 STHEET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary^
TATTERSALL’S
rosETT IE Xi CJ XT 3E» Itoscliill, April
10,000 at 10 10,000
BIRTHDAY CXJF Banrtwlfk, Slay 24,
50,000 at 10 50,000
29, IS 93.
1893.
'ONLY ADDRESS:
“ THIiIIfSAH.”
. C/o Geo. Adams (Owner), Tatter-
sail’s Hotel & Old Club Premises,
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
Every sentence of Lilloy s North Brisbjiu®
address cuts like a knife. Every line of it is ,l
nail in M'llvvraith’a coffin.
Lissner, M‘llwraith’s puppet Minister for
Mines, was afraid to face the 1 owers miners, and
will try to sneak in via Ravenswood.
The EQUITABLE
LIFE ASSUBANCE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS!
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. £167,686,366
New Business, 1891 48 566,31!)
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,456,871
Apply for “TON Tl N E TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens of Actual Results.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
Offices during erection of Society’s perma-
nent building)
Junction of Hunter, Pitt Sc O'Connell Streets.
gCHOOL OF ARTS, PITT STREET
TUESDAY, APRIL 18, 1893
A LECTURE on the
“ Existence of G-od ”
will be delivered by the
Rev. D. F. BARRY, 0.5.8.
ADMISSION 25., Is., and SIXPB N C E.
Lecture to commence at 8 p.m. (Given by request.)
NERVOUS MEN.
tefrtek
\.V/M
3?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT*
y
Nk
ff
■HI
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALE.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all othe r
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorousstrength,
even the worst case permanently cuVed in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people, throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these hells
without paying for them until they have proved .them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, 0.P.0., Stpkst.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNES [A
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
AUSTRALIAN
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POWDER
YEAST POW’DER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
I Preserves Furs from
the Moth.
Cleanses
Domestic Pets
of Parasites.
CHEAP MUSIC! CHEAP MUSIC !
PAXTON & CO., 19 Oxford Street, LO\]>ON.
Australian Branch: 251 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To be had
of Music-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanston-St., Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
o
MIONSTEft
CASH PRjZEJCONSIJITATIONS.^
Care “MANDEES,” ALBURY, N-S-W-
-NOW OPEN ON
Birthday Cup, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each
■Sirllid ay Clip, Sydney. May 27. 5000 at 5.
Brand National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 5.
Brand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully:
“Robin Hood,” c/o. Mandcrs’ Telegram Agency,
DEAN STREET, ALBURY, N.S.W.
5. CACH.
o
5, EACH
MONS 1
CwhF^ e
X 1
s'**
o
First .. .. 400
Second .. .. 125
Third .. .. 75
N.S. (d.) ..
Other prizes see
ICO
circulars.
50 Consolations at 2 each, 100.
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes.
BIRTHDAY CUP, May 24—20,000 at 5 Each.
Registered Letters to “ G A LA, ’ ’ c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W. Press
The ONLY Genuine One at 5 each in the Colonies,
and Subscribers witness Drawings.
ADAM KEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over SO Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.S.W.
Birthday Cup —10,000 at lO
Randwick, May 24, 1893.
ROSEHILL JULY HANDICAP-4,000 at 10.
Write your address exactly to avoid mistakes.
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
‘ A.tia,m. 3ede,’
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
gw* Programmes Sent on
CARTER & C°?
Application.
PUAIi’TABLE
(Non- REVERSiQLEY 1
rpHIS Ingeniously Constructed KII.LIAICB ItlMMi-
-L TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction. Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggen tie exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—2S to 3 1% Bnneas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
rO6
B.MOONTCASTLE& S<?Hs
OIRECT IMPORTERS & MANOFACTORER3
of Hat<s & QAPS
i
o
o
o
&RsJ
e NTs
o
o
o
o
o
V. ;'
alnw
8
O
o
o
o
o
o
i
ì
WSjM
15
■tv
jVvi.cV..V«
<?xZ
í
i
ì
(OQK.SEY & Qjs QiLEBRATED IONDON HATS
When* ordering number of hat will be sufficient
A. and J. STEWART & .CVS ARTESIAN WELL BORING LUBES.
Russian
V
Brand.
ì
j The only TUBES used hy till the Governments of Australia.
Manager roR Acetraua-T. J. Mia,o Willia.ixL, 297 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Upper Richmond (N.S.W.) niggers are
fervid gamblers, and will play for their last loin-rag.
King Morgan rules the Dyraaba tribe, King Wednesday is
monarch of the Runnymeade lot. One of Morgan’s sub-
jects some time ago lost heavily to Wednesday, who
rooked him at euchre and “twenty-fives.” So King
Morgan went over to Runnymeade and won everything
back and a lot of miscellaneous loot besides. Then King
Wednesday saved up for two months, and the other day
he packed all his portables on his wife’s back and trotted
her over to Dyraaba to have his “revenge.” Morgan,
however, cleaned out Wednesday, the last seen of whom
was his sneaking past the homestead in the gloom, with
his wife’s petticoat around his waist. As he returned
alone, it may be that he lost even his wife in the gamble.
« * *
A “ spieler,” just arrived from Sydney, sought
to do business at a Maoriland ra,oe-ineeting where all the
officials, also all the horses and jockeys, were Maoris.
The entrance-fee, by the way, was a sack of maize, the
pool being divided between the first and second horses,
whose owners, after the races, hitched them on to a dray
and carted their winnings home. The spieler in question
was urging the dusky spectators to “ pop it down, gents,”
when an 18-stone steward came along and literally threw
the “pride of the push” right over a seven-foot paling
fence.
• * #
Thomas Sullivan, champion sculler of Miori-
iand and conqueror of Bubear, Stephens m, Dutch (5 sees,
start), and the defeated by Stanbury, sailed for England
in the Orient to take down Bubear’s number as champion
of England. He proposes to meet Stanbury again.
# # #
“ Ironbark Jem ” Burge, erstwhile of Tasmania
and Sydney, has won another fight in the States. The
cablegram tells us “Lewis’ hands were both badly
broken.” Burge’s old tactics—holds up his head for the
other man to smash his hands on, and, that being done,
just finishes him off. Over fifty rounds were fought, in
what is described as one of the most determined battles
ever seen.
# # *
The gate-money taken at the last Roberts-Peall
billiard-match quite broke the record. Although the
players put up a very moderate stake (£2ooa-side) the
champion must have made a small fortune out of his
victory.
# ■ •
Dear Bulletin, —You err in your generalisation
about the English aristocracy in the cricket-field and on
the river. Lord Arapthill, in the rowing world, occupies
a position quite equal to, say, Lohmann’s at cricket, and
no titled cricketer approaches his standard. Neither is
this an isolated instance. An inspection of aquatic re-
cords will prove the reverse of your statement. —M. M‘G.
We are still unconvinced.
# # *
Now that the ex-Queensland horse, Realm, has
beaten The Admiral, Paris, and Co. at weight-for-age and
handicap, it has been discovered That Realm, when in
Queensland, carried Ost. 81b. over a mile and a-half in
2min. 39$sec., and beat a fair field at Rockhampton (Q.),
carrying lOst. 41b. over two miles in 3min. 39sec.
'# * #
Marvellous is dead. Had his best son fallen |
into good hands at the start of his career, there is small |
doubt he would have taken a place amongst the
best of Australian racehorses. As it was, however, j
Marvel never had a chance to show what he was really
made of.
# * *
The Inter-University eight-oar race was rowed
at Melbourne on Saturday, Melbourne (coached By the
unique Upward) proving the victors, Sydney second, and
Adelaide last. Sydney led for the first mile, Melbourne
rowing very wildlv, but so soon as the Victorians settled
down to a steady stroke they passed their opponents and
were never afterwards troubled.
* * *
“Sporting men concentrate the national devilry. ”
—W. M. K. Valk.
# * *
Now that thoroughbreds are going so cheaply,
it is a wonder some of the trotting men don’t invest in a
few well-bred horses and train them up as trotters, which
idea is being adopted by some of the best Yankee trotting
stables. The veteran Garryowen, who won the trot at
Penrith on Easter Monday, is a thoroughbred without a
drop of trotting blood in his veins.
# * *
Anyone who fancies he has a horse that can
trot on the road should run out from Sydney to Coogee
some Sunday afternoon. The cattle that go out there are
red-hot, and the prad that can land first home is fit to
’ match against Mystery.
# * *
Sprig o’ Myrtle’s running has been so contra-
dictory that, if the slashing colt were not the inmate of a
veritable Cfnsar’s-wife stable, a stable controlled by men
against w T hom there has never been a breath of suspicion,
there would surely be an inquiry into his in-and-out
running. #
The cable says George Dawson and Ironbark
Jem Burge are matched to box in the States. Dawson
must be mad. Win or lose he is bound to smash his hands
up on the iron man.
« # *
Larry Foley has had wonderful luck. Some of
the most desperate fights Sydney has seen came off in the
cellar of the old White Horse, on a cement floor, hard
enough to make sparks when a man’s head struck it.
Yet the writer never knew a man to be seriously hurt.
# * *
The “cronk ” promoters are still in evidence at
Randwiok meetings. Here is a chance for some plain-
clothes man to distinguish himself by extinguishing the
firm.
# # •
Just before the Jackson-Slavin fight, the event
was under discussion by some sporting-men one Sunday
morning, when a five-year-old son of the host remarked,
“Spit-me-death,” with an elaborate expectoration over
his left elbow, “ if the darkle wouldn’t beat a paddookfull
of Slavics !”
* * *
A Sydney monthly, with a religious tendency,
gives a prize'for the queerest saying by a child under six,
and the writer sent in the above. It didn’t score.
SPECIAL CAUTION.
Some worthless imitations have been brought
into this market. Purchasers must be careful to
obtain the genuine Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Backers of Horses can win £lO per week by betting
on my system. Only small oapital required. Failure irn
possible' Proved by the Experience of years to be the
only reliable system in existence. For parUculars, send
55., and stamped addressed envelope to Mr. EMLRS N,
Kingsley-Street, Camberwell, Victoria.
Gilbert Casey, Labour organiser (Q.) :
“ Hard acre’s Land Grant map will save the
country.
The celebrated zebra-stripes of the Mac-
pherson Squatting’ Government, Victoria, are
paralleled by the Queensland Land-Grab.
The discharge of William Smith, accused
of the murder of Jacobsen, at Pahiatua, M.L.,
will be a nasty jar for some leading Australian
newspapers which calmly assumed Smith’s guilt
and practically hanged him out of hand.
.Ridiculous slab from J. R. Dickson’s
election manifesto to the Bulimba (Q.) electors :
Many persons are disposed to compare Queensland with
the disconsolate Penelope—Ulysses having departed from
Ithaca. To my mind, there are, and will be found,
amongst the suitors, men well able to bend the how of the
absent Odysseus.
Auctioneer Dickson learned the classics from a
guidebook, which helped him wonderfully when
he wrote in Greece two years ago for the Brisbane
Courier.
By accident even an Upper House may
sometimes serve the people. It is now reported
that the Victorian Village Settlement Bill was
the preliminary to a big land-deal, in which a
quarter of a million was to be paid for a large
estate near Healesville. The L°gislative Council
got an inkling of this, but that would not have
blocked the bill had it not also leaked out that the
expectant vendor was —(name the missing words).
The N.S.W. Council has just performed a public
service in declining to repeal the Party Processions
Act.
A colossal land-settlement scheme, now
being promoted in Victoria, is becoming known
under the title of the ‘‘Columbian Land Distri-
bution of 1893,” and includes the sub-division of
the well-known estates of Nambrook and Melton
Park. The scheme includes a subscription of
£250,000 in =£l shares, and there are 351 prizes,
ranging from the top value of .£30,000 to 100 of
one-acre allotments valued at £24. Each share
has the chance of winning 11 separate properties ;
and an investment of £1 may be lucky enough to
scoop in £58,324. The first prize, Nambrook
estate, is valued at £30,090, and the winner will
also receive a cash bonus of £2OOO to enable him
to stock it; the winner of No. 2—Melton Park,
worth £12,000 —will get £5OO ; of No. 3, a house
and 500 acres worth £7OOO, a bonus of £l5O. The
scheme is in the hands of reputable and
“square” men, and P. P. Labertonche, of
the Victorian railways, Major O. M. Officer
(Melbourne, Vie.), Christopher Wade (Adelaide,
S.A.), and Captain J. Whitney (Auckland, M.L.),
will be present at the ballot. Next week’s Bul-
letin will contain full particulars, together w r ith
sub-divisional plans, and a photograph of Nam-
brok House.
A Sydney tailor boasts that he holds two
seats in the N.S.W. Parliament in his trousers-
pr>cket-—i.e., that he can force two members into
insolvency whenever he likes. How many votes
for Thrift does that sartorial vaunt represent ?


THE BEST
SARSAPARILLA
AYER
BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIC
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
SUP” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name Ayer’s Sarsaparilla —is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
í
i
write Tor
D«
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON {
ASTHMA J
o
i
BOURSE
Rockejbmpsif
Sydney
□licit Bro?
Brisbahe: Elliottßros»(°
rOauld
EmwcTON.Hi. Sharia na^t*
ucklahd: Sharland
art
JjM'jow' Troth set/.
Vittx/ Treatise andJestiacnialsfre'
'yAddrcs^r^
'••• v»
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
yFRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Per farmer.
tp- k
stre^
Beware of imitations . The genuine is sign erf
trade mark. = musk DEEM.
'l/
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
IMVICORatm
FOR
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort*
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin,, says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Olaremout, Hastings, England.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
c>
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN'S SWEET)
Co?u(4. cMfmjeJUfs- “
T.anrrf
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
£49,460 worth for <£l.
See Amusement
Column.
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
i
Shapely nails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
hair are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
dies when all others and the best skin doctors
, fail. In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skin and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful. Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant. They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
All about the Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, the Great Skin Cure,
50c.: Cuticura Soap, an Exquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
pimples, blotches, blackheads, simple
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only tnedu
cated toilet soap and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most complexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
ì
i
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus : , '
O'
Astc for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse Blackwell, London, sc., Qe.f
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY"..
Positively the Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS
J U
HARLENE
J 5
WO/?/.D-/?£/VOW/V£o AM//? PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
w
AFTER UiSB.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USE.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin,
ne “r° d FOß BALDNESS
J nV\vo.?L? , i C( 'T 'in Moustaohios it has never been equalled. AsaCnrer
of oak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never falls.
——oooooo
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonics.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
‘Plum’
ì
THE
‘Ptuurrx’
THI»S brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public,
i ure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
>1 a- § azor - ! n leather case, 10a. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
f Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
■Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra -
*,.«»: CRAIG & AITKEN, 080 George Street, SYDNEY,
Blind Love.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Have you seen a man mutilated by a circular saw
—seen a remorseless, shimmering steel cut its way
into his writhing body, heard the one awful cry of
its victim, and the horrible grinding of the teeth
on quick bones ? Heaven spare me such another
experience.
Pescot was still living when we dragged him
over the stained sawdust. We dared not lift him.
The remains spoke. I can give that ghastly,
mangled heap no other name. He rolled ins eyes
and seemed to select me from amongst the horror-
stricken crowd, and I knelt by his side.
“ What can I do, Dave?”
He touched me with a torn hand, and his voice
was firmer than my own.
“My wife! This will break her heart. Let
her down gently, won’t you?”
I assured him I would do my best, and muttered
vain words of hope and courage.
We made no attempt to help him. It was hope-
less to endeavour to stem that crimson tide or to
bind those terrible lacerations, and so we simply
waited for the end, awed and silent, and watched
the red circle extending in the saw-dust around
him.
‘‘Break it gently to her, old man.”
His voice was still strong, but when he spoke
again it had grown suddenly weak: “Do what
you can for her ! ” he gasped.
Several times he repeated this plea before he
died, and his last, faint, whispered words were
just distinguishable, as I bent down to his lips :
“ My poor wife !”
Pescot had lived in a two-roomed log-hut, about
a mile from the mill, at the cross-roads. I gal-
loped on ahead of the boys with their sad burden
to fulfil my painful trust.
Mrs. Pescot did not answer my knock. I
pushed open the door and entered, A carelessly-
folded note lay upon the table. It read :
Dave Pescot,—This is to let you know I hav clered out
with T.M. I got sick of this miserible live. Don’t think
you can catch us cause you can’t.—Yours truly, Mii.lv.
‘‘Yours truly, Milly,” was Mrs. Pescot. T.M.
was the loafing, horse-thieving son of Milky
Morgan, the publican.
Melb.
E.D.
“ Hope is the mirage of the mind.”—Gi.
Already, over 700 persons have applied
for positions under the N.S. W. Income-tax Act.
“Esq. ” is the title bestowed on a Melb.
pawnbroker this week in the auctioneer’s advt.,
sidling time-expired things.
There is to be at Chicago World’s Fair a
Parliament of Religions, in which representatives
of all creeds and sects will meet and talk the
matter over. Melbourne Presbytery reckons on
getting away with the belt.
Provincial journalism. Extract from in-
troductory editorial of Nagambie Times (Vic.): —
We do not expect to go to the front at once, as it will
take time to do that, but this we will say—we have suffi-
cient confidence in ourselves to assert that if we do not
arrive there at no distant date from now it will not be for
want of energy on our part. Viticulture, agriculture,
horticulture, grazing, and the dairying industry we intend
also to dilate on. We will now conclude by saying that
we hope to reach the goal of our ambition by strict atten-
tion to the requirements of the district, adopting for our
motto “ Excelsior. ”
When a raid was made upon the Charters
Towers publicans some months ago, a fairly smart
policeman, furnished with a wherewith to
pay expenses, took his mate and started about
10 am. one Sabbath morning to trap the hotel-
keepers into Sunday trading. About 2 p.m. he
rolled into the barracks evidently not thirsty, and,
as he reeled to a seat, exclaimed : “Not a
one of them would give a—(hie)—dhrink ; they’re
—(hie)—all too d fly!” “An’ where’s the
pound I gave yez to pay fur the dhrinks?” said
the sergeant. “Oh, bejabers!' said the zealous
and vigilant officer, “Oi spint that—Oi had to.”
A lady, evidently the last of an otherwise
extinct species—a kind of human megatherium
left over when all the other members of the
race of silent women were extinguished in the
Deluge—advertises in a San Francisco paper :
A LADY OF REFINEMENT, good health, good
temper, common sense and executive ability
desires a position of responsibility somewhere on
earth ; can travel, read, write, walk, drive, converse,
or be silent with old or young, male or female.—
Address L. W., Box 230; Examiner Office.
Truly, she must be very, very old. The world
hasn’t grown any such person for so very long a
time that the memory of man cannot cover the
gap. She must be the original silent woman of
the earth—the primitive Dweller on the Threshold
—the woman who was before the Cosmos—the
female who had no beginning and no end. And,
unluckily, the only man who was silent enough to
lie a suitable husband for her is dead, so there is
no chance that she will marry and prevent her
species dying out.
A Maori and his wife drove, the other day,
into Palmerston (M. L.) in an ancient
shebang, with a horse to match. They camped
for the night in the vehicle, and in the morning,
to their horror, the horse was gone. The Maori
turned Palmerston upside down and shook it in
search of the missing animal, but no animal could
be found. He scoured the environs in vain. The
horse had utterly evaporated, and not a hair of it
could be seen. Then the Maori rose to the
occasion : he harnessed himself to the vehicle, put
his wife on the driver’s seat, and started for home.
And the last that was seen of them he was man-
fully hauling the cart some eight miles on the
homeward road, and his wife was telling him to
“ gee up.” A very few years ago the Maori would
have tied his wife to the cart and made her gee-up,
but times are very much changed since then.


Frank Cotton, M.L.A. ; “All the N.S.W.
river farmers will have on their farms this year
will be mud and mortgage.”
The CALIGRAPH Writing Machine,
Simplest and Swiftest. Must Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which vv rites
On a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line tor Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caliarraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
Other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street ;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
To Merchants, Mine Owners, Captains, Pearlers and
Dealers in Pearls and Precious Stones.
ISIDOR BRAUN,
17 Hatton Garden, London, ,E.C.
Broker in Pearls and Precious Stones (Established, 1872)
wishes to receive direct consignments of all kinds of
Pearls and Precious Stones, rough or cut. Commission
2% on parcels over £lOO. Advances made on London
valuation. Speciality, Pearls and Opal-Ore.
O THE MEMBERS OF THE AUS-
Ladies and Gentlemen,—
As the retiring Director, who is eligible for re-election,
I have the honour to respectfully seek a renewal of the
confidence you so kindly placed in me in 1887 and 1890.
Should I be so fortunate as to be successful in my can-
didature, it will be my endeavour in the future,' as it
has been in the past, to discharge the duties of a Director
to the best of my ability. Allow me to take this oppor-
tunity to place on record my obligations to late and
present colleagues on the Board tor their extreme kind-
ness in electing me to the podtion of Deputy Chairman
during the past three years.
A CARD
TKALIAN MUTUAL PR'' ,7r J)EXT
SOCIETY.
1 am, ladies and gentlemen,
Your faithful servant,
J. T. WALKER.
Sydney, March 25, 1893.
5"
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
(HOICK SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.’’—Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds—
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
BLONDEAU&C-
d ' y 1 ; ; 11
POR iTCHtteSIBfCZEMfii
i»«S&&S^«nVTION
oo n of* London,Paris&NewYork.
RoADcjo
For Toilet, Nursery &9
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKIiY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
A SANITARY, SOLUBLE ROSE-
BUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes -in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY
AND THE
Greatest Show in the Whole of Australia.
IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED ON BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
(Magnificent (Stock of iewellery.
ALL AT FREETRADE PRICES.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock ot Fine Diamond
and Qem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches-birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at Cs. Cd., Bs. Gd. and 10s.
Cd. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Kings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment, Wedding and Keeper Rings, a special variety.
All at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in ITincess. Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In Ibis department the value and
novelty wo offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presents in solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets. Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations, A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.'S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
6d. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purses (portraonnaies),Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entr6e Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style. Solid Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
Wat dies, mamond.s, Jew e 11 er y , Silve r-p late.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
UIBEGT FROM T H IE M AUUP ACTUEEBS TO T ZEE IE PUBLIC.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
. WORLD-FAMED
ENGLISH LEVERS.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
-Po £S. —S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
, ° u LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
-Po I a 8 D. ami CO.’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
XU HUNTING LEVER; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£6 6s. Beware of imitations.
-fi/1 I AS. S. 1). and CO.'S Superb ENGLISH lIUNT-
cV '* INO LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection.
1 AS.-S. D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
XU HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
1 AS.—S. D: and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
LISH HUNTING LEVER. Unequalled.
PC 1 aS.—S. D. and CO.'S Errand Three-quarter-plate
X-D IU Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear ; without equal.
Pi a - S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
U. Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER.
-Oil 1 AS. —S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
I i- and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English.
Pi cS.-S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
3J L O WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. limiters ditto, £1 12s. 6d.
Pt i AS.—S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
1U Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable.
OQ 1 AS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
XjO 1C alJ( j CO.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Pi a i aS., £l2 10s., £l5 10s., to £25.—S. D. and
to CO.’s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals.
Pi r AND pc A -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
J KEVV A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
We hold the largest stock of these to be found on the
Australian continent, and we ask every reader to compare
ours with the prices you have been paying. Notwithstand-
ing the duty of 15 per cent, recently put on by the
Government, the following will be found from 12£ to
40 per cent, lower than Waltham Watches have ever
been sold in Sydney:—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .. _ .. 212
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. .. 3 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, J-plate, 7 jewels .. 810
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels .. 4 4
Qent.’s Silver Hunters, “ Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance 510
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 7 10
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat „ 12 10
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat .. .. .. .. 14 10
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver cases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.-In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition. ’
NOTE.—Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Everv Descrin.
tion by the best WORKMEN.
Stewart Dawson and Co.’s Watch ad Jewe'iery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET, and STRAND ARCADE, SYDNEY. MELBOURNE and AUCKLAND.
A Love-Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He belonged to the ever-swelling army of the un-
employed. She was his wife. Her “friends”
continually urged her to leave him. Like a good
woman she refused—said she’d never leave him
unless he misbehaved himself.
He continued to be unemployed. In the agony
of privation she upbraided him. “Why don’t
you bring home some money?”
“Money! God help me ! Where am I to get
money from, unless I steal it ?”
“ Well, if you had any pluck you would steal it,
rather than let your wife go in rags and your
family starve.”
He did steal some —-was caught in the act, con-
victed and sentenced, and is now in gaol, where
he will remain for four years or so.
She is now suing for divorce under the new Act
—he has misbehaved himself. He was found out!
P.
The French missing word—Mons. X.—
Their Mace.
“ The good time when I was unhappy.”—
Sophie Aknould.
The letters of the word Argus, the organ
of Capital, also make “Sugar.”
James Thirst got seven days for drunken-
ness, at Melb. City Court, one day last week.
Beer only aggravates a Thirst like that.
One of the sneak-thief British prints offers
to double the yearly salary of any person whose
suggestion for the improvement of the paper is
accepted. The man who advises the use of a little
brains should take the spoil.
“ Henry Rule ” writes denying that his
was the voice at a recent Petersham (Sydney)
National Ass. meeting that told a fat ex-M.P. to
“ out some slices off his cheek, and throw it to the
pigs.” We are sorry, for Mr. Rule’s sake. The
advice was very proper under the circs.
Gladstone says he chews every mouthful
32 times. Presuming that Gladstone has three
meals a day, and takes 50 mouthfuls to each meal,
then 50 x 3 x 32=4800=total Gladstonian chews
daily. 4800x365 xBO = 140,160,000=approximate
total of Gladstonian chews up to date.
A valuable recipe for bush whisky : Boil-
ing water, spirits of wine, one large chunk of
tobacco, pain-killer, and a little white sugar ; mix
well with an axe-handle, strain the compound
through a sock, and bottle. There are no fixed
quantities of any ingredient; the operator tastes
ttie mixture occasionally as he goes along until he
has got it according to his liking.
A blue fly, with a pin stuck through it,
recently arrived at the office of the Maoriland
Department of Industry. Along with it was this
letter ;
Sir,—l enclosed specimen of a fly found on a horse.
Would you be kind enough to say whether it is the hot-fly,
Hessian, or trad-fly, as I am very anxious to know, the
horse, being a valuable one, showing symptoms of poison-
ing in the hind legs. The fly enclosed is very noxious. It
is not dead. When you are going to examine it do not put
your finger too near, for fear of it stinging you. If it is
only your clerk who examines, then it does not matter.
You need not tell him, and you will see some fun,
especially if he swears. Ido not swear myself, but when
this fly stuck his sting into me, I could not help it, but I
said a swear on the spur of the moment. I hope it will
reach you in a dead state so as to prevent the use of pro-
fane language.


ROWLANDS’
MACASSAR OIL
Preserves and strengthens the hair, prevents it
falling off, imparts a brilliant lustre to it ana
renders it soft and silky j it is the best BriUian-
tine, and as a little goes a very long way it is in
reality very economical for general use; it is
the best softener and beautifler of ladies and
children’s hair, and is unsurpassed for whiskers
and moustaches) also prepared in a_
colour for fair hair. Sites 3 1. 6 d., 7*., and 10*. 6t».
ROWLANDS’ EUKONlAisapure and
fragrant toilet powder in three tints—white,
rose and cream. Boxes Is and 2s. Gd. Ask any
dealer in perfumery for Rowlands’ articles, oi
20, Hatton Garden, London.
r:
do u.b l E
Alg »
Requires No Addition or Preparation as It
CONTAINS: Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, Ac.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES.: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ah°SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
_ _ Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
i
Reuter’s Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards'constipate hut by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
'-'on. The smallest and easiest to take. - Forty in a phiaL
i
JI Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
ì
i
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
FOR THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
FOR TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in watef.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
Malted milk, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants. ’
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep Indefinitely In any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London. EC.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE. /
i
J Sample \
jpy sent \
itis & Post \
to any ad- \
State whether \
aid like Song, \
), or Dance Music. N
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
i
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
\ FREE.
[(brqqmes-mijsTc
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15. Kolborn, London, Eng.
Widow Welch’s Pills for Female Complaints.
V/TRS. SMITHERS, grand-danghter to the Widow
i'i Wejch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing- demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
he careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers. who is the only person in possession of the
Original Eeceipe. The genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAPER, and signed on the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smithers, and the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
"W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 07, St. Paul’s, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp. Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by
moat chemists. ‘ :
ELECT RIG PILLS. —For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, See. (Dr. Laseurs, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Electric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10a. 6d., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Onamiet, B 8 Bourke Streat, K., Melbourne.
BRIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Bade of these
Papers Transfers the Designs to any.'Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Monnt-
mellick Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
PoQti free 4d»
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical D isigns. Post
free, 3d,
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms,
free
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Books, containing upwards of 700
Designs, hound in One Volume, post free, Is. 9d.
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
8326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
ECZEMA,
SALT-RHEUM,
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when
the remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Read the following testimonial from Mr. E. H.
Stahl, a respectable citizen of Deg Moines, lowa,
U.S.A. He says; “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
t
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. We tried it, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great change for the
better was noticeable. We con tinned the treat-
ment, and a thorough cure was the result.”
“My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheum,
was completely cured by the use of Ayer's Sarsap-
arilla.”— Maria R. dk Bins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Made by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing
FOR WINTER COMFORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated Unshrinkable Merino
Singlets and Pants just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (J sleeves), 7s. 6d.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 7S. fid.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. Cd.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and include in Postal Order or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
Sole Agents :
BRAHAM 1c MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
fit T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
X nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state. ”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer,
at once for my TREA TISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N.Adelaide, S.Australia
If. G. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
6 6 mALES OK the CONVICT SYSTEM.'
M Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
£W,m worth for <£l.
See Amusement
Column.
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
•JiHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the -best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a greit boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
-with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
m
m" The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS
A r ID
INFLUENZA,
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
% H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
City Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers. Limited
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M. BEETHAM iSON, Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(BEST IN THE WORLD.)
4®" To be obtained from all Grocers and Store
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT STREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
CASCARA-HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAVAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAVAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
SAVARESSE’S
Full directions.
All Chemists
SANDAL WOOD OIL
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’s Pure Copaiba Capsules.
CAPSULES
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 11,1893.
ri LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
_| SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge over Back Creek, at Marsden, road Mars-
den to Lake Cowal _ . ,
Construction of Hand-geared limber Punt for
Tabulam, Clarence River .
Bridge over No. 2 Gully, road Demliqmn to
Wakool Bridge ... . .
Bridge over No. 3 Gully, road Demliquin to
Wakool Bridge _ ... . .
Bridge over No. 4 Gully, road Demliquin
Wakool Bridge
Supply, during a period of five years, of fctop
valves, Hydrants, Surface-boxes, and other
fittings, to be made in the Colony, for Country
Towns Water Supplies.
Additions, &c., Lock-up Gaol, Bombala
Repairs, Ac., Post and Telegraph Office, loft
Macquarie (time extended)
WEDNESDAY, MAY 3.
Construction of Timber Punt for Darling River,
at Bourke _ A
Railway Station Buildings, Molong I arkes and
Forbes Line
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River at Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Collarendabri ,
Bridge over Little River at Sergeants Point, road
Mongarlowe to Braidwood
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River at Bombay Crossing
road
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Manufacture, Supply, Ac., of Ironwork and
Erection of Iron Bridge and Construction or
Approaches thereto, at Wagga Wagga.
Materials comprised in section No. 1 of con-
tract, to be manufactured in the colony.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
Melbourne City Court. The Bench to
vag. : “You have no visible means of support.”
The vag. : “ I have. I-Believe in the invisible
Almighty, He gives me visible support when I ask
Him.” The Bench : “Six months,” Yet scoffers
doubt the efficacy of prayer.
Attention is drawn to the Crown Bromide
Enlargement Go’s advt. on Page 14.
How will the Pope’s phonographic blessing
to his faithful Americans work without the tradi-
tional two fingers ? We suppose the believer will
get them at the bar.
In re the flogging .of Walsh, set down
recently for accomplishment in Woolloomooloo
lockup, among the persons who applied to witness
the performance was one woman—on behalf of the
press. If women can look at floggings they them-
selves should not be exempt from the lash.
When Augustus Moore edited London
Hawk he used to advertise that he alone was its
high Panjandrum. The new gang now cruelly
advertise : “Augustus M. Moore is in no way
whatever connected with this paper, even as a
canvasser for advertisements.”
At the late Sydney Agricultural Show
J. and O. Howard, the sole N.S.W. agents for
Clayton and Shuttleworth, had a phenomenal
clearing out of almost everything in stock. Such
a rush has seldom been witnessed in Sydney for
ploughs, harrows, chaff-cutters, binders, horse-
rakes, mowers, horse-gear, portable engines,
threshing-machines, &c. It would seem as if there
is a stirring boom in industrial agriculture.
The Grand Central Coffee Palace, situated
vis-a-vis to the G.P.O. in Barrack-street, Sydney,
is all that its name implies. Manager Smith,
always abreast of the times, opened last week a
new light-refreshment-room off the entrance-hall —
a luxuriously upholstered saloon, admirably suited
for a light-luncbeon-room for business men, as
well as for a charmingly quiet four-o’olock-tea-
room for ladies out shopping. The whole
house has just undergone complete renovation
from basement to attic, and the only fault its
patrons sometimes find with it is that its 250 bed-
room are all engaged.
Dear Bulletin, —Be missing word, I think
you’ll find a 1300 to 1 chance will not satisfy your
readers. Simpler words, which would enable, say,
a quarter of the guesses to be correct —as in the
instance of the English papers—would be more
satisfactory. I anticipated a difficult word, and
would not risk anything—but put down the fol-
lowing, any one of which, I maintain, would
have been guessed by a fair proportion, and
you’d have more guesses next time : apostacy,
humiliation, sycophancy, eagerness, suscepti-
bility, ignominy, turpitude, abasement, folly,
fatuity, obtuseness, obsequiousness. Let us down
easier next time.—Yours, truly, Lakomai.
Julian Salomons’ exhibition of sympathy
with R. E. O’Connor on the ground that the latter,
being the representative of the Government in
N.S.W. Legislative Council, was obliged to be
the mouthpiece of a party whose political char-
acter was under trial, was a hollow piece of fooling
for one hireling lawyer to thrust at another.
What is the business of both men’s lives but to
stand up day by day and be the mouthpieces of
any accused persons who will fee them sufficiently ?
And that, too, when the alleged offences are not
political ones, arising often from mere differences
of temperament, but criminal outrages against
the first principles of human nature? Minister
O’Connor’s defence of his party may or may not
be a work of conscience; but whether it is or not,
sympathy or reproach on that head from Julian
Salomons, member of a profession ready to defend
horse-thieves and murderers for a return in coin,
is the most grotesque buffoonery*
Meston writes : “ Your par. re the death
of old Dunlop, at Brisbane, recalls the historical
fact that, after the murder of Stapylton and one
of his men by the Maroon blacks, in 1840, the
whites regaled themselves with a battue among
the wrong tribe, and finally, in the cause Of justice
and for the sake of appearances, brought in two
captive Myalls, called in the official records
“Merriddio” and “ Moogamill,” who were tried
with the usual ceremony and hanged in the ordi-
nary fashion. The genial colonists of that period
were much amused at the subsequent discovery
that they had hanged two victims who were not
within 30 miles of the murder when it was com-
mitted, and that the condemning myall witness
belonged to the guilty tribe, and rejoiced with
exceeding joy at the rare opportunity of wiping
out two men from a tribe with whom his own
people were at war. And, writing of blacks,
‘reminds me’ that your controversial ‘Warri-
galists ’ were not aware of the fact that ‘ Warri-
gal,’as the name of the dog, appeared first in 1826
among Threlkeld’s * Specimens of an Australian
Language,’ taken from the dialect of the Port
Macquarie and Hunter River blacks, the Awaba-
kal tribes. ”
RHEUMATISM IS CAUSED
By blood impurities, which inflame the tissues of
the muscles and the ligaments of the joints.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cures it by clearing the blood
through the kidneys.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (George-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth.” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address-Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-Street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*


#
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST
m
-'f:
m
■v
'///-
&
m
‘m
f
i?
%
>r-.
m
'm
A
%
c
m
CocO^
is
iili
■ f->
m
%
“ A Man for a' That."
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He looked like a “ colonial experiencer ”
in the third degree. First degree : Fine linen and
elegant raiment, cards, wine, women, and the
usual musical accompaniment. Second : Shiny
coat, limp collars, and a superannuated barmaid.
Third : Shabbiness, no visible linen, and a
psychological drift towards the wharf. He was
thirty-five, perhaps. A heavy moustache care-
fully disposed and a military figure alone remained
of all his former glory. His frayed and stained
grey coat was buttoned at a dangerous tension
over his broad chest, his black-cloth trousers, the
gift of a frugal-minded and under-sized clergy-
man, were nicely balanced between the tops of his
ruined boots and the bottom of a nondescript vest.
Hi s nose had a lot of character in it—and spirit.
He walked up to the counter of Mr. Isaac
Mosenstein, pawnbroker, Melbourne, and laid a
ring before the presiding Israelite, with the air of
a gentleman, and one who, though under
temporary financial difficulties, must be treated
as such.
“What on that?” He threw out his arm with
an exaggerated gesture, as he was wont to do
when he had a wealth of white cuff to display,
and gently replaced the cigar-butt he had saved
for the occasion.
Mr. Mosenstein examined the ring carefully,
and then shuffled off behind his screen, muttering
something about testing it. He beckoned to his
assistant.
“Mypoy,” he whispered, “go for der police,
kvick !”
The pawnbroker pretended to be very busy till
his boy returned with Constable Canty, then he
shambled out again, wearing his look of profes-
sional cunning.
“ Vere did you get dot ring, mein friendt?”
“ Be damned, sir ! What do you mean ?” The
customer drew himself up into an attitude almost
tragic. Then he noticed the policeman, and un-
bent a trifle. “It was given to me by—er—er—
by a friend.”
“Dod is a lie ! I gif you in sharge forshdealin’
der ring ! Dot is mein wife’s ring—l gif it do her
meinself !”
Mr. Percy St. John Devine appeared before the
City Bench in due time, charged with stealing a
ring, valued at <£lo, the property of Mrs. Isaac
Mosenstein. Mrs. Mosenstein repeated the .story
she had told her husband two years previously,
when he first missed the jewel. A small handbag,
in which she had placed the ring for safety, was
snatched from her side one afternoon as she was
sitting on the sands at Brighton, by a tall man
who escaped amongst the ti-tree. She could not
swear that the prisoner was that man —she thought
he was not. Mrs. Mosenstem’s memory was very
defective.
Mrs. Mosenstein was not a Jewess ; she was
many years younger than her husband, and very
handsome, in a buxom, bourgeois way. After
the first glance at Mr. Percy St. John behind the
spikes, which seemed to greatly unnerve her, the
lady did not again look towards the prisoner, who,
in turn, had abandoned the proud bearing he
assumed on entering and the air of dignity he in-
tended to maintain, and was staring and gaping
at the pawnbroker’s wife, regardless of the pro-
ceedings of the court.
Mr. Percy St John Devine told Mr. Mosenstein
that the ring had been given to him—he told Con-
stable Canty that he had found the ring on the
sand at Brighton Beach. The Bench took this
discrepancy into consideration, and gave Mr.
Percy two months, and Percy assumed his dignity
again, and allowed himself to be removed without
a murmur.
* * #
Whilst Mr. Percy St. John Devine rested
in Her Majesty’s gaol at Melbourne, he often
recalled the gay and festive days when he was a
colonial experiencer in the first degree. He par-
ticularly remembered the delightful afternoon
when he first met handsome, black-eyed Gloriana
on a secluded bit of beach near Brighton. He
remembered still, with a little glow of vanity, how
complete the conquest had been. He was a fine
fellow then, with an aristocratic figure draped
in the best goods turned out in Melbourne. He
recalled many subsequent meetings on the sands,
and in other places. Gloriana never told him her
real name, and was anxious to keep her address
secret. He did not trouble to discover either—
t]ie arrangement suited him admirably. He re-
membered oftenest and most particularly their
last parting, when, in a gush of ardour, she
slipped her ring upon his little finger, as an
assurance that she would keep an appointment
made for the following evening. He was at the
trysting place at the time stipulated, but Gloriana
failed to appear, and, though he often sought her,
he never saw her again till she appeared at the
City Court in the person of the pawnbroker’s
wife.
“Just my beastly luck to strike Mosenstein !”
reflected Mr. Percy St. John Devine mournfully.
He consoled himself with the further reflection—
“ After all, the little woman did all she could for
me under the circumstances. No gentleman could
put her away.”
E. D.
In ’B2, Maoriland exported 1,707,3281 b. of
frozen meat; in ’9l, the shipment totalled
110,000,0001 b. In ’92, merely owing to the high
prices of stock in the province, the meat export was
lessened by some 12,500,0001 b.
An Italian writer, after pointing out that
the instinctive cruelty of woman is being gradu-
ally obliterated, predicts that “ in the ages to
come woman will become entirely good.” But
how wearying for the men of the distant future !
M. Edward Eugene Caller, a grand old
pakeha-Maori, who died at Whangarei (M.L.) the
other day, aged 96 years, was an ambulance
attendant with the French at Waterloo. In ’3O he
emigrated to Mauritius, then a French colony,
and spent ten years in trading with the East and
Australia. In ’4O, he settled at Kororareke (M.L,),
and did a prosperous business with the Maoris.
After Heke had sacked that town, he conducted
Cafier through the Maori camp, and restored to
him whatever goods he choose to claim.
The Taieri (M.L.) Advocate:— “lt is
quite a common thing now to read of ‘ Maoriland,’
those words being a substitute for New Zealand.
The substituted word makes much the better name
for this country, and we believe that, by being
frequently used, will eventually crush out the
other name. The Sydney Bulletin was the first
to write of New Zealand as ‘ Maoriland,’ and we
think the latter name is likely to catch on.”
Catch on ! The name of N.Z. will be legislatively
altered to “ Maoriland” as surely as that the sun
shines.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
HOLLER FLOU
Mitchell: A Character Sketch.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was a very mean station, and Mitchell thought
he had better go himself and beard the overseer
for tucker. His mates were for waiting till the
overseer went out on the run, and then trying
their luck with the cook ; but the self-assertive
and diplomatic Mitchell decided to go.
“ Good day,” said Mitchell.
“ Good day,” said the manager.
“ It’s hot,” said Mitchell.
“ Guess it’s hot.”
“ I don’t suppose,” said Mitchell; “I don’t
suppose it’s any use asking you for a job ?”
“Naw.”
“ Well, I won’t ask you,” said Mitchell, “but
I don’t suppose you want any fencing done ?”
“ Naw.”
“ Nor boundary-riding ?”
“ Naw.”
“ You ain’t likely to want a man to knock
round ?” •
“ Naw.”
“I thought not. Things arc pretty bad just
now.”
“Na—yes—they are.”
“ Ah, well; there’s a lot to be said on the
squatters’ side as well as the men’s. I suppose I
can get a bit of rations ?”
“ Ye—yes. (Shortly)— Wot d’yer want ?”
“ Well, let’s see; we want a bit of meat and
flour—l think that’s all. Got enough tea and
sugar to carry us on.”
“ All right. Cook ! have you got any meat ?”
“No !”
To Mitchell: “ Can you kill a sheep?”
“Rather!”
To the cook : “ Give this man a cloth and knife
and steel, and let him go up to the yard and kill a
sheep (To Mitchell): You can take a fore-quarter
and get a bit of flour.”
Half-an-hour later Mitchell came back with the
carcase wrapped in the cloth.
“Here yer are; here’s your sheep,” he said to
the cook.
“ That’s all right; hang it in there. Did you
take a fore-quarter?”
“ No.”
“Well, why didn’t you? The boss told you
to.”
“ I didn’t want a fore-quarter. I don’t like it.
I took a hind-quarter.”
So he had.
The cook scratched his head ; he seemed to have
nothing to say.
“ Here, fill these up, will you,” said Mitchell,
“ that’s the tea-bag, and that’s the sugar-bag, and
that’s the flour-bag.”.
Ha had talcen them from the front of his shirt.
“Don’t be frightened to stretch ’em a little, old
man, I’ve got two mates to feed.”
The cook took the bags mechanically and filled
’em well before he knew what he was doing.
Mitchell talked all the time.
“Thank you,” said he—“got a bit of baking-
powder ?”
“Ye- yes, here you are.”
“ Thank you. Find it dull here, don’t you ?”
“ Well, yes, pretty dull. There’s a bit of cooked
beef and some bread and cake there, if you want
it!”
“Thanks,” said Mitchell, sweeping the broken
victuals into an old pillow-slip which he earned
on his person for such an emergency., “ I ’spose
you find it dull round here.”
“ Yes, pretty dull.”
“No one to talk to much
“ No, not many.”
“ Tongue gets rusty ?”
“Ye-es, sometimes.”
“ Well, so long, and thank yer.”
“So long,” said the cook (ho nearly added
“ thank yer ”).
“ Well, good day; I’ll see you agen.”
“Good day.”
Mitchell shouldered his spoil and left.
The cook scratched his head and thought; he
had a chat with the overseer afterwards, and they
agreed that the “ traveller ” was a bit gone in his
head.
But Mitchell’s head wasn’t gone—not much : he
was a Sydney jackeroo who had been round a bit—
that’s all.
HENRY LAWSON.
A true story of heroism in the wilderness.
Two men, one elderly, the other younger, had
been prospecting in a dry region of West Aus-
tralia. They struck a good patch, but stayed out
too long, and at last found before them a dry
stage of nearly eighty miles into the main camp.
Their horses collapsed before they had done much
over sixty, and the pair sat down—the odds were,
to die. The younger soon fell into the deep and
stertorous sleep of exhaustion, and Bob, the elder,
sat there thinking in the drought-stricken wil-
derness. They had still a little water left,
but not enough to carry in both. One might
manage to scramble through with it. Bob took
out his revolver and meditated. He was not of
much account now—the best of his life had been
w.asted, whilst the ycTung fellow possibly had a
career before him. Bob eyed the revolver, and
something like a tear dropped on to the barrel.
Then there was the gold. The two shares
together would make a nice little sum, enough for
the young fellow to get married on. Perhaps they
would call a boy after him? Still, there was some-
thing left for him to do —he must make sure that
the young fellow did not drink away the money at
the main camp. But surely a dead man’s wishes
would be respected. Ho would make a will.
Having written something on the leaf of a note-
book, he fell to musing again. Yes, any thought-
less man could have a high old jamboree with
that belt full of gold. Many a good one he had
had in Ids time. That young fellow, he was glad
to think, couldn’t appreciate a spree as he could.
What did he know of the delight of cooling a rum-
baked tongue at the nozzle of a water-bag ?
Better not put temptation in his way. If he died
now, tolerably innocent and quite sober, he would
probably go to heaven. As for himself, tempta-
tion would not hurt him—ho was booked for the
other place anyhow. A great wave of self-sacrifice
surged through Bob’s brain. He rose to his feet
with his mind now fully made up. Thrusting his
revolver back into his pouch, he gently slipped
the belt off his sleeping friend, picked up both
water-bags, and quickly and silently stole away
ere the other awoke. He had won a great moral
victory and removed temptation from a young
and guileless youth. He was rewarded by having
a regular old-man bender when he did get into the
main camp. Such touching stories of devotion
are the bright gems in our history, and help to
make us the great nation we are, or ought to be.
PEMELL’S
WH EATEN A.
The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.


A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
( Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.')
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The im'epench ' testimony of Scientific Experts
§nd the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps,
I®.-
•/I
'
mm.
mam
M
mm
m
*tTJ
m.
r:
y
IB
Buried on Dry Liand.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ He’s gone at last, sir” was the under-
steward’s report.
The steamer was working its way northwards,
inside the Barrier Reef, under a blistering, copper-
bright concave of heat, and Joe, the fat, red-faced
steward, who had come aboard at a N.Q. port,
stertorous with alcoholism, had “gone under.”
Everybody was too dried-up to do anything volun-
tarily, except to curse with easy eloquence.
“ Here, Chips,” roared the skipper, an M. A. in
blasphemy, “ knock up some (adverb-adjective) in
readiness to ‘dump’ this.(polyglot) carkiss.”
Just then the under-steward came forward.
“ Ts last words, cap’n, was: ‘Bury me on dry
land ; don’t let ’em “ dump ” me.’ ”
“ That’s all (apostrophic) rot!” snarled the
skipper. “I can’t afford to lose three or four
(poetical) hours (emphatically) landing the (fairy-
music) corpse, and I’m (thankfully) well sure I
ain’t (demonstratively) well going to keep him on
board till we get to next port.”
“ Might stop and run him ashore on some
island,” suggested the mate.
“ Have your own (magnificent spurt) about it.”
* * #
Two boats were launched, one containing
the skipper (armed with a prayer-book), the second
mate and some passengers ; the other manned by
sailors (bearing grave-digging tools) and the
corpse, done up in canvas by the carpenter, who,
however, was left behind on board. Grave-digging
in that sand, and in that tropical heat, was a
heart-failing task, the lopse soil giving away by
tons every now and again, and refilling the grave
just when everything seemed finished. At last,
however, the skipper coughed down an oath, and
the people stood reverently round to assist at the
service.
A w r aterspout of profanity announced the fact
that the skipper had left his spectacles behind,
and he passed the book to the nervous second-
mate with an imprecatory command'to go “full
speed ahead and not keep the (angelic) ship
awaiting all the (star-spangled) night.”
“Ashes to ashes”—at last; and the skipper
fired a clod at the canvas bundle, aird trumpeted :
“ Now, then, lads. Hoist him in with his
(gelative) head to the East’ard ; it ain’t shipshape
unless you stow (melodramatic endearment) with
his jib to the east.”
But none of the men jcould say which was the
head-end and which the feet-end of the thing in
the shroud.
“ You’re a nice (taffy) lot of (mystical substan-
tives),” remarked the skipper, “but no matter,
heave the (pet name) in anyhow, head to nor’ard,
sou’, or any (congratulatory) pint.”
So Joe was chucked in holus bolus, farewelled
with lurid curses, and covered with shifting sand,
in reverential obedience to bis dying wish that he
should not be “ dumped.”
• * •
When on board again, the skipper said
emphatically to the first mate :
“Mr. Blank, give all the (heave, oh) crew to
understand that, in future, if any (unthinking son
of a Christian mother) ‘ kicks the bucket ’ on this
(blank-verse) craft, he’ll be (soaringly) well
‘dumped’ straight away. We’ve lost three
(mournful) hours attending to that (mellifluous)
tommy-rot about being buried on dry land.”
HURTLE.
The Devil-Doctor.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I camped at a Queensland station, about equidis-
tant from the borders of N.S.W. and S.A. Jim,
the manager of the run, was an old friend.
“ By the way, Warra Murra is down here just
now,” said Jim.
“Is he? Will he run with the mares this
season ? ”
I thought Jim referred to some horse or other—
the previous talk had been horsey—and I wasn’t
going to appear ignorant. Jim laughed.
“It isn’t a horse. You don’t mean to say that
you’ve never heard of old Warry, the devil-
doctor? I thought that there wasn’t a man on
this side the Paroo who hadn’t heard about him.
He’s a prophet. He’s the cove to consult when
you’re starting with cattle. He can tell you what
to expect—floods or drought, or fires, or epidemics,
or anything. He licks everything I’ve ever seen
yet.”
Poor old Jim ! His travelling experience, since
seven years of age, amounted to one trip to
Bourke (N.S.W.) and back.
However, I agreed to interview Warra Murra.
About sundown we started for the “ devil-
doctor’s ” camp, which was pitched about 500
yards from that of the station blacks. Like his-
torical seers, Warry believed in a variety of wives.
His establishment embraced three gins, who,
from appearances, might have been granny,
mother and daughter. As we neared “ the pre-
sence,” the most villainously obscene odour imagin-
able assailed our noses. Apparently, it was exhaled
by the “grandma” gin, whom Warry had got
inside his goondi with him—probably to prevent
him from smiling at our credulity. No human
being could smile in her loathsome presence.
Warra Murra himself was small, withered and
painfully unwashed. He had donned a new suit
of pipeclay that day. Jim held conversation with
him in the blacks’ dialect, while I looked on, and
breathed through eight folds of a big handker-
chief.
Warry walked outside the goondi, pointed to
the east, then swept a semi-circle with his skinny
arm till he pointed to the west, and then scored a
line on the ground. This performance he repeated
43 times. With both arms, he mimicked a man
swimming. Next, he yabbered a lot, drew his
forefinger across his throat, and finally brought his
open hand edgewise with much force down upon
his thick and dirty “cobra.”
The oracular ceremony was over, and we flung
some tobacco to the female heap of corruption who
sat hideously grinning at us.
“ He prophesies,” interpreted Jim, “that there
will be floods over the country within 43 days ;
also a tragedy.”
That was on January 27.
Months later, I again camped with Jim. He
opened a valise and drew forth a newspaper clip-
ping, marked in places with charcoal. It recorded
that, on March 11, three inches of rain had fallen
at Strathmore —about 1500 miles from where we
were ; also, there was a marked cablegram con-
cerning a murder —in England !
“Don’t it lick everything?” said Jim.
Don’t it lick everything that nine-tenths of
civilised celebrities gain their fame on similar
slender achievements ?
MOLCA NED.
The Murray Cod.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
This fish is remarkable for its exceeding beauty
and delicacy of flavour. So said the Field, but
it omitted to state that it has —well —a pretty
extensive mouth.
As a Warrnarnbooler is called a spud, a French-
man a frog, a a banana, and so on,
so indeed a girl from the Murray is called a
“Murray Cod.” I caught one, I hold one, and
mean to do so until death us do part.
It was at Mulwala, and I was camped, fishing-
waiting for that remittance that seems so long in
coming and so short in going. One line never had
a fish on it—always had a sound bait in the morn-
ing. This was all very well, but when you set a
line baited with a frog and find it arrayed with a
mussel, or a bit of liver, next mqrning, you begin
to think of the bunyip, or ghosts, or of the Murray
cods. I caught her in the act. The fish was a
three-pound bream, the girl a seven-stone cod.
And she laughed, and then that mouth paid the
penalty.
The remittance came, and yet another and
another. As usual, the ancient way that Solomon
did not understand. Her father and I are now
partners—Scott, Cod and Co. The Co. ought to
finish up with a “d.” I -do love fish, and when I
tell my guests that the girls on the Murray shark
about the fisherman’s lines, and are called as per
above, Mrs. S. snaps out —“ Jolly glad you were,
too, to catch your Murray cod.”
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Sailor Bill.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It was in the days when “ Betsy ” Baker
was N.S.W. Minister for Mines, that, one morn-
ing, all the dignity of an official Messenger was
knocked out of him by the entry into a particular
corridor of an individual, pipe in mouth, and
attired in blue shirt and moles, billycock hat
(which he failed to remove), and broken boots,
with an invisible but distinctly discernible overall
of rum; and who inquired loudly for “Alick
Baker.”
The mystified Messenger knew no such party !
So the odoriferous stranger plumped himself down
into the Messenger’s own chair, and said—“ I’m
Sailor Bill, y’ know.”
No persuasions were potent enough to shift the
intruder, who simply declined to move and showed
fight.
Presently the Minister for Mines appeared.
“ ’ IJlloo ! Alick, old man,” roared the stranger,
springing to his feet; “ ’ ulloo ! How goes it?”
And he gripped hands effusively with the
Minister !
Then the pair retired into the Minister’s own
room, much to the mystification of the Messenger.
• » •
A few days later, Sailor Bill was installed
as Messenger, his predecessor being otherwise
provided tor.
The new Messenger proved “ a cure.” Not a
single errand would be run, for any private official,
without an honorarium of a “ sprat ’’--which he
invariably invested in two goes of rum. Conse-
quently, Saijor Bill was wont to be very drunk
towards the afternoon, and it became his habit to
retire into the cellar, amongst old lithographs,
&c., in order to “sleep it off.” The inevitabl 6
happened in due course.
Sailor Bill got locked in.
* # *
Caretaker C—— and his wife were very
good, respectable officials, and attended to their
duties in a praiseworthy fashion. But they were
superstitious in the matter of—ghosts.
On this evening they were awakened from early
and virtuous retirement by strange noises in the
cellar. Hammerings and fallings about and curses
in strange lingoes that sounded as if all the in-
fernal legions had got loose, caused the worthy
pair to recite their prayers vociferously and to
lean up against each other tremblingly.
The noise continued until despair evolved the
courage of consecutive thought.
“I’ll go for the p’lice,” said C.
“And leave me to be carried off by vampires ! ”
shrieked Mrs. C. “ Ooh ! ”
“ We’ll both go.”
They went.
* # #
Sailor Bill spent the remainder of the
night in the lookup.
# * *
When Baker vacated his office, Sailor Bill
vacated his.
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
Thrift.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The river raced with a sullen roar
Towards its leap o’er the limestone walls—
Two struggling men it onward bore
To a death mid the raging falls.
The western sun was sinking fair.
And its dying beams were shed
On two bobbing heads—one smooth and bare,
And a hairy one, fiery red.
The men were drowning apart some space ;
We had time but one to save—
Now which should return to his earthly place :
Which go to his awful grave ?
Then a voice rolled over that river lone,
As we paused in uncertainty there
“Oh ! friends, if ye have not hearts of stone,
Save the man with the long red hair !”
We felt ’twas a father who craved his child,
So we saved the man with the hair—■
The bald-head went down in the waters wild,
With a bubbling cry of despair.
An old man uttered a joyous cry
As we pulled our load to the land ;
He blessed us with tears in his aged eye
When we stepped on the shingly strand.
“Give thanks to the Lord, good father,” we said,
“That your son was not swept o'er tiie fall.”
Said the ancient man, as he shook his head—
“ He was not a relation at all.”
“ Why then so anxious, old man, to save
This cove with the carroty nob?”
Quoth the hoary stranger, in accents grave—
“ He otvclh me fifteen hob!”
Boorhaman, Yic.
J.M.W.


Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-slreet to
Castlereagh-street),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
I
m
IN THE VERY HEART OP THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
Many years with P. and 0. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A medicine.
Beecham’s Pills
QH4
PATENT
m
pats
$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box tor bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E very
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable 1
as a lew doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular-system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medieine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
Mid Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Brecitam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and-sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills),
Es. 9d. (treble quantity). . ,
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere. .
N.B.—Full directions are given with,each box.
Business Announcements.
EPP S ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
: .'"V
v.o.
S cromiy i
Whisky
CKCeHLCCS BROTHERS
ouscimruooMiio
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
i
JF
mfm
’ I
> 5
Best ®n Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt’s Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited.
IGolUxsty.’
PRICE : TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
3D** Tb»
Vegetable
for
CURE
opium HABIT
Drunkenness
tVIN3HXSVUnaN aOT
proved
By living: witnesses tobelfc#
Only Remedy which can b«
taken at Home with Success.
,The treatment STOPS the Desire for liquor
in,from 6 to 2* hours.
i
or Self-Trentinent, «mt to any
address free from observation.
FuH particulars fc
BOOK,
Colonial References In our
JSJSS^TTheTYSON SANATORIUM Oo.)
BCOTT CHAMBERS, 96 HTT-BS.
&yr*%xi.Gysr-
/<
ROSES
&
9:
m
ft
c
oS
LOti
8
mHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It wHI be found very bene-
fleial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels ' them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established ISSS. By Post 3s. 6d.
jagT - Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—THE —
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
iVxid. Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. SI. 11 ADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms: 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
mm
RELIABLE
Business Announcements.
A
i
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 15s. <•«]. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
TILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Land «S Building Co., limited,
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQnoid’s Grant, Onrimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
AST As an illustration :—For a Block, 5 acres, at
.£lO per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
.£ll7s. 6d., £2 10s., £3 155., £s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the <£so, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY, on the Estate ; or
WATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney
UtASQ
m,
Sco
Whisky
U^Menzies
DRINK
“HU
SCOTTII"
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in th»
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SIDNEY.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney,
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
Hospital, Land.,
Seamen's, Hospital
Ship “ Bread-
nought,"
Greenwich,
Invites every investi-
gation as to
Ms
Qualifies-
\ tiens.
ft*
L..S.A
&c.,
M.R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and
Registered ii
N. S. W.
ptruu for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding-
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURB.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving- habit can he overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his path ms with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine.
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly FELT, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.rn. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney-
“THE BULLETIN.’
(Published at SYDNEY , N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours-
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. — The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System - one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
' ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent soma
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
orusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by*runners in the streets of every Australasian,
capital, is the moat widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that* so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official— that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one'reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
William Macleoo, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances arc payable. Editorial oornmuni•
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “ Light and Life,*
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Tree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —•
S. WARD Se CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
N
OTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s WHlsKy.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents: CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 10.'!4, G.P.O.
Telephone 972.
W. MAMMATT & SONS.
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
OTJTLEET
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
7
Show nootus e
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
TW'OW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX; ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
ERIsTEST IF 1 .A. VIE UNTO,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”*
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WynyardL Square, SYDTO'E'S’.
[Established over a Quarter or a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. _ W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
Tc nus—ios. 6d. per Pay. Walt6l Sidney date of Newcastle), “ Prop . 5 ’
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
30
%
4?
4.
o
o
o
<RAc^A^ocK>
*
*
D
o
o
o
o
S'
o
a
v
K. A. Hcrvcy, Agent, 144 llareiicc-st,
///
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party: “Why didn’t vou keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Ilimtlnglon Mill.
i
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&0., &o.
'(ajiwi)
Itock Urea li crs.
Know I os’ Fnntpft
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 7 KT.S.-W.
And BAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
• ’ • " ■ 1 • . i-’ ■ ■r- ■. \ :■ ■ V /
i
V
'■■dSSte&t**- ;\; * to^wirCmiMK
JJ
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES -4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESCJRE.—BO lbs, par square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street 0 ‘"~i Sydney.
Colliis -street, Melbourne.
fl
J
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
Swill
I! 1 "*.
