

$
o
/S
l Q
A
&
COCOA
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS « 5 EACH.
rItTLFTETTD CTJP, OCTOBER 14th 30,000 ® 5 Each.
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER 7th .... 50,000 @ 5 Each.
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (For Houses Only) .... 30,000 @lO Each.
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
B. G. WATKINS dC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Use
ALTED COCOA
A
o
O
O
X
4-
ocK>
<RAc*A*
o
o
o
o
r
o
a
A
V
;R. A. Hervey, Agrent, 28 Pltt-at, Sydney.
E'are© Presorlptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Gurepf DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, Sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD k CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■VTOTlOE.—Advertisements for Current Week
-i i cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
7
O*
fHi
the
r:r3—d
}MM
The Oxford Hotel, ISing Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
'—THE—.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
{LIMITED)
FOE
hulk „
CREAM .. I ..
ICE ~ 4 ..
BUTTER 1..
FISH I' „.
CAME ... 1,..
POULTRY
PASTRY, «tc.
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“ Golden Star” Creamery, Regd,
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the_ Colony:—
IMEI3L.SC, ICE, BUTTERS
FFSH, GAME,
Poultry,, Pastry, etc.
H. PATESOM,
Ist July, 1893. Manager.
SET. ILlSOrn ALE.
JOHN WAX.KSR, 2-4 b BOKTD STI’JrIBBT, SVmffmy
J. «$& G. HDWA-BD.
Sole Agents in SiTew Soutlx Wales f° r Messrs. Clayton a.*x«a. Simttlewortli.
HOWARD'S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS.
CCAY.TON.S!SHUTILEWOMHU»COLR%^hS?t~
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
IMPROVER PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
m
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., ETC.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION
j. & c. Howard, 2801
of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application
Pitt Street,
The Bulletin
Yol. 13—No. 7JL]
j Saturday; September 31), 1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
THe
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Brighton of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Largo well ventilated Diniiw
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties specially
suitable for Families. ’
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KIIiMUXTSTEH,
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
t
The only TUBES used hy all the Governments of Australia.
Makaqbr for Australia— l*. J. Mac'William., 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY'
“ Leger
Tobacco.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
“ Leger” Tobacco.
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O
DIVIDED
£5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER, 1893.
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS!
Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893*
DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING!
“ LEGER ” has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success of the “LEGER," the manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O
£5O
£5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER” paper tags or labels
from tbe plugs during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS
For the Secopd Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantify, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity,' FIVE POUNDS
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS
For the Eighth Highest Quantity", TWO POUNDS
£l5 0
10 0
7 10
5 5
5 0
3 3
3 2
Competition closes December 17,1893. Tickets must be sent in not later than December 21, 1893.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23, 1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public may be present to see the contents counted.
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—“ LEGER.” It only costa ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, but of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. Sd. and often
Is. 6d. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for the “Leger” Tobacco—Price, Is, per Block.
“ Leger ” has caught on !
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week’s-supply 25 per cent, cheaper.
parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY.
THE LAST OF SIX.”
Price - One Shilling*.
Medical,
The First Step
FOli
NERVOUS MEN
tar APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PERRY,
145 Blizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING-
COCOA
•'* 7 - r ■ .
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes re grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. ’iSf" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious
DQWS
EMBROCATION
7n
I
YS
'\ v EVERY N WHERE
%
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS afd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. — Chas. H, Pibsse,
M.R.C.S., h .C.S., etc. Wl. -lOHNSTONB
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts,
DB. RIDGE’S BOYAR FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
rjTALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
■l•fc.ii
V
■
V
, :#?
,Yf
m.
f
if
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S! ’
He: “No!”
She : “ Know my cakes ? ”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
“Men I have Smiled with.”
W E STAY at JESruton’s,
UHnennoD
BOURKE- Every Comfort at RALPH’S
“ UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
■VTYNGAN. WINTERS’ TATTER-
-k’ SALE’S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms.
Warren.
Give FULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
BATHURST.
Treanor s G-rand. Hotel
Fob EXCELLENCE and COMFORT.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
OKAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Comer of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors .
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
ROSE
| ragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Usenonehut Atkinson's,
the original and only true Essence,
ATKINSON’S
OPOPANAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance-
Of all Dealers.
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION J— Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usu-
k Irade Mark—a “ White Rose .
m, and address in full. -fl
manhood.
O s RICORO^
wcE, °f L | F£•
'J'hr only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Iticord s Essence of Life restores Health and
&t> enylh to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame’
In cases of 12s or four quantities in one for 30s. Freight
mwlop l PamP frCe ° n reCClpt of stamped “Pressed
Agents for AusWalasia—Perry £ Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE. wmude
Agents for N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
To Newsagents, etc.
T A. S 3M:
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms on Application.
Medical.
BALDKT E Ss
Cured and Prevented with
B A.XJ ECOR, uxr.”
It removes the cause, viz.: Congestion of the PoIUo1p«
and provides food for the hair. 5/- j»cr Ituttle, ’
g
GREY HAIR
liislicrs, Eyebrows, ,t(. *
Quickly resume their own rich natural
colour with a
Mont’s “ Accstna,”
Non-'poisonous, free from grease
smell, does not stain the skin d
9/6 and 5/.
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
“ Horn's Hair Solvent • (Reg.)
Leaves no mark.
9 6 and 5 - per Bottle.
Testimonials from Medical Men
men, _ and analytical reports aiid nret
opinions with each bottle. These v'Jl es
vines the must sceptical. Prepared by'
Dr, O. E. HORN, Hair Specialist
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melhnnm»
and the New Zealand Drug- Co., Wellington, Chtisf oVmrJ!’
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane-
or for 1/6 extra from the Proprietor. A valuable Treatio’
on ‘‘The Human Hair” (illustrated), post free for Su
stamps.
NERVOUS MEN.
€
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC
BELTrt'
\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints, The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous
mild, soothing current of electricity through ail the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength
even the worst case permanently cured in three months!
It is more convenient to wear Ilian any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information’ and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney. -y,
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
9*4s
A)
PATENT
PIUS
&
4>.
*8
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all'nervous a*id trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
Terer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Is, and they will be. acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all 'ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they wilt
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
F° r • weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found io work wonders upon the most important
orpns in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; ana
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beechani’s Magic Cough Pills*
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, (tec., these Puis
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to tns
public amj will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive tne
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcuam’s couen
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough win in 8
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), an* l ai
2s. 9d. (treble quantity). .
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine D» tit -
rvery where.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM-
Price—One Shilling.


Medical,
K
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered 1 >y the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Modicine & Thorapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
iologyj Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
On “donsunlption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit bis fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
'Nervous & Skin Complaints/
/,i}d the last edition will be forwarded immediately
,on application to the Author, on receipt of
ON H SHILLING
.{(be cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful Hints to sufferers; and,Whether for yourself
or your friends, yon should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —I)o you experience
(giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Salloyy Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Li ver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
.Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
,(dough, Expectoration, Sleeping s during the Day,
Fains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Eits or (Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
( FCe includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
Wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
'to any Colony.
yVHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ ELECTRIC GIRDLE
wjth eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
qf my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
JEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The' “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
; 1 Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHAS-GB NOTHING-
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
• ence and ad v ice.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredient^.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
Weakness, should write to Dr, J. V iues for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a. in. to 1 p.m.; 3p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m. ' ' ’ '
jpr Address all jCommunications :
Dr. JECKELL VINikS,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical*
Dr. Richards
COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and J! ' ( red by the Governing
Medical Board of New .South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Hfervons Complaints.
JTe,has by profound research thoroughly Investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaohes, drowsiness during the clay, circlet
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bash fulness, dis-
con ten ted ness, weakness'or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, » fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes,' constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, 1 nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, 1 general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d.ini stamp's to the'above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result In
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to Health, even though his case lias been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound Is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a‘letter,"'write you promptly and courteously
a-*oahdid and straight-forward opinion of your
case, if you do not think you understand your
cause, send'for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but (id. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list oFoarcfully-prcpatetl questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
dnms under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has "successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
•oming to Australia, and has permission from, at
k-ast 15 000 pel's* -us- to show their written evidence
-h'his success. All communications should be
addressed
Or. Richards
84 COLLKGR STREET, S\l>vi:¥.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSTT LT A f L 1 TON FREE.
A.
»
c-
m
“ The Sydney (Coffee Palace” Hotel,
8111 John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Dviuniu, Sydney, SAW., Australia*
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TA It IFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s eacli per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s eacli per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
imsc’Kiri'ivE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domnin and
Botanical Gardens,
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
Geperal Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies 7 Tea Rooms.
IJHE GEAND CENTEAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one cl the best-appointed Ladies’Tea and Itefreshment
rooms! in the city. It will also bea great boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, ormbined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOB THE LADIES,
W. C- IEULTDIR-UDGME & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS’, '
40 YOUR STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to. ■
Medical.
KTo Cur<e. No "F* ay.
ri'HIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
T- Cure'all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore, the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing currentdhat can he: felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Renumber, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.--Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Veil, i i’A Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
m
belt
RUPTURE CURED
PIERCES
si
Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag-
netic Elastic Truss is? curing
oases of rupture in all parts of the
world and giving relief to thousands
of sufferers. Tins entire newspaper
could be filled withdctters like these:
Jk Resident of X.ondoa.
Me.Josin ICiNG.ofNo.li faturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’sEstate.S.E.,
says:— “I feel so'delighted that I
must write to ou about the Truss I
!i dof you, i have had no tenable
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss.-It iitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have got a
Truss on. I don’t v, orry now as I did
with the old steel trusses. I cm jump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
oi its return ; i t holds everything firm arid sure.
From Belize, British Honduras. ,
Mu. J. Tomasfxx.l, of tho Governmen t Hr use under date
of .December 9,1892, writes: — On thol ith of last ' pul I ?.pt
one of your trusses and it has already nearly cured mo o t a
very had rupture of about 28 years standing. i u ioci <ui
Kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your , rnssha*
done what doctors and trusses have not been able to do rn
28 years. publish my letter tor the goon of the.
afflicted. jk a t eB t from Hew Zealand,
Mb. T.W.NARBEV.ofAkaroa, Canterbury,in aletterdated
Feb.2l,lB93,says: •‘lrooeivedtheTrussiagoodorderandam
a lad to §&yitfits7nelikeaglove. I can rid e with ease, lift, in tact,
do anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while I can get one of yours.
BSrOall or write to-day for our free ‘‘Til ust Pamphle tNo
1 ” and Plea st mention this paper. Address tiro Au. tranan
agents Messrs W.H.So-d&Co..lsBPittSt. Sydney, blhott
Bros., Brisbane: o-, the Magnetic Elastic Tru/ s Co.,
704 SaobameStoSt.,Ban Francisco, Cal. v J. o. a
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
barn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases ot all kl. ds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited teslimouials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free .on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most sue. ess-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
S'KFC't \LTST Albany ffeildings, 39 Victoiia Street, West-
, . A,,, , s.W.
t
I- nil.; CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Shipping,
XG LAND VIA AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco o.iy FOUR WEEKS, as under;
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng
laud
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d,
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates. t
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Jiridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
niessageries^martTimes.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 0000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Dates of Departure.
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters nieet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their lugeage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer. 1 • '
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney. !
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
cromarT!
V.O.
Wliislw:
Greenlees brothers
CROMARTY
.WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips.
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
OH, 0 H,
F O R
MOUSTACHE! 1 ,
Capillarine!
prp”’ The Lightning Moustache Producer. isk
Reliable; Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result , as surely as night follows day.
Capiilarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
nnif. A UTKI N, Sole Istiids,
6SO and 682'Geofge Street, Brick (I eld Hill, SYDNEY,
ssi is
mi
.V
m
-"0:
7T.
miumsM
the loukge HAIK-BREPSIIw. ohaik.
The most comfortable ever, offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, wot l.s oasi, is a nice, light looking chair, and is
adi (ir’e i iuipvov env tit upon any other chair. Used by
ns in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents;
CRAIG St AiTKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
OHO »V (*8!1 George Struct, Sydney,
{#" NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Isast of Six.”


SSSOSE
TREADLE
■ —-v
AND
NEW NATIONAL H/UUD
Sewing Machines
BEST o" EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent,
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat.
alogue with full
particulars.
o
*
#
4
&
PM
5
#
$
&
6’
> c
0
»T-^
Oil,
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
-
SELF threading shuttle
FOR THE
NEW HOME and HEW HATIOHAI
SIMPLICITY ITSRf.FI
TALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Sheath.
Fitted with HUNTING KNIFE, and Handy
STEEL for Sharpening.
K AIN, «/- each ; IMPROVED DESIGN, 13/- eaoJi.
fg
BT" POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt
Jm-Q* Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter-St.,
of Money Order.
SYDNEY, Australia-
NEWTON & LAMB.
BEDSTEADS.
Xxx. Black ana Brass, Brass an.d Wiokel,
With LATEST IMPROVEMENTS. In ALL SIZES at LOWEST PRTOES.
CHILDREN’S COTS.
In all Usual Sizes.
SPECIAL DESIGNS are NOW BEING OFFERED.
BEDDING.
Mattresses, Bolsters
-iSD-
PILLOWS,
Fu all Usual Material, SPECIAL CARE being taken to
secure the
Most perfect < Cleanliness .
Wire-wove
Mattresses.
Chair Bedsteads,
Folding Cots* Stretchers.
BTC., ETC.,
IN GREAT VARIETY.
nH
n
SPRING- & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
'• 4 * ■ ■ i
H. P. GREGORY & CO..
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
E team Engines, Boilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKS MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY-
tar Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
• Plum *,
f
gf
TIIR
‘Plum’
f SUITS brand of Razor is something' superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public,
,*L Pure hollow grovind, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
( ves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
g
J Single Jlazor, in strong leather ease, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ease, 21s,
(Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
ll nisttred and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, GBO George Street, STUNUY.
Medical.
Teeth.-a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-street.—Single Tooth, 2/6;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
fixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other Arms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACK ETT writes: “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective’
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit On each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science -and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or; GALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
9B KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st.
Beeta Beeta.
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
CERTAIN CURE
' —FOR—,
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA,
ETC,, ETC.
To be had Retail from all Chemists and Store-
keepers ; and Wholesale from
FELD HEIM, GOTTHELF AND CO., SYDNEY;
J. BARLOW and CO., SYDNEY;
J. W. JOHNSTON and CO., SY'DNEY.
Sole Manufacturers;
MASSEY & CO.,
746 George Street, SYDNEY.
Factory— YOUNG, N.S.W.
fg
Seuter’s Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
..Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
I sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
tor the weakest, as well as active
_j- a•, . , enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate but by their general action please all why
Pill of the U. S. Medical Profc*
on. Tl.a smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a phial.
Banking.
- THE—
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
<54 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can otter special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Grafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Bank of Few; South Wales,
Established 1817.
Med<:Office:—tiliOKCill STIEEKT, SIHXKV
Authorised Capital .. £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital .. 1,2g0,0p0
Riserve Fund 1,010 OOP
Directors :
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
James 11. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq,
James Milson, Esq.
Thomas Cadell, Esq.
Robert C. Close, Esq.
Auditors ;
Alfred G. Milson, Esq. James S'. Harrison, Esq.
London Office :—OLD BROAD STREET.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India, and the East,
the United States, Hamburg, and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the Agency of other Banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes, and letters of credit; and conducts all customary
Banking busimss.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £TO or
120, negotiable on the continents of Europe and America
or in India and the East.
GEORGE MILLER, General Manager.
~ Medical..'
NEW BY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
>\ii ii.
BS?i
£3T The-only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
OOTOHS, ootm
Itlt O X'C 91 IT I S‘
AMD
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all*
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
\ H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist;.
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Oity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George at-
- Wholesale ei Eiliott.Emitiers. Limited
f
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
fHOHK SCENTS, delicate action, purest materials.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”— Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kinds—
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Afcto (Toilet) and Vestal.
|pSSP ? ;
m
m
BLONDE AU&C?
L ono
Ryiand Road / v
m.
%
m
R
ATI
m
mm
mm
For SUNBURN, INSECT RITES.
PRTCKUY 11 F AT. &c : .
In Three Sizes.
. ■ ■ : ■•if; i .. ■;
iSiir
&
y;
LONDE/W
•Paris&NeW
e/v^.
. iS
Rqadc)-. London NWc^i
for Toilet, Nurse ry&r
A SANITARY. SOLUBLE ROSK-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes -in Pink, White and Cream Tints
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.


The Bulletin
Reolstered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post its a Newspaper.
1r0i.13-H0.9-11.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1893.
Price,ea.
*^s
/ 05
■okf
, X
L I? .
<4
%
\\
g
JUST ROUND THE CORNER.
“We have turned the corner.”—Premier PATTERSON of Victoria.
We have and, as usual, run up against a familiar figure.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ® 0
Half-nearly „... 0 ? f ®
Quarterly... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
u'hich you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald,
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence’* column all contributions submitted-
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission oj such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C. _
Also in the Transvaal The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also : R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa,
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future iviil be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for Ihe
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1893.
Moses Renews the Bill.
In all financial dealings which are conducted
according to the principles of the Three-Ball
brotherhood, the great expense always lies
in renewing the bill. The original loan or
series of loans—if the “ shecurity ” is
abundant —is generally floated on reasonable
terms, and without any semblance of ill-
feeling on either side—in fact, no one in all
this wide earth is more cordial than the
Hebrew money-lender until the bill falls
due. But when it does fall due, and has
to be renewed, the percentage increases
enormously, and the stony Israelite
demands, at each successive renewal, all
manner of commissions and concessions,
which utterly obscure the original loan. In
most cases, in fact, when the bill cannot be
met, it is best to let the financier seize the
“ shecurity ” and end the transaction there
and then, as the less aggravated ruin of the
two. Just now five of the provinces of
Australia are beginning the great process of
renewing the bill, and this fact has not yet
fully dawned upon them, though already the
first suspicions of it are taking root in the
minds of a few far-seeing politicians. The
national p.n. is only commencing to fall duo
in earnest, but already the pawnbroker who
holds it is assuming the aggressive aspect
which the Hebrew always wears under such
circumstances.
* . • . •
For fully thirty years N.S. Wales, Vic-
toria,. Queensland, South Australia, Tas-
mania, and Maoriland borrowed almost
without ceasing. In all that long period the
bonds of the Australias were regarded
as good security. At first loans were
floated at 7 per cent. ; then on a steadily
descending scale at G.j, G, 5, 4 s, 4, and
finally at :U per cent. And, despite many
small fluctuations, the low-priced loans of
recent years realised, on the whole,
better figures than did the high-priced
~nes of earlier dates ; the provinces
not only paid less interest, but got
more principal. In 1867, N.S. Wales sold
its 5 per cent, debentures at £B5 10s. ; in
1870 it sold 4 per cent, debentures at £9B.
Queensland sold its first 6 per cent, deben-
tures at £9O, and almost its last 4 per cent,
bonds at £lOO. Victoria’s old 6 per cent,
securities fetched a maximum of £lO4 10s.
Bd., and its 4 per cents, realised a maximum
of £lO5 12s. 3d. Those were the halcyon
days when the bill hadn’t begun to be
renewed, and while they lasted Australian
bonds were rushed by investors, and written
up by the English financial papers, and these
provinces could have borrowed the earth, or
something nearly approaching it, if they had
so desired.
# « •
Then the debentures began to fall in, and
now, in every successive year until 1921,
from one to eight separate loans become due,
and must either be paid off out of revenue
or be renewed .by the process of floating
new loans with which to liquidate the old
ones. There is no prospect of paying any-
thing off out of revenue at present, nor did
any British or Australian financier expect
that such would be done. Everyone pos-
sessed of reasonable foresight knew that the
bill would have to be renewed, and as the
provinces are still absolutely solvent and
have never made any semblance of default,
the general impression was that the renewal
would be a matter of no serious difficulty.
But this idea made no allowance for the
instincts of the three-ball financier. As the
evil day approached, every monetary paper
in England took up a dismal cry about the
ruin and inevitable bankruptcy of Australia,
and Australian securities began to go down
with a steady and continuous sinkage. The
redemption loans, as affairs now stand,
must be issued as a matter of necessity to
meet the old liabilities which are steadily re-
curring, like old-time curses coming home to
roost ; and the British Shylock, like all his
tribe, profits by the necessity. The New
South Wales conversion of 1891 involved a
loss of over £300,000 in discounts and
expenses, which amount was added to the
burdens of the province. The Victorian
conversion loan of 1892 went off at a shade
over £9O, and on the total of £2,000,000,
one-tenth, or £200,000, was lost as commis-
sion on the renewal. The Queensland con-
version loan of 1891 sold at £BB ; in other
words, nearly one-seventh of the whole
amount went as commission for renewing
the bill, and on a total of £2,500,000 some-
thing like £360,000 was dead loss and
extortion!
• • «
Now Victoria’s turn has come round
again, and that province is engaged in the
same weary process, already fast becoming
familiar, of renewing the p.n. which she
floated in days gone by, when the money-
lender was still friendly, and there was oily
cordiality in Israel. Nearly £2,500,000
becomes due next January, and either the
province must default or else this amount
must be re floated at any terms the associated
money-lenders of Loudon choose to impose.
Already a ghastly proposition has been
published, that the new debentures should
be sold at a minimum of something like 83,
but the general impression seems to be that,
by careful management, the renewal can be
effected at a loss of only about £200,000 in
all. But the noteworthy feature of the case
is that every year the process of renewal
seems to become more difficult. All told,
there is something like £200,000,000 to be
gradually passed through the mill of finance,
and, so far as can be judged by present
appearances it will cost anywhere between
£12,000,000 and £20,000,000 merely to nay
for the privilege of owing the original amount
and the commission a few years longer. And
by the time the last loan has been renewed,
if the financial machine does not break down
before that date, the first renewed loan will
be about due again, and will need to be
renewed some more at another heavy outlay.
And in the meantime Australia exists and
remains solvent by the grace of a few British
financiers, and for the next forty years it
must wail on the door-mat of the London
Exchange, asking to have its bill re-floated at
any price.
# * #
It would be more dignified and—ultimately
—more profitable to end the miserable pro-
cess at once. Australia wants to “ suspend
pending reconstruction.” Her debts must
be paid honestly and to the uttermost
farthing, and there is no reason why the
interest on her liabilities should ever be one
day in arrear. But the eternal “conversion”
process is a ruinous device, and it is not a
necessary adjunct of the policy of paying 20s.
in the £ that an indefinite number of millions
should drift away in commissions and dis-
counts to the financial jobbers of London.
A simple and efficient process, and one that
is much more honest than most things in
this world, would be to renew each loan as
it falls due at, say, 3| per cent., not by
floating new stock at an immense loss, but
by issuing to eacli stockholder—without ask-
ing his consent —new debentures at par,
payable any number of years hence that cir-
cumstances seem to require. Thereafter
Australia would probably be called a default-
ing State, but the name makes little differ-
ence. The interest would bo paid as regu-
larly as hitherto, and the principal would be
as safe as it is to-day—more so, in fact, for the
public debt would cease to be swelled by the
tremendous losses incurred in the intermin-
able process of conversion. The only real
losers would be the race of loan-mongers
who would make no more commissions and
percentages by renewing that national p.n.
which is always falling due with such
disastrous results. The holders of the p.n.
would get there just the same, and the injury
would be entirely confined to the middle-
man. It would be the same process of con-
version with a difference —the difference
between conversion by violence and con-
version by grovel.
• • •
Two good results would be arrived at by
this system. • It would make the public debt
a fixed quantity, and it would raise a storm
of British wrath that would stop all foreign
borrowing tor many years to come. The latter
effect alone would be of inestimable value to
Australia. And for the rest, a country
which has just “reconstructed” between 20
and 30 millions of British capital may as
well do the same with 200 millions, and a
press which has almost unanimously approved
of 13 reconstructed banks can’t consistently
disapprove of one reconstructed continent.
In any case, it is probably only a question
between reconstructing now as a matter of
choice, or doing it later on as a matter of
dire necessity. Just now the loans which
keep up the credit of Australia are obtained
on ruinous terms, by hard and vociferous
begging, and generally almost at the last
available moment, and the means by which
this country staves off its liabilities are so
notorious that its credit could not be made
much worse by any process of compulsory
renewal. And if England continues to get
more embarrassed, as she may do, and Aus-
tralia’s old loans fall due a little faster, and
the middle-men get a little more grasping, as
they certainly will do, the one sickly hair on
which everything hangs will probably give
way, and after this country has spent millions
in discounts on new loans it will get to the
same destination which it would have reached
if these millions had been unspent. The
great process of renewing the public bill has
hardly begun as yet, and the British dis-
counter who already drives such hard bar-
gains is only just commencing to sharpen his
fangs on the interest table and make ready
for the fray.
Labour’s Duty—Compromise and
Coalition.
Dear Bulletin, —In New South Wales the
Labour Party is numerically stronger than in
any other Australian State. Despite internal
strife and external attack it has achieved much
by preparing the way for radical reform, and
by familiarising the public mind with the nature
and extent of Labour’s demands, and the urgent
necessity of satisfying them. There are, how-
ever, the two big questions of the Land and the
Tariff, upon which the party is divided, on the
first into Single-taxers and Land-taxers, and on
the second into Freetraders and Protectionists.
The differences between them, impartially
viewed from a Democratic standpoint, are more
theoretical than practical ; but the methods
proposed for obviating them are, I submit, illu-
sory and immoral. If these methods are per-
sisted in the Labour-party will not only be
split but smashed. They must be discarded,
and the differences overcome by compromise,
which will enable a coalition of the scattered
sections of the party to be effected. How is
this to be done ? I suggest that at the Confer-
ence of the Labour and Trades’Unions to be
held next month a “fighting platform,” con-
sisting of three or four planks only (similar to
that suggested by The Bulletin a short while
ago), should be formulated, instead of the old,
weak and cumbrous platform of 17 “planks”
which has collapsed so completely. What the
workers want first and foremost are—(l) Land-
tax ; (2) Reform or Abolition of Upper House
and the Referendum; (3) Federation on a Re-
publican basis ; and (4) Law Reform. There is
enough here to call for the undivided loyalty
and untiring energy of a party during the whole
lifetime of any one Parliament. Men who
could agree to fight for these reforms would
not bo likely to seriously differ on minor ques-
tions ; if they did it would not much matter.
Such a platform provides the basis for a per-
manent coalition, but, as already stated, this can
only be effected by compromise on the questions
of the Tariff and Land-tax.
# * •
“Sinking the fiscal question ” has proved a
disastrous failure. It can’t be sunk, and must
be dealt with. Why should it be sunk, instead
of courageously grappled with? Such a pro-
posal seems prompted by prejudice and
cowardice seeking cover in subterfuge. No
representative of the people has a right to
“ sink the fiscal questionif he does, he abdi-
cates his highest function, that of imposing,
remitting, and adjusting taxation. The fiscal
question is not confined to a tariff, but em-
braces every branch of revenue, including
excise, land, income, property, and every kind
of duty and tax. It is the province of Parlia-
ment to carefully adjust the incidence of taxa-
tion in every department of revenue, so that
while commerce and industry are facilitated
and promoted, the burden of taxation is placed
where it can best be borne. So far the burden
has been put and kept on the shoulders of the
poor; it is for Parliament, especially Labour
members, to remove it, and make the rich bear
a larger share. For the Labour party to “ sink
the fiscal question ” would be to neglect this
paramount duty, and to leave it to be done by
the two plutocratic parties to suit their own
pockets. The great Constitutional struggle of
England, in the reigns of the Tudors and the
Stuarts, was for the right of the people,
through Parliament, to control taxation. Fiscal
sinkers would repudiate this most sacred of
Parliamentary privileges, aqd leave it to pluto-
crats and monopolists to exorcise in their own
selfish interests. Such sinking will sink those
who attempt it.
» # #
The Protectionist tariff can no more be
ignored than can Freetrade Customs revenue
duties. They both exist and must either
be tolerated in their present form, modified,
or abolished altogether. Inasmuch as the
tariff is neither protective in its character
nor just in the incidence of the duties it im-
poses, the middle course is the most feasible,
and both Jfreetrade and Protectionist Labour
members are in duty bound to combine to
modify and reform it. This they can readily
do if they will but consent to reasonable com-
promise, What is to prevent Freetraders and
Protectionists from agreeing to reform Dibbs’
bastard tariff'? Nothing. They must reform
it, and that speedily and thoroughly. Let them
at once knock off every duty placed on the
necessaries of life commonly used by the poor,
leaving the discussion of the rest of the
tariff', including all duties on the luxuries
of the rich, until such time as they suc-
ceed in carrying an equitable and an
adequate Land-tax. Such a compromise
would be wise and honourable to all
parties, and the compact thus made might and,
indeed, ought to be ratified by a mutual agree-
ment to vote for a Land-tax on the basis of un-
improved values.
# # #
Against this suggestion it has been urged
that the Single-taxers and the Protectionists
will never be able to coalesce on the land ques-
tion. I deny this. Theoretically I am a Pro-
tectionist, but have always advocated a Land-
tax as the corollary of Protection ; and I’m
not ashamed to say that I have for some time
past been a convert to Land-value Taxation.
But I am not a Single-taxer, because I hold
that there can be no equitable Single-tax on
land any more than there can be an equitable
Single-tax on property, incomes, or any other
form of wealth. In my humble opinion, the
manufacturer, or brewer, wnose four-storeyed
factory or brewery stands on half an acre of
ground, monopolises more of the products of
labour than do most large landholders. This is
proved by the fact that the large manufacturers
and brewers of the United Kingdom are able
to buy up the vast and often unutilised estates
of England’s blue-blooded “ old nobility,” and
to sit beside them as peers in the House of
Lords. A Single-tax on land simply means a
prolongation of the cruel and crushing competi-
tion of Individualism, and, if I had to choose,
I would prefer Socialism to Single-tax.
Nevertheless, I would willingly fight with
our Single-tax friends for a Land-value Tax
provided it were properly graduated so as to dis-
criminate between the huge city monopolist,
like Mr. Sydney Burdekin, and the poor,
struggling free-selector who has paid for his
holding and given to it, by his own labour and
privations, most of the little value it possesses.
There is a wide margin between Single-tax and
Laud-value-tax, upon which all sections of the
Labour-party Protectionists, Freetraders,
Single-taxers, Land-value-taxers, Land Nation-
alists and Socialists—may meet to agree and
fight for a Land-tax. If they are sincere in
their clamour for land taxation, and have the
courage of their convictions, they will not be
long in compromising minor differences in order
to obtain it.
# # •
There is just one possible danger in connec-
tion with this Land-tax question which has to
be pointed out and faced. The enemies of the
Labour-party are coalescing Freetrade with
Protectionist-monopolists—to resist a Land-tax.
They will seek to split the party on
this as they did on the fiscal question, only
that the plot will be even more carefully laid
this time than it was last. It is well-known
that this Government, like previous Govern-
ments, keeps among its political stage-properties
a Local Government Bill in which provision is
made for land-taxation for local purposes.
The demand for a Land-tax will probably be
met by the reply that provision has already
been made for one in the Local Government
Bill, which will require nine months to discuss,
and, judging by the experiences of the last
quarter of a century, nine years to pass. It
may safely be predicted that the Local Govern-
ment Bill will be held back in order to block
a Land-tax. The Labour-party must be pre-
pared for such tactics, or they will be once
more thrown into confusion and split up. One
of the most important things Which the Labour
Conference, to be held next month, will have
to decide is : (1) Shall the Land-tax be mad*
subsidiary to the Local Government Bill, or
shall it be a general tax levied for pur-
poses of consolidated revenue; (2) is it to
be a graduated tax, and with or without
exemptions ? These points once decided, the
course of the Labour-party will be clear ; but
left undecided, it will be uncertain, and pro-
bably end in confusion. On such matters of
high policy, Labour members have a right to
seek instructions from their constituents, whose
delegates they are. Left without them, they
cannot be blamed if they err and blunder. The
coming Conference has before it a grand oppor-
tunity of rallying and re-organising the scattered
sections of the Labour-party in one solid coali-
tion, based not upon sacrifice of principle or
conscientious conviction, but upoxr judicious
compromise.—Yours, John Norton. Sydney.
Sept. 25, 1893.
The Lash for the Mob.
When a law or a punishment which is habitu-
ally reserved for the poor is revived, or h
brought suddenly into frequent requisition, it
is always safe to infer that, it the new develop-
ment has not a sinister motive behind it as its
origin, it will at least have a sinister motive im-
ported into its application.
On the pretext of having been awakened by
certain recent events to take stringent measures
for the suppression of larrikinism, the Botany
Bay authorities have brought the cat-o’-nine-
tails into fashion, and offences against the person
which, a few months ago, would have been
considered amply atoned by a penalty lighter
than that exacted for merely going on strike,
are now punished by the deliberate infliction of
an amount of bodily injury which hardly
differs from that which would be caused by
covering a man’s shoulders with a pitch-plaster,
igniting it, and letting it burn itself out.
# # #
The times are hard for the people, and
ominous of further labour troubles. Political


excitement will also soon cause class feeling to
rim high. It is only to be anticipated that
these events will be accompanied by some
amount of physical emphasis. And everyone
knows that under such circumstances the act
of button-holing becomes a brutal assault, a
boo-boo is robbery with violence, a tomato is a
cubic foot of road-metal, a noisy demonstration
is seditious rioting, and a jostle, attempted
murder in company—provided the prisoners in
such case arrested and charged are on one side
and not on the other. Not to take into account
the probability that men, exasperated by long
series of defeats through the operation of
privilege and corruption, and rendered desperate
by oppression, will not always stand tamely by
to see and permit the steps for their further
discomfiture,
* * *
The classes know that, if they were the
masses, their patience would ore this have
given way ; and they are afraid
They seek a means of repression that may yet
suffice to hold the “mob” back during their
time ,
And in the coming troubles, while for mere
agitators the gaols and the leg-irons may suffice
as heretofore, and for mass demonstrations the
Gatlings and the Nordenfeldts are always in
readiness, the temper of the strong-armed
“mob” in detail will bo soothed by torture,
and rebellious shoulders crippled with the lash.
When that day arrives—-—?
Will someone tell The Bulletin of one
single instance in modern English history, or
in all Australian history, where a broadclothed
ruffian—there are and always have been many
broadclothed ruffians—has had to strip for the
lash ?
The lash is for the Proletarian only,
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Day of Atonement.
A ghastly rumour turned up in the cable news
last week that New South Wales was about to
float in London a loan of £2,000,000 with a
two years’ currency at five per cent, interest.
This is another “ conversion loan a renewal
of the bill which is always falling due. In
1892 New South Wales raised a two years’ loan
at four per cent., with a vague hope that some-
thing favourable would turn up before it fell
due. As nothing has turned up except disaster,
the liability must be renewed at any terms
which the tribes of Israel may dictate, and
the negotiation has begun at an unfavourable
moment, just after the Day of Atonement,
when Israel is aggravated to the verge of mad-
ness by the interruption of his regular victuals,
Moreover, the situation is complicated by the
fact that Victoria is in ah exactly similar strait;
both provinces must either raise money at once
or go broke. Therefore the London financiers
had the unspeakable insolence to offer Victoria
a 3£ per cent, loan at 83, and are willing to
give New South Wales a little temporary
accommodation at or about par on 5 per
cent, interest. The awfulness of these proposi-
tions is a fair example of the wrath which
is to come. When the trouble gets a little
worse there is every chance that interest
will get up to 5 per cent, as a regular thing, or
else the price of loans will fade away to some-
thing like 75. New South Wales and Victoria
are living now in a Avretched, hand-to-mouth
fashion, staving off liabilities at any price for a
year or two years, floating short-dated bills,
existing in a state of anguished expectancy
about the news which a cablegram from the
British Fat Man may bring forth, and always
within three months or so of disaster. Alto-
gether it is high time to reconstruct.
The Backbone Ministry.
The struggles of the Patterson (Vic.) Ministry
to raise additional revenue and reduce expendi-
ture are melancholy to witness, Victoria is in
the position which Maoriland occupied seven or
eight years ago, but with a serious difference.
The Maoriland legislators set to work to “sack”
everybody who could possibly be dispensed
with, including a good many of themselves, and
reduced almost all salaries, including their own,
and levied a Property-tax which struck them
in common with all the rest of the population.
The Victorians are made of feebler material.
When the Patterson Cabinet proposes addi-
tional taxation, the House invariably decides
that it ought to retrench instead of imposing
new burdens; and when it proposes to
retrench, the House decides that retrench-
ment has already gone as far as it
possibly can, and that new taxation is the
only way by which the two ends of the finances
can be made to meet. The poor old Backbone
Ministry takes it all without much protest.
The Income-tax, which was to yield £300,000
per annum, has been altogether abandoned, and
the primage duties have been cut down from
£276,000 to £lOO,OOO, and the proposed reduc-
tion of the municipal subsidy by £50,000 is
defunct, and the general resolve seems to be to
potter along anyhow and hope that something
may turn up. The broken-down boomers of
the Legislature have no energy and no con-
science worth speaking of, and they are
afraid to do anything lest it should further
depreciate their suburban allotments ; and the
Victorian Parliament in general is a poor,
fat, fatuous, doddering institution of the worst
parish-beadle variety. Victoria has an accumu-
lated deficiency of about £1,300,000, and it
decides to hang it up indefinitely, on the off-
chance that it may fade away by some natural
process, or drop down a hole and be lost.
Meanwhile, by impossible estimates and hard
manipulation of the accounts, it persuades it-
self that there will be a surplus of £2OOO next
year, and on the strength of this all the fat
men have shaken hands with each other
and declared that the country is saved.
.In all human probability there will be
another big shortage instead of a £2OOO surplus,
and even if that miserable amount should ho
realised it will take 650 years, at that rate of
progress, to extinguish the present deficiency.
Moreover, the country is going to lose some
£250,000 next January over a loan-conversion,
for which loss no provision is matin or even sug-
gested. Victoria never needed its vaunted
Backbone Ministry more than it does now, and
Patterson, whose reputation for strength was
based on his scowl and his awful roar, has no
backbone in him.
Passing’ the Hat.
The following circular, issued by the promoters
of the Sydney Daily Post, the proposed Demo-
cratic evening paper, is an ill-augury for the
future of the enterprise :
Gentlemen of the Public Service,—
Assuming that lam addressing earnest-spirited Demo-
crats, I venture to make an appeal to you on behalf of the
above fund.
To complete the purchase of the Echo machinery,
plant, and paper requisite for an early start, it is essential
that at least one thousand pounds (£1.000) should he made
available by the 30lh inst. The subscription of new
shares when fully paid up—and payments on account of
same are being made with commendable regularity in the
majority of oases—will supply all the money necessary in
the course of, say, six Months. But the Democrats of the
province cannot afford to wait for six months for their
own daily paper, and apart from this consideration, the
Echo plant must be paid for practically at once. Then,
how is the money to be raised?
Is it not possible to raise the money by subscriptions
and donations ?
Consider, please, the result of
100 men giving or advancing to the Fund £lO each ; or
200 men giving or advancing to the Fund £5 each; or
1000 men giving or advancing to the Fund £1 each; or
2000 men giving or advancing to the Fund 10s each,
and then ask yourself what should be your contribution.
To you, Gentlemen of the Public Service, this appeal is
particularly made. Your pay is regular—if, owing to
recent departmental reductions, less than it should be —
and most of you have a “stocking.” Surely the object
is a good one ! Consider the tremendous issues involved
in the establishment of a paper which shall truly represent
the aspirations of the People !
Now, what can you give? Or, if you cannot give, what
can you lend ?
Advances to this fund will be repaid 31st August, 1894.
Capital will be ear-marked for that purpose.
The above is about the worst mistake which
could have been made in such an enterprise.
The Post is a business matter like any other
paper. It is based on the assumption that
honest journalism will pay; that there is room
for one straight daily paper in a community
where most daily papers are exceedingly
crooked. Under anything resembling good
management it should be a dividend-paying
property, and the shareholders, who will receive
the dividends, should also find the. capital.
It should send out no begging letters or
appeals for charity. It intends to be more
independent than other journals, and it can’t
be independent if it starts on a semi-charitable
basis. Moreover, the Civil Service clerk is the
last individual to whom it should hold out an
emaciated hand for alms, He is miserably con-
servative ; he would rather have his salary
X’educed seven times over than be alluded to as
a “worker,” or an “ earnest-spirited demo-
crat ; ” and the allusion to his savings by the
plebeian term of a “stocking” is sufficient in
itself to rouse him to frenzy. The idea of being
associated in any way with anything so common
as a labour movement is abhorrent to his soul,
and the Post, in appealing to him, is abasing
itself to no purpose. Even Sydney Burdekin,
from whom the Workman borrowed long ago,
would be a better subject for such an experi-
ment. Sydney Burdekin is only one man.
“Murder will Out."
A few weeks ago, in Scotland, an American
named Hambrough died by violence, and one
Monson, who, it is alleged, by hypnotic
influence, had forced him to make a will
bequeathing £20,000 to his (Monson’s) wife, is
charged with having killed him. According to
the accusation he regarded Hambrough as an
investment and shot him in order to realise.
The Australian Star thus moralises over the
incident: —
If hypnotism is the power which it is claimed to be the
arsenal of the criminal is enriched by a new and potent
weapon which opens up possibilities of successful crime
hitherto undreamt of. This has all been pointed out
before. In the instance at present exciting interest, how-
ever, the new weapon does not seem to have worked in
the anticipated way. It was supposed that it would
render obsolete the old methods of murder and robbery.
For instance, if the accused person in the present case
really had hypnotic influence over his alleged victim,
surely he could have obtained hisobjeot in a less round-
about way than that which he is suspected of having
adopted. Instead of hypnotically inducing his victim to
will his wife £20,000, and then murdering him in a
very clumsy way, why did he not hypnotise a
gift of the money out of his guest, and so avcid the
murder? The law does not yet recognise hypnotism as
an improper influence, and a gift thus made would stand
good. If the criminal can do no more with hypnotism
than has been accomplished in this place, the average
murderer will continue to stick to his old-fashioned knife
or bludgeon. It Is strange, but all these occult forces
seem to break down when you try to obtain any practical
work from them.
This is just where the Star’s Chinese logic
comes to grief. No one knows whether the
“ occult forces,” break down or not, except
when they do break down. If the occult force
works all right then nobody, in the vast
majority of cases, can know anything about it
except the hypnotiser himself, and he, natur-
ally, doesn’t mention it. Supposing an accom-
plished hypnotiser wants to remove somebody
out of the way, and, by an invisible and unac-
countable influence, can make him walk over the
parapet of a bridge into deep water, then the
Star may ask the dead remains for particulars
until the day when the last horn blows, and get
no nearer a suspicion of the truth. Almost every
day some person, who is apparently well and
happy and burdened with no serious cares, goes
out suddenly and kills himself, and there is
absolutely no evidence that these are not cases
of hypnotic influence. The Star simply
assumes that they are not because no large,
flat-footed, irresponsible policeman comes round
to inform it, in a powerful brogue, that they
are. The Star’s own columns are full of un-
accountable borrows which it puts down in a
bald and reasonless fashion to “temporary in-
sanity ” or original sin, and three-fourths of
them, for all the evidence proves, may be the
result of “occult forces.” That paper’s pro-
cess of reasoning is only another form of the old,
comforting belief that “ murder will out,” which
is based on the fact that the murder which is
discovered comes out in the evening papers, and
the murder that isn’t discovered doesn’t come
out. The foundation of its faith is the body
which is found under the hearthstone that
happens to he lifted, and the dead baby in the
backyard which is dug up by the police, and it
takes no account of the body which remains at
peace under the hearthstone that isn’t lifted,
and the infant which is undisturbed in the yard
which no one thinks of digging up. If the
Star will only try to reckon up all the un-
accountable things it knows of, including
the suicide of the man in good health and
spirits, and the murder committed by the kind
husband and father who suddenly chops up his
family with an axe, and the confidence tricks
that are worked, and the overdrafts which are
granted on no visible security, and the leading
articles in the Daily Telegraph, and all the
rest, it will probably conclude that the world
is mostly run by hypnotism and occult forces
generally.
Sydney Daily Telegraph last Monday pub-
lished a powerful article on the accumulation of
miseries in England and the constantly-increas-
ing destitution of the working classes. The
last clause reads thus :
“ When the ‘ Song of the Shirt ’ was written,” says Mr,
Wilkins, of the sempstresses, “ these poor women were
earning an average of 2Jd. an hour. At the present time
many of them- most of them—cannot average IJd. an
hour.” They work in fetid dens among brutal and horri-
fying surroundings, while they have the strength to work
or while they can see, and all for nothing but such sordid
fare as will enable them to go on doing so without hope of
change. A country whose women and children are driven
to death from hunger, or to the hideous misery of life on
the streets, is not worth quoting as a glorious example
of what taxation of the masses “ for revenue only ” can
accomplish.
Thus the Telegraph throws overboard Reid,
Parxces, M'Millan, Bruce Smith, and all
their followers of the self-styled Ereetrade
party, for they all advocate the taxation of the
workers for revenue only, Reid, in particular,
proposes to tax the “struggling masses” of
New South Wales through the Customs alone
to the extent of £2,000,000 a year. In one act
the paper which was counted on as the prop
and stay of the old Parkesian faction makes it
walk the plank into the deep sea of oblivion,
and will have no more of it. And now the
Telegraph’s alternative lies between Single-
tax on one side or Protection and Land Tax oa
the other. Either is better than the policy of
the old gang of shufflers and jobbers, but, as a
mere matter of curiosity—which of the two is it
to be ?
London Financial Times patronisingly an-
nounces that it “ approves ” of land-grant rail-
ways in New South Wales. Concerning which
Sydney Daily Telegraph :
The land-grant railway system has never worked well
in any country, and certainly never in Australia. There
is always friction between such railways and the Govt,
railways, and, in addition to the lands rented, the State
has often had to step in and rescue the company from
ruin, or has been compelled to purchase the company in
self-defence. In Western Australia the Govt, have re-
cently been compelled to guarantee the debentures of the
Midland Co. of W.A. to enable it to proceed with the
works; while the N.Z. Midland railway has been equally
a trouble to the State. In Tasmania, after being at
variance with the Tasmanian main line for years. Govt,
were compelled to buy; and if we look at Canada, the great
Canadian Pacifio has proved a most costly affair to the
Dominion Govt. The Govt., at starting, handed over 718
miles of State railway to the Co. free of cost, as well as
25,000,000 a. land along the route. Then £5,000,000 in
cash. Then the Govt, gave a guarantee of 3 per cent, on
the shares for 10 years ; later still, a guarantee of SJper
cent, upon £3,094,000 of land grant bonds ; and, as all
this was not enough, it bought hack a large area of land
at per acre. The Govt, could pretty well have built
and owned the entire line (and the land into the bargain)
for the same monej'. We should be sorry to see the land-
grant system attempted Itere.
♦
Dear Bulletin, —Please allow me to name a
few very necessary provisions in any Mining on
Private Property Bill. First, any outsider
applying for a permit to Which he could show a
just claim should be able to force the Minister
to grant it. Modern Ministers of State and
Civil servants are not all invariably honest; and
it should not be left in their power to use the
very information obtained through the applica-
tion for a permit to “ lay on ” some of their
friends, or the owner of the ground. Second,
a surface-owner who obtains a permit should be
compelled, after payable gold is struck, to
work the whole of the ground, as under gold-
field regulations, otherwise he might—and I
have no doubt would—contrive to dummy at a
great rate. Third, it should not be necessary
for an outside applicant for a permit to imme-
diately give number of section, parish, county,
&c.; an interim description so as to define the
locality should be sufficient in the first place,
otherwise the very inquiries he would have to
make at the Government offices might give him-
self away to the advantage of somebody else.—
Yours truly, J. A. Antill.
The effrontery of all interested in quashing the
Mercantile Bank prosecution is in itself proof
of the strong Fatman influence by which they
are backed up. Lawyers, from Gaunson up-
wards, bluff everybody and everything inimical
to the safety of Matthew Davies with a cool
assurance that must be studied carefully
before it can be half appreciated. Remarks that
would, in any other case, seem too dangerous
for rational utterance are here hurled forth with
confidence that takes one’s breath away. As it
grew evident that the prosecuting counsel,
Smith, intended to “ rub in ” the fraud charges,
an excited barrister, Gardiner, who holds a
brief for one of the auditors, positively called
upon the bench “ to put a stop to this kind of
thing.” Gardiner boiled over with the most
candid indignation, saying, “At the previous
hearing Mr. Walsh, Q.C., took only two hours
to open his case. It seemed that Mr. Smith’s
opening would occupy three or four days. The
case would be interminable if this were per-
mitted.” Coining from one of the crowd who
talked against time at the first enquiry, this
was the very essence of gall. And the reference
to Walsh’s mild two hours’ speech ! A reck-
less reminder that the Crown prosecution
religiously neglected to “ rub it in,” vide
Peacock’s subsequent statement that “ every
point was strained in favour of the defendants.”
But the Fatman side is still persuaded that it
may drivel at random without any fear of con-
sequences.
♦
Sydney evening paper item :
It is generally understood that Mr. W. F. Sohey and
Alderman Spring (Darlington) will contest lledfern West.
Ex-alderman Hogden intends contesting Redfern East in
the interest of Freetrade, and Alderman G. Purkes is being
requisitioned to contest the same electorate. The Mayor
of Eedfcrn (Mr. G. Gorton) is spoken of as an independent
candidate for Kedfern East, and Alderman Poole’s (Red
fern) friends wish him to run on the same line. Mr. W.
F. Sharpe is already in the field for Waterloo,
and Alderman George Anderson, despite his rejection
hy the Kedfern Freetrade Association, will probably
contest the same electorate. Alderman Dacey (Alex-
andria) is receiving much inducement to contest Botany,
where he will have to fight Mr, W. Stephen, an ex-
member, and most likely Alderman M'Fadyen, who are
both freetraders. Efforts are being made to induce
Alderman Geo. Howe (Redfern) to contest Redfern East
in the protectionist interest, but he has not yet made any
move.
Nine alderman in one paragraph ! The next
New South Wales Parliament is going to be a
legislature of stout and prosperous grocers, each
one with a grocery soul and a ham-and-cheese
understanding, unless, indeed, the New South
Wales electors decide in good time that no
alderman shall enter the House, and lay a ban
upon the parochial Bumble in all his varieties.
The correct card is—vote against every leader
of the old gang, against nearly every lawyer,
and emphatically against every alderman who is
aldermauic.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Fly ” (Wellington, M.L.): A venerable hoax.
.. . “ Inkslinger ”: Will use if possible “X.Y.Z.”
(Bonrke); Received “ North Queensland”: Your
logic is nowhere. Everybody knew that the suspension
would practically wipe out the half-year’s profits and
increase expenses, and if the results hadn’t been as shown
The Bulletin would have assumed that the accounts •
were doctored. As for the writing down of capital £1 a
share, as the amount was transferred to reserve this
strengthens, not weakens, the institution. It is the bank
that writes up its capital which needs to he suspected....
'* X.P.” ; Senile yarn disfigured by patches of presumable
Latin... “J. A.R.” (Meroo); Verses interesting, partly
because you don’t spell one word rightly w hich you can
by any means spell wrongly ; partly on account of your
sketch of two objectionable insects crawling over the
paper, which insects you describe as “poetic license.”....
“ Semicolon Bijjj ” : Very old wheeze dished up with the
palsied hand of mental incapacity “ Wai Rim” (Bris-
bane) : It is Buddhism pure and simple. Madame Blavat-
zkj’’s “ Isis Unveiled ” explains the subject, only, unfor-
tunately, she doesn’t explain her explanation, which
is most mysterious thing ever printed.
“ Peg” : “ Whatever is to be will be ” is cheap fatalism.
Besides, you can’t prove the assertion. Half the things
that are to be may never be for all you know' to the con-
trary.. .“Ah Chi”: Obliged for your promise to “ call
and see us some day.” We regret to say that we have to
go out of town on urgent business that day “ Hammer
and Gad”: You tear your sentiment to rags with such
violence that your grievance becomes unintelligible
“ D.G.” (VVarmatta); Story of a race between two wild
Irishmen is declined “E. Laffan”: Tub Bulletin is
not a consciously comic paper “A Gall”: Poem the
saddest and rustiest razor-backed anecdote ever com-
pounded... “Pauper”: “X.Y.Z.” good. “ Belle ” may
also d 0.... “ Oro ”: We did not accept it. We excepted
it,_ in fact... “Postman”: Doggerel atrociously appro-
priate. It emulates Sydney P.O. carvings in hideous
design “H.A.L.” (Broken Hill, N.S.W.); “Bush
Romance” unsuitable “Ne'er-do-weel” (Q.): Thanks
“ Eucalypt ” : A good central idea, though a variant
of the stale device, “ the wrong woman.” The points in
your squatter’s character don’t dovetail with anvthing
like natural likelihood.... “Tender” (Q.): No, thanks....
“Belial” (Mildura, Vic.): (1) Your arguments for the
establishment of Foundling Hospitals “go without say-
ing,” and have been all better said many times. (2) The
big circulation of The Bulletin and mail exigencies pre-
vent the stitching the whole of every issue “ J.U.”:
“ Ranft maintained that the gold was in Taranganba, but
that, for some reason that no chemical skill could detect,
it volatilised.” Surely Ranft was too good a chemist to
make such an assertion; gold, as a metal, does net
volatilise, though, as an agency to a fo'd’s credit, it
vanishes fast enough. Ranft was not unskilful, and
many believe that he was not dishonest, but was simply
“had” by more cunning men “ Koragi ” : The mad
woman who, with “ a wild demonical scream,” hurls two
private detectives over the cliffs at Watson’s Bay, and
then falls stunned by a blow from a common officer's
baton, is too lively for these columns “6x8”: Para-
graphed. Don’t recollect the other items. All dealt with
are answered. . “Barcoo”: Good “A. Conway”:
Even a poet can’t re-love the old love of which he has
once sickened. At least, not in these columns ... “Drury
Lane ” (Ashfield, N.S.W.): The Brough and Boucicault
Co. introduced the extravaganza, “ Little Jack Sheppurd ”
at Sydney Royal early in ’B7 ; the Criterion was opened
on Boxing Night, ’B6, with Emelie Melville’s Opera
Co., and opera held sway there for some months.
B. and B. did not take to the Cri.’ till about July, ’87....
“Sahan”: Yes, we use two “O.O.O.”: It would be
risky to generalise upon the question whether a wife is
justified in assisting her disease-tortured husband to
make a short out to relief by suicide. The action of the
wife must depend upon her absolutely unquestioned bona
fides. . “Waratah”: Declined, with thanks “E.
Rayton”; No. Turkey Piddington is the parson ; it is
his son, a lawyer, who is running for Parliament
“H.A.L.” (8.H.): Perhaps, if you condense by 90 per
cent. This isn’t a daily paper “ Yankee ” (Tas.); Is
it true ? “Pub Law ” (Sydney); On appeal to a higher
court, Judge Gibson’s verdict would probably be reversed.
A licensee should be no more responsible for goods stolen
from a_ rented room of which the tenant has the key than
for articles prigged by a pickpocket from a bar customer
“lnkslinger”: But you didn’t enclose it. . “ Will
G.”( Ab.): In type, now “Nuku”: Poetic genius of
the highest class consists in an infinite capacity for taking
pains—and liquor —“E.L.L.”: It is one of the peou-
liarities.of police evidence that, when a prisoner ought to
be drunk for police purposes, he always is drunk, and
when he can make a bigger and more sensational case by-
being sober he always is sober “ Grace Darling ” : The
Bulletin is not addicted to publishing formal records of
the kind. “They would please many people,” but they
would annoy fifty times as many “ R. 0.8.” (Rock-
hampton, Q.): Good idea . “ J.R.”: Erotic balderdash.
How can “the future in Lethe sleep?” That is to say,
memory has forgotten what is going to occur in the
middle of next week “Yankee” (Hobart, Tas.):
Thanks... “Terrorised" (Maryborough, Q.): Will con-
sider your suggestion.. .“Dodger” (Lake Cudgellico,
N.S.W.): Noted “0.L.” (Bondi): All seem to be from
N.Y. Lips “A. 0.”: “Real human nature” looks
bestial in print... “Molo”: Says the religionist to the
Agnostic; “ I am on a different plane from you ; I feel a
delight to which you are a stranger." And the Agnostic
retorts exactly in the same vein on the religionist
“A.Q.Y.” (Sydney): Thanks “O’Tellus”; Your feett
less verse lacks nead “Kipyard Rudling: Your
“profit” pun w-ould die of mortification in the verse
with which you clothe it... ‘'Ponte'’: Below par
“Chitty”(Hay, N.S.W.): Thanks “Andrew Marvel"
(Brisbane, Q.): An oasis-less Sahara of doggerel
“Reginald”; ()l) A rhapsody erratically conjugated; it
makes one want to say, “ I sickeneth and dieth. (2) An
inconsequential maiden-lady story, with occasional incon
grulties of description “O.B.”: Your poetic imagine
tion too altitudinous. We prefer Milton's lie to your’a
that Beelzebub parted from Michael with a “ loud kiss.”
“ Q.”: Your bush female sot is a tame character and
herdeath makes a negative story “6x8”: A com-
monplace history; its only value the evident moral—
Hypocrisy pays the expert hypocrite “ Beryl ” :
Bombastic verse returned....“ Bunny Snapper”: No
public use for dingo yarn “8.J.”: The philosophy of
erraticism, surely. You can’t have a successful hero who
is too honest for this world “ Your Reverence ”: Your
one-eyed story needs blinkers... “J.H.H.”: A useless
sort of heroine “Jackaroo”; “The Boss too long
by half and too notchy to be adzed. ~ “Gilhooley
O’Grunt ”: Your letter jewelled in too many holes.
The Argus;
The new female (Maoriland) voters will certainly be
monarchical, if not aristocratic, in sympathy, and a can-
didate who proposed to abolish the Royal Family or to
“cut the painter” and set up a Republic under Austra-
lian skies would find the whole female vote recorded
against him.
The Bulletin will watch with deep interest Urn
Maoriland experiment. The women, who, by the
way, almost equal in number the male voters,
are registering themselves wholesale in the cities.
Within a very few years wo shall know whether
lovely woman is, like so many of the men, an
incurable lord-worshipper, queen-worshipper, and
parson-worshipper


Ipticd to -Suit all fSightA.
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5 - per Pair.
Che celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 C per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «5c ROBERTS,
Jewellery Showrooms,
*3 HIiNTEU BTKKBT, SYDNEY,
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
-A- Good, and Giieap Cigar,
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
fg
Manufactured ry
J. FROSSARD & CO
IMYI'.RM: (Switzerland),
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25-they cost you less, and you know the ILuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle. you get tbe genuine
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards ad., P-
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
September 27, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Despite the alleged vice-regal patronage at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday, a “ Society ” audi-
ence, nearly all theatre-parties, turned up for
“ Pepita ” at the Lyceum.
“Pepita” was showily staged, as usual. The
prettiest gown worn by the new danseuse, Amy
Leyton, was a pink silk with the seams outlined
in wisteria; her last oddly - shaped garment,
falling straight from her neck like an extinguisher,
was of white gossamer, which looked very fairyish
when the rainbow limelight caught it. Miss
Leyton sports no diamonds, by the way—which
reminds me that none of the actresses at present
showing in Sydney can stave off oblivibn by
having their jewels stolen, for the plain reason
that they haven’t got any. The feature of the
“ Pepita ” people was the uncertain way in which
they were shod. Violet Varley kicked a small
tan shoe off a pea-green stocking in the first act,
which footgear Vernon fitted on again, and one of
RoseVear’s large, flat boots bounced off his foot
in the last act. Fortunately he wasn’t aiming a
high kick at Flora Graupner at the time, or my
tale might have been longer.
Despite the absence of Gov. Duff, who had tele-
phoned to Premier Dibbs in reply to unofficial
query as to what he was going to wear to the ball
—that he “ wasn’t going to wear anything : he
had the measles and was going to bed,” Mayor
Manning’s ball in the Centennial Hall was most
successful. The hall was particularly well dressed
with ropes of laurel and palms; the music
was concealed amongst tree-ferns; tea and ice-
buffets were located in handy corners, and a most
comprehensive supper was served in the vestibule
to the legion of guests.
As the vice-regal party entered, the splendour of
Lady Hopetoun’s diamonds was the subject of
universal remark. Her dress was a puce satin
with dark-mulberry velvet sleeves, folds and
berthe of old lace, and a spray of peach-blossom—
puce satin boots and a shaded grey ostrich fan for
finishing-touches. Lady Duff wore a rainbow
silk in pale-pink and blue, with, trimmings of white
lace; diamond ornaments. Airs. (Mayoress)
Manning chose a delicate heliotrope-coloured
brocade made en redingote, over a jupon of fine
white-lace; the bodice trimmad with lace and a
butterfly bow of pansy velvet, diamond jewellery;
Mias Felicia Manning was in pink silk trimmed
with garlands of white flowers; Miss Duff wore a
black lace dress; Miss H. Duff was in white;
Miss Norman wore a pansy-coloured brocade
trimmed with darker velvet.
But I distinctly protest against a lady in a
black train and a white satin jupon designed in
bold black bunches of grapes ! It reminded me of
the savages of Somewhere, who clothe themselves
principally with a bunch of grapes, and it is con-
sidered bad form to pass anybody in a friendly
way without picking one off! A Potts Point lady
in pink and green was a precursor of the water-
melon-season, and the better half of Australia’s
best-known politician wore a blushing shade of
pink.
Mrs. Burdekin’s cream satin brocade, the bodice
made with puffed sleeves of pale orange-colour
and trimmed with gold wire galon which formed
the wired shoulder flounce, edged with unmounted
yellow roses—diamond necklace and a hint of
violets in her hair, was a tasteful turn-out ; and so
was Mrs. Prendergast’s pompadour brocade* the
bodice made en postilion, finished with dark-green
velvet, the lappels of white velvet with scattered
floral pattern in pink and blue beads—puff sleeves
of dark-green velvet, a pink plume fan and
diamonds. The Misses Williamson were alike
in white satin and lace, with daffodil posies;
Miss Cissie Rankin was in mauve and canary;
Miss Burdett-Smith wore black brocade and jet;
Miss Bessie Tarrant sported slate-colour silk, the
sleeves shot-eleotric-blue and pink, forget-me-nots
in_ her hair; Mrs. Louis Haigh wore cleverly-
mingled ivory and black rep silk trimmed with
black guipure, opera-cloak to correspond.
The brilliancy of the mise-en-aetion at the
mayoral ball was considerably dimmed by the
absence of His Ex. One warrior, who had come
in something very close to full fig, looked as if he
longed for a bomb shell to arrive when the Com-
mandant turned up later in evening-dress as be-
fitted the viee-regally-blighted occasion. That is
a very real misery in the life of the dashing
militaire —what dress to put on ? If Gov. Duff is
going in “semi-state,” on go the epaulettes, but
the difficulty is to find out. Sometimes it is at
the very last moment he is old red to assume
every stitch of canvas, as it were; which is the
reason why the world is so frequently entertained
by the spectacle of Captain Gingah rushing
frantically in a hired cab, surrounded by as many
trunks as a woman, so as to be ready for all
emergencies.
Sydney Government House broke out in a
Spring ball and a garden-party last week, which
took place in their written order, of course, so
that the winkle-stall of the night before might
rise like a pastry-cook’s Phoenix, in a manner of
speaking. At the ball, a new idea was to throw
open the verandah-roof to the guests, who ascended
by special step-ladder from the outside, although
it is more easily reached from within. The notion
of, making guests climb on to a balcony from a
garden has two advantages. It is Romeo-and-
Julietish for one thing, and it reduces the subse-
quent review of portable property to the reception-
rooms only. By. the way, the Government House
ball was cleverly arranged as far as sit-out nooks
far from the madding crowd were concerned,
therefore a dignitary who sported with Amaryllis
m the shade, but not quite far enough in, deserves
the censure of all butterflies on that account.
There are times when, you really should hide your
light under a bushel, especially when there are
quite enough bushels to go round,
t hear that the more frisky frequenters of.
Goveraentouse distinctly fail to approve of the
people who, while enjoying the extensive view of.
the grounds and harbour from the balcony, have,
m consequence, a, bird’s-eye view of the sit-out
corners. The sweet little cherub who sits up aloft
is all very well in poetry, but when you meet him
m cold earnest, disguised as Mrs, Grundy or Paul
Pry, with a lynx eye for who she is and who he is
under the moonlit rose, the newly-invented eyry
becomes a bore. You might as well have an
electric balloon suspended over the garden “for
the use of chaperones only.”
Talking about friskies, Southern society may
shortly have its five-o’clock tea-tables positively
galvanized by, the discovery of how a fashionable
society-girl manages, suh-ros.a, to dig out the
wherewithal to appease her frockist. Quite a new
way, so far as I know, for the society belle to
keep the wolf from the door without loss of
prestige—although many representative white
waistcoats reap rich profits from the sam.e source,
T was amused at that Brisbane court-case
wherein a deceived husband charged his eloping
wife and her Petrarch with the larceny of a.quan-
tity of clothes and jewellery. But he made no
mention of the larceny of the lady ! The deserted
one seemed unconcerned about the plucking of his
pansy-blossom ; he gave legal chase after the war-
paint— not after the woman. Which was sensible,
for he could soon find another wife to fit the frocks
on. Cannot a married woman do what she likes
with her wardrobe? Also —when a husband giyes
his wife a diamond bracelet, is it for-, “keeps? ” or
is he merely depositing a valuable security with
her, liable to forfeiture if the porridge is burnt?
The “last day ” at. Rand wick on Saturday was
a largely-attended festival. There was a massing
of fashion on the members’ stand, and the stress
of vice-regality made the cane furniture creak in
the Governor’s box. Gov, Duff —recovered from'
his indisposition—was very festive in grey frorii
head to heel, arid the Earl of Hopetoun’s coat-
flower was like a pink target. Lady Hopetoun,
made her smallest sartorial score in a packing-
thread-coloured gown trimmed with drab lace to
match, and a small bonnet trimmed with gauze
butterflies and forget-me-nots. Lady Duff re-
peated herself in grey with black dashes. Miss
H. Duff’s leghorn hat with a pink rose was
becoming, but, taking them altogether, the vice-
regal enclosure presented nothing to make a
truthful person foam over with admiration.
Mrs. “ Jack ” Purves, in a floral silk with stripes
of pale cream and green, brocaded with pink
flowers, with trimming of fine white lace and
small floral bonnet, was well turned out. The
latest naval bride wore a white gown dolefully
trimmed with black bands, and a white feather in
her hat—but surely black bands are not the right
colour for a bride’s festive array ! It looks—
allegorically—as if she were beginning to mourn
her lot—one bar at a time ! , Miss Ethel Pilcher
wore a white gown wth accordeon pleating very
effectively. Pretty Hilda Spong sported a well-
cut suit of blue dungaree, but I couldn’t like a
bright green gown with a glistening, trickling
design in gold all over the skirt—it was the very
image of a new-chum’s notion of how a gold-mine
looks when you discover it first.
Indeed, there has been, at the meeting, little to
gush about in the Way of togas. You hear of
dresses lined from end to end with rib silks, which
makes them expensive, of course—but one can
hardly lose one’s self-command just because the
bill for such-and-such a gown came to three
figures! Nathless, you can overdo cheap effec-
tiveness and sweet simplicity—the undressed
aspect of those pique and Holland suits, for
instance, which are the neatest things on earth
for knocking about in, but hardly convincing after
lunch. There were dozens of them at Randwick 1
on Saturday, and they looked about as dressy as
so many bathing-gowns. And so few women are-
equal to the harmonious whole ! I saw one really
“ dignified ” garment—of diagonal pale-pink and
pale-green—the big sleeves and bodice of pink
satin, covered with cream silk insertion with wide
lappels of pink satin edged with green gimp.
But you lost all your young enthusiasm when you
got to her hat—the sort of thing that has the
middle position in the window of a suburban
milliner.
By the way, it’s evident—judging from a recent
close contrast —that the professional Governor
doesn’t present half such a stylish appearance as
the amateur administrator cuts. The fact that
one is earning his living and the other is living his
earnings comes out very strongly in the outward
and visible signs of the vice-regal milliner’s bills.
With the withdrawal of a titled lady from the
bead of affairs and the probable flight of birds of
a feather, it seems to me that the Sydney
Woman’s Suffrage League is decidedly perky. A
movement which professes to champion the cause
of woman en bloc, and not only that portion of
her which eats its dinner in a V-shaped frock,
ought to run on broad lines if it doesn’t wish to
be merely an exclusive minority. And although
an “exclusive minority" reads poetically its
signed petitions don’t spoil much foolscap.
The given reason why one title goes overboard
from the Suffrage League is that the lady objected
to young people not yet of age out-voting adults —
her other objections “were not necessary to state.”
More could not have been said in a volume.
Talking about suffrage reminds me of a Sydney
youth who joined in a recent debate on the ques-
tion —“ Should women vote?” This youth had a
bad stammer, and a strong conviction that the
girls shouldn’t go near the ballot-box, “Women
vote indeed !” he said, “ why, they’d g-g-get their
f-f-f-frocks torn off 1”
Women who like to dress well ought to hail the
sweeping reductions made by David Jones & Co.
(on the Sydney block), who will make you a gown
for a couple of guineas in their best style—and
everybody knows how good that is ! Their new
fitting-rooms are artistic, beautifully, ventilated,
and designed in pale colours, with gilded pillars
and hand-painted finger-plates—and there is a
“dark room" besides,- where they fit on ball-
gowns and gain the exact effect of the dress by
gaslight.
Then, as to millinery—they sell the most allur-
ingly" trimmed hats and bonnets especially
bonnets, at one guinea. In the mantle-rooms the
daintiest confections in lace and jet (the “ Princess
May ” shape is especially good-looking) are all
reduced, and from there you go on to the lingerie,
where the cambric muslin and silk petticoats are
so dainty that I quite believed the story of the
lady from the “provinces” who astonished her
city friends by wearing one of the latter as a
skirt! David Jones and Co. have so far lowered
prices in all departments—from furniture (they
showed me some softly-tinted crepons designed in
gold or silver which will quite supersede art
muslins for draperies in the “best” houses this
summer) and carpets, tight down to needles and
pins—that nobody need stand afar, off by reason
of the expensiyerjess of the firm.
On dip that one Australian vice-regality has
found a, lodestar in a pretty society matron
—who, however, appears gather bored than other-
wise by the honour.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH
SUNDRY SHOWS,
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's ,.. “ In the Ranks.”
Lyceum “ Dorothy.”
Criterion. Walter Bentley;
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Process's “ Cavalleria Ruaticana."
and Ballet.
Theatre Royal “ Jeanie Deans.”
Alhambra “jiuldoon.’sPicnic.”
Filus's Circus.
They put “ Pepita, ” up at Sydney Lyceum,
on Saturday, with bright little Flora Graupner in
the name-part singing the sparkling music in a
worn voice and acting as if tired. Sympathy with,,
a songstress who is completely over-done, but
won’t “letup,” may be kind, but, after all, people
don’t go to the theatre to make allowances for a,
clever little lady who is obviously making all the
hay while,the sun shines. Miss Flora should “go
to grass ” for three months. Ryley, as Bombar-
dos, and Lauri, as the other fellow, were the
heroes of the show, and it is doubtful whether the
famous duet has ever gone better thaivit went on
Saturday. Charles Ryley, with a feather duster
in his hat and high-heeled boots, makes up,admir-
ably as a giant, and his squeal and Lauri’s snarl,
like the beginning of a promising dog-fight,
gained an encore that might have gone on all
night. Howard Vernon played Pedrillo excel-
lently, Rosevear’s Inigo brought up reminiscences
of Leumane, and Mrs. Bracy, Violet Varley (who
made a success of Inez), and Sid. Deane were the
rest of the v principals—unless you count the
stuffed-bull in.
* * *
Between tlie acts Miss Amy Leyton ap-:
peared on a darkened stage in certainly the most
artistic exposition of the serpentine sort of thing
that Sydney has seen. Miss Leyton is a pleasing
Deutscher-looking lady, and manipulates tier
whirling draperies with a pair of chop sticks,
while 18 different sorts of limelight strike her
simultaneously with prismatic effect. The lady is
hardly a dancer. When the exigencies demand a
hop, her knee-action is floppy-blit she knows how
to compel enthusiasm 1 by making her skirts foam
in R cataract of drapery. This Saturday night the
Lyceum will be as full as Noah’s Ark to welcome
Nellie Stewart’s re-entree as Dorothy Bantam.
* * * *
The Highland opera of “Rob.Roy” was
thrown on the stage at Sydney Criterion last
Saturday in a somewhat loose and disjointed
fashion, born of insufficient rehearsal and the
evident mental agitation of the chorus. It showed
one really excellent feature in Walter Bentley
whose Bailie Nicol Jar vie was a thing of beauty
and a joy in the ancient brick wilds of the Salt-
market, while another bright spot in the drama
was the Dougal Cratur as okayed by Mr. Stone-
ham, who brought the red-haired, shock-headed
cateran to a high state of perfection ; and there is
also something good to be said for Lachlan
M Go wan s Major—the gentleman with the
combustible breath. The rest of the com-
P‘ in Y- with a possible reservation in favour
of Mrs. Molyneux and Harry Douglas, as
Rob Roy, was mostly akin to execration, and
half-brother to the curse which was pro-
nounced on Ebal. The principal Highlander had
obviously washed his legs with the nail-brush, and
taken most of the skin off his knees in the process •
or else he had measles in the shins and the dis-
figurement was an eruption. Also, he didn’t
know how to sit down in his kilt—the kilt, by the
way, being an exceedingly hard garment to sit
down in, and when not sat down in properly
being only one remove from a public disgrace
Several of the subordinate Highlanders were
also much troubled by their petticoats, and
couldn’t sit without acute
Rob Roy and the Dou? a f (W aSBmen t~-in f B ,
Celts of them all whose fuL G atur were f&c , t >
self-consciousness Se4rai ®rrf n,t a « Sonf y .
persons who sang songs fnth f the
m ? ht somehow walked right 3 Pf^Qn-cell l at2*
evidently forgetting that ft L hl>oUgh the
people didn’t sing i n tune 4 Wa , s a Wall. Sefl !
no right to sing at all excent in^l two of themt ra '
acre selection, and after ° entre of aS'
in writing. Two or g s . ev eu daw.
badly, and their permanent*'«tf f for ? ot . their nf 1 ?
men t became wearisome after Vf ( |'. B . ret »fcinl)ef
Roy,’ m short, was ; . wllll e- “p V
whose performances were reallv" 140 t „ ree peonk
and a-half who were mmi <. • exc ellent •u,
.bo„. six »:r.B '*™r' y fc
described in language that is on|‘ fi b*t t
out and handed up to the ° be m' Vrit twr
of demarcation was drawn rmhf f te ’ Tl 'e lim
of the gentleman who had vvashed°r tlle m 'ddle
the nail-brush, iaome respectable TT - ■ l llllSe lf with
was frequently obscured by * Sce nety
“ M’lisa ” was stacked on-« ,
Sydney Majesty’s last SaturdayVS,®' b ° apd « of
an emaciated audience, mLi the . Police of
emaciated at present, and unl eBB f n udlenc «> an
take building society deposits L f a f ts will-
and wild-cat mining scrip at the nav
lonesome man now sits looking at?*' wh «««
are likely to remain so. “ M’lilL » - Vllca,lc y, they
Patches of almo.st evervthi? (]e T o '
±het Harte ever wrote. It which
of the finest scenes which Sydney Wl - h tl)r »‘
for many days, and the gaunt ribs of u' tness « !
red hungry mountains of Smith’s p th , 6 grea t,
vade them all. It is dishWi. i E ock «tper
because everybody wanS B^^ 0 !
and the regular amusement ° n s^bt,
miscuously , n to the crowd also h ' re P r °‘
Judge knows no law and wears his ‘l use
pants and the crowd is always readvtoM 0 - ’"
best friend because a sinister sfy « *° lyncl ' its
and says he did it, and everybodyiSS«ft hpS i,r
and plays cards constantly, and ih *Z - , flueutlv
cloud of red dust on thlVmrison ZP" fr*
the coming of the “stage” from One tt ,leral( b*
Miss Maggie-Moore’s M’liss-is a stoi'^T® 6,,1c11;
and i altogether admirable orphanU^humofou»i-
torn frock- and much stnnrV ?. a slloll r
though her singing voice was an;l
on Saturday night, hi* ■ r W
and reckless as in, tb® * d»v« WaB k as fm "
country,first knew her. Berstoelnn , Whe ? t!)i '
however, are much too new for the , boots ;
M iss was a stockingless, bootless waifwiti, A
soil of America on both legs and Man • tll( j fr <«"
“ - anomaly.
unalloyed success of the drama ti ! k , hlT
Mexican, who is dressed * after the maL'S'' 1
deranged rainbow, is a lurid exaL« f a
When he- is removed by the ' i’ an<,i
hanged_ on a, tree-wil/his finery £
reK^The'
enough to pass without beingThat'.' S R?
noldj-appear. next Saturday wiih «I„Z
.** * *
Ovvmg to,: unforeseen circumstances,”'
Mt. Dampier’a season at Sydney Royal was-i.
nounced to, end suddenly on Tuesday lastlW
unforeseen circumstances were possibly connected
mom or less with a weakness in the loins of the
ghost, for the season has been a time of nmcli>
misfortune, in, which the streaks of fat were few
and far between,, and the balance was leanness,
gristle, and undeserved disaster. At present
advices the Royal is to degenerate into, a variety-
show, and Dampier goes forth in search of some
more profitable location, carrying with him the,
good wishes of everybody.
** * *
The members of Percy St. John’s “Em-
pire Minstrels, at Brisbane Gaiety, sign a stupid
letter to The Bulletin., complaining that a para*
graph in last week’s issue “ distinctly conveys the
impression that salaries are not being paid here ”
which it distinctly does not, to any reader who
understands ordinary English. However, this
paper does not begrudge St. John and his Min-
strels another free ad, by reprinting that “most
of us are receiving higher salaries under this
management than we have been able to command
in Sydney or Melbourne.”
£{£
Melbourne Royal is to suffer another re-
opening 9n Saturday, when Effuse Juno, long a re-
spected identity of the inland stage and an old-
established protegee of the Caledonian Society,
starts a series of Australian farewells. “ Jeanie
Deans,’’ with Miss Juno in the name-part fertile
several hundredth time, is the play appointed for
this occasion. Dick Stewart, senior, who returns
to the old haunts of his offspring “in the dual
capacity of actor and stage manager,” will b«
another interesting Scotch item on the bill, and a
good long company includes the names of Miss
Maud .Williamson, Miss Julia Merton, Owen
Harris, Edwin, Kelly, and Tom Cannam. Also
Hennings has, painted half an acre of new scenery,
and the orchestra intends to be specially aug-
mented.
The opening of the, Bijou, under Arnold
and Thornton’s management, is due one week
later, but upon the same date (Qct. 7) Bill's
threatens to close his prosperous circus season.
Just now Fillis is appearing in the heroic capacity
of Shaw, the mythical Lifeguardsman of Water-
loo. Dan Feeley, too, is leaping over 30 cadets
and a like number of fixed bayonets, and a black
pony is occasionally distributed gratis. Several
variety shows will meet together for prayer ana
thanksgiving when Fillis bids a long farewell to
Melbourne, for he has been a persistent shadow m
their stony path. Talking of the ’alls—Prpffssoi
Miller soon wearied of wrestling with adversity,
at St. George’s. Circumstances proved mightier
than muscle, and another minstrel company tool
possession of the vacant place on Saturday.
** * *
Big business for the last week of “Bap
liacci ” at Melb. Princess’ made np much of the
ground lost by a temporary stoppage of the opem
at the commencement of the season. Oiraud, '
tenor, recovered his singing voice with care u
lioarsemanship, and “Pagliacci” came witi >
brilliant rush at the finish— nevertheless, '■
steady, reliable animal, Expenses, managed
get its nose first past the post. The first ecu.
of the Blue Ballet was withdrawn on. SatnP- *■>>
but a second edition, introducing new tea •'
and fresh delights, was issued in conjunction '
“ Cavalleria Rusticana.” The persistent a)«
of any bridegroom from the Ballet is become g ‘
subject for scandal. There’s a bride-m-
a deputy-assistant bride, and eight disappo -
bridesmaids from London, each carrying a .
circular bouquet said to have cost eight g l ’
apiece. Also, there are 80 blue nuu riage g -• ’
who break outat times in a dreamy nuptial " J


" i>c Traist, ” What does it mean
Messrs. Innes & 00., the proprietors of the Boar’
Head brand of Wines, inform us that it is old
kaxon, and means “be true.” As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines which
are sold at all grocers from Is. per bottle upwards.
Their invalid Port, at 3s. 6d. is a wonderful wine,
of health-giving properties.*
The OldBleadL
WKistey
oftK - e ,te Horse
Cellar
WH1'
DIRECT PROM OlSTIttERS.
AUWS THE SAME, PORE. IMXWOVt
* lWA avrturep scotch HAtr
nbur
and at the extreme rear stand a quantity of aged
priests, prepared to adjust the matrimonial noose.
Yet the bridegroom oometh not. He has probably
changed his mind or died, on the eventful morn-
ing. A blue messenger ought to rush on at the
last minute with a blue satin telegram, and the
curtain should descend on the spectacle of the
entire Ballet ministering to poor Bartha whilst
she goes into hysterics.
m m ik «
“Cavalleria Rusfcicana,” beautifully put
upon the stage, was ardently applauded at Mel-
bourne Princess’s, on Monday night. It is even
stronger and faster in dramatic interest than
“Pagliacoi,” and, as a musical work, it exceeds
expectation. Mascagni’s famous opera is crowded
with melody that varies much in style, and all
the styles are good. Although people may com-
plain that the entertainment is unduly short,
they cannot honestly deny that the composer
gives them plenty of original genius for their
money. “ Cavalleria ” lasts little longer than one
hour, and its excellence makes the hour fly.
Everyone hungers for more. Seventy-five per
cent, of the first-night audience will probably call
again upon this opera, whilst a good many
admirers will make a point of hearing it several
times. The performance certainly strengthens
previous good opinions of the company’s all-round
ability.
• • «
In characters quite different from those
they played in “ I Pagliacoi,” the three principals
are very effective. Del Torre, as the girl who is
betrayed, acts and sings her part with true feeling
up to a certain point, her facial expressions being
particularly natural, although she is not strong in
the actual weeping passages. Giraud is a light,
airy libertine in maroon velveteen, and his drink-
ing song, with chorus, brings down the housq
Caruson, the baritone, is again excellent; this
time as an injured husband who slays the tenor.
Signorina Mettler, making her first appearance in
the small part of the baritone’s wife, has enough
voice and intelligence to doit justice. There is
only one other leading character—that of an aged
mother in a chronic condition of sorrow and dis-
tress. This ill-fated female manages to pass
muster.
# # •
Several fine choruses, including an Easter
hymn which is worthy of Gounod at his best, are
brightly sung by a mob of picturesque villagers.
A long scene between the prima donna and her
heartless young man is remarkable for bits of
charming, catchy music; but many other numbers
are so pleasing that no two tastes will agree con-
cerning their order of merit. The celebrated
intermezzo, played whilst the stage is deserted,
brought a boisterous encore. This orchestral per-
formance is supposed to reflect the soprano’s
injured feelings, after she totters off the scene.
Unfortunately, she returns just previously, in
order to receive bouquets. This spoils the musical
Ilusion, for her feelings are palpably cheerful
vhen the pathetic intermezzo starts.
At Poverty Point.
“ Madame Sterling and Charities. —Mr. P. A. Howells,
on behalf of Madame Antoinette Sterling, has asked us to
say that on Friday morning he handed over to His
Worship the Mayor of Adelaide the sum of £7 17s. 9d.,
being the proceeds of Madame Sterling’s charity concert
on Tuesday evening last. The receipts of the* concert
were £l4 45., and the expenses £6 6a. 3d. Mr. Howells
informs us that, although the receipts of the concert were
small, which may be accounted for by the inclement
weather, Madame Sterling during her stay in Adelaide
gave a large amount of money in charity, and, not like
many artists who have visited us, she has, owing to her
renerous deeds, taken away very little money from
Australia.”—S.A. Register, 9th Sept.
Moore’s benefit £2OO. The poor Prol How
much for the stage-hands ?
Westminster Gazette reproduces the famous photo, of
Bismarck with Pauline Lucca, and says it is 40 years old.
More like 20. Bis. was horribly annoyed when this first
got in circulation—long ago.
Tenor Leumane has settled in Adelaide as a teacher of
voioe-production. A irood singer can count on a fair
living from concerts, in Adelaide, where Saturday
“pops ” are all the rage.
Terry made quick tracks for England, the rent of his
Strand Theatre not having been stumped up. Geo. Leitch
is his business-agent in Australia.
The Bulletin’s prophecy of Nellie Stewart’s return was
promptly fulfilled. Two or three days later she arrived
at Hobaifc, and thence came quietly across to Mel-
bourne, and appeared in a private box at the Princess’s.
Nellie looks blooming, and her come-back to the Aus-
tralian stage will presently make things hum a bit.
Signor Giraud, of the Wiliiamson-Musgrove Italian
Opera Co., is only 22, and Signorina Dei Torre, prima
donna, is no older. The ballet girls, too, are compara-
tively childish.
Thornton and Arnold reserve “Charley’s Aunt” till
the last of their Melb. Bijou season.
“Women make the best dancers.”— Age. It is woman’s
nature to kick.
The Argus thinks the effect of the leggy dances at
Melb. Princess’ will be “ to restore the sound and healthy
appetite for classic ballet.” One Bulletin man could eat
Bartha already.
Signora Majeroni is booked or a season at Melbourne
Royal.
They say that the Italian tenor Giraud wept all through
the night in vexation at losing his voice in the first per-
formance of “ I Pagliacoi,” at Melb.
“First a little fuddle, then a little cuddle,” is the Lady
Oomique’s prime song of the London music hall to-day,
and the gem of “ In Town,” at the Gaiety.
Aim6e Moore’s Madge Wildfire is a streak in the stale
oast of the "Heart of Midlothian.”
Terry is said to be worth £lOO,OOO and to be the richest
actor alive.
Premiere danseuse Bartha“ The three principal
things necessary to make a good danoer are—an active
figure, a good teacher, and a destiny. . , . Skirt-
dancing is an infamy 1 I would as willingly dance in my
travelling costume. One has one’s legs for effect.
Connoisseurs declare Bartha’s legs to be too muscular.
There will be a pantomime as usual at Melbourne Royal.
Garnet Waloh will probably do the “ book,” and Johnnie
Wallace is to be stage-manager.
Certain out-of-work Sydney singers now serenade at
1 otts and Darling Points at night.
W. H. Vincent, onoe manager for “the firm,” is, we
regret to hear, a victim of bank reconstructions, and has
to go to work again. He is to have a part in the next
production at London St. James’. Thereafter he may
accept a tempting offer (of four figures per annum) from
Luseombe Searelie to manage in South Africa.
Inigo Tyrrell advertises, in Melb., that he cqnnot get
actors good enough, and must obtain them from America.
Melba has signed for an Australian tour. Date
uncertain, probably about the middle of ’94.
One of the finest specimens of lithography yet issued in
Sydney is a coloured poster, designed by Percy Spence,
ana printed by Turner and Henderson, for the military
tournament next month. It is a sheet 10ft. by lift. Bin.,
representing a battlefield with a cavalry charge in the
, reground,. anf i both in drawing and colouring it is equal
to the best imported work.
The Wild-Cat Column,
The Victorian 4 per cent, loan has been floated
at something a shade over 96. Expenses, accrued inter-
est, &0., will reduce this to about 94j, and subscribers
who are also holders of the old 5 per cents, get £4 dis-
count, which means a slight—probably a very slight—
further reduction. The result is bad enough, but it is a
lot better than it promised to be a tew days ago.
• • •
Bank stocks in Melbourne are quoted at lament-
able figures. City of Melbourne shares, 60s. paid up,
can be got at about ss. ; Nationals, 85s. paid, are being
offered at 9s ; Bank of Victorias, 60s. paid, offering in ail
directions at 55.; and Royals are going at about 13s. Tne
preference-shares of the bloaied Commercial (paid up to
£lO, and with no further liability) are to be had at £5;
ordinary shares unsaleable and unquoted.
* * •
A current deposit-receipt for .£B3O in a big un-
reconstructed bank fetched about 96 per cent, face-value
in Melb. last week.
* # #
Sales of deposit-receipts at Stock Exchange of
Melb. as follows: City of Melb,, 16s. (in the £); Com-
mercial, 16s. ; National, 15s. 3d. ; Victoria, 15s. Sd. ; E.S.
and A., 14s. 6d; Colonial, sellers, 13a : Standard, sellers,
os.
* * •
The Federal Building Society—which, it is pro-
posed, should reconstruct on a new basis—appears, judg-
ing from the report of three liquidators, two auditors,
and one outside accountant, to be worth resurrecting.
According to the balance-sheet it has never dabbled to
any ruinous extent in land-booming. It has a credit of
£15,000 instead of the usual bank overdraft. Its funds
are almost all invested in loans on freehold, and its
troubles seem to have come chiefly from the foolishness
of taking in £322,000 in short-dated deposits, and lending
them out on long-dated mortgages.
* * *
Out of .£567,000 invested on mortgage, £300,000
is still current, and repayments are coming in steadily,
so that this item alone is reasonable security for
depositors, while about £210,000 represents properties on
which the society has foreclosed, and which it would
like to sell, but can’t just now. This amount is about
equal to the society’s capital, so that, at the worst, it is
only the shareholders’ money that is locked up, and the
deposits are about as liquid as they ever were. If the
three liquidators, two auditors, and accountant, are to be
believed, the Federal is solvent—a good deal more
solvent, in fact, than many reconstructed banks Tub
Bulletin knows of—and it would be much better to start
it afresh than to fool away its assets by the slow horrors
of liquidation.
# # #
Sydney Real Estate Bank pegged out its grave
last week. Its balance-sheet shows a bald and unabashed
shortage of £66,519 —i.e., if the co.’s land, &c., realise their
book-value of £269,000, and £51,000 of hitherto irre-
coverabie calls suddenly arise and become hard cash, the
deficiency won't be more than that amount. But the
calls which are irrecoverable when a bank is still going,
usually become utterly dead and hopeless after sus-
pension, and £269,000 worth of property in these
days generally realises about £BO,OOO all told,
mostly in pro. notes and deferred payments. The
Real Estate Bank, however, is not like other in-
stitutions. Every other suspended land bank showed a big
surplus on paper and an average deficiency of 10s. in the
£ in reality, and the bank which starts by acknowledging
an immense deficiency is an unknown quantity—it can’t
be judged by any recognised standard of insolvency or dis-
honesty, for no bank has ever done such a thing before.
# # •
Apart from the disturbing element of this un-
expected candour, however, the prospects of the Real
Estate Bank seem to be somewhat as follows :—The prin-
cipal asset is property valued at £269,000 and mortgaged
for £192,000, and as there isn’t one chance in a hundred
of realising the mortgage money, this alleged asset may
be practically dropped out of sight. The next largest
item, “ arrears of calls, £51,379,” is mostly pretty
dead. The instalments due on properties sold and a
few other trifling assets, will about pay the deposits—
which are £7Bl in all—and the overdraft; and the share-
holders’ capital, £148,000, will never be heard of any
more. As the directors frankly observe, everything
“depends on the attitude of the mortgagees,” but as
mortgagees have all the same attitude the result is—
“ Walker!”
• * •
Millidge wrote the London office of the Mer-
cantile Bank that no one was a better authority on the
real state of the bank than its chairman—Davies.
« « *
A decided difference of tone between the rival
Melbourne morning journals. The Age says—“ Proceed-
ings in connection with the new Mercantile Bank prosecu-
tions were yesterday of a somewhat palling character.
For four and a-half hours the Bench listened attentively
to the opening address of Mr. Smith, and when the court
rose there was no indication of the recital being nearly
at an end. During the afternoon, Mr. Gardiner appealed
to the Bench to interfere so as to prevent the case from
being unnecessarily prolonged.” The Argus says—" Mr.
Smith continued the oft-told tale of alleged malpractices,
sparing neither labour nor time in making every point
absolutely clear to the Bench." The Aqb was right,
though. The clearness of the case for the prosecution is
somewhat palling by this time, as palling as Matthew’s
innocence, and Bryan O’Loghien’s “ unquestioned inte-
grity of purpose." The whole performance is palling.
* * •
Matthew Davies wishes to know whether the
prosecution in this current chapter of the Mercantile case
“ will venture to call Mr. H. Gyles Turner, manager of the
Commercial Bank?” Judging from Turner’s staggering
financial sentiments the last time he gave evidence as an
“ expert,” Tub Bulletin would expect Davies to call that
interesting man. Then the other side can cross-examine
him if they mean business.
* # *
A little too much “Sir Matthew” about the
proceedings, and yet the title has its uses. The knight
with vast excitement was asking why the prosecution
didn't call Mr. Ainsiie, who could ‘Meta little light into the
case.” Nicholson, P.M., put a damper on this particular
demonstration by saying, “ You can call him, Sir Mat-
thew." There are several defendants, and the whole lot
of them can call this much-quoted Ainsiie if they choose,
but they somehow prefer to keep the gentleman back as a
special grievance. It is the same with Graham Berry.
The prosecution says it doesn’t want him, and the defend-
ants swear that they are dying to see him in the box. But
they don’t talk of putting him in the box.
* * •
Matthew Davies’ cool application for discharge
from the Mercantile Bank case, on the ground that he
couldn't stand any more “ vexing and harassing," gave
the Argus and Age an interesting opportunity to shape
public opinion with cross headings. The Argus, satirical,
said—“ Defendants ‘vexed and harassed.’ Application
refused." The Age put it this way—“ Further objections
raised. The case allowed to proceed.” That may be
taken as the keynote of the Daviesian tune played on
David Syme’s organ. Allowed to proceed 1
• • •
There is going to be such a row on the Bench
before the latest edition of Matthew Davies goes to press.
# # #
By arrangement, no English cable quotations of
the sale-price of certain bank shares have been published
for several weeks.
• # #
B. J. Fink’s famous |d. in the £ composition has
been dragged violently fortn from the dim past by a dissent-
ing bank liquidator, and a spicy enquiry into the history of
that ridiculous little coin is promised for next month.
One special clause of objection to Fink’s Farthing
alleges that “in the case of the Commercial Bank the
statement did not show the full and complete account of
the finances between the bank and Fink.” Poor Com-
mercial Bank—it has had the misfortune to be associated
with other statements that were not full and complete.
The fullest and completest thing about that institution
was the effort made to get it reconstructed amidst the
blare of “ representative ” trumpets.
• • •
The wife of an historical “cronk” who gave
evidence in Melb. Insolvency Court, last week, could
throw very little light upon the subject of her imprisoned
husband’s property, it seemed. He had never given her
anything in particular except a piano and a large iron
safe, and these things being keepsakes the lady had sent
Il
hem to the home of her husband's father as soon as
hubby “(jot into trouble.” There was nothing in the
piano of a portable character, as far as she knew, but she
couldn’t say for certain that the safe was destitute of six
packages of deeds. There might have been deeds there,
and the father might have removed them before she sold
the safe. If the old gentleman said so she wouldn't
contradict. All the years that the safe belonged to her
she had never troubled to look inside it much. Our oath!
It is hard upon a man to be parted thus from an
affectionate wife who hadn’t even sufficient womanly
curiosity to tempt her to investigate her own safe. What
a household treasure!
« • •
Someone pertinently re-enquires why Australia
can’t export salt-beef and pork?
* • *
Dear Bulletin, —Australia badly wanted a
machine to work at a profit the many millions of tons of
old battery and alluvial tailings which lie about this con-
tinentami the islands, and I believe that Elliott’s concen-
trator goes a long way to All the vacancy. The really new
thing in this machine is a mechanical contrivance for dis-
posing of the refuse of the tailings after treatment by the
concentrator, thus enabling it to operate on a large
quantity in a given time, with a very small supply of
power and water. One of these machines, working full
time with a 1 h.p. engine, reduces 75 tons of tailings a day,
Mr. J. W. PHILLIPS (killed by the Carcoar bank-burglar) and his
Wife, also wounded.
recovering the pyrites ready for roasting. Only first
concentrates are discharged, the seconds being returned
to the hopper for further treatment. A series of paddles
travelling on an endless belt remove the sand which, in
earlier machines, has had to be shifted by water force,
entailing a great loss of driving power. A water lift
attachment allows the water to be used over and over
again—a great consideration in a thirsty country. Tests
of sludge from the concentrator show an infinitesimally
small percentage of pyrites.—Yours, Stamper,
The leak through which it is thought much
Mount Morgan gold has vanished has been stopped by
the arrest of a large number of employes. The quantity
lost will remain a conundrum. One per cent, of the total
yield would represent nearly £50,000.
» « •
Bayley’s Reward is going to wear the belt for
big yields from small crusbings. Manager Begelhole,
writing a Bendigo friend, says since starting on Ist March
last they have taken out 10,000nz. from less than 10 tons
stone, besides which he has nearly 800 tons at grass which
will yield over TOOOoz. when the b: ttery starts. Reef
proved equally rich to 50 feet, and shoot proved over 100
feet in length with good gold in each end. Same old
story—good field for people who can buy up reefs and put
on plants everything for the already fat man, nothing
for the miner.
* # *
Prospects are said to be much improved at
Lansell's ISO gold mine—the deepest in the world.
" The Bulletin's ” Missing Word
Competition, No. 6.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition,
No. 6, closed with 2957 entries, accompanied by
cash amounting to .£147 17s. The successful
guessers number 47, and are therefore entitled to
an allotment of not quite .£3 2s. lid., a sum which
The Bulletin has much pleasure in increasing to
an even Three Guineas, The sentence submitted
to public conjecture was “ If payment of members
can be settled by a plebiscite, why not
every other vexed question !” The missing word was
“ conclusively.” The moat popular guesses were
—“finally,” “thus,” “constitutionally,” “satis-
factorily,” &a, &o. One wild splurger, evidently
with “No. 5 Competition” still buzzing in his
brain, got off the word “ teetotally,” betraying a
symptom that has been noticeable before—that of
keeping as close as possible to the last guess-word
announced. In similar fashion, “ cupidity ” was
used by more than one correspondent in the com-
petition that immediately succeeded the one.in
which “cupidity ” had been the “missing word.”
The luck was dead against competing Maori-
landers, Tasmanians and Westralians, not a single
one of the numerous contestants in those provinces
lighting on the right word. The names and
addresses of the prize-winners are
John T. Crerar, Q.N. Bank, Thursday Island, Q. ; 0.
Mader, 40 Wellington-street, Richmond, Vic.; E. W.
Giles, Audit Office, Adelaide, S.A.; M. J. Walsh, Cairns,
N. ; W. J. Corbett, Porcupine Gap, via Molong, N.S.W.;
J. J. Barrv. West Maitland, N.S.W.; C. Dyett. Broken
Hill. N.8.W. ; Hyacinth D.-Ives, E. Shelboume, Vie.; H.
O. Cook, Hillston, N.S.W. ; Dr. Bennett, Gulgong,
N.S.W.; Mrs. J is. Holdstook, Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.;
George Styles, 17 Darling-st, Lyndhnrst, Glebe, N.S.W. ;
A. E. Kerr, Wellwood, Orange, N.S.W. ; M. Shilling-ton,
Stuart Town, N.S.W.; Hetty 6. Walker, Maracket, Upper
Murray, N.S.W.; J. D. Corbett, The Miles, Forbes,
N.S.W. ; Mrs. 8. Williams, Bobinwarrah P.O., via Wanga-
ratta, Vic. ; Jno. N. Worsley, Stoneridge, Monteagle,
N.S.W.; George Featonby, Lily vale, Helensburgh,
N.S.W.; Alex. Amos, jr., Kinneil, Elizabeth Bay, N.S.W.;
Geo. Stacey, hon. sec. Q. Press Club, Brisbane, Q. ;
W. T. Corbett, Lady Robinson’s Beach, N.S. Wales ;
Henry Downing, Barcaldine, Q.; Chas. M. Stevenson,
Kiama, N.S. W.; Jas. Hennessey, Alice Downs, Blackall,
Q. ; Alice A. Williams, Avon, 76 Princes-street, Sydney,
N.S.W.; John Charles Trelawney, Arthur’s Seat, Invereil,
N.S.W. ; J. J. Fitzgerald, Nelligen, Clyde River, N.S.W. ;
Robert T. Kennedy, P.O., Parkes, N.S.W.; John M’Cooey,
Walgett, N.S. W.; R. N. Leslie, Forbes, N.S.W.;
J. Loftus Irving, Charlton, Vic. ; Mrs. W. L. Kable,
Havannah-street, Bathurst, N.S.W. ; Miss 6. Baily, uhar-
lecot, Dulwich Hill, N.S.W.; Mrs. Pinnock, Bathurst,
N.S.W. ; T. VV. Horan, Railway Station, Sydney, N.S.W. ;
P. V. Ryan, National Advocate, Bathurst, N.S.W. ;
H. B. Fi'sher, Belmont, Beaconsfleld Parade, St. Kilda,
Vio.; A Hay. o/o Wright, Heaton and Co., Bourke,
N.S.W.; Miss Edith Lemon, 43 and 45 Druitt-st., Sydney,
N.S.W.; P. R. MuIIamfy, Imperial Hotel, Pambula,
N.S.W.; Miss L, J. Briggs, Marmion-street, Camperdown,
N.S.W.; John Cook, c/o Mr. Newsam, Lilyvale, Helens-
burgh, N.S.W. ; E. H. Macarthur, Strathmore, North
Quay, Brisbane, Q. ; D. C. Newham, Education Office,
Melbourne, Vic. ; H. T. Pritchard, Walker-straet, South
, Maitland, N.S.W. ; James Hobson, Caboolture, Q.
Missing Word Competition No. 7 will be
announced in next issue.
The Carcoar (N.S.W.) Tragedy.
One of the most gruesome butcheries of recent
times was perpetrated, in the small hours of last
Sunday morning, at Carcoar (N.S.W.), when a
masked and armed bur-
glar entered the office of
the Sydney City Bank
and chopped to death the
manager, Mr. J. W. Phil-
lips, and Miss Cavanagh,
a young lady visitor, and
badly wounded Mrs.
Phillips and an infant.
There have been many
murders where the
victims were more
numerous, but the
present case is unique
by reason of the whole-
soul ed and savage
energy of the axe-armed
criminal, who behaved
more like the gorilla in
Edgar Allan Poe’s tale of
the Rue Morgue than
like a rational burglar in
search of plunder; tn
fact, the ease looks like
theoutbreak of the wildest
madman, or of a man who
wanted to look like the
wildest madman, of the
century. The same night
a horse was stolen from
Carcoar vicarage, and it
is presumed that the
assassin used it in
his flight. One Edwin
Hubert Glasson, brother-
in-law of the vicar, has
been arrested—it is
alleged on the informa-
tion of Mrs. Phillips, who
is said to have recognised
him during the struggle
and torn the mask from
his face after he had
chopped her husband
down. His own disas-
trous tendency to letter-
wri ting, however, a ppears
tosupply the most serious
evidence against him.
The police theory is
that two men were en-
gaged in the murder, but
there seems to be no proof
of this beyond the fact
that it is the standing
police tradition that two
men are engaged in every mysterious tragedy—one
of them being the man who did the deed, and the
other the man who waited outside and whistled
when interruption was threatened. Glasson, who,
at latest advices, is either insane or pretends to
be insane, lately married into a most respectable
and well-known Sydney family and comes him-
self of a family of landholders of standing
in the West. He is a somewhat accom-
plished horseman, and a well-set-up young
fellow; whereas the burglar’s victim, Phillips,
was small and comparatively weak. Moreover.
Phillips’ doom was sealed (as is usual in such
Miss FANNY CAvANAGH.
(Murdered by the Carcoar burglar.)
cases) when, instead of waiting in the dark and
shootjng at the burglar when he showed a light,
he and his wife went, with a lighted candle, into
the room where they had heard matches struck.
Keen sympathy is felt for the inoffensive victims
in this most hideous affair.
Melb, Evening Standard is changing its
premises, It always is.
For 16d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
■ ‘Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning.”
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


f
gf
GrO to
IR( LAND for TrPtM Stamen. Wo
SII iln- Sol ofM, in.ns rl, for la. C<l.
Mustintfd I’ii-o Li-t of Koi<*i'it ami
An«t mlnsinn Si a 111(18, j>ost fiee and
craft*.
D. A. VIITD'II & CO.,
74 r.I.IZAHETII STREET, SYDNEY.
N.S.W.
to
r. maw
Off
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
otTARAKTr.r.n sin.Kxnm cnxrvmox.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers In the World
Piirrn/nrs t<> Chirar/o Kxhihilhm.
Ealchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Eridgo-st., Gydtioy.
Bt u t sr(t- c flrt st ra I i sc!r c os*
Kwbcint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preia *<■*
Zu haben bei alien on,
Abonnement 10 sb. jiibrlicb dicckl bei dec
Pinyija Publishing OJicr , 2(5 Hunter Si c., Sydney.
Personal Items.
Kilmeny Park Pearson left just on
j£200,000.
Ex-Premier Munro appears again on Mel-
bourne Block.
A grandson of Leigh Hunt’s is in Sydney
now. He is ohahunan to a surveyor.
“ Rolf Boldrewood’s ” father was respon-
sible for the name of the Sydney suburb, Emnore.
One of the - best-advertised of Australian
turf plungers is now a wages-man on Coolgardie
goldfield.
“ Campbell the Incorruptible ” was a big
shareholder in Melb. Herald, press-bar racker-in-
chief for Mercantile Davies.
Counsel for the Argus in the Kibble-
Murray railway libel-action will be Purves, Isaacs
and Mitchell. A “hot pool.”
“The eccentricity of genius.” “One of
the greatest living actors ” invariably employs a
female dresser to assist him in his changes.
The recently-deceased Hon. James Camp-
bell (Vie.), a-wealthy man, virtually slew himself
with the hardships of a pleasure-trip to Siberia.
Mr. Arthur Galton, Gov. Duff's private
secretary, is tho editor of the Camelot edition of
Tacitus. He is said to be a ’vert to the R.C.
faith.
A certain Vic. Judge, owing to financial
straits, was nearly resigning his seat. His idea
in that contingency was to take up Chief Justice
Madden’s practice.
A well-known Australian barrister says
that since he took up evangelistic work his income
has decreased from .£l2OO to =£2oo per annum;
and yet he is perfectly happy.
Canon Chase is the Melb. senior Anglican,
next to Macartney. His appearance is a com-
pound of Irving as the Vicar, Abbe Liszt, and
Titheradge as the Village Priest.
George Riddock and Vabien Solomon (the
latter a widower) are described as the handsomest
men in the S.A. Assembly. Both oppose the ex-
tension of the suffrage to women.
The “ Democratic ” S.A. Advertiser sug-
gests that Chief Justice Way should be made a
Baron to console him for his disappointment in
not receiving the S.A. Governorship !
In a printing-office in Sydney there stand B
a stack of stereotypes representing about half of a
novel carried thus far towards publication many
years ago by Thomas Walker, now M.L.A.
B. R. Wise devotes much of his spare
time to the composition of a literary work about
the purpose of which he affects mystery. Is it a
poem ? The Bulletin guesses it to be a volume
of fairy tales for the Single-taxers.
Some pious people down South proposed
national prayers for Minister Campbell’s recovery,
notwithstanding that the disease from which he
suffered was incurable. They thought Campbell’s
piety would cause an exception to be made in his
favour, and that a miracle would be wrought. To
quote Bret Harte : “The Creator who could put
a cancer in a believer’s stomach, is above being
■nterfered with by prayer.”
Windy ex - Pre-
mier Shiels capped all
f uneral orations in the
Vic. Assembly, last
week, by defining the
late James Campbell
as “ a statesman of
the grandest capa-
city.” Underneath
such blatant bosh as
this is the chuckle-
headed conceit of the
man that utters it.
“If Campbell was
one of the most gifted
creatures on God's
earth, O! what am
I?" is the question
silently expressed.
Legislative gush over
dead mediocrities who
“sat in the ’Ouse”
gets credit for coming
from the heart, when
it really springs from
the self - advertising
instinct of a bump-
tious mutual-admira-
tion mob. If the
’Ouse can’t find a dead
body to work upon an
effigy does equally
well —as when Duncan
Gillies, standing be-
fore Peter Lalor’s
statue, at Ballarat,
declared that only
people of gigantic in-
tellect could properly
Jill the position of
Speaker. Whereupon,
Tom Bent sagaciously
wagged his head-
pi oe, and tried to
look like Lord Bacon
multiplied by fifty-
six.
Richard Keele, a former Sydney identity,
whom little mtnayc on the South Head Road used
lO' be a favourite stopping-place for “Old Jack
Robertson,” is now one of the managers of the
great business of Nelson Brothers, of London, the
well-known Australian meat salesmen.
Parkes, sen.:, has in his* library a shelf set
apart for speeches arranged thus ;
(1) Speeches by Eminent Statesmen 1
(2) Speeches by Gladstone !!
(3) Speeches by Parkes !!!
Modest, as usual—content with third place.
“J. H.” (Hiugstou), when arranging a
lecture at Austral Salon: “You may depend oiv
me. I never break an engagement—l'm not a
woman!” After all lie failed to appear, having
had his hair cut and caught cold. How the women
mu i led !
Austin Brereton, erst of S.M. Herald
and Sydney D.T., is writing in New York papers
on West Indian affairs. Sydney newspaper men
will not soon forget his famous notice of a famous
play, in which, for some reasons or other, he did
not once mention the “ star’s ” name.
Dr. J. H, Ward, of Maryborough (Q.),
has died, aged 62. This time he has really been
buried. Ten years ago he died —in the columns of
a local paper—was measured for his coffin, and
had the pleasure of reading a complimentary
obituary notice about himself, a record of which
he was uncommonly proud.
The late Minister Woods (Vie.) held
titles in contempt. Travelling once, he came to a
place where they could give him no bed—only a
shakedown, the last available bed having been
reserved for Jenkins, C.M.G. “ It’s not so much
the loss of the bod,” said the irate John, “as tho
feeling that I have been C.M.Gee’d out of it.”
A certain “ Melbawne ” University Pro-
fessor lately informed the committee of the Yoriek
Club that, as the conversation at the club was not
of a sufficiently lofty intellectual standard, he
would resign his membership. To which the com-
mittee replied that, if the Prof, would cease to
monopolise the conversation, no reproach could
then be levelled at its quality.
Mrs. Langtry, who possesses the real
Venus waist, has her corsets moulded to her
figure instead of reversing the order as the ordi-
nary fashion-plate damsel too often does. One
night Albert Edward was in the green room
during a wait. The Lily demanded his opinion
of her performance. “Did not notice it much, I
was looking at your corsets.” “My corsets !!! ”
“ Yes, your dress fitted so well I could eount the
bones.”
Angus M‘Kay, a farmer who appears to be
a real Waterloo veteran, lives on the Nambucca
River (N.S.W.). He served as piper to a High-
land regiment, and was born in 1798 ; has been 53
years in N.S. Wales; has many descendants, right
down to the fourth generation. He enjoys, good
health ; with senses keen and mind perfectly clear
the old man looks fit to battle with another decade.
His wife, junior to him by only 11 years, is also
very much alive.
Poor Matthew Davies has no means where-
with to procure counsel for his defence. How
unspeakably sad ! Fortunately, though, Millidge
can afford counsel as before, also he was able to
give a job to Sir Matthew’s late representative,
Leon, in the way of a mysterious application for
another “quash.” And seeing that Millidge’s
counsel fights tooth-and-nail for Davies, the ex-
Chairman is not, on second thoughts, such an
object of pity as might be imagined.
The late Jimmy Campbell, Vic. Minister
of Education, was Scotch by birth, but, when
young in years, at Ballarat got much mixed up
with the Wesleyan body. This his father did not
like, and in his will made him pay yearly for a
full seat at St, Andrew’s kirk—said seat being
always used by the lavender-suited Benevolent
Asylum men. James was, up to the time of his
death, regularly called on for the pew-rent, pay-
ment of which galled him considerably.
Howard, or Petrie, charged with producing
the Aramac explosion, was in Melbourne some
years ago and used to lecture on the wharf ere the
various agitators were moved on to Flinders Park.
He was not regarded as a fanatic by any means,
“JUST SO."
HOOLIGAN (pointing to a boatload of children ): “ Some of yours,
I suppese, Brannigan ?”
BRANNIGAN : “No—not quite. I ain’t a bloomin’ incubator.”
but used to be the funny man of the crowd, and
related spicy anecdotes about the love-affairs of
various high public officials ; hence he was about
the most popular of the wharf-orators, who, as a
rule, are in deadly earnest and singularly destitute
of humour.
It was Mr. George Stevenson, father of
the late G. J. W. Stevenson, of the Australian
Star, who, as private-secretary to Gov. Hind-
marsh, on Dec. 28, 1836, read tho proclamation
declaring South Australia a British province.
Dear Bulletin, I can vouch that
“Tommy M'Crea,” the Australian aboriginal
artist, is a decent, sober old fellow. “King” of
his tribe, he is a strict teetotaller, but although he
makes his male tribesmen band over their shear-
ing, &c., earnings he allows them a liberal com-
mission with which to get drunk. Tommy is a
showman in his way, and occasionally recruits
from rambling tribes and starts out on a “corro-
boree” tour, never omitting the “ hat’’-trick at
the finish of each performance. Some years ago
a number of us were looking at some of his pen-
and-ink sketches. One nicture was meant to repre-
sent swans and ducks swimming, but it showed no
water, the limning of that element seeming to
puzzle him. A purchaser asked, “ Where’s the
water?” With twinkling eyes, Tommy replied—
“No move ink.” His camp is within a mile or
two of the Murray, near Rutherglen, and he is
always willing to guide sportsmen to good fishing
or shooting. Close by his camp is the life-size
figure of an aborigine out by him with a toma-
hawk in the bark of a “ gum ; ” it is an object of
wonderment to most visitors.—Yours, W.A.R.
A certain
Australian Pro-
fessor still ad-
heres to his
theory that to
have good brains
a man must have
good calves.
The other even-
ing a brother
professor chaffed
him on his pet
craze, w her e-
upon the theorist
proceeded to
brandish his
bareleg. “Yah!”
ejaculated the
brother, “ that
is not a calf —it
is only the leg
of a calf.” And
yet hereon rests
a firm support
for the calvea-
brains theory.
Calves are a
sign of brains—
calves’ brains;
and calves’
brains are a sign
of calves.
“The longer
I live the less
confidence I
have in any law
I lay down,”
said Justice
Stephen (N. S.
Wales) last
week. What an
opening for a
rising junior to
yell: “Quite
right, y’Oaah—
that is the public
view.”
Joseph Henry Smith, the S.A. Railway
Chairman, is a dapper little man ; as punctilious
in person as he is precise in business. With light
suit, shining tilted bell-topper, red necktie, gold-
rimmed glasses, and general jaunty air, Joseph is
a gorgeous spectacle. On a recent S.E. inspection
the Chairman had occasion to call at the house of
a stationmaster, at whose door sat a sedate-looking
parrot. The bird eyed the approaching autocrat
for a few moments in silent admiration, but at
last, unable to control himself, greeted the aston-
ished Commissioner with “Pretty Joey, pretty
Joey ! ” The man who can thus extort homage
from the brute creation is cheap at =£2500 a year.
Convict Butler, who, in Maoriland, many
years ago, was tried for and acquitted of the
murder of the Dewars, husband and wife, but
who subsequently got 16 years’ gaol for burglary,
was liberated the other day. Butler has gone to
Rio. He is one of the cleverest and most
dangerous criminals that ever stood in a dock. In
the Dewar case—a most revolting murder, in
which the man and woman were butchered in
their bed at Dunedin —Butler defended himself.
He cross-examined the witnesses with consummate
skill, and delivered to the jury an eloquent speech
scornfully ridiculing the proverbial theory that
“ murder will out.” Like Eugene Aram, Butler
was a schoolmaster. Wherever he goes in the
World ho will need watching.
Sir Frederick Abel, writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, has been attacked in Pall
Mall Gazette re the discovery and manufacture
of cordite, the British service smokeless powder.
He is accused openly of having, as official expert,
condemned all the smokeless powders submitted
to the Government, and then having taken all the
best parts of each, blended them into cordite, the
secret of which was sold to a foreign firm for a
large sum. The charge, as formulated by the
P.M.G., is apparently clear and precise, but, alas
for the allegations, the writer does not know what
I know, and that is that Sir Frederick Abel did
not invent cordite at all. It was discovered by a
very quiet, clever, young fellow in the laboratory
department of the War Office, a Mr. Thomson
(son of the late Archbishop of York), assisted by
one Kellner. Abel got the credit of it as Chairman
of the Explosives Committee, and has not yet
repudiated it, though no doubt he will hasten to
do so now.
The Australian Star’s contention that
Reid, Wise and M'Millan, not being “ typical,
tall, broad-shouldered Englishmen,” are not fit to
govern N.S.W., and that Dibbs, Lyne and See
just fill the bill, amuses one, especially as the
paper puts forward Bismarck and Moltke as illus-
trating its long-man theory. The Star forgets
that Cassar and Napoleon, tho greatest - captains
of ail time, wore small men. And if Parkes (also
trotted out) is a tall, broad man, Gladstone
is a short, broad man. There is nothing in
the tail-man doctrine, but breadth is strength
and fat is force. Cfesar (as per W. Shakes-
peare) believed in fat, comfortable men
who could sleep o’ nights—fellows like Toby
Barton, for instance. The broad, fat man—that
is the man to last as a brain-worker. The man
who is not broad and fat simply can’t live as a
fighting barrister, or as the editor of a daily paper
—veterans Haddon, of the Argus, Windsor, of
the Age, Ournow, of the Herald, are fat men
all and none tall—or in any other occupation
involving severe and continuous mental strain
under the least favourable conditions. The fat
man can own the earth—and he does own it,
\ «;.■, i„
n \ punkah IS, in Singapore, excusable US
* ove . in| neut and municipal offices, because, by
blo " ,n » P a P efs about, it tends to keep the officials
awake. Straits Times.
When the final division on the Irish Homo'
Rule Bill was taken in the Commons, the Liberal
whip went up to Gladstone and offered to find a
pair for him if he wished to go home. “ A pair,”
said the exuberant old man; “Find me two pair
and perhaps I may. I feel equal to any two
Tories to-night.”
OFFICIAL EQUANIMITY.
GOVERNMENT Man : “H’m ! The M’llwraith Guv'ment’s a-goin’ ter reduce
the wages of all it’s men by 10 per cent., is it? Blow me ! if they
reduced mine 90 per cent., I wouldn’t feel it.”
“Let me provide the mare’s nests of a
nation, and I care not who writes the leading
articles.”
John Wesley—that great and good person'
—established a beautiful boarding-school for the
young of his cheerful sect, where “ There was to
be no play, for he who plays when he is a child
will play when he becomes a man. Every child
was to rise at 4 a.in., and spend an hour m private
reading, meditation, singing and prayer. Every
Friday all the children, whose health could bear
it, were to fast till 3 p.m., and there were to be no
holidays—no, not a day.”
“The finest muse in the world will not
keep a man, and is only a mistress, not a wife.’’—-
Gautier.
A VERY BAD CASE OF PILES.
Amongst others, Mr. Arthur Kendall* of Bingera,
writes to Mr. Sharp; “ Dear Sir, —Having road of
several persons being cured of piles by your
remedy, and having suffered myself for 15 years,
I determined to give your ‘ Oannaline’ a trial, and
I have great pleasure to inform you that your
medicine has thoroughly removed them. I have
suffered excruciating agony when they were down,
and nothing gave relief.” Mr. Sharp (successor
to Sims and Parkes since 1887) may be consulted
privately or by letter on this and other stubborn
complaints, patients receiving, as advice free, the
benefit of his skill in Medical Botany, 257 George,
street (close to Bridge-street), Sydney, only.*
The Chicago World’s Fair is proving a
worse frost every day, and the lake-side city is
troubled with bank failures, unemployed, and all
manner of disasters. The great hog metropolis
has never looked up since N.S.W, Premier Dibbs
damned it many months ago.
♦
DO YOU SUFFER
from
LIVER COMPLAINT,
INDIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION,
HEARTBURN,
FLATULENCE,
Or any symptoms of a disordered digestive
apparatus? If so, there is no remedy in tho
world so safe and sure to give relief as Fletcher’s
Pills and Clements Tonic. Don’t be misled into
wasting time and money on any of the “All-
failing ” nostrums so speciously advertised by
designing quacks and dishonest rogues. Remem-
ber, these two remedies have stood the test of time,
that their merits are proved, and that a few
shillings invested on them may save you weeks
and months of suffering, and, perhaps, pounds of
expense, for they have done so in hundreds of
oases, and we will send you evidence to prove our
assertions on receipt of your name and address.
Remember, delay is dangerous, and that every
hour you neglect your case the complication in-
creases and a cure becomes more difficult. Shun
the cheap quack doctors and designing nostrum
compounders; stick to tho remedies Clements
Tonic and Fletcher’s Pills. They are absolutely
genuine, and have proved their efficacy in hun-
dreds of cases and will do so every time. They
ate sold everywhere and made only by F. M
Clements, Newtown, Sydney.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
.2335
(Po.ktuait_ Photographers)
H°yal Arcade, Sydney.
—oo9 _
“Messrs. CH ARLEMONTstudy to keep them-
* e,ves breast with tlj« various new and beauti-
I'd procisscs in phfitographv,"
Ad vino to Young Mon -Dr. "Richard*’ ad., p. 1
For forty years Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral has
proved to bo the most reliable remedy in use for
colds, coughs and- lung diseases. Slight colds
should not be neglected. ,The Pectoral will
prevent- their becoming chroni >.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL
RESTORATIVE.
CLEMENTS TONIC TTr , ATrrtJ
RESTORES VIGOUR, HEALTH
AND VITALITY OF YOUTH.
CURES
WEAKNESS,
LASSITUDE,
DEBILITY.
INDIGESTION,
PROMPTLY AND PERMANENTLY,
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS.
ASK YOUR NEIGHBOURS
ESPECIALLY THIS ONE.
Alderman J. Mudie, Bombala, N.S.W., who
writes on May 11th, 1893: I,have been suffering
for some considerable time from pains extending
throughout the whole system, the seat of the pains
was mostly confined to the chest and down the
spine. A doctor, who was attending on me, in-
formed me that I was suffering from liver and
kidney disease. I took whatever medicine he
ordered without receiving relief. I have also been
in one of the Sydney hospitals, and 1 believe I
received the best medical advice to be obtained in
the colony at the time. After going through a
course of medicine prescribed by the Sydney
doctors, if anything I was worse than when 1
commenced taking-their medicines. My attention
was drawn some time ago to the great cures
effected by Clements Tonic ; after so many other
remedies failing, I was doubtful even as to the
virtues of Clements Tonic. I bought a bottle ot it,
before I had finished it I felt my health improving
daily, the pains from which I had been suffer-
ing for years had entirely left me, my appetite
increased daily, where I had only been able to
take one meal a day before-and that 1 had to
force myself to do—l could tfilce three find then
seemed hardly satisfied. lam only too happy to
send this short testimony to you. Clements ionic
has entirely cured me where all other remedies
fjvilecl —I remain, yours, &c., J. Mudie, Bombala,
N.S.W. '
AGBI.OULTDEAL
AND
MILLING
machinery,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
' Greatly Eeduced- Prices
Latest Designs in _
CARRIAGES & BUGGIES.
tytilham Fleming,
22 & 24 Clarence Street,
SVI»\EY.
- ■■ '^l
ARTESIAN
•Wells drilled by contract •
lowest rates. Complete Dru
ins Kigs on sale. Expe
drillers ensragsd. Casing,
tubing, o
strata. 1 —- WILLIAM
FLEMIMG./22 ind 24
Clarence St.,- Sidney.
igag|d
drite pipe sup-,
jit .ifthe various/
w
POLITICAL
POINTS
..The great wall of China ” in Australia is
1,1 South has 1850 J’s.P. out of a
total population of 330 000. m A ba(l
tTofSanil^Lent.Lybe.
baring 12 years £2,119,334 has been
D “" ft S.W, public school buildings.
Lpe £ ° a A Progressive Succession Duties
J into the pockets of legatees.
The average price of a Sydney public-house
i for political speechmaking, is £3.
’■ p,„i r ’ Chinamen have been allotted mallee
(Vie.) Land Board.
rrj.Q Age comes out in favour of State
management of, and against sale or lease of, Y,c.
' Miv Hirsch is backed by the Argus for the
j ames Campbell’s Benalla seat. Because he s
dingle-taxer ? ...
Despite the new N.S.W, Postal Act, the
product Of imported stereo, blocks passes in mail-
bags all over the land. . . ~
Absentees own land-values in Adelaide
and Port Adelaide approximated at £2,548,000-
or one-third of the total values.
Adelaide Destitute Asylum had 341 inmates
June 30, of this year. Just about one per 1000
of the total inhabitants of S. A.
The S.A. Legislature allows 10s, a day
travelling expenses to a first-class Civil seivant—-
mid 15s. daily to a second-class politician.
Ilourigan, M.P., is the only Single-taxer
in AA. Parliamentary Labour-party, although
Charleston, M.L.0., was once a Georgian.
Lord Carrington, says the cable, approves
of the reformation of the House of Lords. It is
lime for action when the cancer calls for the
knife.
immortal perjury from the Age :
In Great Britain the Socialist is perpetually warring
against capital, and not against class privilege, which does
not exist.
The subsidy to the Queensland Parliamen-
tary Refreshment Room has been fixed this year
at £6OO. Last year it was £BOO, and the year
before £lOOO.
Richardson, the new Yic. Minister of
Railways, is introducing female porters on country
stations. Retrenchment. Policewomen next, then
female Ministers.
N.S. Wales follows Victoria and Queens-
land in titular nomenclature. Premier Dibbs is
no longer officially “Colonial Secretary” bub
“Chief Secretary.”
Frank Cotton, M.P. (N.S.W.), : “Every
member of the present N.S.W. Ministry has,
within the past three years, opposed manhood
s uffrage.” True bill?
Only one property-owning M.P. supported
S.A. Land-values Assessment Bill —squatter G.
C. Hawker, who was bound down by his con-
stituents, mostly workers.
Members of Yic. Assembly begin to regard
the seat in the Chamber occupied by the late
James Campbell with superstitious awe. Several
of its occupants have died.
The prospectus has been issued of a Demo-
cratic Adelaide evening paper, to be run in the
Labour interest. It is not likely to see light until
after the April Legislative Council elections.
Premier Kingston, of S.A., is very proud
of the recent attack on him in London Times, re
his attempt to fill the prospective gubernatorial
vacancy without reference to the Colonial Office.
In S.A. Assembly, on Sept. 13, “private
members’ day,” 32 members made 73 speeches.
Landseer addressed the House eight times, and.
Butler delivered seven harangues on as many sub-
jects.
The Freetrade proclivities of the Patterson
Government have been unmistakably revealed by
its proposal to raise £lOO,OOO a year by means of
ft tax on sugar. The Age applauds this, dreading
an Income-tax.
Laboui’-organiser Ferguson has been com-
Vnissioned to lecture throughout N.S. Wales on
“Labour Representation.” “Behind those two
Words,” says Ferguson, “ stands the personality of
the democracy.”
The French Consul would have interviewed
the N.S.W. Minister for Justice had Stipendiary
Addison carried out his threat to order flogging in
the case of Gillard, the Frenchmen, tried in
Sydney last week.
At S.A. National Ass annual meeting,
great song was made of the fact that “not one
‘Single-taxer was chosen at the recent elections.”
And this is the very thing the S.A. Democratic
party worked for. The right men got in all the*
same.
Out of 54 members, S.A. National Ass can
count on 21 reliable pig- votes in the Assembly.
Outside these, two Ministers and Speaker Coles-
J’*'® strong sympathisers, and one or two shaky
Democrats ” have also frequently voted for pro-
perty.”
The Argus scheme for giving away the
mallee to an English company has fizzled out.
Sydney D.T, talks definitely of parlianien-
tary candidates who are to be nominated by “ the
Anti-payment of Members Party.” Which branch
Of the Freetectionists ? Or the Singletraders?
Will N.S.W, yet see the Dibbs -M‘Millah
Ministry ?
The Kingston (S.A.) taxation proposals,
tiondensed, are an additional tax of a half penny
on unimproved Value above =£sooo ; an absentee
tax of 20 per cent, added to this and present half-
penny tax. Kingston claims that he has a raaiority
in both Houses.
Michelet: “Give me but the judicial
power, and keep your laws and ordinances, and I
will undertake to establish triumphantly the
system the most opposite to your laws." That is
why Judges should be elected by the people, and
not appointed for life.
No wonder that the Lord Mayor of
London got a baronetcy after the royal wedding.
He presented an address to the exalted pair, com-
mencing, “In the name of the great city which
you honour by your passage through to-day."
And oidy a baronet after that I
London Times objects to Way’s proposed
appointment as Governor of S.A. on the ground
that elective Governors “ would be subject to
pressure from their Ministers.” Well, isn t the
nominee Governor also “subject to pressure?”
And isn’t that what he exists for?
The Vie. Labour-party foolishly opposed
the reduction of the municipal subsidy, devoted
to raising land-values. Asa revenge, the revenue
is to be made up by an increased tax on sugar,
which is estimated to yield £120, 000, nine-tenths
of which must come from the workers.
Ebenezer Ward (S.A.), a journalistic poli-
tician, recently spoke of “Ministers of the Crown
who, when dining at State expense, charge 13s.
9d. each for their meal, but who, when paying for
their own refection, are content with a glass of
water or a cup of tea, a saveloy and a roll.”
The Land-values Assessment Bill was
opposed in S.A. Assembly by seven Adelaide
property-owners and eight owners of provincial
values, the most prominent of whom would lose
at least <£2oo a year in rates were the bill passed.
And lie opposed because “it would oppress my
tenants 1 ”
f rrec - . \
I LfciJcr**- '
' Qt,
A SURE DROP ANYWAY.
EYEGLASS REID : gentlemen, give me time to say my prayers !"
PARKES (in the background) : "Bless you, my children ! When you're both tired and George
has dropped in, I’ll get on to the pedestal."
“ Zachary Pearce Pocock ’’—great Maher-
shalal'hksh-ba* !—in the S.M. Heralu .
But I know that where Democracy rules there hherty is
•only a name, and life and property is more 01 less in-
secure. , . .. ,
And, pray, where does 'the aristocratic faun y o
Pocock hail from!
The Argus is terribly shocked and grieved
at the lack of civilisation shown by the Sydney
meeting in refusing to listen to the mellifluous
M'Millan, but it laughed ]aoka«sly when the local
Imperial Federationists, i.n meeting assembled,
howled down the Australians who attempted to
move an amendment.
Melbourne University Historical Society
ihas justified its existence by bringing the masses
and classes together on a common platform, .to
■ discuss grievances—Professor Elkington alongside
Yarra-bank Flynn, and Chancerydano Fink
rubbing boulders with Trades Hall Trenwith, m
discussion of “The Industrial Revolution.
Temuka Leader (M.L.) rises to refute the
ihoary gibe about woman being nnsexed by the
•franchise
If to draw her pencil across the name of H. ». r i*h,
junr., of Dunedin, and the !ike of him once every three
years, will make her neglect her household duties and
destroy her womanly modesty, she must not be worth
much.
It may destroy 11. S. Fish’s modesty, though.
One resolution excluded by the chairman
from ex-Treasurer McMillan’s recent Sydney
meeting declared that “a tariff for revenue pur-
poses is neither true nor honest freetrade.
Another announced: “That the imposition ol a
heavy land-tax and the removal of loau-and-
mortgage-company directors from Pnrliamen
would vastly promote the prosperity of the people
■of N.S. Wales.”
Speaker Abbott (N.S.W.) visited a
fullv-prepared blackbirding schooner at Bunda-
berg prior to the departure of the vessel with
“returns.” The “boys ” really had boxes, which
were turned out for the inspection of the
“ expected ” visitor?. Contents : A few pieces or
calico and Turkey-red, some tobacco and pipes, a
frving-pati, some .tolnahawks, a pair of opera-
classes, a bundle of jew’s-harps.&c.-the aggregate
earnings of 40- men Tor three years. What do
thev want with opera-glasses ? enquired an
inquisitive visitor. “Want?” said the skipper;
“why they’re so (thundering) anxious to get back
-to Queensland, that they watch from their hills to
•spy out a labour-boat when it’s miles off, dun fc
yer see ?” ,
The latest revolution in Brazil is Imperial-
istic-ally regarded as a providential occurrence
designed by the Lord to scare the unregenera e
Australian republicans. The Argus : Now,
this unfortunate event tends to show
dangerous it is to make great and sudden altera-
tions in institutions to which the people have
become accustomed.” Who talked like this o
Luther, Cromwell and Washington ■'
The S.M. Herald will now, Jt would
appear, give ungrudged publicity tp;£optributions
in favour of -'Protection, -thß. in
some part Of-the
condemn, except in case of absolute the
imposition of a land-tax. Which simply, means
that the Herald and Dibbsism are, on taxation,
principles, nearer a common ground than are t o.
Herald and any other section, except the fameunj.
section of the Freetrade party.
Germany still has most to say ve Samoa..
Mataafa, who, a few weeks ago, was exiled to the
Union Islands— a British-annexed group and only
a few hundred miles from Samoa—is now to be
transported to Jaluit, in the Marshalls, a Ueiman
possession. The Treaty Powers have consisten y
backed up the interests of the big German trading
firm in Samoa, which is subsidised by the Herman
Govt., and claims two-thirds of the land in tlio
group.
Three successive items from Vic. Express,
Geraldton, W. A., Sept. 1
Twenty mad Chinese are housed In the Asylum for
lunatics at Fremantle. . . ,
Within the last seven months, 209 Chinamen have bee
imported into the colony, and 157 of these have settled 1 1
the large towns! . .. .. .i.,,, i,»
Last rear, 115 persons were hogged in the A
order of the law; 104 of the cases were the outcome or
offences against property, the victims being in a i
probability aborigines.
Eyeglass Reid (N.S.W.), after much
wobbling, has decided that ho is a land-taxer to
the extent of one penny in the £ per annum, with
exemption up to £5OO. Also ho is al* reetrader,
barring the fact that lie wants to collect
£2,000,000 in Customs duties, and an advocate oi
unpaid legislators, only he admits that there is
much to be said on both sides of the question, in
short, lie is a poor, faded, indefinite shadow o
nothing in particular standing upon nowhere.
M‘Donald, M.P., who, the other day,
referred to Queen Victoria in the Queensland
Assembly a* “an old lady who led society 10,000
miles away,” was compelled by the Speaker to
“retract those words.” B. D. Morehead, in
similar case, would have seized the chance
afforded, whatever his personal sentiments. When
he once sneered at Aland as '‘the pious and holy
member for Toowoomba,” he apologised, under
mandate, by styling him “the impious and un-
holy member.”
Every time when Home Rule seemed to
be coming within measurable distance crime has
gone down to a minimum in Ireland ; it is only in
Coercion times that it rises to abnormal dimen-
sions During the three months of January,
February and March ’93, there was not in all
Ireland one murder, manslaughter, assault on the
police, burglary or robbery ! Almost the only act
of violence was the blackening of a bailiff’s eye,
and even this was done in Ulster, and by a
Presbyterian whose sticks were being seized for
rent. Ireland just now is the least criminal
country in Europe. It is England that wants
Coercion.
Simon Fraser, a “representative” Mel-
bourneite (chiefly remarkable as having had his
portrait painted by Millais —who, after all,/ias to
make his living somehow), at the Imperial Federa-
ition meeting
The British Crown has treated its colonies liberally.
The Crown has given the colonies untold millions of acres,
and assisted the colonists to develop them.
The Crown also gave a big hunk of America to
the United States, and it approved of the
Almighty’s act in bestowing Asia as Ho did.
The Crown is just now busy allotting Paradise.
Melbourne Annus resents Dealdn’s Bill
making it compulsory to brand Chinese-made
furniture, and raises the bogey of monopoly by
liJcy firms. All that the public cares about is that
the employing firms, whether big or little, shall
not be able secretly to “sweat” their employes
in respect of wages and pig-pen accommodation.
The Akgcs also consistently objects to the Shops
and Factories Act Amendment Bill, on the ground
that the provision constituting any place where
two people work a factory will necessitate the
appointment of another army of inquisitive in-
spectors and the direct infringement of the liberty
of the subject*” The Argus only thinks of the
“ subject ’’-employer ; to its mind, a “ subject ’
wage-earner has no “ liberty ” that is in danger of
infringement. ■■ Union vigilance-committees may,
probably be depended on to render unneces-
sary the appointment mf^iuTtuMiTy'of inspectors.
' Til 6 Sydney Master Bnckmakers lately
formed a “comer,” thereby raising the Pyceof
bricks, at one jump, from 21s. to 335. per 1000 a
the kiln. One of their number, after signing the
bond, was found selling his brmks at something
nearer the old price, and thereupon the cornei
PCmpSy >’as they prefer to style theinselves
promptly got an injunction, subsequently uphelc
on argument before the Full Court, to restrain
the offender. Now, by any sane process of
reasoning, a precise parallel to this bnckmakers
ring is the case of a number of workmen enrolling
themselves, for what they believe to be their owii
protection and benefit, into a union and agreeing
to sell their labour at a fixed price. .But when a
union workman is found violating his agreement
he is by no means amenable in a like degree to cue
law which so violently sat upon the blackleg
lunastcr brickmaker at the instance of that now
legalised monopoly —“The Sydney Brick 00.
The-bases herein quoted are exactly similar m
evpy : it is only Fat Man s law tha
makes an arbitrary distinction.
G; H. Reid, alleged freetrader arid larid-
taxer (N.S.'W.):-*• ,
As for the struggling masses of the country, he held
that a Customs tariff on a few abides bn m
£2,000,000 to the Treasury was a sufficient contimutton
from them. As to the remainder of the taxation of the
country' let it fall not on one class hut upon the whole
people of the country, on the basis of taxation forseme,
rendered. . .
This represents the eye-glassed delusion in several
capacities. As a freetrader he proposes to collect
<£2,000,000 in Customs duties. As a believer in
the taxation of wealth he proposes that this
<£2 000 000 shall be levied on the 1 struggling
masses,” and after that the rest of the taxation is
to be levied on the whole community, the
struggling masses included, so that the struggling
masses are to get a share in all taxes, and a
special tax all to themselves by reason of their
struggles. And as an alleged land-taxer he pro-
poses vaguely that the country shall live by
“taxation for services rendered,” which may
mean anything from an income-tax to an expres-
sion of opinion that pork is unhealthy in hot
weather.
The N.S.'W. Baptist Union has passed
resolutions calling upon the elect amongst voters
to support as parliamentary candidates only men
of “ intelligence and high moral character. Who
is a man of “ high moral character ? Why, only
the man who is regarded as moral by the pubi c.
\ ln an of “ high moral character’ can only make
the public aware that his morals are high by
advertising the fact. In which case, the most
assertive hypocrite would be the man of the high-
est moral character a theory squaring with the
experiences of real life. What good are high
morals unless they pay a high dividend ? Mirams
name was on the foundation-stone of half-a-dozen
coffee-palaces and chapels. Abigail was a peerless
paragon of unbending probity and ice-bound
morals. So with Matt. Larkin, who went to Mass
every morning, and scores of others who have
fallen from moral pedestals of one sort or other.
I„ some way or other, the public man who wears
a “high moral character ” as a sorb of sleeve-band
becomes sooner or later a dreadful failure, ibe
Parliament, too, that is composed of men. ol
“high moral character ” is invariably a thief-
Parliament. Beware of “ high moral character.
Better trust the beetle-browed man m the broad-
arrowed suit than the saint in broadcloth whose
face shines like a benediction.
The Queen, says a London society journal,
has never had a dress made by Worth. Worth s
figure is the excuse given by the paper. Jhe
Queen’s figure, probably, would be the excuse
given by Worth.


' /a r\
fa
V, v
'll u \-h
cloths l*lay
if fie aje tfjt CoupKZ
mTerru /■% ~s&!
I Vc-u Caof?o f ogress if*! ®u#H
y.-i) clones 4 fijvjr (loior ' "
poj.'Q
o**% ‘So fat'tit faJaktfam
dpi hkq. Trij rr/yJ 4/
-P~J^P «-Q rv-
TS//“ncAL ,
are afaaf ft
J ijbojp /fi? Samp Aloft
Jftfry ty //faff* ft
7?i/rra/hr>^
JT - ' 'Cutcf #a/yj?as? Mtsr/wprf #S~4/ a /as Mr/Svts?
/&#</$ 4bS£7s
tf? Copjfaf/s#£
huftr- "
fg
T
ffrt r 7
M/7n*toritofc 6/s M/jjrfr -rta/re Uf/vjsM&y
WffiS, a/r<f as 6y as fo 6/6asf 4/? ' a/?/ jr/s/~ f/re far
7V6a/ /tTa6//~/jp 6 " ftyssrj ara? &//syb/'
c mm
rs ftitjkTmi/- $ ?oli« Court }ui^m
L r r 7 JaM- ' y(m a<W> 9S f ogujah oLla.na^hc
r*JbTV% 075%t loaded
H/Uj 1W prisoner. tillpy ajouyq tyuj njarries ft sfauld slop SoJ itjaToais 1 *
{ Nobody lauyijed except fe primer, arjd jje IfyerJ rfat Waj Qood Ur him )
TO ( Cdi >'Tl{ L H°* J 'P r IW Wh are you ilfe ironi quo ! V
(Priso)er Mfts it up - Itpah beirjq forljiry [ „ .
• Because _ j/oa arc iiKfjajgecl "
( S foils dyijy Ofj apoplectic, fit )
X-Vcf /rr/iop pf &#/'/' /ftifiw/ # J7fr/? ' ’
tyarac/fr- /
THINGS IN GENERAL.


*itS*orn& 4 rl
>«& #;
wtHSM
nwwofc miaht ria&S!
of tht case be tfotte Ihto und if Hid I
tyoUs vise %?7d uP
'forty .
‘Vsesn /Va
Werif /o'
Tr a ■yx &sVon
laifo* week.
TKfIN KSTDN.
sit£ ai- Hbrfoin
CL-Ml: Tit R Y,
ts .
f
g
~;**• . . •
Mh I’attersoh. ‘To harry the incomb tax
would have involved a quarrel with another
piacb; and thb bhsihbfts 6f. the tiftvernment
Jia’j to avoid a quarrel.*! A
V'.R
Imn
Ctfunt
>? r-
, . **
•f-Vv" i
- os
e >»
i- >S
yv-?.
/J'STRKT
. To
‘ IJm
* i i <?■ 1 1 r _
x / 1 V'V
r a> ~»r 4* >
i* /
U fr^'
v
\
UptO^Bo
fielenda-nK
1L 'yire'fe:
all decik**
TS .
a/bk rt yi .
~\f Ae j
£ i.flW v
&
Co- se-
fjfo ocL
Matthew Davies - _ fI THe!
brown had ananrioiiSlTße cash; tße'Tinurda-
-tort had abandoned the,wise,- the solicitors!
then engaged hail abandoned the caa-v and’
gentleman who took up the matter in
Connection With the summoning of the grand
iury bad abandoned t(ie A case,,/IS' ’ ~ •
/n/o 7% eft 'fitst'Sfi/t'it
: 'l’he inaugural meeting of the Victorian’
_ Society for Psychical Research was held • •
1“ ** - Perhaps the real practical scope of
the society was best indicated by a gentle-
man, who said, “ When a spiritualist comes
along and says, ‘ I can call spirits from the
vasty deep’ we will say ‘doit.’ And when
the forms appear we shall investigate them,
and alacf the conditions under which they
produced,”
\
-v IMfj,
4-.
v v -
w
J 1 *
A.Pc>?7 — — //&. . , yV<p/e's an
okJe<T7/on 7* 7%e~ Z>ro3 ec 017/on
°/ Ma7Je vur J) a s /" ur,7t
TaAe, t-s 7a u. nr u \/e I.
f
IN MELBOURNE.


' Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
1 been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &e./in West Australia, which will be one
•of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in PeYth and Albany, the principal
■cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
■offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
JilO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
f
Wonderful Discovery I
ROSE’S
CKI.KKRATKI)
j: ye lot Tow,
rpIIIS Lotion cures Swelliup and Smith/ Itlliiht
lii ftn me ft. Kf/es and Litis, Dimness of Sit/lit.
\ cry beneficial to those who have If'ettL Li/es, us it
streuf/tliens the sit/fif. My post, iis. per Mottle.
SST’ Manufactured Solely by il. KOSK, < lienil*( v
:.;r or.Oßor, stmki't, svdnkv.
gf
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROOT. HERMANN,
1 lie great. French Specialist. His treatise on *• Woman's
Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope, upon applica-
tion by letter, enclosing three stamps, to 15 Collins
Place, COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
WOLFE’S
iCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
AND
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEW YORK*
forsake
©ld friends
NO3'JBSTITUTE
Wolfes
Schnapps
Society
A number of women attired as hospital-
nurses are working Melbourne and suburbs, can-
vassing the sale of various articles. One of them,
fresh-looking girl, entered a South Yarra
< Vic.) hotel, the other day, and tried to dispose of
some cakes of eucalyptus soap. “Halloa!” said
one of the bar loungers, “you’re making all the
money now !” “ Well, I’m not making a
fortune,” she answered smiling, “but I’m doing
well enough to stand a drink—what are you going
to have ? ” He named it, and with a “ here’s
luck ” she tossed off a half-pint. Sister Dora up to
date!
* * »
Ih N.S. Wales the Chinese, by working
all round the clock and living on less than 6s. a
week, is ousting the white gardener, cabinet-
maker, tobacco-planter, cook and washerwoman.
His newest aggression is as nurse-girl in the family
of a high civic functionary, whose baby-girl he
carries. _ It is nauseous enough to see the pink-
and-white cheek of innocence slumbering on the
tawny neck of the heathen, or using his possibly
leprous thumb or forefinger as a teething-ring, but
use is second nature, and a glance into the future
might reveal the baby of to-day, then a Juliet,
wheedling simple, old John: “‘Sweet, sweet,
sweet nurse ! tell me what says my love’—W I
will kiss you on the neck. Johnny Ah Sing.”
• # *
A certain M.A., son of one of the Aus-
tralian ennobbled, came home, after a course of
English “ Varsity,” cram-full of all sorts of know-
ledge. A day or two after his return to the city
of his birth he visited the public Art Gallery,
where a picture, “The Edict of’’—well, Nicode-
mus, struck his critical taste with cold horror.
At dinner that evening he eloquently inveighed,
in the presence of his pa, against the massive can-
vas in question, which, he affirmed, offended
every canon of art, “I would like to take a
tomahawk and chop it up,” he cried, enthusias-
tically. To his surprise, his remarks evoked no
'responsive Wa'rlrith, but there was a silence that
’might be felt. . . ■. On his next visit to the
•Gallery he saw 'below the picture: “Generously
’presented to the trustees by Sir Blank Blank,
M.P.” His Pa !
* • «
The immorality of cities ! Not a week
passes but some Australian farmer is arrested on
the charge of criminal assault on his daughter or
niece, and generally the girl is under age and the
wife living.
A publican asserts
that the wine-importers
of Victoria have writ-
ten to England saying
that it is no use sending
any more champagne
to Melbourne, as all
the people who used to
drink it are in gaol.
“ Ought to be in gaol”
would be much truer.
• *
It has quite a Car-
’ingtonian smack. Lord
Dufferin : “How do
you think it was that
I became so popular in
'Canada? It was be-
cause I took off my hat
'to every man whom I
didn’t know from
Adam.”
« *
In applying to
N.S. Wales Inspector-
‘ General Fosbery for
additional police, a
suburban Mayor lately
prayed in his requisi-
tion that the men sent
should not be too fat,
as the local burglars
were “ all active men.”
• •
A Ballarat man
has petitioned for the
release of a local
" lady” who was “lum-
bered on the vag,”
giving as a reason his
intention of marrying
her. How about love
and the locksmiths ?
• •
Wanted : An Aus-
' tralian Governor with-
• out a Scotch estate.
Lady Hopefcoun went in largely for affa-
-1 bility and graciousness at the Mayor of Mel-
’ bourne’s ball, and even then she couldn’t please
some critics. A number of women gathered them-
selves into groups and snorted at this new depar-
-1 ture. “ Look at Lady ’Opetoun shaking hands
' with everybody—just as if she was the ’ostess !”
‘ Fifteen females cried, “Yes, indeed !” with scorn
1 writ large across their countenances. The success
■ of Mayor Snowdon’s official “hop” was marred a
- good deal by groans of dissatisfaction that
• ascended to heaven every time the vice-rogal lady
volunteered a smile. Go where yon would there
was bound to be a rampageous matron growling,
“She’s only a guest like ns,” and smacking the
atmosphere violently with a fan.
• » «
The “ first set ” at the ball, by the way,
was completed with difficulty owing to the
absence of a certain dignitary at the Newtou-
Hicken boxing match.
# # *
The prettiest girl at the Melbourne
Mayor’s ball was everywhere acknowledged to be
Miss Oox, of Sydney.
• • •
“ Sir Matthew Davies said he had not the
means with which to procure professional repre-
sentation, and would have to conduct his own
ease.” That ought to prove his innocence.—
Someone publishes a list of ghastly croco-
dile reminiscences in the Age. The ghastliest of
the lot is a tale of a girl who was washing the
household linen one morning in shallow water on
the edge of a Queensland river. Her lover was
chatting with her, but after a while he bade her
good-bye and moved away. A noise made him
turn round ; the girl was gone and "was never seen
again. A week later he shot the crocodile that
took her, and found her boots —all that was left of
her—in its stomach. Then, though the story
doesn’t say so, The Bulletin presumes that he
presently went and married the other girl, and
she, desiring to have no rival in his affections,
dropped the boots in the ash-barrel.
# * *
Daring the debate on Stout’s Maoriland
local option scheme, Buckland, M.H.R., arose and
took his solemn affidavit that hehad known men
to drink themselves to death with Worcester
sauce and painkiller, and, therefore, he demanded
that there should be local option in Worcester
sauce. He didn’t get it; in fact, he was treated
with derision. But what The Bulletin particu-
larly wants is local option in tinned fish, which is
a fatal substance, and has caused many deaths —
most of them of a horrible and agonising character.
To do this, however, it is necessary to get up a
tinned-fish literature, showing how this deleterious
substance stealthily invaded a happy home, and
A TERRIBLE ACCIDENT.
JOHNNIE COOKIE: “Please, sir, can me little sister go home?”
TEACHER : “ Why?”
J. C. : “Please, sir, she met with a accident.”
T. : “What accident?”
J. C. : “ Please, sir, she bumped agin the shed and busted her
vaccernation.”
how all the family gave way to it, and became
feeble and flabby in consequence of its innutritions
character, and lost their billets on the wllarf
because they could no longer lift heavy weights,
and how, at last, they all had an orgie on a tin of
decayed herrings, and died horribly of animal
alkaloids. Also, local option is urgently wanted
in the matter of cheese and sausages. If some
writer would publish a thrilling tale which re-
volved round the horrors of sausages, he would do
a good work.
* • #
In 1887 there were in Melbourne nearly
seven public-houses to every thousand inhabitants.
Now there are about four and a-half. The popu-
lation has increased, but the pubs, have decreased
by 233, and through the rise in the licensing rates
the annual income from drink licenses has gone up
from <£136,4G!) to -£313,!105. If the teetotallers
will only go-slow, and keep tilings moving as they
are doing, and provided they don’t say too much
about the abolition of drink, they may get it
practically abolished before the public wakes to a
knowledge of the change which has come.
# # #
The Brisbane demi-moudaines are, in a
sense, licensed by the State. Yet, recently, a
South Brisbane cabman was fined £5, or three
months’gaol, for driving four licensed females to
a drapery establishment. Queries : Would a
tram-driver, or his syndicate employers, be pun-
ished for carrying such females? Would a cabby
be fined for refusing to carry an honest female of
suspicious appearance ? Ought not the Q. Govern-
ment to brand its licensed females if public
carriers are to be penalised re their road-transit?
* # «
Persons of uneasy virtue—the Social Gim-
let Society.
At a late anti-
gambling sermon in a
Sydney suburban church
the pair of plate-holders
at the door laid wagers
on the probable amount
of the takings.
# # #
The Latinbookssent
by mistake to the Bourke
(N.S.W.) School of Arts,
are said to have been laid
aside, by the committee
of that institution, as
“indecent literature,”
# • ,m
The Salvation Army
is like the little gutter-
snipe, with his broom,
whom the painter told
to come next day and
be pictured. His mother
fetched him, dressed up
to the nines. This would
not do at all. Thus with
the Harmy, washed,
shaven and thrust into
clean linen. The interest
evaporates —it falls in
line with the chokered
sects.
# # *
Husband comes
home and inside sud-
denly, per latchkey, and
finds the other fellow
there. “ Who’s this ?”
“ Oh, it’s from Braid,
Buttons & Co., my dear ;
a small account —I didn’t
like to tell you, but I
wanted the things so
badly.” “ How much is
it ? ” “ Two pounds
four.” Husband pays,
saying, “ Send the ac-
count to my office next
time, sir.” Other fellow
clears like greased light-
ning.
In an old house at Hobart (Tas.) the
hearthstone was lifted the other day—for what
reason is not explained—and the usual skeleton
was found underneath. It was that of a child,
and so far there is no clue to its identity. The
awful regularity with which a corpse is found
when the hearthstone is taken up is fast becoming
a national peculiarity in Australia, and The Bul-
letin’s suspicion that there is a “ remains” under
every hearth, and an untimely infant in every
back yard is fast becoming a certainty. If an
estimate can be formed from the baby-column in
the evening papers, something like 1000 infants
must be adopted every year in Sydney alone, and
other towns and cities probably show an equal
proportion. They must be almost all killed, for it
doesn’t pay to keep the 40s. infant alive, and they
must, as a rule, be buried secretly because the
business leaves no margin for funerals. Therefore
the time is coming when every hearthstone will
have to be taken up by the police so that the
Registrar-General and the coroner can look under-
neath and refix the mortality statistics according.
» • #
A Ballarat love-story :—I. Annie Collins,
“ vag.,” 12 months. 11. Henry Owen loves
Annie. HI. By police permission—Owen—
Collins.
* • «
The council of N.S.W. branch of Medical
Association resolved, the other day, at the close
of a discussion on the abomination of advertising,
that “true merit is never found associated with
self-laudation.” The sentiment is good enough
for a copy-book headline, but the sweeping
generalisation fails, just as does the “apothegm”
that all bullies are cowards.
# * *
Melbourne Spiritualists are “flogging”
over the newly-formed Psychical Research Society
being swamped by scoffers and unbelievers. Dr.
Jamieson, the Health Officer, is President, and
bluntly announced at the inaugural meeting that
he held all apparitions to be figments of the
imagination.
# # * #
Several recent instances of “ didn’t-know-
it-was-loaded ” emphasise the moral that the mere
act of pointing a firearm—loaded or unloaded—
at any person, friend or foe, as “ a joke ” or in
earnest, should be held a penal offence. To shako
one’s fist at a man constitutes an actual assault in
law ; by what code of logic, then, does presenting
a firearm escape inclusion as an illegal menace?
* * *
The individual said to have represented
himself as an “ Australian millionaire,” and now
charged in London with conspiracy, may bi
identical with a shabby-looking person (he would
not have disgraced the miser-millionaire of tha
Family Herald) who, in Sydney, a while since,
boasted of his wealth and went under the same
name as the popular and open-handed sporting
celebrity who owns, amongst many other things,
the Criterion theatre.
# * *
The Vie. Government has now ceased to
license Asiatic hawkers. Fifty-two who lately
arrived in a batch per Mombassa were licensed
within a fortnight. Thirty were found in three
rooms, 10ft. by 12ft., using their wares as bed-
gear.
# # #
S.M. Herald tells that “quite a number
of divers are reported to have been paralysed
during the recent fine weather off Darnley, but
none were seriously injured.” The paper knows
AT TAMBAROORA.
“You know them fellows Dibbs sent up here fossicking? Have
they struck anything ?”
“Yes, they’ve struck my hen-roost.”
what it is talking: about. Paralysis is not a
serious injury, or the Herald would have been
badly hurt years ago,
* • *
Teetotal-image Knapp, of Sydney, is on
.goft ground when he declares that 75 per cent, of
the N.S.W. divorce-cases are traceable to
“drink.”
Gay hubby’s sad decline
With drink has nought to do, man ;
Not old and mellow wine,
But young, fermenting woman !
Were Knapp’s'theory reliable, the U.S. prohibi-
tionist State of Maine should be notable for
Chubb-lock marriages. But it isn’t. By the
way, Max O’Rell, speaking of the covered-liquor
State, says ; “The people of Maine never smile.”
But they wink.
# # *
One of the most alluring inducements said
to be held out to Polynesians by blackbirding
recruiters is—“ Plenty white Marys!” Through
some agency or another, a large number of in-
decent photographs of naked coloured males and
white females have been distributed in “the
Islands ” and other “ indenting ” grounds.
• • #
The arrest in Melbourne, last week, of a
man alleged to be the person who abducted Clara
Parker when she and Millionaire Joe Clarke were
at loggerheads in the law courts, serves to remind
people of the existence of Clara and Joseph,
and the mystery of that pro. note which nobody
seemed to have signed, and of the cheques
with strange, hiccupy signatures, and Joe’s hazy
and muddled recollections about everything, and
his incapacity to fix his wicked old eye definitely
upon anything. The public had almost given up
hope of ever knowing who it was that paid or
incited the alleged individual who abducted Clara.
Probably this mystery will now be explained, and
the explanation will most likely prove a lot more
mysterious than the mystery.
« « «
The Sydney man who lately burgled Peate
and Haroourt’s grocery, and who, gloriously
alcoholised, lay down and waited for morning and
the police, declared to Judge Murray that he
broke into the place because he wanted food. As,
however, ho had tried to bore the till, and only
failed because he wished himself too much luck,
his Honor sent him up for 30 months. But 2\
years could not efface from the adventurous man’s
Produce jour pocket handkerchiefs and soak ’em in your
tears
For the melancholy plight
Of the persecuted knight,
Who pleads for kind compassion by observing, it appears,
That he cannot fee a lawyer to defend him.
Some twenty little companies it suited him to float ;
But they struck upon a reef
(Don’t forget the handkerchief).
And now the gallant skipper says he cannot raise a groat.
O ! have you got a trifle you can lend him?
Should Davies be committed (most improbable 1) for trial
(Keep your linen still in soak)
Though at present stony-broke,
And living upon nothing with uncommon self-denial.
As financially naked as Godiva,
We mustn’t dare to snigger, or be mockingly inclined.
If a barrister, or two,
Having little else to do,
" Appearing for Sir Matthew ” incidentally we find—
Though the Mercantile case is full of “ guy-vah.”
TO A SILENT GIRL.
When the skill’d fashioner of female faces
Designed your mask, he wrought with cunning fist,
And made a mouth expressly to be kiss’d—
Not for shrill utterance nor pert grimaces.
The curved, ripe lips—above the rounded chin—
He dyed the hue of summer’s reddest rose.
Then placed a smile upon them to disclose
A glimpse of white and even pearls within.
Those lips are silent, sweetheart!—but your eyes
Are eloquent, and they love’s lesson teach
Better than other woman’s aptest speech—
In their soft light the tend’rest language lies.
In womankind—the world has long confess’d—
A silent mouth and speaking eyes are best.
Warrego.
THE BERAKER.


s. ikziKia Huppert,
The World-renowned Complexion Specialist,
T)EGS to inform her
numerous Clients
that her SKI \ TOM<
is ABSOLUTELY harmless.
Some of the most cele-
brated London doctors
and chemists have
analysed all her pre-
parations, and abso-
lutely found nothing’ in
i hem to injure the most
delicate skin.
SKIX TOXIC! tones,
invigorates, does not
islrach the natural
colour, is excellent for
all eruptions, dis-
colourations, etc.
Price— Single Rot tie,
12 I!; Three, 32 0,
RADE
Uiv
SKIN unexcelled, Is 4 .‘bl 4
Mrs. ItIJPPKItT wishes it to be distinctly under-
stood that all GENUINE GOODS hear the address of
the ilKAi> Office, Si) REGENT STREET, LONDON, ox the
Labels, and that her only Af/cnct/ hi A iistrnlin is
No. 12, The Strand, SYDNEY.
S H O P P INS BY POST.
KT IB 'W
Spring & Summer Fabrics.
SAMPLES OP OTJIR,
MAGNIFICENT STOCK
gent Post Free to all parts of Australia on application.
DAVID JOKTES & COMPANY,
GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
Wool.— This being the off week, no sales were held, but
there is a fair private demand (or all classes. The London
September series of sales have opened to a very full
attendance of buyers and spirited bidding, but without,
however, any increase in prices. The selection offered is
reported as being very poor, and it is to be hoped that
prices will improve as the sales progress. It is some
satisfaction to note that the quantity offering is some
120,000 bales less than the corresponding period of last
year, and this fact may tend to enhance values in the near
future.
Sheepskins.— There was very spirited competition for
dry full woolled skins, the French buyers being very
anxious to obtain this class. There was, however, no
quotable advance, but the market exhibits a healthy sign.
Full-woolled sold up to 4Jd per lb.; medium, 3j)d to 4Jd ;
short, 2Jd to 3Jd per lb.; green skins, to 56d for tops; 30d
to 45d for seconds.
Hides.— The market was about the same as last week,
best heavies, to 3Jd ; heavies, to 2d ; light, to l|d to 2d ;
dry, IJd to 2d per lb.
Tallow.— The market was firm this week, shippers
being very desirous of operating; we realised up t0£22108
for best; mixed mutton from £22 15s to, £23; medium
grades, £2O 10s to £2l 15s per ton. Horns in great
request at up to 36s per 100 for a special line. Horse-
hair to 13Jd per lb. ; cowhair, 9d to lOd ; washed, stump,
2d to 5d per lb. Hoofs, £2 5s to 12 10s; knuckles to
£3 10s. Beeswax to 10|d per lb.
Marsupial Skins.— The supply is much smaller, but the
market shows signs of weakness. Rest grey kangaroo to
50d ; medium, 20d to 30d ; small, 2d to 18d ; red, 20d to
30d ; for large, small to medium, Id to 16d. Bears, 2}d
to 3Jd.; rock wallaby, Id to 2jd ; swamp, 2d to 15d;
scrub, Id to 14d each. Rabbits (nominal), 5d to 8d per
lb. Opossum skins about the same as last week —top
grey, 10s to 12s 6d per doz. ; medium, Gs to 8s ; lumped.
Is ; red to 9s ; blacks, 15s to 189.
22nd Sept., ’93.
A toilet luxury in every respect, Ayer’s Hai r
Vigor never fails to restore the youthful freshness
and color to faded and gray hair. It also
eradicates dandruff and prevents the hair from
falling.
fll*G til6
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere,
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the lirst has been to put
forth none hut thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAY AND SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBEL and LECHLEITEB, CARL ECKfcl,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.’
Pianos hy ail Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
mind the glories of that delirious splurge ! On
his own confession, he fanatically guzzled half-a-
bottle or thereabouts of “everything,” including
half-a-bottle of whisky, ditto ditto port,
ditto chartreuse, and so on and so on. He was
comatose when captured and handed over to the
law, and, like a bad case of chloroforming, he
didn’t wake properly for a week.
# * *
The warder-floggeT from Darlinghursfc
prison, Sydney, was, the. other day, sent 500 miles
inland (to Bourke) to inflict io lashes on an old
man, the nature of whose offence stamjis him as a
subject not for torture but for the lunatic asylum.
* * *
The Australian, a Brisbane (Q.) R.O;
weekly, twangs a crippled lyre over the recent
offer of the Vioeroyalty of India to Governor
Norman, thus :
The Wylie Norman makes top score,
And carries out his bat;
He’ll leave for India’s coral shore
With much deserved eclat.
This recalls the other Brisbane poet, who once
sung:—
To the deuce with all public affairs
And the froth and the fuss of the senates!
Let us treasure our homes and our lares ,
Let us bury our hearts in ovtr penates.
* m «
Pilcher, Q.C.: “It can’t be the old gentle-
man, as he is in court.” Judge Lines : “They
say the Old Gentleman is in every court of law.”
Ha, ha ! Laugh, ye cripples ! Ho, ho ! When a
Judge wheezes, all the miserable lawyers cackle
reverently, just as the pantomime slaves tremble
when the Tyrant roars.
4 * #
A Maorilander writes from Japan to say
that these happy islands are not what they are
cracked up to be. Among other things he reports
that:—
In every town there is an immoral quarter where
hundreds of women are exposed for hire in huge cages.
It is true that some of the cages are gilt, but nevertheless
the sight of those cages with the Surrounding mol) is not
an edifying sight.
What a place fot Antoinette Sterling to lecture in!
♦ # #
A Melbourne manager has boldly re-
pudiated the theory that coffee-palaces were
started by teetotallers for the benefit of total
abstinence. They were started, it seems, to meet
the craving of moderate drinkers and persons
connected with the wine-and-spirit trade, for a
nice, quiet hotel, where they could find temporary
rest from strong liquor. But on this showing
Coffee-palaces have been a dire failure. The first
lodger you meet on the staircase implores you to
come up to bis bedroom and have a drink.
• * *
A week’s record for the Women’s Hos-
pital, Melbourne —l9 patients admitted, 16 chil-
dren born, 9 children died. Evidently the W.H.
babies are not worth backing for a long race.
« * *
The ponderous libel-suit, Speight v. Syme,
was lately suspended for two days owing to
the illness of a juryman. It would not be sur-
prising if one or two jurors died ere the case
concluded. Fifteen years ago a big suit at
Geelong, heard before Justice Fellows, was
abortive because a juror took dangerously ill while
the verdict was being considered, and had to be
removed. Coroner Youl, of Melbourne, always
empanels 15 in his juries, to leave a margin, in
case of adjournment, for a couple dying or getting
drunk. On one occasion, when an inquest was
adjourned, one man did die, and the coroner held
an inquest on him.
* # *
The lowest a divorce can be obtained for
in Victoria is .£4O. This is the minimum, bub
there’s no maximum.
* # #
Melbournian ; “ To-day I saw a swellish
lady and gentleman in Bourke-street, and thought
how odd it would be if they went into a sixpenny
restaurant. They did.”
* * * .
Some Sydney rags have a predilection for
low jokes and stories. Papers which affect this
style of literature should be suppressed. Other-
wise, many most respectable old gentlemen will
lose their reputation for original wit and humour.
«' # #
A correspondent:—
Are the sanitary arrangements at Liverpool (N.S.W.)
Public-school a criterion of those adopted by N.S.W.
Dept, of Public Instruction? Two large cesspits placed
within a tew feet of the school windows are slowly
poisoning both children and teachers. Is this abomina-
tion the original scheme of the sanitary genius of the
Dept.? and wouldn’t it be healthier and more decent to
have the cesspits just inside, instead of just outside, the
school ? It would obviate the children’s constant appeal,
“Please may I go out to be sick?”
• • •
A Victorian squatter’s wife called at an
up-country store, made a number of purchases,
and gave the he-assistant an enormous lot of
resented trouble. The last article she required
was in a box beneath several other boxes on a top-
shelf. He had to mount steps to get at it. Trying
to pull it out, without first removing the top-
hamper, he brought down the whole pile “ all over
the shop.” This was the last straw. He turned
round, frowned, and said simply bub feelingly :
“ Damn you 1” The lady fled.
# • m
Blessings come in queer shapes. A Syd-
ney bailiff, on taking possession for rent, found,
after selling the “sticks,” that the owner (a
woman) and her children were starving. He went
round with the hat and collected -£l5 for her.
Dear Bulletin, —Father Carroll did not,
during the recent discussion on “Costume” in
Melbourne Salon, state that “ it was his mission
to undress ladies;” he said “it was his mission
to address ladies.” By noticing this correction,
you will oblige the society very much. —Yours,
The Hon. Secretary.
* * *
The Vic. Council has ordered that “except
in special cases ” condemned prisoners shall in
future be un-ironed.
# # #
The Cavan cotrespondent of Yass (N.S.W.)
Courier, having “reported ” a ball given by the
Cavan ladies in return for a “bachelors’ ball,” and
accused a lady “robed in pink-flowered silk”
of having worn shoe-buckles, a Cavan gallant,
adopting the odious “Shoe Buckle” as his signa-
ture, springs fiercely to the fight. After denying
that his girl shoe-buckles, though admitting the
silk, he proceeds—
There was a bachelor present, whom I believe to be the
writer, with a very light moustache, the girth of a horse
tied around his waist for a belt, and his moustache and
hair well done up with odoriferous lard. . ... If he
attempts to attend another ball without an invitation, as
he did last time, he can make up his mind to receive a few
dozen strokes of the cowhide.
Eruptions like these of the ancient chivalry lift
bush “ society ” journalism out of the common
rutsof feathers and artificial busts, and make the
virgin shoe-buckle a holy thing which it were
profanity to unloose. Well doth memory cherish
this sort of ball. Waxed moustachios and horse-
girths ! Full-bodied brandies and split sodas for
two ! Hop some and hug some ! Zigzag home,
by twos, in the morning ! Hot love with a dessert
of vinegar browpads. Man, but that was years
ago !
# # #
Liverpool (N.S.W.) Benevolent Asylum
burial-ground is now said to be so crowded that
the gases from the bodies have raised the ground
18in. above the street level.
* * *
The law of husband's wrongs: “If you
turn your wife out, you are bound to find her a
home; if she turns you out, you must find a home
for yourself.”
* # •
Philosophy of Sydney Domain loafer :
“Never beg the price of a bed (technical term)
from a man sittin’ on a binch widout a wumman ;
an’ never beg it from a man wid a wumman onless
she’s not his wife.”
# # *
“ Shop-woman ” : —“ Some well-meaning
persons are clamouring for women to have a seat
in Parliament. My wish is more modest : I only
ask a seat behind the counter for those who are
employed in shops.”
« * •
Recent advt. in the Age :
WANTED the prayers of God’s people for the con-
’ ’ version of a class of Sabbath school boys.
# * •
Down North, the other day, font ladies
named Black, White, Green and Brown were
simultaneously introduced to a Mr. Judsori. “A
clear case of Judson’s dyes!” exclaimed one of
them. Said Judsbh, who used dye for his hair,
horribly indignant.
# * #
There are complaints, in Melb., that
Judge Williams inflicts cruel sentences, and Chief
Justice Madden over-light ones. Such things
will never be rectified till we follow the U.S.
system of jury sentences. The Vic. Judges, all
pretty good men, have diametrically varied ideas
on important points—as, for instance, solitary
confinement.
« * •
A strange tale of the unaccountableness of
woman was told, the other day, in Pukekohe
(M.L.) police-court. Some three weeks ago, a
local doctor and his wife got into trouble in that
dreary little town on a charge of brutally ill-using
their daughter, aged 24 —the trouble originating
out of the girl’s own statements; corroborated by
a great Variety of bruises and disfigurements.
Various residents rolled up With gruesome anec-
dotes about the treatment she received, one of the
most cheerful item’s in the narrative being a tale
about how she was tied up on one occasion and
received 500 strokes with a leather strap. Also
an elaborately constructed whip of many leather
tails was found on the doctor’s premises, which
was accounted for by the weird explanation that
it was kept to punish the cat with. The general
impression in court at this stage of the proceed-
ings was that the cat must have a hard time in
that household.
But somehow the prosecutrix failed to
turn up, and it was only after a warrant had been
issued for her arrest that she appeared in the wit-
ness-box. Then she solemnly retracted almost
everything she had previously asserted, and it
being necessary to account in some way for her
disfigurements and for the howls which had dis-
turbed the neighbourhood, she swore that she had
been whaled by the old man at her own urgent
request—in fact, he did it only to oblige her.
After that, the Court looked hard afc all parties
concerned, and tried to decide whether the girl
was a maniac, or whether she was trying volun-
tarily to shield a ruffianly parent, or whether the
old man’s baleful green eye had scared her int<!
incoherent perjury. And not being able to comd
to any definite conclusion, it compromised by
fining the respected sawbones in the sum of
£7 14s.
# « «
S.M. Herald advt. :
TAf ANTED, for an hotel, a LADY HELP, a middle-
aged lady, to teach three children, with a
knowledge of music preferred, must understand
dressmaking and assist in house sometimes, must be
honest, Church England, will be one of the family :
wages, 7s. ; references. Apply, &c.
* # *
The Civil Service affects one particular
Melb. suburb. The local chemist is a godt-
specialist,
* * •
Ah elderly suicide was recently fished Out
of the Port River at Adelaide (S.A.). A bag of
stones was tied round one of his ankles, a bit of aif
ancient grindstone was attached to his Waist, and
around his neck was a large bottle filled with
•and. Evidently he had first of all taken
precaution against any possible change Of purpose,
and then he had anchored himself and his baggage
at the bottom of the river, aiid become an extinct
citizen.
* » *
Recent Northern N.S. W. verdict: “ The
infant died a natural death, caused by injuries
received at its birth.”
* # *
Selling fresh-water tortoises about the
street is the latest Melbourne industry born of the
depression.
* * *
Children!, in large parties, now go round
to the houses in Melbourne, begging for something
to eat.
She did not know.
SONG WORDS
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I plucked for her my flower of love—
A wilding tinged with tender blue,
What time the sunset flamed above
The pearl-blue shrouds the dim hills drew ;
A vagrant sun-ray sank to sleep
Upon her brow of perfect snow—
Her heart was hers to give or keep,
She did not know I loved her so.
1 deemed it then, as there I stood,
A pilgrim at her saintly shrine,
So frail a thing, so pure and good,
Would blight beneath this love of mine ;
The wanton white moon winged the steep.
A time had come when I must go—
Her heart was hers to give or keep,
She did not know I loved her so.
My ways went worldward through the night,
The love was mine that makes or mars ;
Her pathways lay through sunlands bright.
Her skies were strewn with gracious stars ;
She cared no more than winds that sweep
From glade to glade where flowerets blow—
Her heart was hers to give or keep,
She did not know I loved her so.
Brisbane.
K.
The Home Rule Bill
When the political history of the nineteenth cen-
tury is read, in years to come, there will be one
measure around which universal interest will
gather, and that is “The Home Rule Bill,
initiated, guarded, and passed through the House
of Commons by that accomplished statesman, the
Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone. Through its rejec-
tion by the House of Lords a general election is
necessitated. If the Government be victorious,
and a new Parliament re-echo the voice of the
Old, the Lords will not, dare not, arrogate to
themselves the right to stultify the intelligence of
Great Britain. “Let justice be done though the
heavens fall.” Then, and not until then, will
Ireland receive justice, and from that day Eng-
land, Ireland, and Scotland will become, in word
and deed, a United Kingdom. The unanimous
voice of Australia, expressed in unmistakable'
accents of decision, proclaims that “Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine ” is, par excellence, the tonic of the
age. It spurns all opposition, for it is carried on
the voices of the people that no therapeutical
remedy for weakness, debility, and general de-
pression has ever been placed before the public, so
skilfully blended and so miraculously certain in
its effects, as this unrivalled preparation. The
testimonials to its wonderful efficacy are innu-
merable, and embrace members of every class of
society. Their testimony is unimpeachable.


NESTLES FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid,
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer , of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children,
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM. —Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Lbube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” —Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO'S
"Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
TO JOHN RUDD, 'formerly of Spring Bay,
Tasmania. Father dead. Estate to be
equally divided.
Write at once to
Or. H Rudd, Noondoo,
St. George, Queensland ;
Or H. Qoggs Rudd,
Orford, Tasmania.
Miscellaneous.
“ A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold 1”
TAYLOR BROS.,
Pipe Makers & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET,
syditey.
TJ«
The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking Pipes.
Needle Wood Pipe
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stetti), 4/6
Myall Wood Pipe ditto 4 6
I'arrau Wood Pipe ditto 4 6
Wood Pipe, Silver Mount and Amber Stem, 7/6
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
Pipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
Agents wanted for Australian Native Wood Pipes.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be forwarded (post free) at above prices,
“CLOTHED WITH AIK” *
Cellular Aertex Underclothing,
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
A Positive Salegnard against Chills.
, , Right jtlake (or Spring and Sumtrfer.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS (Half Sleeves), 4>. 6d.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS (Long Sleeves), ss.
ECRU COTTON UNDERPANTS, SS.
This Line recommended as being easily washed’,
tJSSinfiSKABLE, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis’ Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas, Braces, Belts
and Hosiery.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
meats, and include in Remittance, amount to Prepay
Carriage.
Price-lists, pamphlets and full particulars, post free
from the Sole Agents ;
BRAHAM & MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
BEEF IRON and M A LTED WINE
(ELLIOTTS),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTE!. Y CUKE,
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Amusements,
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr, George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
Miss MAGGIE MOORE
*9
“ M’LISS.” “ M’LISS.”
Saturday, Sept. 30, Reappearance of Mr. Geo. Rignold.
“IN THE RANKS,”
PRICES as USUAL, BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
“ Fepita,.”
SATURDAY, Sept. 30, Miss NELLIE STEWART in
DOROTHY." “ DOROTHY "
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
QRITERION THE a¥r¥
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
* O IB E O "ST- 7 7 *
Walter Bentley as Bailie Nicol Jarvie.
SATURDAY, September 30, Grand Production of
“THE BELLS”
WALTER BENTLEY as MATTHIAS,
An Impersonation which has gained him fame in all parts
of the World, and stamps him as a Great Actor,
BOX PLAN AT NICHOLSON'S.
£1650 quizes, <£1650
H Tit Kit Ai i y S O VIE r Y
Grana % Fete
-and
ART UNION!
9tii NOVEMBER,
EXHIBITION BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
Ist.—House and Land, or Property, value £650 nett, to be
selected by the winner in any of the Australasian
colonies; or 12 months’ trip round the world, First-
class and ail expenses paid, and £2OO in cash for one
person,-or eight months for two.
‘fud.—Fruit and' Poultry Farm, irrigated, value £150; or
a complete Outfit and First-class Ticket, value £BO,
for the West Australian goldfields and £l7O in cash.
And 138 other valuable Prizes.
tST* Tickets, is, each, give you a chance whether present
or not. Buy from Local Agents, or forward £1 direct to
the Manager, Hibernian Hall, Swanston-st., and 22 will be
sent you. As there is an unprecedented run upon the
tickets, intending purchasers should buy early.
THEO. W. HERDE,'Manager.
J. M. RYAN, D.S., Hon. Sec.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, September 25,1893.
r ILENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette,
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4.
Construction of Concrete Dam and Timber Flood-
gates, Clybucca Creek, Macleay River
Erection of Powder Magazine, and a Gun Cotton
Store, Spectacle Island
Excavating, tilling in, and erection of a Retaining
Wall, Garden Island ; time extended
NOTE.—Tenderers are warned not to begin any
work until they receive the official acceptance of
their offer in the usual way. The Department
will accept no responsibility contracted by a
tenderer prior to receiving the official acceptance
referred to, and any liability incurred, or any
work undertaken, will be solely at the risk of
tenderers, and will not be paid for.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
rJTAITES oT THE SYST EM,
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Public Companies.
CITY MUTUAL
FIRE INSURANCE 00, (Ltd.)
CHAIRMAN:
The Hon. JOHN SEE, M.J\,
COLONIAL TREASURER.
HIM l>
OFFICES f
95
Sat st.,
SYDNEY.
g
Capital,
1500,005,
Subscribed,
1100,000,
THIS Company is purely Australian, with a
large and influential body of Shareholders.
Security undoubted. Rates lowest. Settlements
prompt and equitable. Cash Bonus paid to In-
surers annually.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
jisuzdirrv
S' citstd 6S'
tLpJL
S<JCs^
t/fr-CltfSt' St?S£*-rv\
'/*L
/S Uur?/
7%*- c^y^Sty^
Svz&^*(
Business Announcements.
MANUFACTURERS
tßiSr. HATS m
s
mercer^
mm
PRIDDY’S
HATS
Ot once
PROCLAIM
THE
MAN.
HEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
W orld-renowneci!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses;—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s),
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
GOOD as GOLD.
Cafe
MARTIN
Moore
and Pitt Sts,,
TUB
“City Dinner"
(A Specialty).
MAItTIV
CHAMBERS,
opp. G.P.0.,
•8 YJ> KEY.
First-class Grill Room & Restaurant.
The Coolest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
in Sydney.
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-class Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE AND TABLE SERVICE.
N.B.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready-l/- to 8/6.
Public Banquets. Private Dinners. Smoke Concerts.
For Estimates, apply H. GARDNER, Manager.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
a € oNI
SdHVHS
B
6*
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
| £3OO FOR 2s.
*
8-HOUR-8
DEMONSTRATION.
KOSEHILL
Monday, Oct. 2,
1893.
Grand Art Union!
PRIZES, VALUE 11,100 ,
FIRST PR IZE s
HOUSE/ VALUE £3OO
(exclusive of deeds),
Purchased by the Trustees for the Winner, in any
locality he desires.
*
SEICOND PRIZE:
Full Iron Frame Overstrung
Black and Gold Case Piano
(by Thurmer),
VALUE, £6O, presented by the Committee.
THIRD PRIZE:
Full Colonial-made
bed room: suite,
Consisting ot SIX PIECES,
VALUE, £4O, presented by the Committee.
FOURTH PRIZE:
Haydn Organ,
VALUE, £36, presented by BEALE and Co,,
George Street,
And 250 other Valuable Prizes ranging in value
from £lB 18s. to 10s. 6d,
See Art Union and Jjitho. Cards,
*
Grand Balloon
Ascension!
AND
Parachute Jump /
AFLOAT IN C LOUD LAND I
EEQ3NT
SagehommE
Tho King of JEronauts I
Has been engaged by the Eight-Hour Committee
at a very great expense, and will ascend from the
centre of tho Rosehill Racecourse at 4 p.m.
No Failure I No Fraud I
The Event will positively occur.
LEON SAGEHOMME has made 22 Ascents
within the last 10 weeks without a hitch.
Every soul on the Racecourse will be able to witness
this intensely exciting event from first to finish.
TICKETS Adults, 25., including Railway
Ticket, Admission to tho Ground, and chance in
the Art Union, whether present or not.
ONE ADULT TICKET will supply Two
Children with chance in the Art Union.
Thos. W. Furse,
SECRETARY,
TRADES HALL, DIXON-STREET,
(Foot of Goulburn street).
To Non-Subscribers and Distant Readers
The Bulletin Xmas Number, to be published
December 16, at this paper’s usual price, 6d., will
ahine like a star. It will not be a fat hunk of
paper stained with English stories, bought abroad
for ss. a page, shared with scores of other papers
throughout the world, and backed up with yards
of stolen matter and a garish foreign-printed pic-
ture of a girl nursing a kitten.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be absolutely
original, both as regards its literary matter and its
pictures, which latter will be contributed by
the leading artists of Australia. The literary
contents will comprise contributions in prose and
verse from over 40 old and new Australian
Writers, and there will not be one dull line from
fefst, to last. The number will be the best and
biggest and most original sixpenny-Worth of read-
ing published by any news-magazine in the world.
. Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number will be mailed to any Australasian address
outside N.S. Wales for Bd. in stamps; to any
English or foreign address for a remittance of 9d.
in stamps sent to the office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.
'The Australian Stab has dropped out
the Sydney Telegraph and Age cable syndicate*
and Sydney E. News has taken its place. Morgan,
leader of the parliamentary staff of the defunct
Melb. Telegraph, is the representative in
London.
Lecturer Troop complained to a Sydney
audience that Canada plays no part in the fiction
of the world. “Australian maidens figure quite
conspicuously,” he went on, “in English fiction,
but Canadian maidens never.” Gilbert Parker’s
last novel, “The Translation of a Savage,” has a 1
Canadienne for its heroine, and “ In the Midst of
Alarms,” the latest work of Robert Barr, of
London Idler, turns wholly on a pair of Canadian
girls. Both of these may be found on the book-
shelves of Mr. Troop’s hotel.
Editor Bulletin, —That sneer about ex-
TreasUrer M‘Millan’s meanness where literary
labour is concerned comes with good grace from
The Bulletin. Mr. MMillan offered G. B. Barton
.£6OO for 180,000 words in the “ Official History
of N.S. Wales,” which, at Bulletin’s ordinary
price for literary labour, would be, say, iTOO di-
sc.—Common Sense.
[Our obviously bourgeois correspondent actually com-
pares history with mere evanescent newspaper-screed.
Anybody, broadly speaking, can write for a newspaper ;
but not one out of 50,000 decent scholars can write a
history worthy the name. Poor as is the price of press-
work, at the MbMillanian rate O. B. Barton could havfe
earned £2OOO or £3OOO from the press while he was
earning £6OO from the Govt. An expert journalist like
Mr. Barton could often write a leading article in an hour ;
but he would frequently spend a week or a riiorith over
a page or two of a history to which he was appending his
name and committing his reputation. The “common !
sense ” of our correspondent smacks of the yardstick, like
the economy of Mr. M'Millan.—Ed, B.]


AtTSTHALIAKT
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life i
PirectorS— The Hon. Sir
Annual Income: Two
Vssiuancc Society established In Australasia, and the only one which
iW DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT.
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, P.|;A., F.F.A.
Millions sterling.
Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions ste
of over One
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
sterling.
Head Office: iB7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
CAULFIELD CXT DF» —October 11, |Bltf.
50,000 at 10 50,000
3VI33Xj Jb£CZ>XJ‘3E=t3NIJfcJ CXJI* Fleiiiingloii, November 7* 18!>■*?.
100,000 at 30 100,000
TATTISK*>A B,
Care of George Adams,
“Tho Telesfrapli ” CliaUiberSj
QUEEN STREET,
. BiisUaiao, Queensland
GOLDSBROUGH,
MORT & CO.
(LIMITED.)
Hon. HENRY MORT, M.E.C.,
Advisee.
JOSEPH ABBOTT*
Shipping Manager.
LESLEY HERRING,
Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
—AND —
Station Agents*
STORES:
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour,
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
ADAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
A above old-established and popular Hotel being' now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
rr
'A'C S* Lt
OF HEAD
B. MOUNTCASTLE & Son
Oihect importers * wanofactorer3
of & Caps
fg
■m
f
gf
-fTv,
g
fg
f
gf
g
fg
f
gf
g
f
g
gf
g
fg
f
gf
m
'ssm>
m
g
f
gf
g
FOR (OOKSEY & [PS [ELEBRATED IONDOIS HATS
When*ordering number ot' hat wilt be sufficient
CHE A P MUS I C.
The celebrated BARN DANCE, by Leonard Gautier;
and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d. each.
Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON.
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
2/0
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.R.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board op N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9,30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will Ineet With
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables ns to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS' SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
ODR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
Sdkgeet.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Db. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode,
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS. & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST,,
BRICKFIELD HI LLt
THE BRISBANE
Commercial Syndicate,
MELBOURNE CUP-Flemington, N<3v. 7, 1893.
At 10 Each I?* 50,000 £3T At 10 Each
fg
f
Less 10 per cent. Pro rata if not filled.
Enclose two stamped envelopes with application, one
for each, share and result. All money received fully
secured by TrUst Account in Union Bank.
Address: (OMMHUdAI, o/o Hr. WrtixE & Cot.,
Mercantile Brokers,
EAGLE STREET, BRISBANE.
PATENT JUMP-SEAT SULKIES.
Send for Price-list and Photos.
NEWTOWN CARRIAGE CO., SYDNEY.
Li PNHY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. ‘‘Martha,” “ Robett le Diable,”
“ Crown Diamonds,” “ Lncrezia Borgia,” “ Wiiliani
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each-Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co
London, and 251 Swasston Stkeet, MELBOURNE. ’’
M.s-.1, MOLONEY,
134 a PITT ST It I; II (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
83? Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events :
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup-
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
V-R-0- Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) Tins DOUBLE.
B3T- THREE CHANCES.
“ Yorksliiroman’s” selections
* —FOR—
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should be obtained at once.
I3r It is folly to speculate in the dark. IBS
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Referee, News
and Star, jar* “ YORKSHIREMAN,” c/o W. J. Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite G.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
Telegraphic Code —“ Westbrook, Sydney.”
:n
Member of Tattersall’s (London), Tattersall’s (Sydney),
and Victorian Club (Melbourne). Executes Commissions
on all events throughout the Colonies. Double or
Straight-out. USUAL WEEKLY DOUBLES. All Tele-
grams, &c., must be pre-paid, and no Commission must
be considered executed until a reply is received.
5. EACH.
:
5. EACH
gf
gf
gf
g
f
N.S. (d.)
20 at 20
50 at 10
100 at 5
.. 400
.. 400
.. 500
„ 500
175 Consolation Prizes at 2, S5O.
Less 10 per cent.
£3?” 345 Extra Cash Prizes 345 *®cj|
MELBOURNE CUP, 7th November.
At 5 each. 50,000 At 5 each.
gf
g
250 Consolations at 2 each, 500.
Less 10 per cent.
425 Extra Cash Prizes 425
MELBOURNE CUP* 7th November.
At 10 each. 20,000 At 10 each. (For Horses only*)
Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c/d H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, 4
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
.....
FOR the persdn who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “TIIK < KKS4 Situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy (o Railway), and the other is
the. “POST OFIT4 K," situated 00 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor 0)0. W. Elll.s.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
A correspondent Lillywhite on Spofforth
ten years ago: ‘Some day an Australian Eleven will visit
our shores without the great bowler; then, and not till
then, will his full strength to his side be realised.’ The
prophecy has been fulfilled: The Australian Eleven with-
out Spofforth is the Surrey Eleven without Lehmann.
Spof. was the Australian Eleven-the gamest man on
either side.”
• # *
Mr. Coningham did “behave badly” in good,
old-fashioned, decorous England. He often stopped the
ball with that part of bis anatomy which every right-
thinking cricketer keeps in reserve. Mr. Coningham also
“properly thumped” another, member of the team for
being offensive, and threatened another great and good
man who put on a variety of airs. However, he has
pulled his backers out of the fire. Many men backed him
to come in the first three for bowling honours.
« # “ »
The great deficiency of the Australian represen-
tative cricketing team of ’93 seems to have been ignorance
concerning effective pick-me-ups.
* * *
A Bulletin London correspondent declares
that a second-eleven of any Sydney suburban club would
have done better than did the Australian cricketers when
they were all disposed of by All England at the Oval for
91 runs in Ih. 40rain., the bowling not being very formid-
able. But the Australian team of '93 turned'up with
sore heads that day. After a previous full day’s leather-
hunting, in almost tropical heat, most of them must
needs go to a music-hall and indulge in et eetcras till mid-
night and after. It is a pity Sammy Jones did not come
over this year. He would have taught “Our Boys” a
lesson or two,
* # *
E. Jones, the lightning South Adelaide bowler
(who is also about the champion Australian football half-
back) has refused some big offers from Melb. cricket clubs
for the coming season.
# # *
Mr. Sherwin, of Nottingham, interviewed, does
not rank Blackham amongst the three best modern
wicketkeepers. Lyttleton is first, Pilling next, and the
third is nameless. Modesty again, coupled with a bit of
trade jealousy, no doubt.
* « #
Lyons, in his second innings at the Oval, made
the biggest hit ever seen there. He sent a ball bang over
the pavilion into the road. Three other smashers in the
same over were also pretty tall—all off Lockwood’s fast
bowling.
• # #
Mr. S. A. Stephen is said to be buying blood
stock for Mrs. James White. A great judge, truly* to be
entrusted with such a commission.
# * #
Steeplechaser Egyptian added a few more lumps
to his carcase on Saturday. At the rate he is going the
identity of the original horse will soon be completely
swallowed up in the rapidly-increasing new portions he is
putting on.
# * #
Judging from Rand wick meeting, the risk of
falling is now as great on the flat as over the sticks. With
a perfect course like Randvvick this should not be ; The
rumours of foul riding should receive the fullest investi-
gation.
# * i *
Like all the Chesters, Pulvil, Projectile, and
Oamonla require much work, and towards the end of the
Randwick meeting they were just running into form. In
Randwick Piate, Camoola finished his three miles like a
racehorse in smin. 32sec. ; his Meib. Cup chance now
looks much rosier,
* # #
The over-rated Cremorne has retired from the
eminence to which his performances did not entitle him.
Another public idol “ gone down.”
* # •
The recent Randwick Spring meeting (since
which the books have laid in much turkey and fizz).
knocked out one of Sydney’s biggest punters, one of the
“knowing ” people whom the crowd used to tout round
from book to book to spot what he was backing. They
all go the same road.
# # *
“ Walter Graham,” who flow gives his address
as “The Strand, Sydney,” is again on the job, and has
out (in Victoria and elsewhere) a 25,000 at £1 circular.
The Bulletin advises people to give Mr. Waller Graham
an extremely wide berth.
By the way, will any respectable person who has
ever witnessed the drawing of one of Mr. Walter Graham’s
sweeps, or got a prize-cheque from Mr. Walter Graham,
kindly come forward and bear public testimony to the
fact?
# * *
W. L, Kerr held up the N.S.W. end well at the
Associated Clubs’ sports on Sydney Association Ground*
by winning the Five-mile Amateur Championship of
N.S. Wales in 15min. 13 2-ssec. The Mile Intercolonial
Scratch Race fell to Maorilander Wilmot in 2min.
41 2-ssec.
* * *
H. James, of the Southern District (Vic.)
Cycling Club, broke the world’s read record for 25_ miles
last week, pedalling from Beveridge to Melb. in 61min.
# * #
Australian Hughie Napier stood no show with
American featherweight Van Heest. He was out-fought
at every point.
• • «
Griffo is “ill,” and his fight with Lavignehas
been postponed. Ominous.
# • *
The second and conclusive defeat of John
Roberts by Ives will probably bring about the decline
and fail of the large English billiard-table, with its dis-
advantages of “jigger,” “long jigger,” and stretching-
over-the-table shots. With the spot-stroke discarded by
first-class players, and the nursery cannorl game already
superseding “all-round ” play, there is very little reason
left why the small nursery cannon table shouldn’t come
into force. Ives, no doubt, is a wonderful player, but
there was never much doubt that former champions like
Vignaux and Slosson could beat the English players on
Entrust! tables, under similar conditions to those arranged
between Roberts and Ives. There are no reasonable
conditions that would allow Roberts to beat a French or
American champion on a French table. So the old
English piece of furniture seems doomed. The French
game has started to become acclimatised in England* and
the table will have to follow the game.
# # *
The Vidi football premiership for ’93 again goes
to the Essendon Club. Football, like everything else in
Melb., is run on commercial principles, and the premier-
ship is now merely a question of who can afford to buy
the promising juniors, and the odds are, of course, in
favour of the club that has scooped in the gate-money the
previous season. Nothing short of a miracle can upSet
a run of several years when a club Once gets to the
top.
The latest political experience of McMillan*
M.P. (N.S.W.), fully bears out The Bulletin’s
contention that any public man, no matter how
unpopular he may be with the masses, can rely
upon receiving a patient and silent hearing if he
holds a really and truly “public” meeting and
bravely faces his luck, whatever it may chance to
be. The public only demands that it shall have a
share in what is called a “public” meet-
ing— that all shades of opinion shall be
freely admitted and shall have an equal chance
of adequate expression. The recent public pro-
tests that found their only possible vent in howl-
ing down speakers were directed against public
meetings falsely so-called—private meetings,
packed beforehand, with cut-and-dried resolu-
tions, and at which unfavourable amendments
were curtly excluded, yet which assemblages were
afterwards advertised as public demonstrations.
When M'Millan placed himself unreservedly in
the hands of a free meeting and its elected chair-
man, the people listened to him patiently, and
then—promptly expressed their disapproval of
him and all his works.
There has just been published a liand-
somely-got-up pamphlet, illustrated with accurate
engravings, descriptive of the interesting system
of business conducted by the world-famed firm of
Stewart Dawson and Co., of England and Aus-
tralasia—English watch-manufacturers, manufac-
turing jewellers, silversmiths, and diamond mer-
chants. The character of this firm’s stock can be
but faintly estimated by perusal of the pamphlet,
and the fact that their goods ate all guaranteed by
Government Hall-mark is an assurance of their
sterling value. Being manufacturers and shippers,
Stewart Dawson and Co* can deal directly with
the public at prices ordinarily regarded as impos-
sible* without the intervention of middlemen.
They have established a business connection by
post throughout Australasia, as per the firm’s
business announcement on another page. N.S.W.
and Q. postal orders should be sent to 412 George-
street, Sydney ; Victorian, to 97 Swanston-street,
Melbourne; S.A., W.A., and Tasmanian to either
of these addresses; and Maorilanders should
direct to 94 Queen-street, Auckland.


PILL ARCADE Ml
PILL PALACE
ALFALIMt PIL
i BIOODiKEKVt DISEASE
tlliJ |, imp—BlUM—Ji
RAt«MUCSCN>
in so
S L
rm
KM :
Herr Eassmus,sen’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT;
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole Mfe-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFA LINE
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
say that his Remedies have cured more than all others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6J. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
if'A USlNG.—lmitators will be Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
ibwisibs!
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALF ALINE
VITALITY PILLS.
AWARDED
GOLD
IALSj
sWsSffl
s«*S
\
m\
ALFA LINE FILL
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD k NLf\V|§.
Special Powerful Course, 435, 6d., posted, Ov-dinary Course, 935. 6d , Boxes, Os, dnd> Pis.
Registered, and. XXerb^l,
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals,
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials,
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin - .
“Herr Eassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.’’— Evening News, Sydney',
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”— N.Z. Times, Wellington,
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading* people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills,
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Qout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12 - and 23, 6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills,
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer,
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff, Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches, Packets, 3 - and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier,
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/*
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastlllas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1,6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/-; posted, 16 and 2, 6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD,
TAKE A COURSE OP
ALF.ALINE LOCK PILLS ,
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES,
SORES. BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special powerful Course. 13s. 6d,
Alfaline Leucorrhoea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Bo?.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr RASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT: 547 GCOrgC StrGOt, S^dflCV.
ALSO AT HIS BRAITCHIES :
150 Bourke Street, Me 1 bourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
191 Lambton Quay, Wei’ton, N.Z.
“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc, from The Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Co. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street. Sydney, N.S.W.
SALT-RHEUM,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when
the remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Read the following 1 testimonial from Mr. R. H,
Stahl, a respectable citizen of Des Moines, lowa,
U.S.A. He says: “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer's Sarsaparilla. Wo tried it, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great change for the
better was noticeable. We continned the treat-
ment, and a thorough cure was the result. 1 ’
“ My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheum,
was comp'etely cured by the use of Ayer’s Sarsap-
arilla.”— Maria H. dr Kins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
il
SarrysTricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR an^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray bair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the fkln.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
Colemane& Sons’Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Colemane & Sous’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
MILK.
fg
f
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
TyrALTED MILK, as a food for In-
IT!. valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents ;
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
<9
V
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
i FRANGI PAN NI PSIDIUM
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
*0
ad Stre^
❖
S'
Bexoareojimitations. The genuineig signed
Business Announcements.
Lark, Sous & Co.
(LIMITED),
WAREHOUSEMEN
—AND—
XMPORTJE3RS,
Wynyard Street, Sydney,
ARE OPENING-
NEW SEASON’S GOODS
—BV—
WEEKLY MAIL STEAMERS.
m.
KIDMAN'S BIILDINCiS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
6
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
||hc New - Band Portrait,
Size, 9x 7 in.,
rr.n no /.is. /.is.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enforcement Co.
Democracy.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The love of our neighbour, which proceeds from the
love of God as its principle, produces that sacred union
which makes families and nations happy.— Plato, B.C.
400.
Necessity does make us democrats ;
We scorn big fish for we are puny sprats.
Our creed political, with blatant voice
Rung out, stands not on principle nor choice;
Might we aristocrats become to-morrow,
We’d leave our democratic friends sans sorrow ;
Forgetting all our fine fraternal phrases,
Old pals might paddle to eternal blazes.
Yea ! ho!
Whose heart is formed of democratic grit?
Unchanged by change, whose thoughts and life
are knit
Inseparate into the People’s weal —
Who not by cunning or by force would steal
The lordship over them ! None but the Christ-
Imbued has power to live, and, much-enticed,
The glory of the world refuse ; has thought
To weave a fitting web to join—dear-bought
From forth God’s mysteries—the grand live past
And grand now-forming future. So Thou hast
Been set within the eternal stream of things,
And, bathed in happiness, the siren sings
In vain to lure thee to the worldly wine
That changes all who swill to grovelling swine.
Thy gleam of conscious action will be spent
About the Father’s business. Intent
Upon the work alone of any worth —
The happiness the universe brings forth—
Thy speck of time becomes a link of gold
The past and future joining. So I’m bold
To say Democracy is feebly stayed
On other Corner-stone than that is laid.
Oollingwood,
c.
Scientist : “ Instead of devoting my
energies to the maintenance of a woman, I give
them to my proper work.”
When a hanging is in progress it isn’t the
Sheriff, as is generally supposed, who gives the
signal to the civil servant on the gallows to jerk
the bolt and start the convict into the bottomless
domains of Mephistopheles ; it is the chaplain. At
least, this has until now been the rule in Victoria,
where the ghostly comforter still attends the
prisoner in his last moments. The hangman is on
the scaffold, likewise the hangee with the white
pillow-case over his staring and staggered counten-
ance. The large, hairy car of the executioner
is alert to catch the words of the burial-
service. The parson holds the prayer-book in
his shaking hands, and reads the service in a
hurried, agitated mumble. Nobody listens to
him, as a rule, except the hangman ; everybody
else is too busy with his own concerns. The voice
of the preacher goes on in a monotonous buzz.
When he comes to “ man that is born of woman ”
the butcher makes ready. When he comes to
“cut off ” there is a jerk and the downward rush
of a carcase through the air. and the proceedings
are practically finished. “ Cut off' ’’ is the signal,
and when the hangman hoars it he cuts him off
there and then—unless the bolt is rusty and won’t
work. However, this is all being altered ; the
service is now mostly read in the cell, and the
executioner simply jciks the lever when he is
ready.
Dear Bulletin, —What is the use of
worrying about the Duke of Connaught’s appoint-
ment as Commander-in-Chief ? In the case of so
small an army as the British it can’t matter much
who holds the billet. If they asked us to let them
have “ Paddy the Ram ” for the purpose, I have
no doubt he would prove Just as effective as Con-
naught, or Roberts either for that matter.—
Yours,
WEARY.


von.
MBUENBY, WALLIS and 00.
16 to 29 years with the late Firm ot MOOT Jr 00., and GOLDSBBOUOH, MOOT & CO. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY
c
M‘JiVUNEY X
8. WALLIS j
HENSON J ?
Liberal Casb Advances ±f req.u.ired.
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and ANY OIHLR PRODUCE.
EacH Department maxiagedL Dy a menaDer °f 4 e irm ‘
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE.
ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Avuvy UiN 4- OxV-U-DD XV+WI* - - •
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores: Circular Quay. Otiices : Macquarie
Street North, SYDNEY.
g
m
<k
9
piILS
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
EASY TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine, Ayer’s Fills are the best in
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell.
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Pills—is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
JOURNALIST, with eight years’ experience
on Sydney metropolitan press, desires en-
gagement as Sub-Editor or Reporter—or as Editor
of country paper. “Journalist,” Bulletin office.
5
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores,
(/eve*
‘\ eQIJI (|r?nding
MBS
ft Pleasure t 0 us K
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“I find your
Razors excel-
lent,
KiOPFI ■
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW^GROUND ■
MRAZOR
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
I Frith Street, Soho
| Square, London, W.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION-
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for .£l9
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £5O.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO,
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTKADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 66.] [Established 1860,
* 6 mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE Is by Post Is. 3d.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893
NAMBROK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
Tlx© Only Agricultural Property Distribution!
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments !
“NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties:
Ml
r-; : ■
*
m
mm
: I
»
KTamtorolc House.
“Melton Park,”
Schedule of Properties:
Second Property, estimated valvie £12,000
Also, 59 Properties „ each 1,050
5 „ „ from £560 to 990
i >» »» 3^o
On 15tb JULY, only £26,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required.
-r.. T r /-.m / j following eentlemen. in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representatives of the Press) is to take place without
, .The BALLOT, (under the «Pe™n of th \ n J are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure. P. P. LABERTOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; Major
Esq .. Adelaide ; Captain J. WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z.
/XY VV S\U£df JLO4., zxtu/iwiviv ,
The FIRST B VLLOT will be from the “ NAMBHOK” Estate , which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (out of a total of
' " ” ' tter estate.
and is universally admitted to be the better
APPLICATIONS for PROSPECTUSES, SHARES and all Particulars should be made by
Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUJION COMPANY,
Newton & Co.,
c o
PLANS,
St-
and
BRISBANE
all PARTICULARS can
(O.)-
also
be obtained on
PROSPECTUSES,
Application to
Xh.e Colu.mtoian Land Distribution Co ->
c/o J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, S\ DN P.V, N.S.W.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two addressed envelopes with 4d. in stamps for reply and
result Do not attach stamps if other than N.S. W. Add exchange if payment is made by cheque.
X.B.—ln the case of the extra J32(i,700 not being subscribed by November, the best value of pro*
perty for the amount subscribed will bo included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate per-
centage of bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per cent, short, the Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed tho Shareholders.
£T REFERENCES can be made to the well-known Firms ol Messrs, ALEXANDER WILSON
CO,, of Sydney, and Messrs. RICHARD NEWTON & CO., of Brisbane.
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
»i—
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares •
Name _
dE : i
A ddress
4l • ~ •
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co.
His Last Prospect.
An old digger, known as Jack Coolie, was found dead
to-day where he had been fossicking at Bocca Plat, near
Wedderburn, with a disli of dirt beside him, unwashed.
Deceased was a very old fossicker in the Wedderburn
district.— Age,
Lay him in the pipeclay snugly ;
Set a shovel at his head ;
On the blade write down “ Jack Coolie,”
And the virtues of the dead.
Say he laboured for his living
With the pick and pan so long—
Since that famed nine-pounder brought him
In the rush to Mount Korong.
Time is merciless and mocks us,
Pleasures have their meed of pains—
Youth contemns the precious ounces,
Age goes seeking for the grains.
But the end may bring contentment,
Though the road be long and rough.
Say the Lord panned off Jack’s prospect,
And He found it “good enough.”
Melb.
E.D.
Hell-cat Healy, of Judas Chamberlain
“ He sits down after speaking with an expression
of countenance that might become the just on the
Judgment Day.”
The Age does not publish its circulation
now, but satisfies itself with the assertion that it
is “ four times that of any other Melbourne
morning paper.”
Henry Lucy, “chronicling” in S.M-
Herald the incident of how Col. Gunter, M.P.>
“ received an Irish member full in the pit of the
stomach,” seizes the opportunity to tell a Gunter
family yarn thus ;
Like the Yorkshire member, this earlier Gunter was in
the army. One day, riding in the suite of his Sovereign,
his horse became embarrassingly restive. “ Very sorry,
your Majesty,” he said, “ but my horse is awfully hot.”
“ Ice him, Gunter, ice him,” said Merry King George.
First, that Gunter was not in the army. Secondly,
George IV. never mounted a horse during the
seven years of his reign ;he was too fat. Thirdly,
the true story is told in one. of Grantly Berkeley’s
books. It was a hunting episode. Gunter went
to the meet of Berkeley’s hounds on a very intem-
perate horse. Says Cardigan (afterwards of Bala-
clava fame): “That’s a fine horse you’ve got,
Gunter.” “Yes, m’lord; but he’s so hot I can
hardly hold him.” “ Why the devil don’t you ice
him, then?” said Cardigan.


RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
h a
B A ISAM
IB A HOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOB
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &a
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH,
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 ki. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN «fe CO,,
16, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents. —Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Carter & Co?
j3uauTab!iE
NUN REVERSIBLE
r PHIS Ingeniously Constructed KIi.I.IAItIk l»(\IVG-
T 4 it I. II is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others. •
As a homeratlraclion, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—‘2S to IS* ‘4 Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
* 6 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
Jl nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
Opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing fora
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.*
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
11. G. HOOT)
28, Endsleigh Gardens. Bust on Road, London.
$r
f
XTOW READY, post free
Is. 6d„ THE LIFE,
ADVENTURES, and CON-
FESSIONS OF A SYDNEY
BARMAID.
Highly Interesting.
To be had only of And Unique.
MADAME PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
LEA & PERRINS'
■ SAUCE.*
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Asfc for Lea & PEtmiNS’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, feotlle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; ‘Crp'sse $ TUaclcicell, London, se., $e.J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throuyhd’ut 'the World.
Agents: Messes. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN ; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
Positively tire Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS HARLENE
, WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
m
AFTER USB.
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned Tl/\ r> R T r\ M TT* Q Q From whatever
Remedy F Ufl OALI/illjDD cause arising.
As a producer of Win is Peer’s a,nd Moustaohios it has never been equalled. Asa Carer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
OOGOOO
Physicians and Analysis pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.'S Charming
JUST PUBLISHED, our NEW PAMPHLET of Elegant London Specialities, a Copy of which will ho sent, Post Paid, on Application to S.D. & Co., SYDNEY.
Usually
■Sold’
at £lO 10s.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
Ladies’ 18-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 lO.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
613.-G.H.M. 9-cf . GrtW Brooch, 9/6.
Ditto Silver, 2/6.
True
Lover’s
Knob
Brooch.
With Charm Lucky Bell.
614.-O.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, £1; 15-ct., £1 15.
J
616.—0.H.M. O-ct. Gold Brooch, 15 6.
Ditto, Silver, 4/6.
The
New
Lucky
Bell,
616.—Brooch of unique design,
0.11.. M. 0-ct. Gold, 12 8.
0.11. M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, £1 5.
388.- Suite Studs,
Very Strong,
Oct. Gold, 12/6 ; 15-ct. £1 5
Silver, 38.
226.—Set O.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
16-ct., £1 10; Silver. 4/6.
The "Nuptial” Brooch.
505.-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, £3 3.
227.—Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18/6;
15-ct.,£l 15; Silver, ss.
224.-0.11. M. 15-ot
Gold, 12 6; Silver, 2 '6.
225.—Combination Pin and
Stud, DiamOml Centre,
16-ct. Gold, £2
• . 306. *
Ladies’
Albert. Oct.
9.
jfc;i 15.
10
15 . 0t f
.Silver,
The New Lucky Bells. Latest London Novelty.
756.—Q.H.5L 0-ct. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, £2.
765. O.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 3 Bells, 7/6. •
w-m
15-ct. Brooch
El 15.
506.-G.H M.
Diamond Centre,
757.-G.H.M. O ct. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-ct. ditto £4 10.
“against
Fascination.”
'Cham
Bell
517.—Elegant Brooch, New Design.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 18 6 ; Silver, 5 6.
■
m
*
758.-G.H.M. O-Ot Gold Bracelet, £1 id.
Ditto Silver, 10 6.
510.—0. 11. if. 15-ct. Gold Rrooch, Set frith Fine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
lOC. —Gent.’s Albert, G.H.M.a-ct. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 J 5; Silver, 15 6. 107.-Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6; 15-ct. £5 17 6: Silver, 136.
12$.—.Elegant Seal to match either Albert, G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 21/-; 15-ct. Gold, £1 17 6; Silver, 4 6.
gf
35.—Single Stone Diamond
King, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10s
Special Value.
36. —Ladies’ 5-sr. Diamond
18 : ct. Gold Ring:, 65 5.
32.—18-ot. Gold Ring,
1 Diamond, 2 Ruhiee, t'2.
33, —18-ct. Gold Ring,
7 Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
£4t 10.
25.—18-ct. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
18-cti. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, cut ijole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
15-ct. Gold'Earrings, 15/6.
50.—Electro - Silver Break-
fast (Jruet and Spoons, 10/6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
Col. G.H.M. Silver Matcli Hox, 11 jp.
A size smaller, 8 6.
ifIJfTM. 9 cr. Gold, t‘2 I«,
520.—G.11.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, handsome
aeuign, Diamond Centre, £;{ 5.
SOVEREIGN
605.—G.H.M. Silver, 96. Plain ditto.H®.
0.11. M. 9 ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
PURSE.
rai.—Eleeant. Bow Brooch.
O.H.M. 9-ct,, 17 6; £1 W;
Silver, 5,'-.
51.—Magnificent Oak and "Silver Electro-
Mounted Liquor Frame, 8 Fine Cut
Boltin (14 inches long, 13 high), i,’3 10
Delivered Free, 2 6 extra.
NOTE,— The hott'-rs O.H.M. stand for "Government Hall Marked.” Each Article beinjr so Stamped Guarantees the Quality and protects the Buyer ;at the same time our Prices are ahout'Half the Colonial Charges.
£i?” Add to Remittance for Pest and Register; One Article, fid.; Two, 9d.; Three, Is.; Six, Is. fid.
Wo despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk In transit. Address
STEWART DA WSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY, NS W.
Wives are a source of wealth in the Solo-
mon Islands. They do most of the cultivation.
Queensland Hansard is “carefully”
edited. Cross, M.L.A., speaking to his amend-
ment on the Separation motion :
That the new Constitution be one under which a person
cannot have more than one vote,
read an extract from a letter written by the erst-
while leader of Northern Separation, Minister for
Mines Philp, to his constituents :
The return of such a large proportion of Labour can-
didates in the North has made several of my Separation
colleagues in the Assembly feel it would he wiser to defer
starting a new colony until further political experience
has opened the minds of many people to the reception of
certain economic and social facts which to most of us
seem obvious enough.
That significant quotation did hot appear in
Hansard. One of a large number of instances
showing that the editing is missing word ?
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootanmnclra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colbny of NeW South
Wales only, and each medal will have the Winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to be signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
After all, the epitaph of the late James
Campbell is easily written. He was a member of
the Ministry that winked its eye at the Mercan-
tile Bank. If James Campbell was a phenomenally
pure politician, with a comparatively colossal
sense of duty, &c., as per obituary notices—well,
so much the worse for Victorian public life. The
average impure private person would have felt
ashamed to be James Campbell on many recent
occasions, just as he would have blushed to be
Patterson, Shiels, Bryan O’Loghlen, Duncan
Gillies, James Service, Reid, Alfred Deakin, or
any other negative or affirmative defender or
toleratorof financial falsehood.
The comfortable hygienic vogue of estab-
lishing the cuisine as the top-storey, instead of the
basement, of a building has been introduced into
the Empire Hotel, Pitt-street, Sydney, a centrally-
situated and luxurious city resort that offers all
modern conveniences to its patrons. Besides an
elegantly appointed ladies’ drawing-room, and
suites of apartments for families, this hotel pos-
sesses a spacious and alluring smoking-room, two
billiard-tables, and no less than seventy well-
ventilated, elegantly furnished bedrooms, all
lighted electrically. Hot and cold baths are
always available. Convenient lift arrangements
add to the attractions of the institution, which is
complete in all the most modern hotel resources.
The proprietor, Mr, James Curtin, is an experienced
and tactful host, and a keen judge of potables.
His wholesale branch, with its assorted cases, and
his bottle department are epicurean sanctuaries.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
16 of this issue.
Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sots £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas of Cocaine.
Consultations free. 3. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King>-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)


Coleinane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one Up.
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
(Late President of the Royal College oj England.')
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears 5 Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps,
: '4
m
SSSa
m
ft
Joe's Birthday Present.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
uUMKER Joe, of Sydney “ Rocks,” had got work.
Also, it was Joe’s birthday.
Consequently, there was an early-morning
J* unction at his humble home. The whole family
and connection had scraped and saved and sub-
scribed to buy Joe a Birthday Present. Never
had there been such an event before in that lane.
It was an epoch.
The Birthday Present was laid out on a clean
antimacassar, in all its polished glory. It was a
steel-pointed wool-hook—affection guided into
utilitarianism.
Beer was quaffed, Joe made an awkward speech,
kissed all the women and children, and went joy-
ously to his work.
Arrived there, he proudly exhibited his present
to his mates. “It’s alright!” was the almost
unanimous verdict.
There was one croaker, though. There always is.
■ “I don’t like them points,” growled the old
“weigher-in;” “they’re too bent. T wouldn’t
care to use that ’ook near the shoot.”
, J° e upended a heavy bale of locks, and, .putting
it on the track, started for the shoot, holding the
bale with bis hook.
It is customary, by a sudden movement of the
truck, to throw the bale when it is some distance
from the shoot, but this was an extra Heavy bale,
and Joe came close upi. :
It was too sudden a tragedy to describe. Joe
threw the bale, “them points” refused to be
teleased, and down With the pack went Joe,
strikirig a stagb, and rebbundirig bn to the wharf.
His neck was broken.
They took the corpse to thfe house in the lane.
After the first paralysis of grief, the widow
sought comfort in explanation;
“ It was all along o’ thkt blkrsted ’bok,”said the
“ weigher-in, ” sympatheticdUi) /
H.R.W.
“Long may the terrible evils of Wdr be absent from this
continent, but recollect that no country has taken a high
position in the wr rid without having shewn what it can
do in war.”—Governor Norman (Q.) ;
“What hast thou to do with peace ?” exclaimed
■Tehu, when he was driving another kind of State
chariot
, The newly-ennobbled Premier Pibbs’
“ life-size portrait ’ something under 10ft. high—
fitt ugly bound in brass, now pervades the N.S.W.
Chief S •oretary's office and strikes awe into
loutish deputations. It chiefly consists of medals,
stars, ribbons and gewgaWs that pit, like small-
pox, the big figure clad in cutaway coat, knee-
breeches, and white stockings, A piratical sword
hangs on one hip, and one hand fingers a nigger-
minstrel’s cocked-hat, with a feather in it that
would satisfy “ Widow O'Brien.”
Thus a correspondent:—
A sinister parag a dust charges the Customs officer and
police-sergeant of Uorowa with having farms, wherefor
the Chinese influx is neglected. Customs has two acres
of garlen, and no more, around his house; while police
own. five acres. Let the real culprits bear the yellow
agony—the Govt, of N.S.W. Why, Simpson was dis-
miss .1 the Customs of Albury for stupidly thinking anti-
Chinese laws were made to be used. If official laches in
Cprowa are to be inquired into, let Messrs. Lyne ahd Kidd
answer for interfering with the subordinates of one of
thes ■ Ministers at Corowa recently.
The Retail Brand of Gentleman.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Wot I says is this,” exclaimed my grocer, em-
phatically, “any gentleman as writes for the
papers oughter keep a shop. That’s where he gets
a grip on human nacher.”
A short, stout, good-humoured-looking man
and a lean, thin, furtive man here entered the
shop. The former cheerily greeted the grocer,
who responded deferentially, and, having made
his purchases, left with a hearty “Good night.” I
fancied I had met him before, but I couldn’t
‘ place him.
. -f'| le lean man purchased tobacco apprehen-
sively, and left abruptly,
( Now, there’s a contrast!” said the grocer.
1 hem two is as different as chalk from cheese.
One s a perfeck gentleman—alius pays up, takes
the pest, and never wants no tick. He’s suthing
m mi uv ’ men t —penal department, I fancy.”
I hen I knew the stout, jolly man. I had met
him several times, “in the execution of his duty,”
only on those occasions he always wore a false
beard. He was—the Public Executioner!
<< '"That other cove,” continued the grocer,
am t,no good at all. He writes poetry, never
has a bob, and alius wants tick.”
“His name!”
“ Oh. I knows him well etiough. His name’s all
over my books, cuss him !”
Then he told it.
The name of a genius j The name belonging to
a star intellect!
Humph : The man who pays cash for his
groceries is “alius a perfeck gentleman.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Sydney Sunday Times, just hit for £lOOO
a costs in a libel-case (by an enterprising plain
tiff who had already got .£750 and costs for a
similar libel from the local E. News), leads off its
latest editorial (on “ Suicide ”) ;
Without a trace of flippant meaning, we think that this
subject is j'ust now a very seasonable one.
Who’s “we ” ? Mr. Evans is now' understood to
be more or less his own editor.
It is painful to find the Argus printing
such stuff as “The Premier in his Office”—a
column full of gratitude for Patterson’s conde-
scending kindness to journalists. The same Pat-
terson who stuck out his huge underlip at the
memory of Marcus Clarke, and snorted,, “We
want thinkers, not scribblers !” Press adulation
of tin-pot political place-holders is always con-
temptible, and when it comes to J. B. Patterson—
Ugh ! Let them give a column to “ The Premier
and the Mercantile Bank.”
The brigantine Swordfish, Capt. John
Reid, which arrived at Sydney the other day
from Penguin (Tas.), reports that, when 10 miles
off Wollongong, a large whale, which had followed
her, came close under the stern, in fact so close
that the crew were rather afraid of it striking the
ship. Which recalls that, years ago, a Sydney
vessel (the King Oscar?), bound from a Maoriland
port, was charged by a whale, which struck her
fair amidships and sank her in a few minutes, the
crew barely escaping in time. The fate of the
Essex, a large American whaler, is well known.
Cruising off Pitcairn, she was struck about the
forechains by an immense sperm whale. The
whole for’ard part of her was crushed in, and she
soon sank.
“Out Back.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The old year went, and the new return’d, in the
withering weeks of drought,
The cheques were spent that the shearer earn’d,
and the sheds were all cut-out;
The publican’s words were short and few, and the
publican’s looks were black —
And the time had come, as the shearer knew, to
carry his swag Out Back.
For time moans tucker and tramp you must, where
the scrubs and plains are wide
With seldom a track that a man can trust or a
mountain-peak to guide;
All day long in the flies and heat—when summer
is on the track,
With stinted stomachs and blister’d feet, they
carry their swags Out Back.
He tramp’d away from the shanty there, when the
days Were long and hot,
And never a soul to know or care if he died “on
the track ’’ or not.
(Ah, men of town ! you have songs of woe to tell
of the rights you lack,
But only God and the swagmen know how a poor
man fares Out Back.)
He begged his way on the parch’d Paroo and the
Warrego tracks once more,
And lived like a dog, as the swagmen do, till the
western station’s shore ;
But men were many and sheds were full—for work
in the town was “slack,”
The traveller never got hands in wool, tho’ he
tramp’d for a year Out Back.
In stifling noons when his back was wrung by its
load, and the air seem’d dead.
And the water grew warm in the bag that hung to
his aching arm like lead,
Or times of flood, when plains were seas and the
scrubs were cold and black,
He ploughed in mud to his trembling knees, and
paid for his sins, Out Back.
He blamed himself in the year “ too late ” —in the
heaviest hours of life—
’Twas little he dream’d that a shearing-mate had
care of his home and wife ;
There are times when wrongs from your kindred
come, and treacherous tongues attack,
When a man is better away from home and dead
to the world Out Back.
And dirty and careless and old he wore, as his
lamps of hope grew dim ;
He tramp’d for years till the swag he bore seem’d
part of himself to him.
As a bullock drags in the sandy ruts, he followed
the dreary track
With never a thought but to reach the huts when
the sun went down Out Back.
It chanced one day, when the north wind blew in
his face like a furnace-breath,
He left the track for a tank he knew—’twas a
short-cut to his death ;
lor the bed of the tank was hard and dry, and
crossed with many a crack,
And, oh! it’s a terrible thing to die of thirst in
the scrub Out Back.
A drover came, but the fringe of law was eastward
many a mile,
He never reported the thing he saw—for it was
not worth his while
The tanks are full aiid the grass is high in the
mulga “off the track,”
Where the bleaching bones of a white man lie, by
his mouldering swag Out Back.
lor time means tucker, and tramp they must
where the plains and scrubs are wide,
W ith seldom a track that a man can trust or a
mountain peak to guide,
All day long in the flies and heat—the men who
are on the track—
\\ ith stinted stomachs and blistered feet they must
carry their swags Out Back.
HENRY LAWSON.
Applicants for service in tlie New York
police must make declaration that they are
opposed to trades-unionism and socialism. '
i The latest territory added to the British
Empire—the Gilbert Islands—is suffering from
a severe drought. On some islands there has been
no rain for nearly two years, so reports a tradipg
steamer. S.M. Herald calls it an “ unparalleled
drought.?’ But the diary of one of old “ Bobby ”
Towns’ traders in the Kingsmill Group, from ’62
to ’72. shoyvs that from ’64 to ’69 not a drop of
rain fell in Arorai, the southernmost of the
groups. After five years of drought a few showers
fell, late in November; then for the following
two years none. In ’73, Bully Hayes called at
the island, and the natives flocked off to him in
swarms, beseeching him to give them a passage
away. They were then existing by cutting down
the perishing cocoa-nut trees and eating the pith
of the corona. “ Bully ” gave those that came off
a barrel of cook’s slush and about scwt. biscuit,,
all of which disappeared in the course of an hour!
Nearly every one on the island was suffering
from tinea dcsquamans, a scaly-skin engendered
by poverty of diet and the adults whom
Hayes took away in the Leonora had
fathom upon fathom of cinnet parcelled
tightly round their waists. This, in their
expressive words, was ‘-'to keep our intestines
from knocking up against our spines.” In two
months Bully had these poor wretches as fat as
aldermen. That as regards drought in these is-
lands the line of meteorological demarcation is
sharply drawn, is shown by the fact of Arorai
being not 200 miles northerly from Nanomea—one
of the Ellice Group —where during this very
drought no appreciable diminution was experi-
enced in the annual rain-fall, which is heavy. The
trader on Arorai complained bitterly to Hayes of
the lax manner in which Providence had attended
to his wants. He could not even get a drinking-
cocoanut for three years and had to take his gin
neat.


Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Colemane & Sons’ jEucal. Loz. are for the voice.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENDER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“ Humanly speaking*, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55,, and :lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS—Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rogke, Tompsitt &. Co., Melbourne ; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin; Berkley Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane ; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Long Charley’s Good
Little Wife.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
There was the island, only ten miles away,
arid there it had been for a whole week. Some-
times we had got near enough to see Long Charley’s
house and the figures of natives walking bn the
yellow beach; and then the westerly current
would take us away to leeward again. But that
night a squall came up, and in half-an-hour we
were running down to the laud. When the lights
on the beach showed up we hove-to until day-
light, and then found the surf too heavy to let us
land.
# * *
We got in close to the reef, and could see
that the trader's copra-house was full, for there
were also hundreds of bags outside, await-
ing our boats. It was clearly worth staying
for. The trader, a tall, thin, pyjama-clad
man, came down to the water’s edge, waved his
long arm, and then turned back and sat down on
a bag of copra. We went about and passed the
village again, and once more the long man came
to the water’s edge, waved his arm, and retired to
his seat.
In the afternoon we saw a native and Charley
together among the bags ; then the native left
him, and, as it was now low tide, the kanaka was
able to walk to the edge of the reef, where he
signalled to us. Seeing that he meant to swim off,
the skipper went in as close as possible, and backed
his fore-yard. Watching his chance for a lull in
the yet fierce breakers, the native slid over the
reef and swam out to us as only a Line Islander o
a Tokelau man can swim.
“ How’s Charley we asked, when the dark
man reached the deck.
“Who? Charley? Oh, he fine, plenty copra.
Tapa ! ray bowels are filled with the sea—for one
dollar! Here arUci vaka (captain) and you tuhi
tuhi (supercargo),” said the native, removing from
his perforated and pendulous ear-lobe a little roll
of leaf,-“ take this letter from the mean one that
giveth but a dollar for facing such a gain (surf).
Hast plenty tobacco on board, friends of my
heart ? Apa, the surf ! Nob a canoe crew could
the white man get to face it. Is it the good twist
tobacco, friends, or the flat cakes ? Know that I
am a man of Nanomea, not one of these dog-
eating people here, and a strong swimmer ; else the
letter had not come.”
The supercargo took the note. It was rolled up
in many thicknesses of banana-leaf, which had
kept it dry ;
Dear Friends,—l Lave Been waiting for you for near 5
months. 1 am Chock full of Cobberah and Shark Fins one
Ton. I am near Starved Out, No Biscit, no Beef, no
flour, not Eny thing to Eat. for god’s Saik send me a case
of Gin ashore if you Don’t mean to Hang on till the sea
goes Down. Not a Woman comes Near me because I am
Run out of traid so please try also to Send a Peece of
Good print as there are some fine Women here from
Nukunau and I think I can get one for a wife if I am
smart. If you Can’t take my Cobberah and mean to Go
away send the Squab lace for god’s saik and something
for the Woman.—Your obliged Friend, Charles.
mm*
We parcelled a bottle of gin round with
a small coir line, and sent it ashore by the
Nanomea man. Charley and a number of natives
came to the edge of the reef to lend a hand in
landing the bearer of the treasure. Then they all
waded back to the beach, headed by the white
man in the dirty pyjamas and sodden-looking fala
hat. Reaching his house he turned his following
away and shut the door.
“I bet a dollar he wouldn’t swap billets with
the angel Gabriel at this partikler moment,” Said
the profane mate, thoughtfully.
* * *
We started weighing and shipping the
copra next day. After finishing up, the solemn
Charley invited the skipper and supercargo to
remain ashore till morning. His great trouble,
he told us, was that he had nut yet secured a
wife, “ a reg’lar wife, y’know.” He had, unluckily,
“lost the run ” of the last Mrs. Charley during
his absence at afiother island of the grouf),
and negotiations with various local young women
had been broken off owing to his having run out
of trade. In the South Seas, as in Australia and
elsewhere, to get the girl of your heart is generally a
mere matter of trade. There were, he told us with
a melancholy look, “some fine Nukunau girls
here on a visit, but the one I want don’t seem to
care much about stayin’, unless all this new trade
fetches her.”
“ Who is she?” enquired the skipper.
“ Tibakwa’s daughter.”
“ Let’s have a look at her,” said the skipper, a
man of kind impulses, who felt sorry at the inter-
mittency of the Long One’s connubial relations.
The tall, scraggy trader shambled to the door
and bawled out “Tibakwa, Tibakwa, Tibakwa,
O !” three times.
The people, singing in the big moniep or town
house, stopped their monotonous droning, and
the name of Tibakwa was yelled vociferously
throughout the village in true Gilbert Group style.
In the Gilberts, if a native in one corner of a
house speaks to another in the opposite he bawls
loud enough to be heard a mile off.
# * •
Tibakwa (The Shark) was a short, squat
fellow with his broad back and chest scored and
seamed with an intricate and inartistic network of
cicatrices made by shark’s-teeth swords. His
hair, straight, coarse and jet-black, was cut away
square from just above his eyebrows to the top of
his ears, leaving his fierce countenance in a sort of
frame. Each ear-lobe bore a load—one had two
or three sticks of tobacco, twined in and about the
distended circle of flesh, and the other a clasp-
knife and wooden pipe. Stripped to the waist he
showed his muscular outlines to perfection, and he
sat down unasked in the bold, self-confident, half-
defiant manner natural to the Line Islander.
m * *
“ Where’s Tirau V’ asked the trader.
“ Here,” said the man of wounds, pointing out-
side, and he called out in a voice like the bellow
of a bull—” Tirau O, nako mail” (Come here !)
Tirau came in timidly, clothed only in a ridi or
girdle, and slunk into a far corner.
The melancholy trader and the father pulled her
out, and she dumped herself down in the middle
of the room with a muttered “ E pudkdkd te matan! ”
(Bad white man).
“Fine girl, Charley,” said the skipper, digging
him in the ribs. “Ought to suit you, eh I Make
a good little wife.”
Negoi i n ions commenced r.h, \v. Father willing
to part, girl frightened—commenced to cry. The
astute Charley broughtoutsome new trade. Tirau’s
eye here displayed a faint interest. Charley threw
her, with the air of a prince, a whole piece of turkey
twill, 12 yards—value three dollai’s, cost about
2s. 3d. Tirau put out a little hand and drew it
gingerly toward her. Tibakwa gave us an atro-
cious wink.
“ She’s cottoned,” exclaimed Charley,
* * #
And thus; without empty and holloiv
display, were two loving hearts made to beat as
One. As a practical proof of the solemnity Of the
occasion, the bridegroom then and there gave
Tirau his bunch of keys, which she carefully tied
to a strand of her ridi, and, smoking one of the
captain’s Manillas, she proceeded to bash out the
mosquitoes from the nuptial couch with a fan.
We assisted, her, aii Hour a f terwards, to hoist the
sleeping body of Lorig Charley therein, and telling
her to bathe his head ill the morning with cold
water we rose to go. ,
“Good-bye, Tirau !” we said,
“ Tiakapu,” said the Good Little Wife, as she
rolled up an empty square gin bottle in one of
Charley’s shirts for a pillow, and disposed her
graceful figure on the floor mats, beside his bed,
to fight mosquitoes until daylight.
LOUIS BECKE.
Dr. Lushingfcon is dead—with the Byron
secret.
Dear Bulletin, —Let me correct a slight
error of yours re the prominent part the “ pot
hat takes in the procedure of the House of Com-
mons. It is only when the House is in division
that it is necessary to speak sitting, with the hat
on, and not as you said, to enable a member to
raise a point of order in Committee, On this sub-
ject, it seems to me the custom of wearing the hat
is not general in Australian Parliaments. In
N.S.W. the practice has fallen into disuse, only
Crick preserving it, and he but occasionally, and
in a modified form — i.e., he substitutes a small
boxer hat for the orthodox “pot.” In Victoria, a
very “ loyal ” place, the custom is better preserved,
Gillies being one of the most regular “ pot-
hatters.” In his case, it covereth a multitude of
sins, and sets off a Napoleonic figure. Deakin
wears a sort of compromise to the shiny “ pot ”
namely, a rough, brown billy-cock. In South
Australia they get along bareheaded, and enact
good legislation. Maoriland, judging from your
par., seems to cherish the hat, and the customs
connected therewith. The Commons practice in
picking a seat (which can only be secured in that
Legislature by attending prayers) is for a
member to bring two hats, one for use, and the
other to conserve his seat with and prevent
“jumping.” Th ■ seconding of a motion by a
member raising bis hat is obviously introduced
into the House of Commons by members who
were ex-scholars of Eton School, a place where,
from tiny infants to the tallest boy, all wear pot-
hats. 0n Saturday afternoons the young Etonians
assemble in the quadrangle, while a master stands
on the chapel steps and calls the roll. Each boy,
as his name is called, lifts his hat straight above
his head and down again, the exact gesture used
in the Commons in seconding a motion.—Yours
Locust.
The death of General Miribel is Cabled.
His position in the French army corresponded to
that of General Schlieffen, successor, in the Get-
man army, of Moltke and Waldersee. Miribel’s
ambition was to lead the Revanche, but he waft
the junior of Saussier, who is generally designated
fbt that bloody honour.
Out of 21,708,000 sheep in Queensland,
19,375,400, or 88 per cent., belong to 212 graziets;
again, 1334 persons own 5,999,152 cattle, leaving
only 17,000 cattle among all others. The 212
sheep-graziets— mostly absentees —draw annually
.£3,750,000 front their wool-clip, besides the annual
increase of their flocks. All the runholders ill
Queensland only pay =£300,000 a year in rentals—
when they do pay up.
'I he M'llwraithiah garotte oh Queensland
up to date :—Four Bills to authorise the issue of
Govt, paper-money under conditions that, if
applied to ordinary individual transactions, would
be penally dishonest. A Bill authorising the
locking-np in the Q.N. Bank—lately suspended
and reconstructed-of between 312,000,000 and
£3,000,000 of public moneys for periods extending
oyer 12 years. A land-scramble Bill (under con-
ditions of cleverly-manoeuvred State insolvency)
authorising unconditional selection at 10s. an
acre, special auction sales at ss. an acre, and the
granting of freeholds (without competition) to
present graziers (absentee or otherwise) by uncon-
ditional selection.
Speaker Abbott (N.S.W.), having lunched
with a few well-informed Queenslanders, is per-
fectly convinced that all the published records
about kidnapping brutalities in connection with
the Polynesian labour-trade are “apocryphal.”
Mr, Abbott, being considerably over 6ft. high,
can afford to be an emphatic politician. His
philokanaka confession amounts to a declaration
that the Polynesian Royal Commission of a few
years ago was a fraud, that the Commissioners
were unblushing liars, and that (then Premier,
now Chief Justice) Griffith is a whited sepulchre
and a volcano of public falsehood. After swal-
lowing ex-republican Dibbs’ knighthood, Abbott
found it easy to gulp down the Kanaka slave-trade.
Editor Bulletin, —Though the selection
of Gov. Norman as Viceroy of India is, no doubt,
due to tlie belief that he is an eminently “safe”
man—safe, that is, not to do anything sensational
—it is on the cards that he may prove a man of
action. He has never had a chance, but his
antecedents are against him in that sense.
During that awful time before Delhi, when 20,000
men were attacking a city of 200,000 inhabitants,
fortified by European engineers, and garrisoned
by 100,000 fighting men, mainly British-trained
and disciplined Sepoys, Norman, despite
wounds that would have disabled most
men, persisted in carrying on the* duty
of Adjutant-General. Two Commanders-in-,Chief
died, crushed by the fearful responsibility, and the
third nearly provoked a mutiny by his timidity
and indecision. After that, the man may do any-
thing if his opportunity comes. His age (67)
counts for nothing. Charles Napier was nearly as
old when bis chance came in Scinde, and then, ip
the victories of Meeapee, and Dubba, and the
desert march to Eminglmr, he rivalled the
greatest exploits of Alexander. No one can say
that, if need be, Norman may not prove as £reat
a surprise, and his record shows that it is in
him. —.T.T?.-


Bulletin ” Series, 3NTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO HE PUBLISHED,
XOIT
-or-
“A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
«<
Bulletin ” Series, 3NTo. 2,
“Tales of the Convict System
By PRICE WAR DKG.
“ ‘ The Transportation System, 3 said Archbishop Whately, speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a monument such
as I suppose was never before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity. 3 How true
this is Marcus Clarke's great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung's 3 stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not be given to
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are narratives of the
blind brutalism of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the torture of
death, noble efforts of truly Christian clergymen to stem influences which deformed body and soul, pathetic records of lives
wrecked by savage laws and men scourged into kinship with devils. ‘Price Waning ’ has taken this material and, choosing
the most suitable to his purpose, placed it with dramatic force before his readers. The stories, although connected by a thread
of general sequence, are so written that each is complete in itself. 3 ' —Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
“ The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of The
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke, before
producing ‘ His Natural Life, 3 was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details .of criminal administration under the old
convict system. The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer’s knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘ Price Waning, 3 as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout : his thorough
acquaintance, even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary ability with which
the subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies; the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
Price, ONE SHILLING! ; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“ Bulletin” Series, 3XTo. 3.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf lioldreivood.
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under Arms ” :-In these “Tales of the Austral Tropics” will be found the
•strange romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions' of tropical Aus-
tralia. That they are not less true than terrible, I take it upon myself to affirm. That Such is far from being the case with the
larger proportion of literary manufacture professing to describe Australian life and character, I must distinctly assert. “ Those
who know seldom write, and those who write don’t know,” remarks the veteran colonist with accentuated emphasis. But this
author’s name is a household word among bushmen and bookmen from Albany to Thursday Island, from “The Cult” to (he
Snowy River—
“ Alike to him the sea, the shore,
The pen, the bridle and the oar.”
To him, familiar as highways are the endless solitudes of the “ Never Never Country ” —he has tempted Desert Sphinx, gazed
upon gold matrix and opal hoards which gleamed in mockery of the exhausted wanderer. Trusted for dear life in forest, glades
to a steady eye and a,true ride. Listened in a canoe on the Coral Sea to the moaning of the approaching tempest.
Long a leading actor upon Dame Nature’s stage, he has turned scene-painter for the nonce, and limned with lifelike
effect the drama of the Waste.
“Rolf Bqldbkwoow,” Alhury, N.S Wales, Nov. 10, 1S!12.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
"THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“Tlie Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal ,
Is the on.li/ paper vehicle has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy,
This Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System. .
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
■The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailiugly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now aiflicts British humanity.
Against the chums of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aeraiust the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and _the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonics.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the. bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, Ihe Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is -going ahead faster than any
Other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription {payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings dnd Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all ‘rcniittanc.cs arc inigablc. Jutitoriat coinniuni-
nitons to be addressed to J. F. AuuHJUALU.


NOW PUBLISHED.
. »
THE LAST OF SIX:
Tail's of the Austral Tropics,
BY
T FAVE3TO,
address 3^ i ‘ 1^ng ~^ to an y Australasian
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may he unable
to procure the paper , and naming
any reliable person toko wmld pro-
bably undertake its sale.
“The Wedding* Morning*.”
THIS CHARMING ACADEMY PICTURE,
Or Firth’s "So Clean/’ or Dorothy Tennant’s "Head over Tails/’
Will b© sent FflSB
On receipt of 25 Sunlight Soap Wrappers; with 50, Framed ; and with 100, Framed in Gilt.
. ADDRESS :
JLEYER brothers, ltd.,
232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
From Weldon’s Illustrated Dressmaker,
win k 1V S full ea i rly t 0 emi " d m y readers about the spring clean-up, but 4 SUNLIGHT SOAP 1
will be always welcome by those who take a pride in their home and surroundingswhile to heln
th 6 t y al o A, Wa v Shing d ? y ’ and ,nake clothes as white as snow, 4 SUNLIGHT SOAP ’is
without exception the best and most economical preparation in the market. Its cleansing uower
nr Z n i r / UI A yet lt ? P urity e - nables ifc bei »g ««ed for even the most delicate caTbric or lace
~ af " e f ninß /\ e most choice paint, while for washing woollen goods this soap justly deserves
SO A p O,I nV« "r/ tboae . ladies wishing to keep their flannels soft and equal to new. ‘ SUNLIGHT
therefore XI mS'Z “ ono " li “ 1 ’ *” d '">““l>old labour,
Sunlight Soap is used in Her Majesty the Queen’s laundry.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Rrice t»cT.
"...
(Jemry HeatHS
t TRADE MARK
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH
Price 9s. 6dL.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6tr)ig«i shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in_ the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
<3-. H. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
£2T Look Otit for
“THE LAST OP SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill,
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
I'm Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY,
MIMING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY op EYERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
PVRMONT. SYDNEY, lor IhIMM ol Ore, by Dr, .ml WefJmWne,
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
ftp
9
ff'nf
H
g
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
\our attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
MAE Tv FOY S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coining season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
(Treat is the curiosity and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination could conceive.
LADIES !•—One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(N«a* HYDE PARK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard. Square, SYDISTBy.
[Established over a Quarter op a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. W ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
PACINO THE RESERVE.
—Term*— los. 6«i. per Pay. W alter Sidney (late of Newcastle), ‘ ‘ Prop. ’ !
-PRIVATE HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN HOUSE , 31 i/son’s Point , SYDNEY,
r , U..L"' A
■
Resident Medical Officer Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-R-O-S.. Ena’. etc
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical Officer Brisbane etc
EXPERIENCED KTITRSUXTCI STAFF.
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
Pop MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYNABCX>LOGTCA Fi GASPS
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive-
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
"THE BtTTXETTN ’> SERIES, No, 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
