

mm
in
&
a
%
m
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
AITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKE
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
SUPPLIED TO THE PFINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HABRJSON & ATT WOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
IR.. Gr. WATKI3XTS & 00., 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Twining Requisites,
■ r ~' IX PLOSI '/'IBS X 3 TJ XXjXDIE IR S 7 & G- IE XT IE IR _A_ Xj lIRO XT IMI OXTGIE IR "X".
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
READ BROS.
f:
Dog’s Z3:ea.cl
ALE & STOUT.
JULES REWARD & CO.
(AGENTS)
Kent Street, Sydney.
o.
<*s
o
iL
m
m
o
&
<i>
&
The
Oxford. Hotel, King Street, Syaney.
H. TIIORI'E ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
AUSTRALIA’S FISH SUPPLY.
THE
FRESH POOP & ICE CO.,
135 KING SIREET, -•'YDNKY,
Have now completed arrangements whereby an
abundance of this necessary article of diet
may be had at
moderate prices.
Ihe successful development of their freezing
process enables them to place on the Sydney
Market and all parts of the country the
Choicest FISE of the Australian Colonies,
including
N.Z., the Home of Australian Fish.
To Gentlemen’s Families, Country Hotels, and
others resident in the country, this will meet a
LONG-FELT WANT.
Country Orders will Receive Spec'al Attention.
WALKER’S WHISKT. ALLSOPP’S ALE.
JOHN "VST .A.T 24 1803XT13 ST!EI.3ESEeT, sf'^ r T>iVTm , y
4IP •
Sole
A S enta ±rx 3\Tew South Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Shuttleworth
Compoisii Portable Eno ink, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heuU r.
-
CLAY_TOK. » SHUIILE'KORIh VUit.OV.tl \ ' 97
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD
Ol
%
0* .
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines
Horizontal Engines of all classes; Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality : Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. xsr
J. & O. Howard, 28 os
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implemen
Pitt Street,
and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Sydney-.
The Bulletin
Vol 12.—N0. 674 j
[Saturday, January 14, 1893.


TALES op n« CONVICT SYSTEM.
Bv “PRICE WARUNG.”
__
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
NO
TRUSS
nk«PiEKCBS mtimfSi
In the World wi.il Retain
a Rupture or give Belief
like »r. Pierces Magnetic
Elastic Truss. This Celebrated
Truss has radically cured thous-
ands of cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
Springs. It can ho worn with ease and comfort
Night and Day. Perfect fitting Trm oessent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet No. 1-
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUSS CO..SanFrancisco.Cal.
Or Washington 11. Soul* Oo.lfiOPittSt.,
Sydney, or Elliott Bros., Brisbane, Agents
ROW'S
EMBROCATION
ADVT
QPECTAL NOTICE.—The Ryonry Bulletin
T'asmanian Edition Publishers. EITZ
GrEKALI) BEOS. 1 uhscription (payablestrictly
in advnn e>. Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street. Launceston, or f rom the
Runners in the street.
SUPERIOR TO ALL OTHER
PREPARATIONS
AS
.4 Cure for
MALTO-
QUINIA
WIME.
AGUE,
DEBILITY.
INFLUENZA,
NERVOUSNESS, ETC.
Wholesale Asrents:
LAN GE THONEMAN,
VI v I K « J I! X K.
CATALOGUES FEEE
Ito any address in Australasia. Send for Catalogue I
before purchasing Guns, Rifles, or Revolvers
elsewhere; best and cheapest guns in Australasia;
English prices. All goods carriage paid to any
| address in any of the Colonies.
.Address —THE BRITISH GUN CO.,
84 QI’EEN STREET. MELBOURNE. |
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS aud INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S.. &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE'S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
DRINK
JOHNSON’S
STOUT
De LISSA
and PHILLIPS,
Sole Agents, Barrack Street. Sydney.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FERR E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Cmr MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
£I£SM:£:r»ZE!S,
Cure CANCER, Ansemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address—The MANAGER.
Central Mattei Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to ail others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, audits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers. -,
J. & E. ATKINSON
24, Old Bond Street, London. •
CAUTiQH J— Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “ W hite Kosc”—
and address in full.
MAN H O O J >.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AAD VIGOR RESTORED
In Four IVetks by the use of
O s R- I cor
1,1 f e.-
77i« oji??/ Infallible Rcmedv for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Bicords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 13s, or four quantities in one for ,10s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry d Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, FiUroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
faitW 1 *Son.s
Cos^ s
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE,
EXTRACT IN T HE WORIO
Manufactory:
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
/
r'j
Insure Your Health Against All Risks
—BY TAKING—
Kruse's Fluid .
It Cools the Blood, Promotes a Healthy Flow of the Secretions
and Fortifier the System against the Shafts of Disease.
The Best Aperient For Children. Numerous Cold Medals.
Superior to all Others!
(Vide Medical Testimonials, Analysis, &c., accompanying each Bottle.)
* x x
TAKE ONLY KRUSE’S
Sold in Bottles at Is. 3d., 2s, 6d., 3s. 6d. Each.
Wholesale Agents : Messrs. ELLIOTT Eros., Ltd
U)m^£sf3c,
|s Always fh6 {Jest
Scale of Aavertislng
U
THE BULLETIN.’
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~ *
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for
cash
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „
2o ~ ~ . > .
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
in advance.
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYI33NTESY.
AA. -JJ WMW !i
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room. 4s. Double Room, 8s
~ GRAHAM’S
PREMIER & SHOES,
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
“ PREMIER. ” They stand alone for style, quality and, low price. Manufactured on the spot, mid
SOLD DIRECT TO THE WEARER—there is neither duty nor muldleinan s proht to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY \\ HOLESALE PRICE, Carnage 1 aid,
pgr- Try Them.
DEPOTS—32O George Street, 141 King Street, anti 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
“TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
(6
99
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
EEITE ST P A VEITC.
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Boldrewood,”
„ the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—"ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
whioh write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
|UlliHUvv‘' will . , 1 a .
are not less ttaie than terrible I take it upon my Self to affirm. ... ... ~r , „
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.
Price, ls« Posted to Austrsilisui. ls> 3d«


Medical.
DrSFEER
Assisted by Dr. ELMSL lE,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A-, L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
Slos: ©2o*
ESTABLISHED in 1880.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
nf nS W and N Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing bub an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration Of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed ivith the
proper remedies ; therefore he guarantees. He claiins to
be the most skilful an a successful Physiman in NS W in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISLAbES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours : 10 to Vi a.m* S 2to 4 aild
7 to 8 |).U)<
in consequence of the prevailing
HAIM) TIMES,
Dr SPEER has determined to REbUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD HEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufierers, who,
though willing to pay a Small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable "case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines Until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.8.--TWENTV SHILLING-S is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr, SPEER,
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
L-AMERIOAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness,
Weakness, &C., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. —AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. Cd.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE,
Mention this 'paper when writing.
Relief from Cough in lO Minutes,
aarn art's '
''JEtaCsam
The most Safe and Speedy Remedy
FOR
INFLUENZA, COUGHS,
COLDS, HOARSENESS, 4c.
IN THE NURSERY IT IS INVALUABLE.
Immediately it is taken Coughing j
Ceases, Restlessness is gone, and |
Refreshing Sleep ensues.
Mrs. JOHNSTON. G.N.R. Office, Helled!, Go. Fer-
managh, writes : My boy suffered dreadfully with cough
which your Balsam effectually cured. Send two
bottles per return to give to friends.— July, 1891.
1 Sold by all Chemists at Is. lid, and 2s. 9d.
Prepared only by A. Hayman & Co., London, England.
Wholesale Agents Elliott Bros., S. IToffnuno & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
J
mm
V,
Right Hon. W. E. GLADSTONE is deservedly the
Premier of England, and
Royal club nectar
lO Premier Drink of Australia. It is a
not 8 a long-felt want. It will exhilarate and
ram J™ tf V While it is delicious to the taste, it has
all imtin v" a qualities. It is guaranteed to be free from
trnita j v leB ’, ' )e ' n S prepared from the pure extracts of
is rn„ni if,' 9- R °yal Chib Nectar ai.d good soda water
■Dtin»Vi« -V 18 ! inost champagne. Royal Cluh Nectar,
best water, is very delicious. It is the
the f ; ! ,, ' lme, : (,nnk ever introduced. It greatly improves
hotnitnn Ur 0 , an y k i |,( i spirits. Everyone likes it. No
per should lie without-it. Price 455. per case.-
gents: LUCAS BROS., 5 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Agents Wanted
e Plum*
ADVT
Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; sot ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
Single Razor, in strong leather case
Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ;
, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful moroGoo leather case, 21s.
Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
egistercd and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extn
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKIN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Bend for Dr. Kelly’s Work ea
General Debility;
Price 3d. in stamps;
Send far Dr. Kelly's Complete Treatise on
Nervous & Skin Complaints,
Price, Is. in stamps.
DR.
FOUNDED BV
KELLY* M.A.,
M. 8.;
THE EMINENT SPECIALIST CONNECTED WITH THIS INSTITUTE HAS,, BY FAR, THE LARGEST PRACTICE IN THE COLONIES,— See Daily Press.
CONSULTATION FREE BY IETTER OR PERSONAL VISIT.
This Institute is now so universally renowned FOii the special treatment of Debility
of the System, Dyspepsia, Indigestion, Nervous and Skin Complaints, Epilepsy, Liver and
Kidney Complaints, Lumbago, &c., &0., that further comment Would only be superfluous,
UNLESS IT WERE TO POINT OUT Tt> THE GENERAL PUBLIC THAT AMONG THE VARIOUS ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES ARE THE ELECTRIC GrIRDLE, FOR THE GUARANTEED CURE OF NERVOUSNESS ; THE
Hercules Life Renewer (very powerful) ; the Electric Liver and Kidney Pads, for the
cure of
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS ;
the Electric Chest Pad, for the relief and cure of
LUNG DISEASES, ASTHMA, &c.
In all cases consultations are Free of cost by sufferers from
NERVOUS and SKIN COMPLAINTS.
The Institute’s Reputation is so thoroughly established, ThaT it will only be
necessary to briefly state that a guarantee is given to permanently cure all accepted
cases. If you are doubtful as to whether you require Medical Assistance, you should
write to the Institute without delay.
ASK YOURSELF the FOLLOWING QUESTIONS!
Am I Subject to Palpitation of THR lIbArT, Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without
Cause, Pear of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental Capacity, Nervous Irritability,
Nervous Prostration, Sluggish Liver, Symptoms of Indigestion, Heavy, Sleepy Feeling
after Meals, Pains in the Chest, Cold Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking Cough, Expectoration, Singing Noises in
the Head and Ears, Frequent Headaches, Costiveness or Irregularity of the Bowels,
Sleßpy Peeling During the Day, Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak or
Sore Eyes, Pimples, Blotchy Skin, Violent Temper, Loss of Ambition, Epilepsy, Fits,
oh Shortness of Breath?
£)r. KeLly’s MEDICAL WORK is a LARGE BOOR, CONTAINING MANY PAGES or
PRESCRIPTIONS and appropriate ILLUSTRATIONS, and is written in simple language,
WHICH CAN BE UNDERSTOOD BY ALL.
SUFFERERS NERVOUS COMPLAINTS SHOULD
NOTE THAT A GUARANTEE IS ISSUED WITH ALL ACCEPTED CASES.
Electricity will curb Nervousness.
ELECTRIC GrIRDLE, PRICE ONE GUINEA,
Is guaranteed to Cure any case of Nervousness. Tats excellent apparatus, Which has
been so frequently Tested and recommended bV the Medical Profession, will be
FORWARDED TO ANY ADDRESS ON RECEIPT OF A POST OFFICE ORDER FOR £1 Is. PERSONS SENDING
for the Electric Girdle should describe all symptoms, and thus enable the Doctor
to select A Girdle of appropriate strength. To ensure safety all letters containing
money Should be Registered,
Persons consulting mat rely on SECRECY and PERFECTLY PURE REMEDIES,
FREE PROM MERCURY OR other DANGEROUS INGREDIENTS.
All Electrical Appliances, &c., &C., aRe forwarded securely packed, free from
OBSERVATION, to ANY PART OF THE WORLD. POSTAGE, CARRIAGE AND DUTY PAID.
Dr. BURGOYNE, L.R.C.S., L.M.R.CiS., House Surgeon and Physician.
Hours of Consultation, free of charge, oN
Monday .* 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m'
Tuesday <. *. 9,30 a.m. to 1 p.m., 3 p.m, to 5 p.m.
Wednesday 9.30 a.m. to 1 P.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m., and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Thursday .. . 9.30 a.m. to 1 P.m., 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Friday .. .. * *. .. .. 9.30 a.m. To 1 p.m., 3 P.m. to 5 P.m.
Saturday 9-30 a.m. to 12 noon, and 7 p.m. to 9 p,m
ALL COMMUNICATIONS SHOULD BE ADDRESSED
UR. J. T. BURGOYNE, 112 PHILLIP ST., SYDNEY.
THIS PAPER SHOULD BE MENTIONED WHEN WRITING.
N.B.— AFTER THIS DATE, ALL REMEDIES and APPLIANCES will be FORWARDED DUTY FREE to the PATIENT to ANY PART of AUSTRALASIA.
NEWTON & LAMB,
IMFOUTJEIRS, DESIGNTERS,
AND
MANUFACTURERS OF HIGH-GLASS ARTISTIC FURNITURE,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
ADVT
PATENT SELF-ADJUSTING HAMMOCK
CHAlH—Reduced to 1255. each.
A LIMITED NUMBER ONLY ON SALE.
NEW PATENT AUTOMATIC ADJUSTABLE
LOUNCE CHAIR.
No Framework Needed. 30/- and 37/6.
Call and Inspect.
An Immense STOCK of CHAIRS, SEATS and LOUNGES, suitable for the Verandah, Lawn and
Shipboard—in Willow, Pith, Cane, Rattan, Rush, etc. A great variety of designs to select from.
CANVAS FOLDING CHAIRS, Light and Strong, 4/6 each.
CANVAS FOLDING COTS, for Camping-out, and Occasional Use, very handy, 10/6 each.
GARDEN SEATS, with Rustic Cast-iron Standards, '6ft. long, 14/6, 19/~, 25/- and 30/-
JAPANESE BLINDS, White and.'Green, in all sizes, extra quality.
ICE CHESTS and REFRIGERATORS, in Best Makes, at Lowest Prices.
KTEWTOKT & LAMB.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tire Brighton of KTew South Wales.
):(
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated' Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
IVTirs. KILMIfXTSTJhJirt .... Proprietress.
Look out for “ The Last ©f Six.”
Medical.
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
m
I
l-~
This eminent Specialist, Rounder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels,, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
coutentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send fid. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Sena
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to tire Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. Ho will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If yon do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bo sure to mention this paper when writing;
CONSULTATION TitUE.


IKTSTRUMEIKrT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges, Adaptors, Rack and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects' Requisites in Stock. Tapes, Band Chains. Scales, 1 lumbobs.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Baas’ Bale Ale
Trade
Guinness’ Extra Stout
FOSTER’S ALE and STOUT
ABE GUARANTEED
ABSOLUTELY PURE*
and are
HOT CHEMICALLY TEEATED.
AGENTS:
Balchin, Johnston & Co.,
SYDNEY.
=36%.
r .*•’ . 0 %•••£’Hfr' ■■ V?'. •*' ’>-V<
’
■* 1 ~ *r : .n 4 *lrJs :-*i^k*; i;
•■' v ■’,»*•-•. **.*>■' *»•* • > ,r%V' %. v i*; -.V;
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished. Situate! in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. BROWN, Proprietor.
Sih& e3T
WISEST I
©WINS
machine
««WSRH9 \
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
j.Wjohnston&Co-,
&
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
HONOURABLE TREATMENT.
I
?/ K
Wi'/M,, ,
vm
• ■ y.'
P *
'' <> ' I^|
i
fras
| V; J|
-■ i*tfr ..'4
W//M / A'
L'? '
mm
SURGEON LANGSTON,
THE EXPERIENCED AND RENOWNED SPECIALIST,
Practice EKtablinhed 40 Team
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff, Royal
Engineers, registered In England and Australia,
and authorised by Act of Parliament to practise
in all the branches of Medicine and Surgery,
is now permanently located at ,
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced, that a vast deal of misery and
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified men
I feel it my duty as a Ifcgally qualified Surgeon to publish
my address, so that all iq need of medical skill may have
the benefit of my experience. Consultation is free to
all, but when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicine sent
i My life-long experience, extending over 46
iyears, and practical method of treatment insure a
speedy and permanent cure in all
Special Diseases.
NEURASTHENIA or DEBILITY,
ORGANIC WEAKNESS, LACK of
ENERGY. FAILING MEMORY, PHYSICAL
DECAY,
producing some of trie following effects—Debility, Dimness
of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
Face, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence,
Gloominess, Despondency, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Want of Energy, Palpitation, Stunted
Development. Pains in the Back, etc., treated
•with success, safely and privately.
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
all forms, affecting Body, Nose. Throat, Skin and Cones. Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful
Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Nnt«. 'riine.to»tf«l Itemedlm. Stiff Jomt.
and llheumatism the r ■suit of Blood Poison, CIJE3KO. 4on*tit..llonal or ac««n. ert D eaUueaac^
of both Sexes treated sneec.-sfullv. lliilltnro instantlv relieved and permanently cured. _ buigeon bang, o ..
ELECTRIC QUADRANT,
with double compress and
supports, price £2. I use
only the best remedies. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated tutu skul n; .
respectful manner; and kno.viuT what to do. Vo Tv|»eriment« are miulc. lloiiip 11««*« »«-• *•
Persons ailins; at a distance can be successfully treated at home. I luxe reqiuini), I iiiiiu'ili.itt
Treatment can, by fonva'ding particulars oflheir case and £l. receive a course of treatment > - cturn 10. t
fiefore contiuinK your cas • elsewhere, Consult flic Old anil SmteMliil Spec ia I at , MJ ■
Age and experience important. \ friendly letter or rsi 11 inay save tutiiic; su y,
and add golden years to life. Vo mercury or |»nisonoun driiK'M n«ed. New Edition ot my
latest work, “Mens Maim in C’orporc Sane,” fS pages, sent free to men.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
B .—The Only <luallfled burgeon practising as a Specialist who has held CJoverniucni
Appointments.
fCONSULTATION FREE.
INSTANTANEOUS HAND CAMERAS.
Send for Illustrated Catalog, ue.
The Kodak Camera.
Skew’s Eclipse Camera.
KODAK CAMERAS
—IN—
FIVE SIZES.
From. £3.
Monthly Circular Posted on Application..
Sliew's Kcllpse Cameras.
with Three Double Dark Slides and Finder complete ... £8 8 0
|-plate, with Three Double Dark Slides and Finder complete ... 11 10 0
BAKER anu ROUSE,
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK IMPORTERS,
375 GEO R C - El STREET,
(Two doors from A.J.S. Bank), and at
256 CO LLi INS STREET
69 BUNDLE STREET
46 QUEEN STREET 1
S YDATEN
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE.
BRISBANE.
SAYWELL & CO.
depot
fQr
MARVEL
TOB A C C O
IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO,,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
IT
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engine b, Boilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
£gT Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars ofc
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than send us their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Rhzor
Setters in the coloqy, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we'
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hairdressers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary.
Aarons 7 Exchange Hotel Company, Sydney,
MINING, FINANCIAL & GENERAL MERCANTILE INTELLIGENCE "Cl
Posted several times DAUiY in the Buil Ang
TELEGRAPH, TELEPHONE, POST and MONEY ORDER OFFICES ox thk PREMISES,
“ r -‘ '. ‘. U V % feef 4 Mk; ‘
■rr^;
M 3
•I.WS
This first-class Hotel has been Handsomely Refurnished, possesses the Largest and most Elegant
Billiard and Public Luncheon Rooms in Sydney, and is now unrivalled for comfort and attention tf
visitors. *3T Tariff, 10s. Gd. per day. Special Rates for Families.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL COMPANY - - Proprietors.
W. W. AIKBN, Manager (18 years in the establishment).


The Bulletin
Vol- 12—N0.674:.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 1893.
Price, 6d.
ECONOMY IN SMALL THINGS.
Premier Sir G. Republican Dibbs, K.C.M.G., has ordered that the N.S.W. Civil Service notepaper is simply to have a crown stamped on the corner, and the
words “Now South Wales” below, in plain, black letters.
N.S.W.: “And while you're about it. Sir George, don’t you think that you and the Civil Service could economise a lot in time and ink by leaving out
those four letters after your name I”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydnev, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0 T 2 6
Quarterly... 0 G 6
xqxick.-
By sending direct to Tiir Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you mag pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Rote, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week.for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In'that
city The Bulletin is not delivered bg mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
“Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
V erse, Short Tales or Sketches ( those dealing with Aus'
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 tvords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS.
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postaye by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
'zllel&ri.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14, 1893.
The Workman’s Paradise.
According to the latest published accounts,
the “ New Australia” movement stands very
much where it did some two or three mouths
ago. The scouts of the new Pilgrim Blathers
are reported to be still prospecting in the tree-
less wastes in the region of the Rio Negro in
quest of that Paradise which is always just a
little w r ay ahead, and the main body of the
crusade awaits their report before moving.
Perhaps it would have been better had the
Paradise been found a little earlier, before the
movement was quite so far advanced. The
leaders are now too deeply committed to draw
back with any semblance of dignity, and if the
looked-for Eden can't be discovered there will
be a great temptation to select the least for-
bidding chunk of desert available, and take the
risk. In any case, the prospects in southern
Argentina are not brilliant, and the choice is
comparatively restricted. The Promised Land
was the ancient sea-bottom of the Atlantic
before the Argentine was heaved up out of the
waters, and the sand and gravel and shingle
that formed the floor of the old ocean are still
there in boundless profusion. It is mostly a
rainless region—even Australia can present no
such record as that of the western provinces for
cast-iron drought, but by much elaborate
irrigation with the waters of the snow-
river that flows down from the Cordil-
leras the wastes of ’ 4 lSew' Australia” may
possibly be converted into some semblance
of fertility. Also, there are saline swamps here
and there, alleged to be the last remains of the
vanished ocean, and at intervals there are miles
of glaring salt, and the climate ranges from
many degrees below freezing limit to an un-
known quantity in the shade. It is in the
home of all these varied phenomena that the
pioneers of the crusade are now alleged to be
picking their precarious way. When they have
selected the least forbidding portion of this
land of gaunt despair, and got their title-deeds
from the Government—if the Government lasts
long enough to give them, and doesn’t change
its mind, and provided the deeds are of any
practical value after they are procured, and
assuming that the concession isn’t revoked by
some subsequent Government, or revolutionary
committee, or junta, or dictator, and that the
Indians, who put in a loose and general claim
all the Waste lands of the Confederation,
don’t stand off the settlers with clubs and
violence —then the first stages of the work will
be practically complete,
* * »
There is a precarious and stormy element
about Argentine politics which makes the in-
section of tiie above-mentioned saving clauses
eminently advisable. At present there is a
temporary hill in the general tumult and
desolation, but the Id,story of La Plata, ever
since the beginning of its independence, lias
been so wildly riotous, that a continuance of
peace is hardly to be hoped for. The free-
dom of Argentina began with the elec-
tion of President Paykidon in 1816, where-
upon Abtigas at once commenced the
inevitable insurrection, and the Brazilians inter-
fered to suppress him, and Paykidon “went
foi both piii'ties in a wild-cat struggle
which lasted with varying fortunes for ten years.
\\ hen it was over, a new insurrection imme-
diately ensued, and President Dorrego was
captm ed and shot without ceremony. Plis suc-
cessor, Rosas, proceeded to avenge his death,
and hung all sorts and Conditions of men pro-
miscuously for ten years, till the French inter-
vened. A fresh insurrection arose after their
departure, but was promptly suppressed, and
the leader hanged or otherwise disposed of.
ihen Rosas raged for twelve years more, and
slaughtered, with or without legal formality,
night and day ; he became a shrieking maniac in
Ins old age, and all the land was filled with blood
and murder and bones and sudden death. The
British endeavoured to overset him, but failed ;
and, finally, the Brazilians poured down on the
distracted country and drove the aged horror
into exile. Urquiza followed him, and Alsina
started the usual insurrection; Lagos com-
menced a second insurrection and suppressed
Alsina. and Pacheco and Pintos started a
third rebellion ; and, finally, all the assorted
rebellions met in one grand crash, and the
Argentine burst up into an assortment of ruins.
These ruins fought with each other madly and
promiscuously for ten years more until the
armies on all sides were nearly exterminated,
and then the Confederation re-united and began
afresh. °
* * • *
Naturally, the first proceeding was to start a
new war, and Argentina and Brazil entered
upon a hideous six years’ conflict with Para-
guay. It is the only war of modern times in
which the whole male population of a country
was practically extinguished ; Paraguay is now
a nation of women and ruins and ghastly
memories, and men are almost as soaree as
potatoes on a gallows. During this struggle
the usual insurrection started in Argentina,
but after a gory campaign it was suppressed.
Another insurrection started as soon as the
former onewas finished, and raged for two
years till 18/3, when it was also extinguished
in blood and ashes and general destruction.
1 he insurrection of 1874 commenced before it
was ripe, and was wiped out in two gory
battles. And since then, except for two more
insurrections, an occasional disagreement with
Chili, a general bankruptcy and the utter
smash of almost every financial institution in the
country, one pestilence, a debt of 11170,000,000,
a species of military paralysis, consequent on the
destruction of much of the native population in
many wars and revolutions, which enables the
Indians to raid the outlying portions of the
country almost unchecked, and a general dis-
satisfaction over the conscription, Argentina
has been, comparatively speaking, at peace
* * *
Most of these insurrections were fought out
in the Eastern and Central provinces, and while
they were in progress the inhabitants of the
outlying regions scrambled, every man for him-
self. Indians, half-breeds, cowboys, and mis-
cellaneous frontier bullies took advantage of
the troubles to set up miniature republics or
dictatorships all over the country, and after a
brief and stormy reign these microscopic adven-
turers either escaped with the loot or were shot
in a counter-insurrection, A great revolt in
the provinces around the capital and several
hundred smaller revolts of two men and a dog,
scattered throughout the rest of the land, were
for many years the normal conditions of the
Confederation. But except when a dictator of
the Rosas type comes round to hang promiscu-
ously that section of the population which
failed to join him in his last successful insur-
rection, the remote and thinly-peopled regions
of Argentina are practically without any per-
manent or visible form of government. More-
over, there was only one Rosas, and there is
never likely to be another, therefore /in
these parts the Isew Australia emigrants may
be practically a law unto themselves, and if the
chronic revolution which is in the air, and the
cold, and the desolation, and the universal
hopelessness, lead them at last to split up into
factions and pursue each other with guns and
other instruments, there is no visible power to
prevent them doing so. The constitution of
New Australia is apparency built on the
assumption that brotherly love will prevail
among the settlers for ever ; there is nothing in
it about the erection of a gaol or the formation
of a penal code ; and unless hardened offenders
are marooned on the frozen wilds of Patagonia
there seems to be no provision for the mainten-
ance of any discipline whatsoever.
*. * #
The reasons which induced the Argonauts of
Queensland to select this strangely unpromising
land for their experiment seem likely to remain
an eternal mystery. There are attractions
about many of the South Sea Islands which
might induce a weary Australian, tired of
the droughts, the poverty, the Chinamen, tired
of land-grabbing, tired of the ever-increasing
struggle for existence, and of the utter rotten-
ness of a jerry-built civilisation, to attempt
founding an ide.il community somewhere amoim
the coral and the p.alm-groves. There are at
least reasonable prospects in Maorilaud, where
a democratic Government is systematically
bursting up the big estates for the benefit of
agricultural settlers, and where 50,000 acres of
average soil are worth more than 1000 square
miles of shingle and sand and salt and old, dis-
used sea-bottom in Argentina. There is also
land enough still to be obtained in the western
division of New South Wales or Queensland, in
the interior of South Australia, or in the great
western province, which is not one iota more
desolate or more remote from the nearest avail-
able market than the brightest elysium that is
likely to be obtained gratis in Argentina, and
which can be bought for much less than the cost
of the journey to that joyous land of revolution.
Barring the haze of romance that is born of
stupendous distances, there is nothing good in
New Australia which Old Australia or Maori-
land cannot offer in equal profusion. New
Australia and the New Jerusalem owe their
glories to the same cause—their remoteness.
Jhe exodus to the Paradise in Argentina is
merely another instance of the blind credulity
which, years ago, led the British Hodge to
start by hundreds for another Paradise in Utah,
under the domination of Brigham Young—
which made the Scotch go forth in thousands
to colonise the fever-stricken, death-infested,
ghost - haunted swamps of Panama which
created the great emigration movements to
Brazil, to Palestine, to Uruguay, to Greenland
of all lands beneath the sun, and to any
number of other regions equally ill-fated. But
the present movement has less excuse than any
of them. Emigration is played out. There was a
time, years ago, when there was still some sem-
blance of a happy land ahead for the emigrant
who kept on “going West,” but that resource is
exhausted. There is no longer any West. The
West has brought up with a crash against the
East—the newest civilisation and the oldest
have met—the circle of the earth is complete.
It is no longer of any avail to fly from the old
enemy—Monopoly. There is no place left to
fly to. The only resource that remains is tm
stand and fight. /
The Judicial Lock-Out.
A Sydney barrister had to go ninety miles by
train the other day to find a Judge to grant an
injunction, or put a new spring in a demurrer.
The province pays seven Supreme Court Judges
to attend to the recpiirements of litigants, yet
when a Sydney suitor has a piece of legal busi-
ness to be done in haste, he must pay a barrister
to travel all the way to Sutton Forest. The
Supreme Court shutters have been put up for
the holidays, and will stay up till near the end
of February. Apparently, it takes the Judges
two months to get over Christmas. They have
all gone out of town, and the limpid stream of
justice is turned off at the meter. Time does
not run at law or in equity, and about the
only thing in a legal way that can be done
without difficulty is to commit a contempt of
court. And that, we may mention by the way,
is what the Sydney daily press has been indus-
triously doing in the very matter to which the
Sutton Forest trip related.
* * #
It is hard on Judge Owen that he should
have had to interrupt his holiday and return to
Sydney over a copyright dispute. He has done
a lot of work during the year, and is entitled
to rest. But it is harder on the people in
whose interests the legal machine is ostensibly
run, and who pay for running it, that for about
three months in the year the courts are idle.
True, a litigant during vacation may perhaps
get his wants attended to if he can discover in
what part of the country one of the judges is to
be found, and can afford to pay a lawyer to go
and beard him in his den. (It would be inter-
esting to know how much it cost to bring
Judge Owen down from Sutton Forest). Rut
again, the Judge, even when found, may refuse
to touch the work, no matter how urgent it is.
In fact, such refusals are common. And, if a
Judge does refuse, there is no way of coercing
him. The only thing to be done is to hunt up
another in the hope that lie may prove more
tractable.
* # *
Now, why should the whole community,
during what is called vacation, be put in the
position of humble petitioners to their gracious
majesties the Judges? Why should the
Judges have the power of arbitrarily set-
ting apart a great part of the year as
vacation ? And why should there be any
such thing as vacation at all ? We do
not mean to suggest that the Judges should
be deprived of their holidays. Withouftmore
information on the subject than we possess,
we do not even say that their allowance
of holidays is excessive. It is said, and it
may be true, that some of the occupants of
the N.S.W. Supreme Court Bench spend a
considerable part of vacation in disposing of
arrears of work. However that may be, so
long as the Court sits, they have a good deal to
do, and they have to do it under conditions that
are a standing disgrace to the province. No
man, if he had the constitution of an ostrich,
should be expected to do a day’s work in the
filthy atmosphere of some of the Sydney
courts. A Judge who does work there deserves
a holiday when he gets it. But it is quite
possible to give the Judges their holidays with-
out laying up all the legal machinery of the
country for months at a time. When Railway -
Commissioner Eddy went off to England it
wasn’t found necessary to close the railway-
lines till he came back. We don’t need to burn
down a house to roast a pig.
* * #
There is no reason on earth why the Supreme
Courts of all the provinces should not remain
open all the year round. Except on certain
specified holidays you can go to the Post-office
and buy stamps on any day in the year. And
there should be precisely the same facilities for
getting from the Supreme Court the commodity
on sale there. Why not? There is no more
divinity about a Supreme Court Judge than
about the other Government official who sells
postage-stamps. If a great department like
the Post-office can so arrange its work tlmt the
officials can all get their annual holiday in
rotation, without interfering with the discharge
of their public duties, surely seven Judges have
intelligence enough among them to make a
similar arrangement. If they have not, then
the power of making the arrangements should
be taken out of their hands.
• * •
The law’s delays are bad enough without the
aggravation of vacations. It takes a creditor
several months to recover a simple debt at law
under the most favourable circumstances. There
are cases in New South Wales Supreme Court,
of the most ordinary type, that were com-
menced in ’9l, and are” ~still awaiting final
decision. Some of the more complex even go
back beyond the memory of man. The vaca-
tion nuisance, of course, doesn’t account for
more than a very small proportion of the pre-
posterous and costly delay. The legal system
is so rotten with abuses, that singling out any
particular one for admiration seems a futile
nismess enough; but this happens to be an
abuse that stands isolated, and can be dealt
with on its own merits.
• # *
It may be remarked that, so far as the Judges
themselves are concerned, they do not seem
possessed of any strong desire to get awav
together. They don’t spend their vacation
playing skittles in the same back yard. The
supreme joy of the half-yearly spell, with some
ot them at any rate, must be the chance of
escaping the unwelcome propinquity imposed
jy sittings in Banco. When we see Judge
n.ANk and Judge Dash walking down the
s ieet arm-in-arm we shall commence to look
out for a comfortable place to spend the millen-
nium. So that, if the Judges’ inclinations are
to be regarded, the rotatory holiday would
probably lie a decided advantage. It would
enable Ins Honor to go fishing without having
to post his tipstaff on an adjacent rock to give
warning of the approach of any invading bar-
rister with a hungry glare in his eye and a brief
under his arm,
* « «
Not that from The Bulletin’s point of .view-
it matters whether the Judges like the change
or , , The Supreme Court has not been-
es ablished for the benefit of the men who sit
on the Bench. Their business is to do the work
t ley are paid to do, and to do it in the wav
that meets best the interests of the public who
pay them. If they are not paid enough for
doing it in that way, give them more. If they
are overworked, appoint another Judge, or a
couple, or half-a-dozen more. If they are
incapable of doing it, or won’t, get someone
who will. However it is managed, the Court
ought to be open for the despatch of business,
except on bank holidays, day in and day out all
through the year.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Irish Outrage.
Tins is the season when the Horrible Fenian
Outrage is in full bloom in Ireland, and the
dynamiter is abroad. Until the recent bomb-
explosion at Dublin, there was just one homi-
cide in that distressful land during nearly
twelve months, and the Tory press promptly
cabled it all over the earth' with the garish
heading, “Terrible Agrarian Murder inlreland!”
As it chanced, it proved to be only a case where
a policeman, employed in keeping up the Tory
regime and enforcing the Coercion Act, went
mad and ran amok, but though this was duly
explained afterwards (in small type), the great
majority of the community, whose ideas are
always hazy, only remembers the incident
as another proof that the brutal Celt wants to
be kept down with an iron hand. In Fmgland,
during same twelve months, no less
than 150 murderers were brought to trial
and more than 200 murders were committed,
yet there was no Coercion Act, no frenzied out-
cry that the English nation wanted to be Kept
Down by martial law, no constant eruption of
cablegrams about the horrible outrage in
England—nothing. The English and Scotch,
as demonstrated by their own criminal statistics,
are, and have been for 30 years, the most
criminal, the Irish the least criminal, section of
the British community, and the gap between
the two races keeps steadily widening. Yet
the instant a Dublin policeman is killed—
though there is absolutely no evidence to show
by whom—that sickening hypocrite, the Bull
at the other end of the electric cable,
sends forth the old, old story about the “ Hor-
rible Outrage in Ireland.” And, meanwhile,
the horrible outrage in England only arrives
slowly by post, and when the blood-spattered
English paper arrives with its long list of sordid
horrors, no one seems to take any special notice
of it. I here is a murder in almost every
column of the English weekly—some hideous
story of trampled brains and caved-in bones
and squashed flesh and blood—and yet it all
passes comparatively unnoticed. The Austra-
lian editor is too busy faking up his leading
article about the new “outbreak” in Ireland
that he has no time to notice such trifles.
Glassey's Programme.
Ihe following is alleged to be the programme
on which the Queensland Labour-party intends
to contest the coming general election ;
An Australian Republic, State ownership of the mines
a minimum wage of £3 per week for miners, with a maxi-
mum of 44 hours’ work, a land tax, increase of the pas-
toral rents, State-aided settlement, substitution of
volunteers for the present naval and military system
radical changes in the Railway Department 'and Civil
Service, &c., and the liberation of the strike prisoners
who shall be compensated in part by money deducted
from the salary of the Judge who sentenced them.
The above programme is supposed to have been
drafted by Mr. Glassey, and The Bulletin
hereby warns that gentleman that he is taking
about the shortest possible road to the final
wreckage of the Labour-party and all its pros-
pects. In the first place, the strenuous efforts
to raise the wages and shorten the working
hours of the miners only, while other toilers
whose hours are far longer and whose wages are
much lower are altogether neglected, looks
so like an unscrupulous pandering to that
section of labour which can give a big, solid,
commanding vote, and a brutal disregard of the
sections which can’t do so, that it will excite
general disgust. The all-round recognition of the
eight hours principle is one of the first objects of
the Australian Democracy, yet vast numbers of
workers, from the ’bus-driver down to the poor
little girl-slave of the fashionable milliner, are
still toiling from 10 to 18 hours per diem,
apparently without exciting the slightest
sympathy. These unfortunates are utterly
neglected, presumably because their suffrages
are not an appreciable influence at a general
election, and all the strength of the party is
to be devoted to reducing the miner,
who has already got down as nearly as
possible to the ideal eight hours—to a trifle less
than 7J. Also, the neglected 14-hour man is
expected to put his whole soul into the work
of securing this reduction, and if he doesn’t he
is a traitor to the cause. The fixing of miners’
wages at a £3 per week minimum—nothing is


The best part of His-tory is Her-story.
There is said to be in London an old maid
who has taken only milk with her tea since the
trial of Dr. Thomas Neill Cream.
Angry freetrader stops his subscription to
Cobargo Watch (N.S.W.): “I am not going to
pay any man £1 a year to call me a liar.”
The British Channel Tunnel scheme is
revived. All hands agree it is feasible, the design
having emanated from Thome de Gamond, French
engineer, 60 years ago. The tunnel can be put
through the chalk for eight millions sterling, while
the Channel Bridge would cost, probably, 20
millions.
said by the way, about any legal minimum for
the other workers, the ones whose votes are so
few as to be hardly worth having, or the
females who have no votes at all—is not a
remedy for any existing evil ; what is wanted
is co-operation, so that the miners shall seeme
the profits which they themselves produce,
whether these profits are £4O a week or ss.
The release of the unionist prisoners is a strictly
reasonable demand, but the idea of compen-
sating them out of the Judge’s salary is a paltry
and pettifogging revenge, utterly unworthy of
sensible men. No such democrats as Grey
or Higinbotham would have proposed to waste
time and energy over so miserable a figment
of personal malice. The urgent necessity for a
big-brained Democratic leader was never so
plainly demonstrated before; the party whose
programme, so far from attracting converts, is
calculated to repel half its old-time adherents,
is in a bad way.
Wanted.
What do we need in our midst to-day,
In this world of fraud and cant—
No matter the part or the game we play—
Say, what do <ve chiefly want ?
Not fight and skite, and the false delight
Of winning a gilded fame,
’But an eye to choose ’twixt wrong and right
And a moderate sense of shame.
In the merchants’ mart and the social dance
One hears the accursed tale—
■“ We should do the same (if we got the chance) ”
As the robber who cheats a gaol.
'The lesson that probity proves the fool,
And trickery takes no blame,
Is dinned in the ears of lads from school
Till it deadens their sense of shame.
'Theibankrupt’s cheek would scorn to blush
For the schedule he gaily files;
No coin has he, but his wife is “ flush,”
And sassiety simply smiles.
The Minister tells with official tongue
His lies so absurdly lame ;
For a rooster perched on his heap of dung
Has a livelier sense of shame.
Once white was white and black was black,
Our grandmothers used to say ;
Now white is “green” in our world, alack !
And black, at its worst, is gray.
The wise are rogues, and men are cranks
Who work for an honoured name,
Whilst the gamblers break their country’s banks
With no shadow of sense of shame.
'Great Heaven, supply the pressing need
Of a land where Corruption’s king,
■ And give us a new and a cleaner creed,
And a song of new hope to sing - ;
Breathe on poor Honesty’s feeble spark,
And fan it again to flame,
And teach us to turn from the way that’s dark
With a moderate sense of shame.
Melbourne.
E.F.
A Voice from Queensland.
‘“Tom Farmer” writes to The Bulletin as
follows:
Your leading article, “The Kanaka Paradise. By Bull's
'Daughter,” in your last issue, is a most unfair and un-
'truthful production. What does the writer of that
article know of Kanakas more than Times’ ; has he ever
seen a Kanaka? Has he ever been on a plantation ? Has
! heever been on a labour vessel? Can he speak any of
the native dialects? It strikes me that the writer of this
(piece of “ bosh ” is a person who writes for his “screw,”
'not for the good of mankind. Those are the sort of
'articles that destroy your paper’s usefulness. No matter
ffiow clever you may write, unless you are writing the
•truth its of no account. Kindly send author of articles
'round -sugar plantations, give him a holiday to
'visit 'the 'districts, let him visit every sugar
iplantation iin (Queensland, not the show ones only.
Let 'him €toy ion 'the worst-conducted ones he finds, and
Uhen'lat him wrlte the truth, the whole truth, and, mark,
JNothino hut the truth. We are all Democrats in these
(colonies, but when your paper descends to print (without
Vcnowing, perhaps) the most bare-faced lies against a large
section of Queensland’s best men, then we feel inclined to
say, no more Bulletin. I am a man who has to work for
his living, but I reckon I know something of the Kanaka
trade, and I tell you your article is rot.
Bulletin hereby invites this foaming
(Correspondent to write again and explain
Whici) statement in jthe article alluded to
|he wishes jtp deny. So far he has merely
ehriekej large, without specifically refut-
ing one single assertion. With regard to his
questions they are easily answered. One of the
writers—for this particular article happened to
be really a joint production—who has so aroused
Mr. Farmer’s bile has seen some hundreds of
Kanakas, and has been on many plantations.
The other writer was for a long while in the
employment of a Queensland firm which owned
ships and imported Kanakas in the good old
days. He received the loud-mouthed hue?
cancers when they returned from a cruise, and
sold firearms to them—they were always craving
for lots of cartridges before they started on a
new voyage ; and he lived at the same hotel
with them and heard their stories when they
were drunk and also when they were sober ;
and he resided with and had a wide and inti-
mate acquaintance among those rum-soaked
hnpersonations of bribery and corruption, the
Government Agents, and was accustomed to
hear them repent and confess their sins when-
ever they were sobering up from the inevitable
shore orgies, and getting ready for sea again.
Likewise he has been to sea in a slaver—from
Queensland to Havannah Harbour—and is still
in constant communication with old friends
long located in the South Seas where the gentle
blaekbirder doth graze. The facts that are not
altogether within the writers’ knowledge, come
from the Queensland mortality returns, from
Griffith’s speeches, from the official leprosy
statistics, and other equally reliable sources.
And just here a few items from the expurgated
official log of the latest slaver (which returned
to Australia last week) are pleasantly instruc-
tive. :
On November 10 Jimmy Bonn, a return, who had been
many years in Queensland, was deliberately shot by his
people shortly after being landed on t lie island of Patna,
and in sight of the boats Whilst recruiting at
Aoba, and with good promise of success, the Mary
Henderson, of Sydney, Captain M'Lkod, a vessel engaged
in copra trading, came into the harbor, and shortly after
wards the natives were in a h-Ipless state of intoxication.
The result was that the Government agent [This illustra-
tion of new-born blackbirding self-abnegation may or may
not be founded on fact, but anyhow the story is purely an
exparte one.—Ed. B.] refused further recruiting. On the
29th the boats were fired at from behind an ambush by
the natives on the weather side of Mallioolo. The place is
a narrow inlet, hemmed i i cn three sides by banks, and
as the boats were unde, way they were subjected to a
cross fire and a raking fire from astern. The boat’s crew
returned the fire, but were unable to ascertain with what
result, as their assailants were in hiding behind boulders
and trees. Fortunately no one in the boats was struck.
The supposition is that the attack was made on account
of a refusal t) supply the natives with rifles. A few days
previously a French cutter had visited the spot and re-
cruited 17 boys, giving in exchange Snider rifles and cart-
ridges, and, as showing how very anxious the natives
were to possess cartridges, the mate of the Foam says
that at Tanna he was offered a £1 note in exchange for
10 of them. Three deaths occurred amongst the returns,
but these were boys who were put on board in a very
sickly condition.
One murder, one free-fight with guns, three
deaths ! How will the report read when the
crew get drunk and start to fill in the pic-
turesque details? And, by-the-bye, when Mr.
Farmer writes again, will he kindly explain
what he knows about the business, for, so far,
he doesn’t even show that he knows anything?
♦
The late George Higinbotham’s desire for a
private funeral sprang, doubtless, from his con-
tempt for the class of men who would inevit-
ably “ represent ” Victoria at the public
obsequies of a Chief Justice. The idea of being
followed to the grave by a gang of blatant
politicians, and lowered to his last resting-place
in the presence of disreputable officers of the
State, was so repugnant to the honest lawyer
that he imposed upon his family the duty of
burying him in the most simple and secret
manner possible. Prosaic admirers of the dead
patriot’s life and works can easily imagine
that he may sleep the better for not having had
his pall borne, or his coffin sighed over, by the
creatures who would fain have “ starred ” in
the valedictory scene. And all who possess
any sense of the eternal fitness of things will
approve of the arrangement which prevented
the corrupt fraternity of leading Victorians,
commonly known as the Friends of Fraud, from
figuring in the press as friends of the incor-
ruptible George Higinbotham.
It is irritating to find newspaper drivellers
coupling the names of Higinbotham and General
Gordon. “In many aspects of his character
the late Chief Justice resembled the Hero of
Khartoum,” &c,, &c., bleats the conventional
ass who totters into print whenever a famous
man dies. This kind of fiction gets repeated
until it passes muster as a fact, and yet the
difference between Higinbotham and Gordon
was about as wide as human nature would allow
it to be. The one was a clear-headed Judge
who wouldn’t willingly hurt a fly, and never
obtruded his piety into public life. The other
was a cranky soldier of fortune, who went
about with a Bible in one hand and a sword in
the other, butchering Chinamen and black-
fellows in a chronic state of religious mania.
Gordon’s professed desire to serve his country
never fitted in with his fighting for the Emperor
of China, anyway. Leaving that incident of
his wild career out of the question, the simple
distinction between lunacy and sanity separates
the mental characteristics of the two men. The
proposal to honour Judge Higinbotham’s
memory with a statue “similar to General
Gordon’s,” reminds us that the monument of
Melbourne’s hysteria ought to be carted away,
and a figure of the real hero erected in its
place.
The Australian Record, a church paper,
rises indignantly to refute Labouciiere’s asser-
tion that the Anglican Bishop of Sydney,
Bishop S. Smith, the Cabmen’s Benefactor, is
overpaid with a salary of £4OOO per annum.
It sets about the job in a woefully clumsy
fashion, and does a lot of damage. For
instance :
The stipend of the Primate is a little over £3OOO a-year.
Considering'the sums gained by the heads of other pro-
fessions, this amount is not at all too much.
According to this the Primate’s job is only a
“profession he “professes ” to have faith in
a glorious resurrection and all the rest of it,
but it is a mere matter of business, and he
must be paid as much for doing it as be could
make in any common, sinful, soul-destroying
trade, or else he’ll throw it up ! It is greatly a
question of cash ; the bright and shining pros-
pect of the New Jerusalem doesn’t count for
much in the calculation, and he hasn’t enough
faith to abate one solitary coin for the harp
and the crown and the rest of the golden
future. Bishop Smith has had several mis-
fortunes in Australia, but his defence by the
Australian Record is the worst of them all.
Melbourne Evening Standard boils over
about the depravity of a Townsville (Q.) citizen,
who told Premier Griffith that he “ had en-
riched himself at the expense of the country ”:
It is hardly necessary to go far back into the pages of
history to ascertain how effrontery of this kind would
have been dealt with in days of yore. For lesser gibes
and affronts men have been sent to the torture-chamber
and the gibbet, and even in latter days it is questionable
whether in either free England or republican France such
freedom of speech to the head of a Government would
pass with impunity. The Londoner who would take it
upon himself at any other than election time to so address
Mr. Gladstone, would probably make the acquaintance
of Bow-street. In Paris, the gendarmes would make very
short work of any individual who thus insulted M. Sadi
Carnot.
The Standard, in its own halting, unfinished
fashion, seems to have a yearning for the return
of these “ days of yore ” when any man who
told an unpleasant truth to the boss slave-
importer of Queensland would have been taken
away and officially skinned. It hasn’t the
courage to say so, but it yearns all the same. It
is interesting to hear the evening paper whoop
over the blessed privileges of free speech, and
at the same time to hear it yell for the thumb-
screw and the boot whenever the privilege is
exercised in a way that doesn’t suit the cast-
iron prejudice of the Contact-with-Leprosy
gang. Yet why its soul should be so harried over
Griffith it is difficult to imagine. Griffith
declared Premier MTlwratth to be a man who
robbed the State and put tho money in his
pocket, and the Standard never demanded
that he should be hanged. Lowry, of Towns-
ville, simply stated Unit Griffith “had en-
riched himself at the expanse of the country,”
which was a mild way of putting it compared
witli the infuriated but specific roar of Samuel
in the ancient times, and the Standard wants
him flayed at once.
In an Orange meeting, at the Ulster Hall,
Belfast, Francis Abigail promised that the Aus-
tralasian organisation would stand by the Irish
body when it “lined the ditches” after Home
Rule. Now, London Star wants to know how
Francis will contrive to answer the bugle-call.
Johnson, M.P.—once a poor pressman in
Adelaide, but now, as he does not forget to inform
acquaintances, the owner of eighty houses —gave
a Christmas treat to 200 children of his tenants.
Tho’ a member of the bogus National Defence
League, Johnson still retains some of his Radical
ideas, and he has made it public that “ he would
not accept a knighthood if offered to him.” We
have heard that before.
last words were, “I have
opened the book ! ” The meaning of the remark
was not exactly clear to the bystanders, however,
and nobody had the commonplace curiosity to ask
which book he referred to. A cynical writer states
that the incident reminds him of a dying friend
who said, “I shall soon be there.” A feeling of
delicacy restrained the company from enquiring
about the route.
New Year “honours” are scarce. Five
disgusted people are W. A. Zeal, President of
Victorian Legislative Council, N. Fitzgerald, of
the same House, Thomas Bent, Speaker of Vic-
torian Assembly, Jenkin Coles, the S.A. Speaker,
and John Lackey, President of N.S.W. Council.
There will probably be several Australian knights
in gaol shortly. Pending oakum contingencies,
the Colonial Office will be very careful in ladling
out its marmalade.
The new Victorian Chief Justice Madden
wears a plain gold ring bearing a name and a
date. He once dreamt he saw the Melbourne
Cup run, and that a certain number was the
winner. The race came off a day or two later,
and the doctor backed the v\ inning number of his
dream, and advised his frie ids to do likewise.
The dream was verified, and a grateful friend
presented Dr. Madden with the first ring he ever
wore.
Judge Windeyer’s confession to Lady
Sherbrooke that he “entirely” owed his success
to Bob Lowe’s “ great kindness ” to him as a boy,
is stamped with base ingratitude towards bis
bountiful country, N.S.W., which ran a Uni-
versity for his sole benefit in his teens, and billeted
him in political and judicial offices for the rest of
his life. Here we recall Macleay’s historic jibe,
when young Windeyer was as yet the only gra-
duate of the young Sydney University: “We
have spent =£60,000 on a University, and that ”
pointing to Windeyer—“is what we have got for
it.”
A memorial tablet in Derry Cathedral
testifies to the dutiful life of Judge Higinbotham’s
brother Robert, who died some years ago. Robert
Higinbotham was the clergyman of the family,
known to Australia only by his epitaph ;
Down through our crowded lanes and closer streets,
O friend, how beautiful thy footsteps were ;
When through the fever’s waves of fire they trod,
A form was with thee like the son of God ;
’Twas hut one step for those victorious feet
From their day’s walk into the golden street;
And they who watched that walk so bright and brief
Have marked this marble with their hope and grief.
The late Chief Justice Higinbotham (writes
a Bulletin correspondent) was a “ tigerish ”
worker. He once said he would sit on Sunday if
necessary, and he used to infuriate the Bar by
sitting late on Saturday. When Clarence Whistler,
the wrestler, made his first appearance in Mel-
bourne on a Saturday, the industrious Chief Jus-
tice, who happened to be hearing a big ease in
which Dr. Madden was appearing, said he would
sit till four o’clock. “Surely, your Honor,” ex-
postulated Dr. Madden, “you would not deprive
us of seeing the great Mr. Whistler !” The Court
adjourned early.
“Demos”: “I only had the honour of
speaking to Higinbotham once, and it was whilst
reporting the inquest on his brother, the railway-
engineer, in his Brighton house—Tom Higin-
botham was a bachelor, and died suddenly even
as his great brother has just done. I said to the
Chief Justice, ‘I have been reading over your
speeches of the past, in Hansard, with delight.’
He answered, ‘You could not do anything more
unprofitable.’ Then I said, ‘Liberalism is beaten.’
He replied, ‘ I am sorry to hear any man say so,
and would be sorry to believe it.’ I asked him to
show me his library and he pointed to a small
book-case, containing only about 50 books.
J. J. Casey might have had the ghost of a
show for the Victorian Chief Justiceship by stick-
ing to polities. The once aggressive little pot of
grease has long subsided into the County Court
justiciary, and has only popped his head up once
since he got there, when he had the front to
inform manager Musgrove, on a public occasion,
as to where the handsomest ballet could be got—
viz., at Frankfort. Muzzy looked like a New-
foundland dog at a pug poodle, or like Middle-
wick, the Butterman, in “ Our Boys,” when Sir
Talbot Champneys ventures to contradict him in
the assertion that the pat of butter before them is
“ Dosset.”
The late police-superintendent Winch, of
Victoria, figured in some celebrated cases in his
time. One of the latest was at Geelong 20 years
ago, where the widow of a police magistrate was
charged with falsely registering a child as that of
her late husband. She was discharged ai the
Police Court. Another was the murder of an
engineer, named Reynolds, at his office in Queen-
street, Melb., by a box of explosives. Reynolds,
on arriving one morning 17 or 18 years ago, found
a small box, addressed to him, lying on the window-
sill next his office door. When lie picked it up it
at onoe exploded and killed him. Winch got
possession of the fragments of the box and
attempted to prove that the address was in the
handwriting of one Ruperti Green, an American,
who was arrested and tried two or three times
but ultimately acquitted.
Australasian politics are in a tumbled
condition. In N.S. Wales, the Dihbs Govt,
is only left in power by reason of the divided con-
dition of the third party. In Victoria, the Shiels
party has retained office because of the fear that
any possible set of successors might be twice as
timid and three times as justice-blind. In
Queensland, chaos and a guerilla scramble, with
an election in the foreground. In S. Australia, a
Downer scratch Government that from its birth
avowed itself as only a stopgap until the
pending elections. In Maoriland, a Premier
afflicted with a sickness of which a give-and-take
mystery is made. In Tasmania, even, where
politics are a neutral-tinted trade for spending
public money, the chances are evens as to the result
of any big division. In W. Australia, a Tory
Government which has formulated a land-gift
immigration scheme that is intended to stop with
gold-fillings the hollow teeth of absentee syndi-
cates and Conservative capitalists.
CORRESPODENCE
A o notice will be taken of communications ivhich arrive
at thin office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must in every case appear on MS.
“Min,” or .something like that (Gundagai): If
you would kindly explain your explanation we would be
glad, it reads like a dictionary without an index
“ A.E. ’(Brisbane): A critic who calls actors “talented
Thespians,” is never any good. Neither is the gushful
writer who describes the sun as “Old Sol.” “Salt-
bush”: Poor hut honest verse “Nankipoo”: The
lonesome pub., the rain sloshing drearily on the roof, the
alarmed traveller lying awake with the carving-knife in
one hand and the tongs in the other, the ruffian who
crawls jn stealthily with a lewt. club—they are all as old as
the original snake fie, and as wearisome.A.P.”
(Launceston): Will consider carefully “ E.J.H.”
(Cooma): Dan O’Connor is an old and serious subject....
“P.D.” (Newcastle); We can’t see why “ Freetrade is
the hist at present,” and the Xmas pen-wiper has got
lost somewhere.. .. “Bush Lawyer”: Received with
thanks....“ Geo. P. 8.” (Wellington): How do you pro-
pose to make “jaw” rhyme with “score.” “I hit him
onthejore.” Is that it?. “H.F.G.” (Bungonia): (1)
Will use if possible. (2) Means, literally, “end of the
century.”....“ Boffin ” : Quite true. When \ 7 our best
friend comes to borrow a uw pounds it’s always quite as
likely as not that he wants the money to pay his fare
when he elopes with your wife. It’s only your very best
friod that does that kind of thing “ F.G.A.” : The
federation of the trades-unions isn’t necessarily for the
mere purpose of carrying on strikes on a larger scale.
Strikes are obsolete in any case. Federation is the way
towards co-operation “ C.S.S.” (Nowra) : Thanks...
“ Adam Strong ” : You say:—
She to whom Parkes long owes his life
(Political I mean)
Fell sick upon Australia’s shore
And death did supervene.
That s rather vague. Which of Parkes’ creditors was
taken ill on the beach, and what did he die of?.
“ Rust ” : The Bulletin still maintains that juries should
fix sentences - that when they convict they should have
the r g!it to practically say hoiv gu Ity a man is. The jury
is often a dangerous idiot, and the Judge, very frequently,
is another, but it is better to be attacked by one madman
than by two. Also, as The Bulletin has insisted over
and over again, every prisoner should have the right of
appeal. Under present conditions he is rushed by both
lunatics ai d lias no appeal “Fidelity”: They agreed
to die together, therefore he gently shoved her in and—
went home. Fidelity is built that way almost every
time.... “New Year”; Purely vegetable gush about
sweet flowerets and cows and dew “Bendable Boy ” :
Thanks W.A.” (Adelaide): The Christmas goose
should be killed with a brick, not raced to
death in that inhuman and diffuse fashion
“Euchre ” : If you don’t condense by 95 per cent, you’ll
never see yourself in print in this paper “Boffin”:
Holland story moss-grown ; may use the other.
“Wager”: We know of nothing to prevent a N.S.W.
police-sergeant owning stock or town-property “J.
Rob.” (Tim., M.L.): An attenuation of the sentiment
“ Laugh, and the world laughs with you ; weep, and you
wet p alone.”. .. “ Edo.” : Victoria is only Scotched—not
ki11ed....“ Yeldeh ”: The two you name are all right;
but we trust none of the others “ Horizontal Scrub ” :
Good. Name and address, please . ..“A.H.H.”: Mow-
bray Morris, not Gordon, wrote “ A Voice from the Bush."
Morris is still alive, in London. “Times office” would
find him. (2) The poem is complete as it stands in the
authorised editions of Byron’s works—so far as we have
ever heard —“Jacob Faithful”: Thanks... “X.Y.Z.”
(N.Q.): Good enough... “A Reader of B. ”: Already
noticed... “F.W.”: One merely obscene; the others
hoary. ..“Robert Hap.”: Ancient idea....“ Disciple ”:
Thanks “Lachlan Cruiser”: An old friend in slops.
....“James M.” (Nar., N.S.W.); Excellent.Eko ” :
It is a popular belief, common to perhaps 90 per cent, of
the uneducated, that to meddle with a body, whether it
be that of a completed or an unconsummated suicide, is a
felony !.... “ Whip ” : Been done so often “ Peter B.”:
“Bob’s Little Joke” won’t d 0.... “The Breaker”:
Letter for you posted to Walgett . ..“Old Sydney ” :
Thanks for your correction—it was Neatby, not Neatly,
who was skipper of the old Duncan Dunbar. We knew
that, but we didn’t write neatly “Scandalous Jack”
(S. Vale): You ask us to tell you “ whether you have any
chance of ever becoming a poet ?” After reading “ Tom’s
Take-down,” we reply; Not in this paper, dear boy. Try
Sydney Mail or the Down and Guaitree Jernil, where the
literature is really high-toned. How either of 'em would
snap at this !
Now, he was a chap who was well-known all thro’,
And he booked his pony for this annual race ;
He didn’t have an idea what she could do,
And he nominated with a smile on his face.
.... “J.C.” (Sydney): You say “If you require either
prose or poetry, once a week, on any specified subject, I
shall do my best to supply you.” just as if we were deal-
ing in dozens of calves’ heads or large quantities of tripe
and onions. You remind us of the Maoriland novelist,
“ Gilbert Rock,” an attorney, who demanded the imposi-
tion of a prohibitive duty on imported literature, as he
was prepared to fully supply the local market ‘ H. A.
Flower ” : We print it on the presumption that it has not
previously appeared “Adam Strong”: True, but
the ground was covered by “Price Warung’a” eloquent
article on Higinbotham last week “ E.0.K.” : There
is no such word in French as “ soubriquet.”....“ J.F.H.”:
One account says that the Institute of Journalists is pro-
gressing well ; your version is that 126 out of 142 of its
members had not, at a late date, paid their subscriptions.
Which is correct? .. “ Lolo ” : The Earl of Euston is the
man known in Australia years ago as Colonel Fitzroy, and
associate to Chief Justice Way (S.A.) “ W.” (Rock):
We dislike anything headed ‘ O Tempora ! O Mores!”
It always reminds us too much of W. 11. L. Bailey in his
most palmy Cooktown days.. . “J.F.S.”: You have very
bad judgment. If we sang our song according to your
key note we would soon be in gaol or thereabouts.
Sketches returned... "T.S.R.” (M. 8.); Many thanks. .
“W.H.T.”: “Booze” may tie slang, but it is “a good
old English ” word.... “ P.M.” ; Pardon us for saying so,
but your “Grave Wreath” is onlv on the level of the
ordinary obituary advt— “Lolo”: We do our best to
avoid such tilings. If we reprint, we acknowledge, but
the keenest watchfulness is not an absolute safeguard
against the unblushing literary prig. Tom
Farmer ” : We do not profess Polynesian linguis-
tic accomplishments, but we have at our elbow
the best Polynesian linguist in Australia, who,
moreover, knows as much ah ut the black-labour trade as
any man living, and was for years supercargo to the
finest specimen of a pirate who ever sailed the South
Seas. We refer to Bully Hayes . .“F. Keane”: Yes,
that was it. Easy way of making money, isn’t it?
“Woodaddcr”: We don’t remember the story “The
Pauper ”: You see, we don’t always choose delicate
ground, but you invariably do so. “ Then do I Sin ?” and
“ B. & F.” are both malodorous.


THE BEST COMPANY IS THE COMPANY WHICH DOES THE MOST GOOD.
Over SIXTY-EIGHT MILLIONS Sterling paid to Policy-holders in Forty-nine Years
—BY—
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
Funds Exceed £33,150,000.
The Wealthiest Life Company in the World. Purely Mutual. All Pi of!ts paid to Policy-
holders. Bonuses larger than in any other company. Send particulars as to date of birth, and
we will forward you an illustration of the benefits to be obtained under modern forms of life and
investment assurances, K\ which this Company cannot be excelled. Claims in Australia paid
immediately upon receipt of satisfactory proofs. Policies current at any of the Company’s
agencies throughout the world.
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager for Australia.
Principal Agency: ... ... 131 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
BRANCHES: 473 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE: 223 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
Australian wines arc rapidly superseding
the imported wines, and on tlicir excellent value
they should. We have, Seen wines at Is., Is. Gd.,
and up to 3s. GcL. a.jtypttle, bearing the Boar’s
Head brand, that theVnost fastidious connoisseur
could not object to. Messrs. Innes and Co., of
Sydney, have revolution, tiie wine trade with
their hne Boar’s Heao brand of wines.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “Falka."
Her Majesty’s “ Blue Beard.”
Lyceum “ Little Red Riding Hood.’
Opera House Harry Rickards.
Carrington Grounds Fillis’ Circus.
York Street Rink Wirth’s Colossal Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Forty Thieves.”
Royal “ Babes in the Wood.”
Opera House “Fritz.”
Some time last week a violent compromise
broke out between Miss Clara Merivale and
George Rignold, and the iron hoof of oppression
having been removed the former commenced her
season at Sydney Royal on Saturday night with
“Falka.” The Royal, in its new guise, looks
better than it ever did before, and a vigorous
effort has evidently been made to place it on a
level with the magnificence of the Lyceum, and
to extinguish all smaller rivals. It is decorated in
non-assertive colours, and through the absence of
glaring hues it looks cool and refreshing, like a
great shandygaff in a thirsty land. The drop-
scene represents a range of splintered blue moun-
tains stacked up against the clouds, a Chinese city
slumbering beside a placid harbour, and in the
foreground, outside the bar, a junk and two sam-
pans labouring furiously in a tempestuous sea
with the pig-tails of the crew standing out
horizontally against the sky. The management
has done its best to make “ Falka ” worthy of its
surroundings, and has met with a fair amount of
success. The opera is constructed out of rather
scanty materials, being mostly based on a girl who
is disguised as a boy, a boy who is disguised as a
girl, a young nobleman disguised as a waiter, a
Hungarian magnate disguised in drink, a huge,
greasy, gluttonous monk who is always burying
his inflamed countenance in victuals and drink, a
bandit and his sister, and a chorus. And the
troubles of these people arise out of the fact that
the young nobleman has been summoned from a
humble billet as a school teacher to assume a lofty
station, but has to pass himself off as a flunkey in
his own ancestral castle because he has committed
a breach of promise with the bandit’s sister, and
is afraid of being carved up; while his sister, who
has eloped from a convent, personates him
and orders him about ; and his sister’s lover
is captured by the drinky monk in her stead, and
compelled to get into a misfit skirt and go back
with him to the nunnery, where he rises in revolt
and scares seven years growth out of an eminently
respectable ladies’ seminary.
• # #
There are patches of really beautiful music
in the show, and the aggregate brain-power of the
company is considerable. Miss Clara Merivale is
an attractive Falka, especially in military uniform;
her song “ ’Tis Eventide,” in particular, is a very
fine performance, and throughout she makes Falka
a sweet and kissable school-girl of the olden
time. All the same, she is a lamentably bad
shot with a property vegetable, and can’t hit
a disguised nobleman at two yards range.
She certainly should roll the tomato in-
stead of throwing it. Miss Josephine Deakin acts
at least equally well, and her song, “There
was no ray of light,” rendered in a clear and
liquid voice, is very artistic. This pretty little
lady has the blessed advantage of always being
audible, whereas the a verage songstress might sing
a price-lut of agricultural implements without
anyone being the wiser. A certain Arthur Hunter,
alleged to be recently imported from England,
perpetrates the huge burlesque brigand Boleslaa,
and is one of the two really funny men of the
company (another individual mistakes himself for
the other funny man, but that is his own error).
He has a melodious voice and a murderous
arsenal of weapons. Brother Pelican, played
by Henry Hodson, is the other funny man, and
is obviously stuffed with a spring mattress. Mr.
C. Leumane is the man who supposes himself to
be wildly comic, wherein he suffers from a delu-
sion, being only an over-acted burlesque; and
Messrs. Allen and Leopold and Miss Ada Conroy
fill various orifices, where the cold blast of
criticism might otherwise whistle through and
afflict the opera with the rheumatism of public
disapprobation. The scenery is excellent, and a
young lady who does nothing in particular bills
herself as “Miss Lilly Langtry.”
#♦ » *
Sydney Garrick, which hasn’t been pros-
pering of late, closed up on Monday night, under
depressing circumstances. Nobody ever quite
knew how sad “ Pink Dominoes ” could be made
to appear until Fred B. Norton’s company pro-
duced it in all its profound solemnity, and his com-
pany marched heavily around, and hid under tables,
and concealed themselves in side-rooms, with a
cold, business-like air which suggested that they
were the latter-end of a ten-days walking-match.
The advertisement was the only thing which kept
up its pecker to the bitter end ; when the show
broke up, the newspapers had the announcement
of a “glorious, surprising, and hilarious success,”
still standing. This sort of thing has been done
so often, however, that the bluff has ceased to pay
dividends. If some manager who is running a
downhill show would have sufficient originality
to advertise that his house is the emptiest one
in the city, and that the takings up to date
haven’t paid the gas-bill, The Bulletin firmly
believes that the refreshing truthfulness of the
statement would bring a crowd along immediately.
** * *
Wirth’s Circus, a strong combination which
appeals eloquently to a horse-loving community,
still holds possession of York-street rink, Sydney,
and gets liberal support. Governor Jersey lends
his countenance to the show on Monday, 16th
inst. The management is understood to have
made a liberal offer to Premier Dibhs to induce
him to prohibit something and afterwards with-
draw the prohibition under extreme pressure, but
that flinty politician refuses to do business.
* * * *-
“Tommy” Hudson, of the well-known
“ Surprise Party ” —whoso last appearance in
Sydney was at the dead-and-gone Queen’s Theatre,
eleven years ago—commences a two weeks’ season
at the Garrick on 28th January.
** * *
Other Sydney entertainments, consisting
of two pantomimes, one Shakespearean comedy,
anothercircus, twoaquariums, one Harry Rickards,
and a varied assortment of mixed nigger minstrel
exhibitions present very few new features. In the
struggle between the two pantomimes, the Lyceum
is getting distinctly ahead, the melancholy of the
rival shriek having begun to eat into the public soul.
The Shakespearean show at the Criterion is doing a
business which is calculated to make the ancient
dramatist turn over in his grave as he reflects that
his copyright, if he ever had one, ran out more
than two centuries ago, and his ghost can’t collect
the royalties. Meston’s corrobboree has been
stopped at the School of Arts, the howls of his
untamed savages having scared the lady-sub-
scribers and led them to imagine that thecompany
was about to break loose, therefore the natives
now howl at the Bondi Aquarium only. Also,
Mr. Meston wishes it un-
derstood that it was not he
who delivered an inaudible
address and wore his pants
turned up at the feet at
Bondi, as asserted last
week by “ Sappho.” That
lady having gone to Tas-
mania for a holiday her
letter doesn’t appear this
week, and the dramatic
critic apologises on her
account.
*» * *
We give herewith a
portrait of Mile. Schera-
zade (Mrs. Russell), the
fascinating lion-tamer of
Fillis’ Circus, who has
added to her reputation as
a subduer of wild beasts
by taming the present
N.S.W. Premier. The re-
doubtable Sir Dibbs, ap-
parently on the represen-
tations of a Ministerial
colleague of his who had
taken to the circus a lady
who was appalled to faint-
ing-pitch by the daring
exhibition of the Schera-
zade, issued an order pro-
hibiting the performance.
However, the interdict did
not last long, for Madame,
having induced the Premier
to attend a private exhibi-
tion at the circus, con-
vinced him (so he says—a
man must have some excuse
for turning himself inside
out) that the danger of the
performance had been
greatly overstated. Mile.
Scherazade is an excellent
type of the class of woman
whose tact and resolution
have done so much for her
native country, France.
She is the wife of Captain
Russell, who shares the
dangers of the lion’s den,
and is altogether so charm-
ing a woman that it says
very little for the good
taste of her pets that
they haven’t eaten her
long ago. She has been
bitten on several occasions ; once she had her
arm badly mauled, and once a lion bit her right
through the breast, but on each occasion she
struck back, got the beast in order, and finished
the performance. She this week takes a most suc-
cessful and enthusiastic benefit, at which her new
lion, Dibbs, has promised to be present.
** * *
The prospectus of the “Prison Hulk
* Success Company, Limited,” which is published
this week, is a document containing some steep
and alarming statements. It says nothing about
the fact that the aged ruin sank in dead calm
water at such short notice that the caretaker had
only time to seize his clothes and fly for his life.
But it sets forth that the lately-submerged wreck
is “as strong as wood and iron can make her,”
is double-planked, two feet thick below the water-
line—if she were two miles thick that mysterious
sinkage still remains unaccounted for, and that
“she made no water through the bilge” on her
passage from Sydney to Melbourne. “Competent
marine experts have pronounced her perfectly safe, ”
and thecompany feelscertain thatshocan beinsured
at a very small advance on current rates ; also, a
well-known firm is willing to load her with a
cargo of wool for Chicago. What time the firm
expects her to arrive for the wool-sales isn’t
specified, but The Bulletin is of opinion that an
ocean race should be organised, the competitors to
be the Success, the Wolverene, the Vernon, the
old Manly steamer Emu, one dredge, anv Balmain
ferry-boat which happens not to be sunk, and a
certain green - and - mud - coloured craft which
coughs wearily to Pynnont and back, fare one
penny. The Bulletin hereby puts its little six-
pence on the green-and-mud-coloured boat from
Pynnont, with the Emu for a place. A com-
petent captain—Vanderdecken, we presume—has
offered his services. When the Success gets off
Cape Horn, Vanderdecken will probably get wet.
The course of pantomime runs smoother
than it did, at Melbourne Princess’s, and one
doesn’t hear of damsels weeping at the wings or
going on to dance with their hearts bowed down.
It is time, however, that the whole company
became profoundly jealous of Ali Baba’s donkey,
because the fun of the show seems to condense
itself more and more into the dumb animal afore-
said. Up goes the donkey in estimation. This
old friend, said to be the “property man” in
private life, has played the same part in former
pantos., and his performance is now so thoroughly
artistic and enjoyable, especially about the back
and near hind leg, that one begins to understand
why the ordinary actor is not a man of property.
It’s on account of him not being comic enough.
The incident likewise suggests that a good many
comedians ought to swap billets with a scene-
shifter, or give the call-boy a chance. Lonnen
works harder than ever for his Ali-money, and
shines in the reflected light of a diminutive boy
whom he has taught to sing “I’vechucked up the
push for the donah ” in much the same way
as a small sparrow chirps like its mother. This
item is making itself felt in many domestic circles
of Melbourne, where the white-haired darling of
the family plays at chewing a quid of tobacco
while he pipes his awful lay to the underfed
governess, or cocks his innocent little eye at the
lady-help. Snazelle still ruminates in the back-
ground without getting a bite at a topical song,
“BULLETIN" ENG. CO, HYDEZT.
MADAME JASIA SCHERAZADE (Li[?] Tamer).
and none of the Forty Thieves appear to be down
with the influenza. Neither is there any osten-
sible reason for these marauders forming them-
selves into the tail of a dragon that blows
fireworks from its nose, but they do this deed
religiously, notwithstanding. For the rest, the
scenery and magnificence are always there when
wanted, but the general effect leaves an aching
void in the intellect which only another Billee
Barlow could adequately fill up.
«« * «
At the Royal, a philanthropic management
has had its “attention directed to the general
depression of the times,” and has recognised the
same in a feeling manner by selling "parcels of
six tickets at reduced prices. ' Meanwhile, “The
Babes in the Wood ” keeps pace with the course
of events in the matter of localising. Somebody
throws off a seasonable joke every now and then,
and Clias. Fanning, as an assassin with an acces-
sible mouth, roars with some humour. Bella
Bashall appears to have placated the limelight
man, and the clown is happily despatched as
before. The kings and queens of England
don’t improve on acquaintance. Henry the Eighth
isn’t good enough to take the chair at a Mormon
tea fight, and any growing lad could knock out
Cneur de Lion in four rounds. In addition to
which the Reigning Sovereign has acquired a mild
stare that doesn’t harmonise with her escort of
Life Guards on ponies, and a sham warrior on a
reduced copy of a horse is but a poor thing, any-
way. On the other hand, Brunton’s transforma-
tion-scene atones for the early efforts of an infant
on a tight rope, so the pantomime, considered
from all points of view, is doing about as well as
can be expected.
** * *
Melbourne Opera House was recently the
scene of a violent attack upon the manaerement,
but the insurrection has happily subsided, and the
olive-branch waves behind the curtain as a token
of belief that the “ghost ” will walk when he can.
On Saturday night they revived “ Fritz,” wherein
Tom Buckley did his beat to produce an echo of
the late Joe Emmett in the name-part. On the
whole, Buckley might have done worse, for
although he never touched the heart, he managed
to thump a drum with considerable dexterity.
“Fritz,” too, is one of those variety dramas to
which the Opera House company can do “ample
justice.”
*- * * *
The Alexandra fulfilled its destiny by
closing the front door, a few nights since. “Lady
Audley’s Secret ” was the last bill at this estab-
lishment, and after a forlorn attempt to sell the
mystery of her life at a low scale of charges her
ladyship took up the secret and walked.
** * *
Also, the Victoria Hall has ceased to cater
for delighted audiences, and the “ Battle of
Waterloo,” a fixture of many years in Melbourne,
was to move on after Tuesday. The Gaiety and
St. George’s Hall are clutching at the shekels of
the million as heretofore, while the Australian
Natives propose holding a characteristic festival
at the Exhibition on January 26, the anniversary
of Convict Day.
** * *
Loimen is said to have been much irri-
tated and inflamed by a Bulletin paragraph,
which he took to mean that he wasn’t truly sorry
to hear of Fred. Leslie’s death. It was against a
journalistic picture of the comedian’s woe that the
scoff was directed, and the writer herewith
repeats his suggestion that the world is tired of
believing that sad, yet perfectly natural, events
call for exceptional displays of emotion in stage
life. Indeed the world is making up its mind
that an actor’s profession prohibits him from ever
being quite natural, under any circumstances,
when there are witnesses present. And the
Bulletin par was based upon the supposition
that a pressman was at hand in this instance.
Charity forbid that the sorrow of a player for the
death of a friend should be doubted ! Leslie, as
it appears, stood godfather to Lonnen’s first
child, and good fellowship existed between the
two good fellows, their rivalry was conducted in a
generous spirit, &c. Outside stage circles, how-
ever, a male adult is not prone to weep copiously
and publicly over the loss of his child’s godfather,
or to cry hysterically, “It can’t be true!” (vide
Argus report) when he hears of an unhappily
ordinary event that has recently been fore-
shadowed by cable messages in the daily journals.
While the average citizen continues to suffer the
shocks to which humanity is subject in a non-
theatrical manner, The Bulletin will still go on
remarking that theatrical expressions of anguish
are false to human nature, and unworthy of
especial notice by the public Press. If Mr.
Lonnen can detect any flaws in this calm, judicial
reasoning he must have a neye like a navvk.
At Poverty Point.
The latest about Melba is that she and a rival sonsr-
stjess, Giulia_ Ravogli, had a fight for some “floral
tributes ” behind the scenes. Each lady claimed that the
bouquets were intended for her and not for the other eat.
Big Ben Brown, the burnt-cork comedian, once of Aus-
tralia, has buried his daughter Florrie, a fine girl with a
fine voice, and the apple of big Ben’s eye.
£«ina Bouoicault is said to be a weaker actress in London
than she was in Melbourne and Sydne}'. Her parts are a
good deal weaker, anyway.
Complaints against Mrs. Langtry’s see-saw inflection of
voice are becoming more general as her glamour fades.
Fritz is revived, in a sort of way, at Melb. Opera
House. _ A singular genius was Emmet. He seemed like a
Paganini, able to ravish you with one string, and he never
palled. If you dropped.into the show for five minutes
you would stay an hour.
The old-time mansion of Lawyer Duerdin, vacated by
Melbourne Garrison Mess, is next door to where G. V.
Brooke lived, but Brooke’s villa has disappeared in a vast
yawning gap made in the Boom era, for foundations, and
it remains like a hideous quarry.
Every third man you meet in Melbourne grabs hold of
you by the arm, and tells you, as the darkest of secrets,
that Alice Lethbridge “carried on” dreadfully because
Mary VVeir danced an effective serpentine-dance on the
first night of the Princess’ panto. The story goes that
the principal dancer wouldn’t have minded if the other
lady had consented to render her performance ineffective
by certain unsatisfactory arrangements of toilette and
limelight. If this story be true, it is a touching instance
of how thoroughly a professional lady has the best
interests of the management at heart.
The London paper which badly wants to know why
Luscombe Searelle was selected to respond for the press
at an Eccentric Club dinner, instead of Haddon Chambers,
who was present, speaks of Luscombe as “ a squat, self-
assertive person, extremely doubtful about his aspirates,
and having the general appearance of a provincial shop-
keeper."
“Surely,” remarks London Figaro, “it would be worth
Haddon Chambers’ while to turn out fewer plays, but to
give them a better chance of permanency.
The “Continental ” open-air concerts have caught on
in Adelaide. The open-air idea means money in (he
summer, when people will not go inside stuffy theatres.
Harry Roberts, travelling with Bentley, in Maoriland,
was presented the other day with a “ tuatara " (lizard),
one of the big lizards extinct everywhere but on some
islets off the Maoriland coast, and sole link with the
monsters of the coal-era. In travelling he accidentally
let it loose in a hotel, and it nearly frightened to death
the landlord, who trod on it in the dark.
Fred. Appleton, with his pretty daughter, Maud, and
her perfectly beauteous husband, Inman, has been con-
ducting a troupe round Victoria. It is not always you
find the Thespian father-in-law so gracious.
Coppinall over. He advertises that, inasmuch as the
school inspectors have reported on the State school-
children being so ignorant of history, all ought to be
laken at once to see his pantomime Procession of the
Kings and Queens of England.
Fred. Leslie died just as some of the London papers
were commencing to say very nasty things about him.
For instance, said the Hawk three weeks before he passed
away:—“A more uncomfortable, unpleasant evening I
have never passed than the one I was obliged to sit out Tat
the Gaiety last Saturday night, under the huge mockery
of burlesque, opera-bouffe, or whatever else it may be
termed, as represented by the curious group over which
Mr. Fred. Leslie holds supreme sway. A more intensely
senseless performance I have never witnessed, and if, by
importing American wheezes and stage tricks, coupled
with jokes which, to say the least, are funereal, Mr.
Leslie-Torr intends to elevate the English stage, the
quicker we all adjourn to the music-hall the better will it
be for the eradication of our British spleen. That Mr.
Leslie is an excellent imitator of musical instruments no
one will gainsay, but that and an oft-repeated ‘ damn ’ on
the stage, supplemented by expressions of ‘ giddy old ox ’
and ‘giddy old mackerel,’ are not exactly the means
whereby roars of laughter might be obtained from an
intelligent audience, unless if be that that particular
audience has happened to have dined well if not wisely,”
etc.
A popular Sydney theatrical dignitary, who owns to 47,
is about to espouse a lady of 20, now the envy of all her
feminine acquaintances, young and old.
It is written Scheherazade in the “ Arabian Nights.”
Have the lions bitten off a syllable ?
Walter Bentley dined with the Governor and Dr. Julius,
the Anglican bishop, at Canterbury (M.L.) Wattie is a
pawkie loon.
There was some idea of exporting Flo Bilton, one of the
Sisters 8., for the Princess’ Pantomime.
George Leitoh and his dramatic company arc expected
to pop up at Melbourne Opera House shortly, in “ The
Prodigal Son.”
Melb. Bijou proprietary may well reflect on their greedy
policy in establishing the Gaiety under the same roof.
Francois Coppba lias a pretty little sketch of a theatrical
funeral—that of the young daughter of a well-known
melodramatic actor. The peculiar thing was that
although the profession, male and female, crowded up,
the girl had been reared in entire ignorance of the
stage, just as Triboulet, the jester, in lingo’s play,
brings up his daughter away from the Court.
The mourners included a lot of young girls, her
companions, in the company of the Virgin, at the
Convent, and they were a singular contrast to the
actresses.
R. E. Minohin, deceased director of Adelaide Zoo, took
over the gardens from Schomburgh, years ago, and
gradually secured the best collection in Australasia.
Gordon’s superb ball, t scene, Melbourne panto., is a
copy of Martin's “ Plains of Heaven.”
Mrs. Darrell leaves a little son.


D N XJ N Darlings burn a snow-white ash.
THE
NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(OUCAMSI.I* 1845)
a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
n o*l* Jammy, 150,2, it* accumulated fund amounted to £35,916,080, and its SURPLUS
lZn l n ha Z' Ul - *'? M,Uf,4S6, hein;, the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
inmavee Co. in the world. '
, <lo ° s t * lc LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world
" nclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
UOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Rev. H. B. Giles, of Oakleigh, taking
into consideration the hard times, begs to
announce that lie lias reduced the marriage-fee of
the Church of England service from d£3 3s. to
12s. Gd”. — Age advt.
Explorer David Lindsay relates how the
camels used in the recent “Elder” expedition
were, during one stage of the explorations, 24 days
Without water. No other quadruped could be
half so serviceable in waterless Australia, and the
sooner white men find out that it doesn’t take an
Afghan to handle a camel, the better.
Advt. from a recent Age : '
Will Lady take Servant in trouble, 3s. Victorian
vigilance Society, i 2 Russell-street.
Magnificent generosity on the part of the Gimlet
and Keyhole Brigade. Three whole shillings
every Saturday or barely a half-penny an hour
and her food, with the sneers of her respectable
mistress thrown in. The saints will be ruining
themselves at this rate.
Chief Justice Diginbotham had a way of
his own for dealing with the precedence difficulty,
the Victorian Speaker claimed to be the first
commoner in the country, and therefore to have
precedence of the Chief Justice at the opening l of
the Centenary Exhibition. Instead of making a
song about it, Higinbotham simply stayed away—
not even telling bis brother Judges, for fear they
should sympathise with him and also stay away,
to the detriment of the show.
Professor Morris, Higinbofcham’s son-in-
law, had to resign as Principal of Melbourne
Church of England Grammar School because he
dared to express sympathy with Professor Pear-
son, who was ousted from Madame Melba’s Pres-
byterian Ladies’ College, because of bis liberal
agrarian, and anti-squattocratic views. Now they
say another leading Melbourne preceptor has got
the happy despatch, because Democracy is perilous
to little Tallowfat.
Rich and poor smoke Gr N XJ N Darlings.
BURROUGHES
AND—
WATTS, ltd.
BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Mr Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE. LONDON.
Peter Jackson, the black man with the white heart,
has been acting on the Philadelphia stage, with a success
equal to Corbett or Sullivan.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) Morning Herald Miss Ada
Rehan now executes shirt dances d la Lottie Collins, on
the stage of Daly’s Theatre, New York, between the acts.
This is a sign of the advancement of the stage.”
Arthur Garner advertises in England that he is pre-
pared to undertake the management of a London or pro-
vincial theatre on a good circuit.
Hamlet speaks 1569 lines; lago, 1117 ; Othello, BSB ;
Lear, 770.
Damns abounded so in Haddon Chambers’ play of “ The
Old Lady” that the audience Ivsied, and at the end a
pittite shouted, “Now we give our damn.”
The U.S. “blows” about having no barmaids, but how
about its ballet ?
“Irving walks as if going over a ploughed field, with
the clods hanging to his feet.”—Critic.
Ada Demister acted Yum Yum, in the “Mikado,” at
Berlin and Vienna.
"Madame Melba is cold of temperament,” says a
London critic. Good job.
“Much Ado'about Nothing” has actually turned away
money on some occasions at Sydney “ Cri.”
W. H. Poole, who introduced the Hallos, Santley,
Patey, and Foli to Australia, brings out Antoinette Ster-
ling in April. On her return, in August, she proposes to
talTe back five Australian musicians, who will tour Britain
as an Australian concert party. The evergreens all come
to us at last.
George Barlow styles Irving, “a successful purveyor of
dramatic grocery.”
Harry Rickards intends to stay in Sydney as long as
business keeps anywhere near its present level.
Mrs. Potter and Kyrle Bellew played ten times a week
in Chicago. “No rest for the wicked.”
The press accuses Elton of overplaying Lurcher, in
“Dorothy,” at London Trafalgar. Billy’s troubles, so
long as the house is with him.
The Russian people ascribe Bernhardt's late bust
development to “patent palpitators.”
It ought not to be difficult for an expert wielder of the
long-bow to throw the boomerang.
Denis Clancy, the Sydney baritone who went to England
to study, has returned. His studies chiefly consisted in
hearing all the available talent.
Henry Bracy was 43 last Sunday, and Caron was 41 on
.Friday, while J. F. Cathcart attained his 64th year with
'93.
Harry Rickards says he did not come here from South
Africa because he wanted money. “No—l wanted it
before I got here.”
After singing three songs, Rickards was asked for
“Mrs. 'Enry ’Awkins,” the other night. He said, “I’ll
sing it if you’ll all promise to come on Sunday night—
Will you come ?” A big “Yes” went up. “Then leave
your names and addresses as you go out.” Cokum !
Jack Leete, Rickards’ brother and business manager,
has married Madame Vinceni, that very talented violinist
who is also a clever vocalist.
Agatha Tylden is Mrs. Langtry’s best performance.
“The most genuine success she has ever achieved.”
One of the saddest features of “Forty Thieves,” at
Melb. Princess’s, has been a duet between Lonnon and
Katie Barry. A couple of daily pressman, they say, took
compassion on this wretched ditty and volunteered to
“ write it up ” for the star comedian, whereupon the star
comedian graciously accepted the gratuitous verses, and
didn’t take the trouble to learn them. He and Katie
went on singing the original rubbish as before, and the
item continued to fall as fiat as ever. The moial of which
is that competent journalists shouldn’t attempt to
educate professional comic singers in “ snap,” or sense of
humour. Also, they should understand that the purfesh
in Australia, from the managements downward, objects
to the press writing anything beyond slav< ring “ notib s”
for a theatre. Garner was once heard to say that five
newspaper men were anxious to localise a certain Sydney
pantomime, but he didn’t want “any of those d d
fellows to do the work.”
The Bulletin now learns that Sydney Trades and
Labour Council did not guarantee £lOO expenses to Fillis’
Circus on the night of the Broken Hill benefit. Fillis
undertook to hand over everything in excess of actual
working expenses to the Broken Hill relief fund, but the
weather was unfavourable, the T. and L. Council (so it is
alleged) pushed the business inefficiently, and the show
didn’t realise expenses. Therefore, Fillis lost about £4O,
the Council lost £4 on advertising, and the strike fund
drew a blank. Another benefit is being arranged for
Friday.
Gigantic Grace Wixon and little Male Saqui make an
interesting couple on the Melbourne “ Block.”
Ellen Terry collects the eyeglasses of distinguished
men, beginning with —now, whom ?
Bill Holloway has engaged a man named Henry Irvin»-
to play in Tennyson’s “ Beckett.” Irving is spoken of by
Bill as an actor of some promise.
The Melbourne daily critics have scored at Professor
Marshall Hall’s expense on the subject of the interpola-
tion of two superfluous bars in Beethoven’s C Minor Sym-
phony. The Professor had previously slated Cowen for
(as he alleged) imitating the great composer by cutting
out those same bars ; and Nesbit, of the Age, proves bv a
letter from the latter to his publisher that they should
never have been printed at all and “must come out.”
There is an old chestnut regarding a conscientious Ger-
man trombone-player who spoilt the performance of a
symphony by a loud blast in the middle of a piano pas-
sage for strings only, and who excused himself to his irate
conductor by saying, “ I see he was only a squashed fly,
but he w; s dere, and so I blayed him.” The Professor
would, no doubt, have gone further and explained the
emotional significance” of the note represented by the
“ squashed fly.”
HIGINBOTHAM.
He was not born to lead
Or others to obey :
His province was in need
To indicate the way.
PAUL MELL.
An English illustrated paper, of some
’bulk, in a nutshell biography of our old friend,
Loch, refers to his Governorship of Victoria’
south Australia.
“ Society is bound to provide for the sub-
sistence of all its members, either by procuring
them occupation, or assuring the means of exist-
ence to those who are unable to work.”—Robes-
pierre.
The latest clue to the owner of the Mel-
bourne “severed limbs” consists of a rumour
about an old deceased pauper whose remains are
alleged to have gone astray on their way to the
•cemetery. The deceased was removed from the
Immigrants’ Home with a view that his bones
might be rattled away in the customary 165.-
tuneral, but it is alleged that he was neither buried
nor officially dissected, and unless lie lias been for-
gotten under the counter the world seems to have
lost track of him altogether.
More Freedom of Contract.
The subscribers to Sydney Hospital had better
keep an eye on the retrenchment party in that
institution. Ex-director Shadler writes to
the daily papers expressing his views on the
subject of cutting down expenses. He prides
himself on having formerly succeeded in getting
the resident doctors’ salaries reduced from £250
each to £IOO, and he now proposes that the
salaries shall be abolished altogether. He
says :
That these former salaries were unreasonably high is
patent from the fact that only two of the officers—[out of
four] -on the reduction coming into force—resigned, and
their places were immediately filled by very willing can-
didates.
ihe fact that only fifty per cent, of the staff
refused to submit to the cut in wages, and that
other men took their places, doesn’t prove that
the former wages were too high. It only proves
that there were cheaper doctors to be got. And
the chief end of the Sydney Hospital is not to
get its work done by cheap men. It evidently
suffers enough already from cheap directors.
Ex-director Shadler goes on :
There are no end of young graduates who are only too
glad and desirous to be associated for twelve months as
resident medical officers in a large hospital. The exten-
sive and varied experience gained by them during that
period, in addition to a twelvemonths’ gratuitous adver-
tisement, &o.
And so on. There are no end of young gradu-
ates who would be only too glad and desirous
to see ex-director Shadler break his leg, or
start an aneurism, or commence to grow a
cancer, or develope typhoid, if they stood a
chance to get the job of repairing him. But
they wouldn’t stand the chance. When the
ex-director Shadler kind of man wants a
doctor, he doesn’t trust his damaged carcase to
the sort of practitioner who is glad and desirous
to do work for nothing, for the sake of the
advertisement. Ho budding sawbones is likely
to get an extensive and varied experience at
the expense of a potentate like Shadler.
But if he is ready to work cheap, Shadler is
quite willing to let him break in his ’prentice
hand on the indigent sufferer who is compelled
to seek in a public hospital the medical skill
that the wealthy tradesman, whose letters are
inserted in the papers, can get at his own home.
Another slice :
In England, in some hospitals, the authorities demand
and obtain a premium from these young men : here we
were formerly paying £IOOO a year and free board and
quai ters, and I might also be pardoned for savin»' to
complete their education.
Just so, though it is a little mixed. In England
they do many things that ex-director Shadler
would perhaps like to see acclimatised in
Australia. Meanwhile, The Bulletin hopes
that the man who would tacitly suggest that
the sick in our hospitals should be handed
over to the tender mercies of any “young
graduate ” willing to pay a premium for the
opportunity of gaining an “ extensive and
varied experience ” and “ 12 months advertise-
ment ” at their expense, will be allowed to
remain an ear-director. We don’t want to be
so English as that, you know. We don’t want
that sort of young man in charge of a big hospi-
tal. ihe hospitals are surely not maintained as
stamping-grounds where half-trained striplings
are to slash round till they acquire skill enough
to be worthy to handle the sacred framework
of ex-director Shadler and his tribe. Who is
ex-director Shadler, anyhow ?
A gentleman, “ described as Francis
Frederick Smith (28), a doctor of medicine,”
has had a hit of bad luck. He was fined £l,
the other day, by Stipendiary Magistrate
Delohery, at the Sydney Central, for a breach
of the train by-laws prohibiting getting on or
off the cars while in motion. According to
reliable statistics, there is a daily average of
5,317 persons who jump off and scramble on to
moving trams. Everybody knows it is a
punishable offence ; and everybody knows it is
practically never punished. There are odd
exceptions. But the proportion of prosecutions
to offences is about one to half-a-million. The
prosecutions are supposed to act as a warning
against risking your life by too much hurry.
We don’t know anything about the circum-
stances of Dr. Smith’s case, but we do know
that the only thing the average prosecution is a
warning against is the reprehensible practice of
cheeking a tram-guard. If a man climbs on a
moving tram in defiance of the regulations, and
thus puts himself in the power of the conductor,
he shouldn’t proceed to be uncivil to that
gentleman. If he does, he has himself to blame
if the conductor takes a half-holiday to get level
with him. So, pending further information as
to the relations between Dr. Smith and the
official who prosecuted him, we suspend our
sympathy with the doctor.
There was an “assize ball” at Armidale
(N.S.W.) some years ago, and the Judge was
among the guests. His Honor danced exuberantly,
and it was noticed, curiously, that he invariably
chose the heaviest girls in the room. “ You seem
fond of dancing,” remarked a fair (not fairy) one,
to whom lie had been particularly attentive'
towards the end of the evening. “ Dancing ! Oh,
no, I detest ic,” was the polite replv; “but my
doctor orders me the most violent exercise, and I
never miss a chance like this; and then —there’s
the supper, you know.” The girl who had thus
been unconsciously carrying out a doctor’s pre-
scription, and innocently helping to achieve “the
most violent exercise,” was, of course, absolutely
delighted.
Beautiful ending of a love-story. “ ‘ You
may hope,’ she said softly. And then they heard
the ambulance coming.”
Chambers’ Journal credits the “ Soudan
Expedition” with having given Australians their
first important lesson in the utility of camels as a
means of transport in exploring work ! This is as
true as that the “Soudan Expedition ” made Aus-
tralia acquainted with the genus goat. Camels
were used in Yorke’s Peninsula, S. A., early in
the forties; the “Artful Dodger,” Coppin, im-
ported some into Melbourne in the fifties ; the
last Burke-Wills expedition used camels in ’CI ;
Howitt’s Relief expedition, a year later, and
John M‘Kinlay’s still later, did ditto; Sir Thomas
Elder imported into South Australia nearly 100
camels, about ’O4 ; and camels have been familiar
beasts of burden in the desert country of Aus-
tralia ever since. Apropos, thus a correspondent:
“As one practically disinterested but knowing
well the requirements of the country between the
Darling and S. A. borders, I congratulate you
upon the terse and concisely-expressed editorial
note following Mr. Dutton’s letter in your issue of
31/12/92. ‘The Afghan must go,’ but the camels
being needed will remain and increase with
demand. White men can drive them, and horses
become accustomed to them as to the railway
which frightens a horse as much as camels when
first seen. The obstacle to overcome is the pre-
judice which must be met by the promoters of any
i nnovation.— Bakblox.
Two hundred Chinese cabinet-makers have
struck work, in Melbourne, on account of a reduc-
tion of wages. The Bulletin wishes them every
just success, partly because it is a good thing that
wages should be kept up, even by a Chinaman,
and partly because it likes to see the “cheap and
reliable ” going on strike at any time. The
advantage that the Mongol enjoys over the Aus-
tralian, in the present case, is that being a China-
man is a protected industry, and being a white
man isn’t. There is a big import duty on China-
men to protect them from the competition of other
heathens, whereas there is no import duty
on white men whatsoever; therefore, when the
Chow goes on strike, it is impossible to
bring in a few hundred yellow men from
China to take his place. Just here it occurs to us
that, considering the amazing things that can be
done under Australian law, it might be worth
while, when the next stack of “assisted ” paupers
arrives in any Australian province, to get a legal
decision as to whether the white man isn’t a
Chinaman “within the meaning of the Act,” and
liable to poll-tax. The civil code is so utterly
irresponsible a thing, that there is absolutely no
certainty, until the matter is laid before the Full
Court, that an Italian or an Irishman isn’t a
Cantonese by some legal fiction, or that everything
isn’t legally something else.
“Envy,” once wrote Emerson, “is sui-
cide.” Judge Williams, in writing to the Argus
his already historical letter laying claim to the
Victorian Chief Justiceship and denouncing Dr.
Madden, who has now been sworn in to that
office, as a poor lawyer who can only have been
chosen because he is a good advocate, has practi-
cally committed self-destruction. Had Judge
Williams’ friends not been so cock-sure, he might
have gained the object of his ambition, but Pre-
miers love surprises. The best proof of Mr.
Williams’ utter incompetency to follow Higin-
botham is shown by the letter in question, wherein,
among other foolish things, he says that for 12
years he has been doing more than his duty, but,
in view of the ingratitude with which he has been
treated, he means in future to discharge only the
letter of his judicial obligations : in connection
with which one remembers that he has had within
the period named two English holiday trips; also,
that no public functionary of the highest rank can
possibly do more than his duty—it is his duty to
give his best “not calculated less or more.” The
Bulletin questions much whether the declaration
made in Mr. Williams’ letter does not afford good
grounds for demanding his resignation. Judge
Williams is an hysterical person and has made
himself ridiculous by a long course of public
snivelling over “sad” cases, alternated by the
imposition of cruel and useless flogging sentences.
He may or may not be a better lawyer than his
successful rival, Dr. Madden, but the latter may
at least be depended on to keep a level head.
It is one of the delusions which Parkes
dishes up as their natural food to the constantly-
decreasing number of his dupes and fools that he
is “ a constitutional authority ” —though since the
first diplomatist circulated his first lie and since
the first politician invented the first herring to
draw across the trail which the people should have
followed to have gained hold of their rights, no
living soul has been able to say definitely what is
a constitutional authority. Now, “as a constitu-
tional authority,” Parkes, who occasionally strikes
the bedrock of truth, lias written, so he declares
in his book, to “ a distinguished person in another
colony ” as to the impropriety of Ministers of the
Crown appointing themselves to offices of profit
such as the Agent-Generalship. Parkes’ conten-
tion briefly is—once a Minister intimates his
intention of accepting other office than Minis-
terial, in that instant he becomes Ministerially
dead; and by all law and precedent becomes dis-
qualified for further performance of Ministerial
duty. A Minister stands on a different grade
from any other person ; he cannot disassociate
himself even in thought from the ICxecntive
function of the whole Cabinet; yet it is plain
that, when Premier John Smith intimates to
colleague Bill Jones that Bill Jones can have
the Agent - Generalship when he likes, and
Bill Jones accepts, the offer is made to and
accepted by Bill Jones as a private person
and not as a Minister. But he can’t accept
as a private person, for he is a Minister ;
and, therefore, as he accepts when still holding
Ministerial office, he, ipso facto, ceases to possess
Ministerial capacity the moment he expresses his
acceptance or, what is precisely the same thing,
his intention of accepting it, and every one of his
subsequent Ministerial acts becomes consequently
invalidated. Extend the reasoning a step farther
and suppose the Minister who is offered other
office is the Premier himself, and what is the
result? The Premier ceases to have any executive
power or function; but, when the Premier becomes
Ministerially defunct it is an axiom of Parliamen-
tary procedure that his Ministry becomes defunct
with him, and the acts of the individual Ministers
succeeding his expressed intention to acceptoutside
office, are thereupon made null and void. There
is no possibility of evading this conclusion, and,
therefore, there are two, if not three, Aus-
tralian provinces which, according to the con-
stitutional authority aforesaid, are in a beautiful
old tangle. Every act done by the Munro (Vic.)
Ministry after its head had intimated his inten-
tion to accept the Agent-Generalship was invalid •
every act done by the Griffilwraith gang after its
bowelless chief had determined to shove himself on
to the Bench (at <£looo a year more than his pre-
decessor enjoyed) was ditto; and every act done
by the Dibbs Ministry after its ex-Repubhcan
chief has squared it with Sir Saul Samuel will be
the same.
The Draper’s Bill.
(For The Bulletin.)
Barker’s wife was a little, frivolous woman, with
small, regular features, fairly proportioned, and a
pair of merry eyes that lent expression to an
otherwise ordinary face. Stability of character
she utterly lacked, yet on occasions a fiery little
temper would assert itself, and sustain her resolu-
tion till the reaction sec in. A passion for pretty
dress, fostered by childish indulgence, had grown
with her years, and now proved her ruin. All
her husband’s earnings passed into a prominent
drapery establishment, and still there remained a
debit. The firm’s collector, a cheeky, dapper
little cockney, called for settlement, and, struck
at once with the apparent levity of the little
woman, saw his opportunity, and seized it.
His employers noted how regularly their account
was presented at Parker’s, and complimented the
spare Collins on his assiduity. Little by little
the bill was reduced, and finally discharged.
Meeting Parker one day. the senior partner
stopped to chat.
“ By the way, I’m sorry to have been so impor-
tunate over that little matter.”
“ What matter?” said Parker,
“Why, that account you owed us—you know,
for your wife’s millinery.”
“My wife’s millinery ! I owed you nothing,”
echoed Parker amazedly.
Oh, no, that’s all right,” quickly the senior
said, fearful of offence, and wondering inwardly if
he had the wrong man. “I must be mistaken.
Excuse me—er —good day !”
Parker went home. “ Where’s that bill ? Let’s
see how much you have run me in for.”
Oh ! it’s settled,” said Mrs. Parker, incau-
tiously.
. T°° late she saw her cue was gone, and that her
indiscretion had taken away her only safeguard-
blank, persistent denial of the existence of any
bill.
Her husband stared; then—“ls it? Well, I
want to see it.”
She tried evasion, invented excuse after excuse,
logical and otherwise, but was met only by
reiterated demand, in a harsh voice, unlike
Parker’s usual suave tones—“ Show me the bill!”
“I’ve lost it!” “Show me the bill!” “I don’t
know where it is !” “ Show me the bill!” His
persistence roused her anger. “ I won’t!”
And he seized her by the hair, brutally flung
her out of his way, and began to search the chest
of drawers.
She sat down on the bedside, and angrily tapped
the floor with her foot. The tiny tapping tattoo
was maddening to the man, turning out receipt
upon receipt. He failed, and she greeted it with
a laugh.
A happy, unhappy thought—the pockets of her
dresses in the wardrobe ! As he went towards
the spot, /a sigh from the woman told that her
anger was leaving, and the usual outburst followed.
Parker found the bill, read it—’twas for a large
amount, and was duly receipted by Collins. Then
ho turned to the weeping woman.
“ Who paid this?” No answer. “D’ye hear!
Mho paid this?’ Silence. He shook her,
“ Answer me. Is this the price of your shame?”
Only sobs. Then he sneered—“ Cheap, too ; you
do not put a high selling price on yourself.”
She stood upright. “ You coward !” She spat
the words at him ; “I was sorry till you said
that now, I tell you,” her voice quavered with
the force of her rage ; “ I tell you I glory in it!”
“ Woman” she cut him short and turned
out into the sunshine with her worst nature upper-
most, the remembrance of that cruel sneer
repressing any better sentiments. He let her go
without a word, and gradually a hard, determined
look settled down on his face. His eyebrows met
oyer his nose, and the muscles of the neck were
tight drawn as those of one who makes a mighty
effort.
The continuation (but not the end) of this story
-well, has it not been written in the newspaper
divorce-columns ?
THE ORPHAN,


(Portrait Photographers)
Royal A.rcadLe, Sydney,
and
111 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Price for Cabinet Photographs, 15s. per Dozen.
Messrs. Cliarlemont strongly commend to the
public their Platinotype work, it is absolutely
permanent and has with it all the beauty and
delicacy of an engraving.
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Wolfe’s Schnapps -avoid cheap imitations.
None better—G NU N Darlings.
BARGAINS IN PHOTOGRAPHIC OUTFITS
TTTE have purchased from a firm in London, giving up business, af ridiculously low prices, some Beginxiers’ Complete Sstis of Pliotograpliic
H -A.ppa.ratila, and are offering them at remarkably cheap rates. This is a grand opportunity for those wishing to start, for the; goods are of first-class make, in good condition
and MUCH BELOW LONDON PRICES.
THE PRICE O F COMPLETE
IT COMPRISES
OUTFIT
IS SI 10*
A.pi ate Camera (to take pictures, size x 3|), made of polished Mahogany, with strong bellows body ; best Double-Dark Slide; Achromatic Lens; Tripod Stand ; Printing Frame; Developing
Dishes; Graduated Measure; Ruby Lamp for Dark Room; 1 doz. Rapid Dry Plates; Instructions —“ Beginners’Guide to Photography;” Solutions in Glass Bottles, viz.—-for Developing,
Fixing, Toning ; Sensitized Paper for Printing ; Dark Cloth, etc. KS' The whole Outfit is packed in handsome stained and polished fitted cabinet.
NOTICE.—Send immediately if you wish to secure one.
FROST & SHIPHAM, «2, 474 and 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
|E. A. OSBORN and H. s. JEKDAN, Sole PjtorKißTons.]
FULL CATALOGUES (profusely illustrated, 180 pages) of all our Goods can be had—Price, SIXPENCE,
Personal Items.
Why not Sir Duncan Gillies 1
C.M.G. Canonised Money Grubber.
Supple’s case was Higinbotham’s only
criminal one.
How would it have read, ye worms,
“ George Higinbotham, C.M.G ? ”
Duke George will be marrying Princess
May towards the end of March, probably.
Nobody ever talks of Purves as Judge.
He is regarded as an advocate, not a lawyer.
Mrs. Francis, wife of the P.M. at Dalby
(Q.), is sister of the novelist, George Macdonald.
Whether Higinbotham or Marcus Clarke
invented the “Wealthy Lower Orders ” is de-
bated.
The R.C. priesthood were not represented
at the Sydney send-off picnic to “ Tom ” Curran,
M.P.
Mrs. Melinda Kendall, mother of the
poet, died on the 4th inst. at Ultimo (Sydney),
aged 84.
Higinbotham was once called “Robes-
pierre”” and, at all events, resembled him in prim
■punctilio.
Rev. J. F. M‘Swaine, of Scots’ Church,
Brisbane, is said to have 5000 volumes of theo-
logical works.
Phil. Robinson has studied the plot of
Brunton Stephens’ Marsupial Bill, judging by his
yarn in “Phil. May’s Annual.”
George Higinbotham was never seen at
the theatre except at Christmas, when he took
his children to the pantomime.
Mr. Justice Bundey, though he never
steps outside the sphere of his judicial duties, is
the most popular man in South Australia.
The statement that Gov. Kintore has
recommended Chief Justice Way’s Pomeranian
pup for a C.M.G.-ship is believed to be untrue.
One of the Maori-
land Judges is celebrated
tor his mode of summit g
up. He generally speaks
with his countenance
buried among the papers
on his desk, and he is
blessed with a shaky,
mumbling voice, also
between sentences h e
whistles through the
f rmer site of a missing
front tooth. An indig-
nant reporter lately took
him down verbatim, and
this wa s the result:
“You—er —have had—er
—the facts—er —of the
case—er—laid before you
—er. If the evidence—
er—that is to say—er—
(three short coughs)—
the fact as alleged—er —
by plaintiff—er—if the
evidence—er —I say—er
shows —er— to your
minds that—er—Brown
(three more coughs), that
is to say—er—the plain-
tiff—er, er—the defen-
dant had assaulted —er
—Jones, the plaintiff—er
—it would be your duty
—er —seeing all the—er
—circumstances of the
»:;i> i to —er (three
more coughs) —to return
a true bill against Brown.
At the same time—er —
etc., etc.” And yet if
the jurymen followed his
example and returned a
verdict consisting of six
coughs and an “er,”he
would probably commit
the whole 12 of them for
contempt.
Chief J ustice Higin-
botham was a sufferer
by the boom. His pro-
perty at Brighton was
sold to a shindykit, which
paid £lOOO deposit, occu-
pied the land, demolished
tfie stables, chopped
down fruit-trees, laid
out streets in road-metal
across flower-beds and
lawns, and then burst—
forfeiting the £lOOO,
after doing £2OOO worth
of damage.
There are 13 members on the Yictorian
Railway Committee, and every year since it first
existed one has died out of that ill-fated number.
Professor Love is the sage most in favour
with the girls at Melbourne University. No
prof, ought to be allowed so inflammatory a name.
Mansfield, secretary of Victorian Seamen’s
Union, resigned owing to defective eyesight. And
now they say he mistook another woman for his
wife.
This at least can be said of John Nichol-
son, S.M., who has given himself up for forgery
he didn’t travel on piety like the average Adel-
aide rascal.
A recent grievous death reminds you of
the influence exercised by the wives of Austra-
lian Liberal statesmen, when excluded from
Toorakia.
There is a chance of the publication at an
early date of voluminous official correspondence
which has been going on respecting Parkes’ pro-
posed peerage.
The genus tramp will miss George Higin-
botham. In his grounds he had a hut erected
specially for their benefit, and frequently gave
them money.
Apropos the Baker-Kingston (S.A.) duel-
ep’sode, it now appears that Chaffey Baker is a
deadly rifle-shot, and was the champion boxer at
Oxford in his young days.
T. B. Cusack-Smith, Deputy-Commis-
sioner for the Samoan Group, is son of the
Attorney-General for Ireland who. in 1844, prose-
cuted Charles Gavan Duffy and others.
The present British Lord Chancellor
(Herschell) is the son of a converted Polish Jew
who, in his time, served, no doubt, for the one
same Jew that gets converted every year.
Melbourne possesses the champion modest
man. His tombstone, prepared ready for his
decease, stands in a prominent position in a stone-
mason’s yard, with an inscription setting forth
the virtues of the prospective deader in letters
two inches long. Several idiosyncracies of English
point unerringly to its authorship.
THE AVERAGE MINING REPORT.
MANAGER (of the Dead Goat Mining Co,): “Splendid stone-it
averages five ounces per ton.”
SHAEEHOLDER: “That’s good, how many tons did yon crush? ”
MINE MANAGER: “Tons? I crushed fourteen pounds.”
Israel Mazey, who was a seaman on the
Duke of York, the first boat to land a crew in
S.A, 60 years ago, is a living attraction at
Alberton (S.A.). Mazey is 80 years old.
It was a part of the habitual consideration
for others peculiar to the late Victorian Chief
Justice (Higinbotham), that led him to choose the
“ vacation ” period as a convenient time to die.
Higinbotham’s oratory is burnt for ever in
the memory of all who heard it in the Victorian
Assembly. How quietly, even hypocritically, he
would begin, and gradually work up till he lashed
the waves.
The S.M. Herald makes a strange blunder
in its sketch of George Higinbotham. It says
that the dead Judge and Dean Macartney were
“compeers” at Trinity College, Dublin. Now,
the Dean was born in the last year of the last
century, being now 94 years of age. He was nearly
50 when the Judge was not yet 21.
Dean Macartney, of Melbourne, 93 years
old, being asked the secret of his great age and
vigour, answered ; “ A regular life, abstemious-
ness in food and drink, and a constant round of
duties.”
Is it merely a newspaper coincidence that
every barrister elevated to an Australian Supreme
Court Bench has, in taking judicial office,
abandoned an income of .£7OOO per annum as in
Dr. Madden’s case ?
Tr , . , ,
Here s some wretched person getting up
to tell the world that Queen Victoria’s hands are
so big and so funnily formed as to “necessitate
the wearing of specially manufactured gloves with
74 palms, but with 6f fingers.”
~ , ,
A troublesome lawsuit once let ->eorge
Higinbotham s gardener in for some £A)O, which
was promptly paid by the late Chief. lor weeks
afterwards the grand old man was in agony lest
his kindly act should get known and talked
about.
Writes a Melbourne
correspondent to The
Bulletin :—All writs
of summons, execution,
&c., used to have the
following test ; “Wit-
ness his Honor George
Higinbotham, Esquire,
Chief Justice,’’attached
to the foot of each. By
chance one of these
came under the notice
of the late Chief.
Noticing the obnoxious
“Esquire,” he scored
it out with his pen, and
gave instructions that
the word was not again
to appear. It is well-
known that the severe
work entailed by bis
task of consolidating
the Victorian statutes
was the i mined iate cause
of his death, and it
would be the literal
truth to say the work
was written with his
life’s - blood. After
finishing his ordinary
judicial duties the
Chief Justice would
remain at the Law
Courts until 10 and 11
o’clock at night, work-
ing at the statutes.
This necessitated one
of the attendants re-
maining behind to close
the ponderous doors.
The Chief heard of it
and insisted upon clos-
ing the door himself—
which it must have
taxed his strength 'to
do. These tilings are
mere trifles in them-
selves, but they are, I
think, invaluable as in-
dicating the true char-
acter of the man. His
manner was courtesy
personified. Between
the meanest official
and the most influential
personage he made absolutely no distinction.
The beatific Hodges, holding forth in Mel-
bourne Banco Court on the nobility of his late
chief and the beauty of his private life, was a par-
ticularly interesting sight. As Hodges grows
prematurely greyer he becomes more and more
like unto the angels.
Sergeant Mills, the Yictorian Premier’s
orderly, just dead, was understood to be “of good
family.” He was a sportsman, and when the
Duke of Edinburgh, Standish and Cos. went
cockfighting in Melbourne, Mills was always in
charge of the birds.
Hay Louie, the Victorian grazier who was
the other day found drowned in the crystalline
slush of the river Yarra, could, in ’BB, have drawn
a valid cheque for iHOO.OOO; yet, when he plunged
into the mud-bed, he wasn’t worth a shilling.
Boom, thy name is Bung !
A successor to Vernon’s Lord High Chan-
cellor in “lolanthe” is to bo found in Judge
Noel, of N. Queensland. A reception was given
to him lately, “one of the principal features of
which was his Honor’s illustration of the ‘ Ta-ra-
ra-boom-de-ay dance.’ ”
The people of Hindmarsh, Adelaide, elected
a working bootmaker as Mayor on Dec. 1, and, at
first, “the classes” did their best to cast ridicule
upon him. They have decided now that it was
they who came out of the contest looking foolish,
and he will in future be severely left alone.
Newnes, the London literary pirate who
has amassed a disgusting fortune out of Tit-Bits,
is said to be starting anew Gladstonian daily.
This is a mistake. The proprietor of a successful
Tory paper would be more likely to get knighted,
and Newnes was obviously cut out for a knight.
The irony of fate ! Through the influence
of Kingston, Q.C., Col. Gordon was appointed to
succeed Gen. Downes as Acting-Commandant of
S.A. Militia. One of his first acts in that capa-
city was to suspend Kingston from duty as a
militia-sergeant, because of his celebrated deli to
Baker.
W. R. Boothby, S. A. Sheriff and Return-
ing Officer, probably received his C.M.G.-ship
through being the accredited author of the “ Aus-
tralian Ballot.” The writer is reliably informed
that Boothby was not the actual originator of the
system, which was the idea of an official in his
department.
Griffith, when Chief Justice, hopes to
retain his seat on the Federal Council. He still
clings to the idea of. trading his Imperialist
Commonwealth Bill for a brand-new patent as
Baron Merthyr, that being the name of h.s birth-
I llls residence, and, he hopes, of his pro-
spective title.
Melbourne Trades Hall Council announces
its willingness to “join with any other body in
erecting an enduring memorial of the late George
Higinbotham.” OonaideringGeorgeHiginbothanPs
attitude towards the Trades Hall, the Council
might well erect an enduring memorial of its own,,
without any outside assistance.
Speaker “Joe” Abbott, who loves to
smoke his cutty on the sly, is declared to be the
most inhospitable Speaker who has presided over
the N.S.W. Legislative Assembly. In N.S.W.,
since the advent of the Labour Party with its
retrenching hobby, the Speaker’s sessional dinner
has become an obsolete custom,
. .
ihe new Chief Justice of Victoria, Dr.
Madden, for years attended all the executions and
floggings at Melbourne gaol. Up to the presem
PROBABLE!
HEBREW FRIEND (to broken-up Gentile entering shop to pawn his belong-
ings): “Don’t go to him, he’s a regular Jew. Come to me.”
he has seen all the big slogging matches in Mel
bourne. Whether “His Honor the Chief Justice”
will now go to see Joe Goddard and Peter Jackson
perform remains to be seen.
There is “a suggestion” that J. H. Angas,
M.L.C.—whose father, George Fife Angas,
founded the South Australian Land Co. ; and
helped to found S.A. itself—should be made a
baronet, like his brother land-magnate Clarke,
of Melbourne. Angas possesses the necessary
millions, is sober, and he is moderately liberal
with the overflow of his income.
One B. F. S. Baden-Powell asserts that
R. L. Stevenson, the novelist, has spent all his
money trying to satisfy a mania for road-making
in Samoa, and is so stone-broke that when Powell
lunched with him he had to bring his own pro-
visions. In fact, he hinted that Powell might as
well bring victuals for two. Apparently the
novelist lives chiefly on cocoa-nuts at present.
Judge Hartley Williams—-“Heartless”
Williams—was at first tipped for the Victorian
Chief Justiceship. He would be the most unsuit-
able man possible. A less judicial personage never
sat on the Australian Bench. He is a most dan-
gerous, two-edge-sword sort of man, never opening
his mouth but to put his foot in it. Failing
Madden, Holroyd ought to have got the position.
The late W. A. West-Erskine, M.L.C.,
the Adelaide Brokenhillionaire, has left every-
thing to his two brothers. One of them, who used
to be eternally writing letters to the Register
about prize bulls, is the hero of the oft-told yarn
about the man who asked his bank manager for
an overdraft. “ How much do you want ? ” asked
Plutus. “ Aw—aw, how much have you got?”
George Higinbotham would never purchase
a periodical ticket on the railways. If he passed
between the courts and his suburb four times a
day, he paid each time. Higinbotham once said
at a church-meeting that the Unitarian was “the
only man who could watch with serenity and con-
fidence the march of events.” And the parson-
ridden press shrieked shrilly at the firm old rock.
The late Chief Justice Higinbotham was a
groat tea-drinker and an inveterate smoker. “He
smokes like fury and drinks tea like a fish,” said
an Irish crier at the Law Courts. Every night
at his house at Brighton his man left six or eight
filled pipes on the table of his study, which the
great Radical smoked while he read his briefs or
the papers in cases to come before him as Judge
the next day.


ADVT
IOI(i:i<;\ A AUSTRALASIAN
STAMPS.
100 different, Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 all post free.
Price - list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Rare stamps bought.
VINDIN <sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot ,
74 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY,
When your nerves are bad or you feel knocked
up take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
A good disinfectant, G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
Never refuse a nip of Wolfe’s Schnapps. It is
the best invigor ator out.
Out for a stroll, smoke 6NUN Darlings.
£5
W
t-=l
»t 31 €larencc-stree(.
SYDNEY.
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ins’ Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,
strata. - WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
POLITICAL
POINTS.
„
Lilley will not re-entei politics.
How sorry Parkes was to be forestalled by
Dailey !
For the last twelve
months the capitalistic press
of Australia has lost no
chance of declaring that the
Parliamentary Labour - m era -
ber movement was “only a
flash in the pan,” and that
men carried into the House
on the spring-tide of mis-
guided public opinion would
be “carried back into-their
original obscurity ” on its
ebb. Here, the wish is
plainly father to the thought,
but as this is one way of
manufacturing public
opinion, the sooner the
labour bodies take steps to
diffuse a totally antagonistic
idea the better. Half-a-
dozen years ago there were
scarcely a dozu Protec-
tionists in the N.S. Wales
Legislature; now, there are
over seventy. The move-
ment grew, partly because
the public outside did not
lose faith in Protection be-
cause of the early failure of
parliamentarians to achieve
success, and chiefly because
the Protectionist politician
declared that Protection vns
purely a Labour movement.
Now that Dibbs, Barton and
Co. have shown that their
brand of Protection —like
the policy of the Freetrade
gang—is a “ lorn’awdah,”
freedom-of-contract, down-
with - unionism movement,
the men pledged solely to
labour reform should mop
up all the votes the Ministry
have thus alienated, and,
adding them on bo the votes
previously polled, file into
the Assembly after next
general election with an
absolute majority. The
monopolists fear this—
despite the bragging of their
“organs,” and are manufac-
turing faggot-votes at present
all they know how.
Oockburn is expected
to again hoist the banner
of the Progressive Land
Tax at next S. A. general
elections.
Austrargantina —the New Land of Pro-
mise. And that’s all.
N.S.W. revenue for ’92, £10,508,093 ;
ditto expenditure ditto, =£11,060,700.
• The N.S.W. Ministry is going to reduce
all Civil Service salaries ov« r .£lOO by 10 per cent.
Premier Downer, of S. A., is looking round
for a Liberal, but not too Liberal, policy,
f n . memor y °f many things, the next
Victorian Speaker’s mace ought to be a gilded
drumstick.
German statesmen all uphold the French
Republic, which is one element of its firmness.
A Trench dynasty must play the war eard.
Query : Had O’Loghlen, the Broguey
Man, been Attorney-General of Victoria, would
he have appointed himself Chief Justice, vice
Higinbotham ?
n P*.- Madden’s appointment as Victorian
Oluef Justice will block Justice Williams in the
Acting-Governorship. Madden has no Higin-
ootliamic scruples.
Even although in prison, Sleath, the
v? * * miners ’ l ea der, will be elected to next
.o. VV . Assembly. He can have the choice of
nau-a-dozen constituencies.
Wrixon, stuffy, upholstery, cotton-wool
w™*’ ls the sole hope of despairing Victoria,
which hardly knows whether to make him Premier,
Lhiet Justice, or Agent-General. Hard lines,
truly. ’
Argus, of Higinbotham’s time, kept a
s anding notice over the Legislative Council’s
reports to the effect that it was the voice of
property and not of the people. Nous (irons
change tout cel a.
Judge Richmond, of Maoriland, says that
m criminal cases “a juror with a gold chain is
. wa y s challenged, the object being, apparently,
o get jurors who can neither read nor write.”
Evidently, m Mr. Richmond’s opinion, no juror
can read or write unless he has a gold chain. '
Dibbs is almost the least fit member of his
Uabmet to be entrusted with the piloting of a bU
vTw 6 | lke the Local Government Bill through
rl’ta■ ‘ Assembly— if his party are not playing at
Politics as their dilly-dallying conduct of "parlia-
mentary business seems to suggest.
The Argus has “ put its hoof in it ” with
those Foreign-trade articles. A Mr. Harkness
was referred to as an intelligent workman who
c fe arly 866 the fallacies of a Protective
arm. But tq le Harkness has arisen to deny that
le ts either a workman or a Freetrader, and also
writes half a column contradicting point blank the
statements made about him and his trade in the
previous day’s issue.
What an uncertain note the Australian
press gives out about Higinbotham ! What with
buttery slaver and implied blame, a reader is on
the see-saw. Such a magnificent patriot, and yet
vvliat he did was all wrong.
“ Politics was the rock on which Higin-
botham and Lilley shattered their political repu-
tations,” says the Courier, and then (objurgating
Griffith) it offered up the prayer, “From political
Judges deliver us, O Lord ! ”
A good, healthy snort from Brisbane
Worker
The Labour Party in the N.S.W. Parliament are like
t le babes in Hie wood, led to their doom through a vast
forest of tangled fraud and corruption by a murderous
old b ild-headed uncle who weareth spectacles and looketh
benevolen t.
Parkes and Reid now not only speak but
actually walk arm-in-arm into the Opposition
quarters in N.S.W. Legislative Assembly ! Does
Reid take back all the bitter things he said of
Parkes in the campaign of 1880*? Reid’s maiden
“AN ILL WIND.”
IST SLEIGHT OF HAND ARTIST : “ Do anything at the races Joe?”
2ND DITTO: “Yes, ‘picked’ the winner!”
appearance on East Sydney hustings was asso-
ciated with vehement denunciations of the politi-
cal charlatan whose shoes he is now so ready to
dust.
According to Government Statist Hayter
(Vic.), the Amalgamated-Shearers’Union of Aus-
tralia’s last year’s revenue was ,£18,261, while its
expenditure during that period was £22,592. The
cost of management alone is stated at .£12.221, or
nearly 67 per cent., or more than two-thirds, of
the incomings.
Sir G. Republican Dibbs is making an
heroic effort to restore the financial equilibrium in
N.S. W. by revising the travelling allowances to
public officials—and yet he travels to Watson’s
Bay in a Government launch when he wishes to
air his exclusive self. A penny-wise-and-pound-
foolish Premier.
One item on the invoice for the Victorian
Parliamentary picnic through the mallee lands is
“Cigars, £l4B. If somebody would pass a bill
providing that nothing bub ordinary plug and
beer should be supplied at Parliamentary picnics,
the amount saved per annum would bo sufficient
to keep the army in boots.
During ’92, N.S.W. paid £813,779 in
duties on imported grog, and only .£21,099 excise
on local distillations. What a tremendous volume
of sly-grog do not these figures suggest ! Scores
of Sydney publicans are buying for 10s. a gallon
spirits which would legitimately cost them 145.,
apart altogether from the duty.
Dear Bulletin, —l read in a medical
journal the other day that leprosy was introduced
into the Hawaiian Islands in 1865 by two Chinese;
and so rapidly did it disseminate itself that, in
1881, 4500, or one-tenth of the population, were
registered lepers. Can you tell me the proportion
in 1891 ? Or where to find it ?—J.P.C.
Higinbotbam’s Education Bill has been
overlooked. He offered the denominations exactly
what they clamour for now, and they wouldn’t
take it. The majority of the clerics (like. Victorian
Education-Minister Stephen) wanted to smash
the Catholics, whom they only consolidated while
aiming a death-blow at their own isms.
It should not be forgotten that Higin-
botham wanted to abolish the Legislative Council,
and led the way in showing that the more it was
quasi-liberalised, on a pretended representative
basis, the more dangerous it became. To-day,
Parkes, G.C.M.G., is endeavouring to lay in
N.S.W. an elective death-trap for the Democratic
party.
It is estimated that 3000 Canadians living
on the border-line cross over to the United States
to their work every morning, and return at night.
A bill now before Congress proposes to prohibit
these individuals working in the States unless
they also reside there. Even this sample of
advanced Protection, however, will probably be
hailed by Parkes and the man with the eye-glass
as another evidence of the “ Freetrade reaction.”
“ The Governor’s salary has been cut down
in the other provinces, and it is difficult to see why
Victoria should pay ,£IO,OOO per annum, when
N.S. W., with as large a population and a more
extensive territory, only pays .£7OOO a year for
the performance of similar duties.” —Melbourne
Age.
The Broken Hill “conspirators” will
serve the term of their sentences if Minister of
Justice O’Connor is allowed to lead the Dibbs
Cabinet. It is openly stated that he will resign
his portfolio if the least clemency is shown or
attempted to be shown to the men. “Dick”
should get a short shrift from any far-seeing
Government.
Energetic efforts are being made to resus-
citate the Queensland “Liberal ” party, pure and
simple. Members of the present Assembly who
are expected to form the nucleus are Dickson,
Powers, Groom, Gannon, and Donaldson—Dick-
son probably being the leader, and it is expected
they will be able to “down” the “ Kinaka-
importing-meat-exporting-land-grab ” crowd.
One of the sailors of the South Sea black-
birder Helena, told a Bulletin correspondent
that they knew ARGUS-Commissioner Melvin was
a newspaper man when they started. O'Connell,
M.P. for the Musgrave—a servile follower of the
Xanakophile Govt. —was the Helena’s agent. The
Govt, agent, it is declared, also well knew that
the Argus man was aboard.
An Argus London cable says that “the
announcement which has been made that Sir
Henry Wrixon is likely to be appointed Agent-
General for Victoria lias been received with
general satisfaction, especially in the city.” This
tickles Wrixon to death, but presently whim a
leading London paper announces that Sir Henry
Wrixon is Minister of Education in Bendigo,
South Australia, he will contract to Ids natural
siz ■. The Bulletin is reliably inform ■<! lint the
Czar of Russia continues to sleep well, anyhow.
The Russian Government is having several
ships built in Scotland for the transport of pn'itical
prisoners to Siberia via Archangel and the Frozen
Ocean. They are fitted up and honeycombed
with narrow iron cages, in each of which some
patriot will be. chained, after tin fashion of a wild
boast. Thu solid old Presbyterians take the con-
tract for these vessels as an ordinary matter of
business, just as they would take the contract for
a slave-ship or an infernal machine, and charge
nothing extra for the curse which i\; t.j on the
unholy craft.
The Queensland Ka-
naka Ministry has indig-
nantly sacked Mar, the
G vernment analyst. Rela-
tions have been strained
between Griffilwraith and
Cos. and that official for a
long time. When the
famous lie about the
“poisoned apple,” said to
have been given by a
unionist to Private O’Cal-
laghan, during the shearers’
strike, went abroad, Mar
was instructed to make the
necessary analysis. He did
so, and burst up the story
by reporting that there was
no poison whatever in the
case; it was an ordinary
attack of biliousness, with
traces of unripe fruit and
rum. The next trouble
arose v hen the garish men-
dacity went abroad about
the tanks which the union-
ists had poisoned with
strychnine; Mar, acting
under instructions, ana-
lysed samples of the water,
and not only proved that
it contained no strychnine
or other poison, but un-
kindly added some scien-
tific facts about the impos-
sibiiity of employing
strychnine in the manner
described. Then a Govern-
ment supporter, who was
endeavouring to float or
sell a gold-mine, sent
samples of stone to Mar
for assay, and that matter-
of-fact official reported that
there wasn’t a trace of
gold anywhere. His report
burst up a promising specu-
lation. It is unlucky up
North just now to have a
diseased attachment to ac-
curacy.
The chief Single-taxer
of Adelaide is, anomalously
enough, an auctioneer. By
the way, how some Sydney
city auctioneers did “ sit
up ” over certain articles in
the local D.T. last week !
A Mr. Montgomery, of Sydney, writing
to London Times, characterises Sir Henry
Parkes’s political career as weak and selfish, and
declares that he has “ shamefully used his political
friendships.” “ Justitia,” a colonist of 50 years
(probably Sir Saul Samuel), has replied defending
Parkes. Nevertheless, it is true, as stated, that
Parkes has shamefully used his political friend-
ships. His financial transactions with dozens of
members of Parliament can only be defended on
the assumption that he has never been influenced
by any of the ordinary m itives of human nature.
People are aware that in some of the
Australian provinces the Governor is entitled to
import wines, &c. free of duty; but the extent to
which this privilege is av died of, in some eases, is
hardly known. In Victoria, not only liquors but
all articles of merchandise in sealed pickages are
admitted by a Protectionist Government, which
compels common, non-irnported people to h ive
their underwear scattered over a railway platform
by an officer in search of contraband goods. 'The
Vice-Regal Smuggler and his aidekongs (who are
also profilers by it) draw Protection wages and
thus live at Freetrade cost.
The Ahgus, which of late is making a
specialty of Conservative workmen, employs an
“ Old Digger ” to put a fine constitutional gloss
on the men of Eureka. The writer unearths yet
another Kiama ghost, and tries to show that the
riots were arranged by the horrible Irish who
wanted Home Rule. In fact, there was a Ponti-
fical legate keeping dark in Melbourne ready to
take up the reins of Government when the revolu-
tion was effected. Ahgus reports of 1854 are
quoted, and the speeches of eminent respectabili-
ties at “law ’n order” meetings of the time, to
prove that an erroneous significance is attached
to the rising.
Ifc was bound to come. Says the Echuca
and Moama Record (Vic.) re Higinbothaxn:—
The deceased was a painstaking and very upright Judge,
but like the present Sir Charles Lilley, ex-Ohief Justice
of Queensland, he was imbibed with republican senti-
ments, a feature which should be looked into when Chief
Justices are appointed, which would save much unplea-
santness and inconvenience in social, legal and political
circles.
According to Sir Henry Wrixon, at the
Melbourne Foreign-trade orgy, “ the Americans
are beginning to find that Protection has crippled
and hampered them in all the markets of the
world.” According to the U.S. Treasury returns,
the exports of the Republic are now ,£4,000,000
per month more than the imports. Which means
that the crippled country is taking =£48,000,000
per annum from the outside world. At this rate,
the sooner Australia is “ crippled ” the better.
The Griffil wraith Government lately wanted
to appoint a relation of the Solicitor-General’s as
“Legal adviser to the stamp office,” a position
specially created, at a salary of ,£6OO per annum,
but as Hodgkinson, who, on account of his recent
Melbourne escapade had received notice to quit,
and was therefore reckless, threatened to play up
furioso if it passed the Cabinet, the matter was
dropped. It may be remembered that the position
of “ Commissioner for Stamps ” was also created
by the Griffilwraith Government and was con-
ferred on a gentleman presumably asa reward forhis
services on the “ Kanaka Commission ” appointed
by Griffith when it paid the latter to oppose slave-
labour.
Fat is force. As far as can be judged by
present appearances, another year of the Victorian
Premiership will send the lean Shiels gently into
his grave—or into a lunatic asylum. He was an
active and vigorous-looking man when he took
office ; now he is a nerveless wreck with a vacant,
wandering eye, and restless hands, and feet that
arc never still, and he is reputed never to sleep
more than two hours at a stretch. The desperately
well-meaning man, who takes office with a view to
patting everything straight, generally dies of
worry and leaves things worse than he found
them; it is the great, fat, profane, aggressive
person, whoso hand-grasp reminds one of contact
with a dead fish, and who has no good intentions
of any kind, who lives to draw a salary for the
best part of a generation, and then won’t shift
till lie gets a pension.
Premier Dibbs’ visit to Queen Victoria,
and the cigar he. received from Males, are bring-
ing forth va’liable results in the way of depart-
mental economy. He has been overhauling the
THE NEW VICTORIAN CHIEF JUSTICE-DR. MADDEN.
stationery, and finds that the letter-paper used is
of the most lavish character, and has the royal
arms emblazoned on it regardless of expense.
“ Everything in New South Wales Civil Service
paper is on a more pronounced scale than even
the Queen or the Prince of Wales possesses, and a
long way ahead of what is commonly used by the
English nobility.” Dibbs, who is now quite an
authority on the Queen, the Prince of Wales, and
the nobility, intends to shut down on these
Parkesian frills for the future, and the depart-
mental notepaper is simply to have a crown
stamped on the corner, and the words “New
South Wales” below, in plain, black letters.


/ S?..
'? ' ' TP/Zpyt, /- /C .
J j *A'*A • <r,/r, p /y ore
/%J Z'jeSoy
/I Si£ 0 ,?,
<o£,}c/rep h^?r^/' re( .
JDepf'jfry A
Ttrsf
*p jZL
S'fto-ty <£ U/£ /
r *
? Monday '~ rt is that
are uneni > io >- ed *
KUBBU With a View to relieving the die.
w iicji the Government is
■ !iDi itl,a S the population of congested
ocalities to other parts of the country.
MINISTERIAL
PICNIC
PRESS NOT
ADAMITTED
ekM
J/T
FV
f , t - 1
Ou-
Of
'Pros* />> // '
I |
0
L
L
r \
Xf
©■London, Thursday.—Financial author!^
•rcs in the city expect that a number of
colonial loans will shortly be placed on
the London market at about the sarnie
time, and they fear that there will be aJB
rush, with the consequence that the last to *
be placed will secure the worst terms
Bankovs suggest that the colonial
Governments should arrange a period
during which the loans shall be offered,
-and that the colonies standing most in
need of money should be given priority in
placing their loans upon the market.
f'v/o sTi-car? <y£i* WFri«.
/or Ofryfy
~~T^rr^
THINGS IN GENERAL.


/<y'&/y/6oy' -/o / S' 'USS CU Sy/^.
cS'Te-o -S' -/O S/6 ott) m <S- i) (//P /rj ~/~osjU /-}
/ / 1
//tfSe /'»S<9f9,yy' "
& y- 4' s’/*- l
/s'' oSs '#' /ry-i e (SOflc/ s«s.«e I
// yoi/ "/6 cty~ **,// .
S’t/S?s /s? J
S tO<? S?o cty f
Y T y&?~ //ts&
***-*>* /^s/«
' c£>
W%)<srt myst df®nngs
-L-A-teJ
.. T K e: /
-0- ATE -" /dI^ACE 7
:S.-t-+A^EHOUDeR*S>
/// DEPtfsiToß, l >
s?<2-so '/&
£>;// " A
v SKieJs) Sor>e./y /'m
7‘o.^ooc^^^
<?/*/
XO,y//j#ise /-J &/C , c
* 6 *' 99 <=* *>4cuj n-tany, "
V '-"*~On/y / 1/^ e/*' ( )
- /
v y'
*f 0( t ' 5/ >/
ro<&6a// eci y~~"
f TtZu? o/*/«'* o yyy c-4
'lj** <sfr* «=»G /^> 'C /^/ )
MELBOURNE EVENTS.


The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, <fec. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coining along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, n«m CIO
£l5 (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deimit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
Write or call for mark d plus and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company. Ltd.
(Estab. 1885), :«>!» Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office: BT. OEOROE 8 TERRACE. PERTH, W.A
In the race for the great prize of popularity
Wolkk’s Schnapps takes the lead.
Nothing in modern times lias been so copied
Wolfk’s Schnapps. Beware of imitations.
ADVT
The POMPADOUR BLOOM.
*/« per frw.
mlllS elegant liquid preparation gives the
A exact Hush of perfect health, which no
other rouge quite succeeds in doing. It
gives a purity and freshness to the com-
plexion, and a natural healthy colour to
the lips, and even in the most .searching
light absolutely defies detection.
Pompadour ENAMEL POWDER.
In Two Delicate Shades—Pink & Cream.
*/« per Box—post free.
rpniS unique preparation, exquisitely
1 scented, was specially used by Madame
Pompadour for the Neck and Arms. It
gives the skin a natural ivory-like polish,
and cannot he detected even hy the cru-
cial test of a side light.
itlonr Knllt INiwdcrs. l/(> Box, post free. These Powders (scented ola Pom-
]>adour), in addition to imparting n delightful fragrance, invigorate and soften the skin.
All the “ Pompadour ” Preparations are sent under cover, free from observation.
gjie pompadour (Qosmetique (£fl., 56 Royal Arcnde, Sydney {lst Soot).
Wolfe's Schnapps is the greatest tonic and
most beneficial stimulant of the day.
Financial worry soothed smoke GNUN
Darlings.
PFMKbb’S
" The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem.
The Eucalypto Lozenges for colds, made by
Golem ane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Ayer’s Pills arc the best cathartic for correcting
irregularities of the stomach and bowels. Gentle,
yet thorough in action, they cure constipation,
stimulate the appetite and digestive organs, and
strengthen the system.
Life without G N U N Darlings would be a
dreary march.
Society
The Earl of Hopetoun was prevented by
the death of the Chief Justice from going
“officially” to see the Standish and Bagot run
at Flemington on New Year’s Day ; but, though
his Ex, in the grey frock-coat and white belltopper
had to stop at home, plain John Adrian Louis
Hope, in a sac suit and flirty billycock, bounded
about the M.C.C. reserve, smoking a very prime
tveed, and shaking a very slender, loose leg m all
the enjoyment of muftied semi -incog._ You can
always tell when Gov. Hopetoun is quite in
a crowd, because then he wears a comprehensive
chatelaine, containing cigar -cutter, match-box,
pencil, toothpick, scissors, knife, sovereign-case,
corkscrew, thermometer, aneroid, and sundry
other amulets, in his vest-pocket, and, after cutting
a cigar, he drops the whole bunch against his
knee, and the clatter makes everyone look sud-
denly round with a crick in the neck.
* * *
A caricature of a four-in-hand club is the
latest folly of hard-up Melbourne. An osten-
tatious display of wealth on wheels is a sad thing
when done on a large scale, but when three or four
would - i f-they-could turn-outs are gathered to-
gether, for the edification of a sassiety which has
filed its schedule, the effect is absolutely heart-
rending.
# * *
There is a military ring down South which
jumps all the best military appointments. Its
latest capture is the Governorship of the Mel-
bourne Gaol, which is to be handed over to a
Clerk of Petty Sessions named Burrows. He was
once a tov captain in the Victorian tin soldiery.
Evans, the Inspector-General of the Penal De-
partment, is an R.N., and Couchman, Chairman
of the Public Service Board, is a common “Colo-
nial Colonel,” and that completes the circle.
Gibson, a capable officer of 35 years’ gaol service,
and now Governor of Castlemaine Gaol, is being
passed over in this deal —the penal veteran sup-
planted by the military upstart. The same ring
will make a big effort to run in “ Colonel ” lom
Price as Chief Commissioner of Police.
• • _ •
We solemnly direct the attention of Court-
neidge, Alice Learnar, and boy-girls and girl-boys
generally, to the sth verse of the 22nd chapter of
Deuteronomy, which reads as follows: ‘The
woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto
a man, neither shall a man put on a woman s
garment: for all that do so are abominations unto
the Lord thy God.”
* * *
An “Inspector of Tea Cosies’ will pro-
bably be added to the staff of the Victorian
Health Department. “ Householder ” has written
to the Age to point out that tea-cosies are often
lined witli red material dyed with poisonous
cochineal. “It is strange,” he wrote, “ that the
Board of Health exercises no supervision over
such matters.” Sliiels will probably create the
billet and appoint himself to it in lien of the
Chief Justiceship or Agency-General. lie will
be about ripe for another job when public feeling
is stirred up upon the tea-cosy iniquity.
• * •
The latest confidence-trick. The operator,
artistically decorated with dabs of mortar on
clothes, hat, and boots, calls at a likely house
about two o’clock on Saturday and asks to see the
master, whereupon he explains that lie is working
at the house being erected up the street, and as
his employer has been detained in some way with
their pay, they are stranded for want of a couple
of shillings to train them to Sydney. The trick
has been played with great success on the llla-
warra line, a fresh suburb being tried each
Saturday.
# # •
From Evening News (Sydney)
ANTED, by Gentleman, on pleasure trip to
VV Sydney, to make the acquaintance of a Lady-
Companion that knows town, with photo. Address,
0.P.0., Sydney. Strictly private.
Oh, Alfred !
# * *
At a Sydney registry-office. Squatter in
want of a matried couple at <£(>o per annum, to
candidate for the employment; “ Have you any
children?” “No.” “How long are you mar-
ried?” “A year or so.” “Ah, you won’t suit
me. Your wife may be having children soon, and
I want something that won’t breed.” Verbatim.
• • *
Notwithstanding the Makin disclosures,
“ kind friends ” are still advertised for in a certain
Sydney evening paper. A detective should be
told off to look into every such matter advertised.
• • •
Up South recently a select party, con-
sisting of a Judge, his associate and several ladies,
visited the theatre. One of the gentlemen got
very merry during the interval, and beguiled the
time during the last act by fixing the “ Reserved ”
card on to the back of one of the ladies, where it
remained.
Crown-Solicitor Stuart, of Adelaide, has
been in a blue funk over the Baker-Kingston
trouble. It was his duty to prosecute, and as
both principals have been Attorneys-General and
may be again, he was in a quandary. He jumped
at the suggestion of Symon, Q.C., to effect a com-
promise of the duel trial, and felt very lachrymose
when Baker savagely bullied him because of his
complaisance.
• • •
A Wellington (M.L.) magistrate lately
charged a local rowdy 10s. or four days in gaol for
biting off a policeman’s thumb. At that rate one
could eat a whole policeman raw for about .£2O.
m • •
A miner with a broken leg was lately
brought into the Arrowtown (M.L.) hospital.
The doctor was absent, and his return was alto-
gether indefinite ; there was no other doctor avail-
able, and after some consideration the old sailor
who acted as caretaker undertook the operation him-
self. At a subsequent inquiry the ancient mariner
was asked where and how he obtained his surgical
knowledge. “I ’adn’t no surgical knowledge,”
he responded cheerfully ; “ I just giv’d the patient
’arf a glass of brandy, took another ’arf-glass my-
self, and ’ad a buck at it.” It was a great success,
as it happened, but think of the joy of the
ordinary up-country patient when some sailor or
carpenter or glazier “ has a buck at him !”
* * *
Bowen (Q.) possesses a railway-line. It
runs from Sleepy Hollow (Bowen) to Wangaratta,
49A miles, doing the entire journey in seven and
a-half hours. It only runs twice a week ; the
passenger average is nil. The entire staff consists
of two —the engineer and the station-master, who
travels with the train, and is guard, signal-man,
light porter, lamps, ticket-taker and refreshment
bartender rolled into one. When the train reaches
a station, the guard, etc., gravely dismounts, un-
locks the ticket-office, waits a few minutes, locks
up, mounts again, and hustles the train off at the
terrific rate of nearly seven miles per hour.
• # *
They are lending out wedding-dresses now
in England. A girl’s uncle gave her .£SO to buy a
wedding-dress. She hired one for the day for £ 2
* tja i'/ e * (^"/ffjp u s
Jt rtJnL^
7 Kudtswt™*U,«, fa
. f>f hi
y T -^ v - *'
10s. from a newly-married friend, and put the
balance in her pocket.
« # *
From the Scotsman :
CLERKESS (\ oung) wanted, for public office ; good
writer and address essential; 4s. fid. per week.
Female labour is looking up in Scotland. It is
also looking up in Sydney, where many shop-
women over 20 years of age work for 7s. (id. a week,
and have to stand the most disgusting language
from their “masters.”
• * •
In the London papers which reached us
last week there appear no less than three eases of
young men who had got into trouble for severely
whaling their sweethearts. The man who whales
his wife is common enough-especially in
England, but it is indeed a prosaic country with
all the gilt rubbed off it, where a man spanks his
best girl before marriage.
* * *
It was after a recent Sydney Sunday-
school picnic, and the lady and gentlemen teachers
were having a little innocent game among them-
selves, specially invented for the occasion by some
genius of the party. This was the way of it: The
ladies formed themselves in a line, and the gentle-
men ditto, each facing his particular weakness.
Then the inventive genius aforesaid piped out m
a rich falsetto, “ Right-about turn ! Quick
march ! ” when both columns began to move from
one another with a solemn military tread, until
about 50 yards apart,, when the genius bleated
out “Charge!” Then both lines right-about-
faced, and rushed frantically into the arms of
each other. Great order was maintained ;it being
recognised that whichever “ mash ” a man
faced at the beginning of the game was the par-
ticular girl he wished to grab and hug to his
bosom when the order “Charge!” was given,
and it was a point of honour among them that
none was to jump another’s claim, but wait his
turn, which was sure to come to rum, for the
genius changed the places every time, so that
everyone would get at least one good hug from
every girl. After an hour or so at this innocent
diversion they prayed “ Lead us not into tempta-
tion,” and went home-in pairs.
# * *
A J.P. adjudicating in a N.S.W. South
Coast court, after spending an hour or two in
suction, found himself in a very happy mood on
the bench. A case came up in which an almost
unintelligible Chinkie was a witness. ihe .J.l ~
with his skin full, stood the gibberish for a time in
a somnolent way propped up on his elbow, till
finally, leaning over towards the mouthing Chow,
he touched him on the shoulder, and in a maudlin,
yet fatherly fashion, said, “Come, John, blank
you, why ‘the (hie) don’t you (hk) shpeak
English !”
# • *
Editor Bulletin,— Why do you harp so
much on Parkes’ reputed misuse of the aspirate
“h ? ” Is it not possible that the men who omit
the use of the aspirate, except for special emphasis,
are more progressive and “correct” than those
who are painfully precise about their ns.
Language, particularly pronunciation, is ever
changing, and the conventional English of the
time of Chaucer is now difficult to understand by
any but philological experts. There is excellent
reason to believe that the aspirate “ h ’ was once
conventionally used in many words in which it is
not now allowed, and vice versa. Hour,
“honest,” “heir,” are cases in point, and, if spel-
ling were as changeable as formerly, those words
would probably customarily appear in print with-
out the “ h.” The peopleof a country are the best
authorities as to the pronunciation of its language,
and as the majority of (literate) Englishmen
omit the aspirate, unless they desire to be
particularly emphatic, or to imitate the pedants,
it is probable that Parkes is right after all. If
Webster is not ridiculous in spelling “labour
without the “ u,” why laugh at Parkes for some-
times adding emphasis to “any ” by pronouncing
it “ heny ? ” —Yours, etc., S. A.R.
• • •
Walsh, the Melbourne testator, has been
a bad speculation for the Church. It spent a lot
in costs over his contested will; it lost the case
and the money ; and now the dead man’s ticket
has won the niano in a church art union, and the
hated relatives will take the instrument away in
triumph. Still, things might be worse ; on one
occasion, in Maoriland, some years ago, they were
worse. A well-to-do Canterbury selector was
dying ; a hard-drinking old man with a bad con-
science and no near relatives. When Ids end was
at hand he resolved to effect a big fire-insurance
on his uneasy soul by leaving all his money to a
neighbouring Bethel. The parson was apprised,
and though it was late and dark and wet he
dashed off through the slush to get the will drawn
up. Towards midnight ho came back with it,
muddy, tired, and triumphant, and entered the
house at a run to procure the dying man’s signa-
ture. But an enormous, damp, ill tempered dog
was in possession of the passage and wouldn’t let
him go by. He talked appealingly to the beast
for a while, and then, finding that no use, he made
a rush for the stairs, and was badly bitten and
chased outside. While he was holding forth to the
dog the old man died —in fact, it was the noise of
the scrimmage and the preacher’s shrieks that
killed him —and the Bethel has never got another
such chance from that day to this. And nobody
found out even where the dog came from ; it_wai s
a strange animal that had stepped in out of the
rain, and when its fiendish mission was accom-
plished it went away again and never returned.
* # *
Melbourne City Coroner Youl, in his early
days of baby-farming, used to feed the poor waifs
on condensed milk ; but it disagreed with them,
and the death-rate in his establishment, he says,
was 80 per cent. The diet is about as nourishing,
he considers, as strangulation at birth, and the
condensed-milk-fed infant stands about as good a
chance of growing up healthy under the treatment.
# * *
Melbourne Herald has discarded Reuter
in favour of the cable combination of Argus, S.M.
Herald, Brisbane Courier, S. A. Register, &c.
Irish matters with the Argus twist will look
funny in the Herald when one remembers S. V.
Winter’s regime—and he’s on the Herald board
again, too.
* * *
Editor Bulletin, —In your “Correspon-
dents’ ” column, 31/12/92, you exclaim; “Where
is the Australian man or woman who can write a
good, short, natural love-story?” Well, I can.
Here goes :—While staying at a N.S.W. back-
country hotel, where the coach - horses were
changed and the passengers had dinner, I found
myself unexpectedly within hearing distance of a
conversation between one of the hotel maids and
the driver of the coach which had just arrived.
She was evidently gently upbraiding him, and
this is what I heard. She (“and her voice was
low and sweet”): “Don’t you love me now.'
He; “Yes, I love you. Blast you! Didn’t I
tell you before that I loved you?” Now, that is
a love-story. I think it is “ good.” It is certainly
short, and it is perfectly natural. It is true,
besides, and I am A Scotch Austhalee.—[Next.
We want ever so many more love-stories.—Ed. B.
# * *
English as it is spelt by a Justice of the
Peace on N.S.W. Southern line
At Coart of Pety Seeing! , 6 day of July 189 z.
Police v. . About Half past eleven this morning o
instant 1 charged the acuzed at Lockup on suspilicn
of one chesnet mare ne Brands visiable B ar in fo head few
whit spots on Back als (also?) an old soar on Back shod
all round the property of some persion at present on
nown to the Poleice. 1 pray for a remand of for one
week for further inquiries, remanded to the —— Lockup
(Witness’ signature) Swarm before me this six day of
July 92 (J. P.’s signature).
# # #
When you see a Service of Praise an-
nounced, leave out the “P.” The clergyman is
anxious for your soul, but observe his anxiety
when he loses his umbrella.
# * *
A young lady has brought a suit against an
American railway co., claiming ,£IO,OOO foi the
loss of her prospective husband, lately killed
accident. Anew terror for railway-companies.
She is surely as much entitled to damages, if she
ca n prove on the purt of the co., &S she
would be in a case of breach of promise.
• * •
“You should just a-soen ’itn w’en ’e putt
down the hash !” said the up-country Mayor of a
friend. Was it a “gorge” of which he spoke?
Not so. It was merely of the local “ Arbor Day,’
and the feat referred to was the planting of what
the Mayor called “a Hinglishhash ’’—also, a hoak
hand a helium.
« * *
The penny ’bus idea from Circular Quay,
Sydney, to the railway-station will, by the way,
mean another big fortune to the huge local firm of
universal providers whose doors the line will
pass In Melbourne the idea was worked up long
ago.’ There they have a penny cab system running
from various places to the establishment of a big
semi-suburban firm of drapers.
# * *
Lloyds’ Weekly gives, “as a warning
to widows and other unsuspecting women,”
a statement of the villainies of Bruno Van
Barne Felt, a bogus count recently convicted in
London. The medium of Ids rascalities was a
sham theatrical agency, conducted in a palatially-
fnrnished office, where numerous letters from his
dupes were discovered. Van B. Felt evidently
knew lovely woman “ right down to the ground.
Here is a letter he wrote to one of his clients :
When the loans with which my ancestors saddled my
estates are cleared off, 1 shall have a beautiful chateau to
take vou to. It is on the edge of a lake, and by the side
of a mountain, with the most lovely views In Europe.
Fancy, darling, being awakened in the morning by the
birds, and seeing the sun rise over the splendid scenery,
while the soft, balmy Spanish air is wafted in from the
window filling the room with a sweet fragrance ! Oh,
darling? you can guess! I don’t like cold, foggy London,
when mv youth has been spent in sunny Italy and France.
Ah France, darling, after we are married we will visit
together and then I shall have an opportunity of showing
my little wifey that life is. worth living.
That is the sort of thing a woman likes to hear.
Pity that a man who could write such letters
should ever be permitted to go to gaol. The
average woman would rather spend al her cash
in being deceived and robbed by a humbug of the
Felt order than keep it in the bank and be con-
fronted with the grim realities of life outside
castle.s in Spain.
• •
Sb James Church, Sydney, is 71 years old
this month. It is not generally known that Gov.
Macquarie originally intended the building for a
court-house.
* * *
“ I am 80 years of age, and have been a
heavy drinker,'” said a witness in the Coroner’s
Court, Melbourne, the other day. AV here do
you get your whisky ?” asked Coroner Youl,
eagerly. # # #
A dreadfully “busted” Melbourne boomer
now occupies perhapi the most expensive hotel-
suite in Sydney.


EOSE ; S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome ami Refreshing.
TH E BEST DRINK F 0 R AL L.
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold |»y n <| Storekeepers, efe.
General Agents:
JULES REWARD Sc CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Gladstone Liberals smoke nothing but G N U N
Darlings.
I’EMELL’S
GOLDEN
M EA L.
G N U N Darlings bear a thin red band.
EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“ Sl’KtTAdO : tlu ir Use, wlu ii Krqntrra,
and lion to Fim-liasc."
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
h,lT S . w l?1 . IS enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall bp
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list. ’
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists' Opticians,
474 & 587 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY - .
Rosetta Govett has loved always wisely, if
somewhat too numerously for the prejudiced
notions of straight-laced people. She has various
children belonging to several fathers. Two
children get ss. a week each, one gets Bs., a fourth,
10s., and she wanted the Bathurst, N.S.W., P.M.
to get 15s. for a fifth from an alleged father. Said
P.M. evidently didn’t want to encourage petty
jealousies amongst the children, and so issued an
order for only 7s. fid.
# * #
The news that “Lady Davies has resolved
to expedite her leturn to Melbourne ” is evidently
intended to be impressive. The Bulletin, in its
mind’s eye, can already see a deputation of
“leading” females, including the wives, sisters,
cousins, and aunts of bank - directors under
suspicion, forming a deputation to receive poor
Lady D. on her arrival.
# # #
The best thing in Phil May’s “ Winter
Annual ” is the picture (founded on a well-known
German idea) of the lion-tamer who came home
late and slunk into the lions’ cage to escape the
fury of his wife. She discovers the unsober wretch
resting his swollen head on the neck of a king of
beasts, and screams, “You coward 1”
# # *
The S. M. Herald, reviewing a book
named “The Clever Miss Jancy,” concludes by
stating that—“ Miss Haycraft sticks bravely to
her task, and after penning some 300 pages, allows
the reader to discover that the clever Miss Jancy
is only a woman after all, capable of feeling true
love and of making a good wife for the night
man.”
* * #
The tale of a mother-in-law was told once
again in Melbourne Divorce Court the other day.
A lady wanted a divorce on the ground of deser-
tion, and explained that her husband had aban-
doned her in Melbourne and gone to Seymour,
leaving her desolate. Then the husband rose and
explained that he had a billet in Seymour, and
lived there for some time with his wife and her
mother, but at last the old lady revolted, and
announced that she wanted to live in the
city. He wouldn’t give up his situation, so
they both left him. Whereupon, Judge
Williams denounced the iron-jawed relative as a
mischief-maker and a meddlesome old woman,
and told the husband that he ought to suppress
her and be master in his own house. The Bulle-
tin assumes that Judge Williams hasn’t got any
mother-in-law.
A Darling that never deceives, G N U N.
Carington’s game is evidently the vice"
royalty o’ Federated Australia. Grant, for th e
sake of argument, that he would be likely to ge fc
it, then Ihe Bulletin hopes that Australia will
never be federated until the future Earl (of
Mount Rennie, we presume) has been fitted with
wings and a halo. That Federated Australia
should start business under the auspices of any
glorified stable-boy named Smith—or, in fact, any-
one named Smith, especially a Smith whose family
was ashamed of its name—would be tew mutch.
Better than Broken Hills—G NU N Darlings.
The various reports as to Miss Kate
Marsden’s hobnobbing with Queen Victoria and
the crowned heads of Europe, and the considera-
tion which her “ colonial experiences ” secured
her, caues endless amusement in Maoriland. The
lady was a nurse in a Wellington (M.L.) hospital,
and, when she went ’Ome, told to the Britishers
some marvellously tall yarns as to the lepers she
had treated in Maoriland. She has now (so she
says) been chasing the wild leper to his Siberian
lair, riding astraddle on horseback for the first
time for the purpose of doing so.
At Newtown you can buy G N IJ N Darlings.
Mrs. FrencH-Sheldon, the 'He-me- Yankee
lady explorer who started out to imitate Sfcahley
m Africa and had to beat an ignominious retreat,
has published a book of her adventures. She
gives a graphic account of her interview with the
ruler of Zanzibar, who asked if her husband had
many wives. This is probably a mistake. What
the Sultan most likely enquired of such a master.
!?n?kM On L^ e Was ow many husbands she had.
While the volume was in the press a supreme
sorrow fell upon the authoress in the death of her
husband ; and it appears with a tender and touch-
ing dedication, in which a cry of grief is mingled
with a worthy tribute to a ‘noble, unselfish,
deacl ail ’ ThSy always are—when they’re
Protectionists smoke G N XT N Darlings.
Henderson Africanus’ house in Napoleon-
street, Collingwood, was once burgled, and
Africanus, reporting to the police the things
taken, mentioned “a book on etiquette,” wdiich
no doubt, was bought in view of the Embassy to
England, where he hoped to hob-nob with mag-
“ P a “? s - (( Henderson was really one of the founders
of the great Liberal Party,” which had so great
a success at the 1877 general election. He was one
ot a dozen who used to meet in the Belvidere
■tioteJ, at the corner of Brunswick-street and Vic-
toria I made, Fitzroy, in 1869, and from which
Another of the crowd
icwu i 'V u V n I'crsyth, a stonemason, who, in
if)/ 1, bought the Herald from David Syrae. It
was intended that the Herald should advocate
the vmwvs of the party, and one Hickson, a home-
t,doctoij w , as engaged as editor. Between
ie doctor and the mason the paper was nearly
mined, and was sold for .£IOOO. y
Aids to digestion-G NUN Darling cigars.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
entranopf h H n® K, "/P sfcreet Arcade (Georjre-street
“The TuoVi 1S j u? OAafchor of that popular treatise on
tralh ■’ and . h ! s ,s also the onl y large firm in Aus-
Fees ni ” hclaßS Dentistry at Reform
nilcininf 1 a, -* Tee l. h ale sefc on gO,d > silve r, platinum,
dons arl 0 -’ from A « the full set. ftonsulta-
oxide p Te ® th ar . e .f xtr acted under pure nitrous
M rshdl i ( c< ? ca " ,e ’ da,,y ' °'ily address -Mr. ,1. I.
street entranc!o * SUr^e °"’ KinK ' stre£t Arcade (George-
“Authors—the poorest creators of valu-
able property on the face of the earth.”— Charles
Meade.
A Sydney litterateur made a day-to-day
computation that from Jan. 1 to Deo. 31 of the
just-ex pi red year, a certain most respectable Syd-
ney daily paper “reproduced ’’—the wise thus call
it literary material from English and foreign
magazines and newspapers which must have cost
the original publishers upwards of ii7ooo. This
is altogether exclusive of the enormous amount of
matter similarly “reproduced” by other papers
puhhshed from the same office. By the way,* the
b.JVI. Herald of Friday last published no less
than thirteen columns of “scissored” matter in
gicat hunks ; the local D.T. was a good second.
le v^c^ms °f recent retrenchment
on Melbourne newspapers worked himself ove r
to Adelaide on foot, picking up little scraps of
woijc from provincial journals on his way.
Arrived in the S.A. capital, he found Parliament
over and work slack, but, the matter being repre-
sented to Mr. A. L. Harrold, President of tiie
1 edcrated Employers’ Union, a free passage with
good living and sleeping accommodation was
kindly given to the weary wayfarer as far as
Hya'spade ere ’ h ' S Per ‘ failin £ hiln > he means to
Henderson Africanus, the Ethiop whom
nftip? Conservative press made the buffoon
o the big Berry poht'cal crisis, and who died the
anofh«r a w ? arned a | ad y. white, but widow of
a e k and , Snowball ” thus became
fficf and l- i Fo - yd ’ the half-caste steeplechase
of w„rrv n ° « rown - u P sisters. He had a lot
pr i ‘, nd Matters came into court, through
Henderson s assertion of paternal authority. At
went emnfv- T U r rn L ng '°° ach w f s provided > b «t
and incf? e O - vvas as clever a man, ay,
and just as honest, as Sir Jas. Macßain.
,A„ Melbourne cabman, writes a Bui-
onrieSTln r 1 ’ ”5 *«**•» borne
one evening, alter a good day’s work, when six
sailors hailed him, and enquired the fare to a
certain street. “Six bob,” replied the cabby
tlru n price 0f
that price. They agreed, and all jumped into the
cab and were driven off. Arrived at their destina-
tion the spokesman was first to alight. He went
ound to the front of the cab, and handing up ™
shillings rolled away. The cabby thanked 1 him
and solemnbv i f° V'TJ* when a far earn”
Wl if.?l y planked down another six shillings.
W ,oh performance went on until cabby found
d ivl f 4' 1 ref ;t ,pt fhirfy-six shillings for the
is aiSplf Sttbl! * ° abby ’* " PPetite f ” “«°«
A Sydney cabman
died suddenly the other
day and was inquestod.
Cause of deatli : 4Soz. of
undigested beer in the
stomach. Two centuries
ago, when a witness was
suspected of concealing
the truth, the Jaw used
to pump water into him ;
"lien he had swallowed
three quarts he would
confess everything he
knew, and after fivequarts
he would generally con-
fess anything, whether he
knew it or not. What
results might not have
been obtained if these old
inquisitors had filled up
the reluctant witness with
“colonial beer” instead
of water —had driven it
into him with a force-
pump and a big nozzle,
for instance !
At Spurgeon’s Tabernacle, London, after
the cash customers have secured their seats,
electric-bells are rung, and then the miscellaneous
crowd swarm m and take their chances. In church,
money talks.
Smoke G N U N Darlings. Take no other.
Blue Bush,’ a Northern correspondent,
to I HE Bulletin 'The death by thirst of David
IVL Kay and his two blackboys is reported as
having taken place between Corella and Alroy.
Dave M Kay was the first white man to take cattle
and look after them on Barkly tableland, and,
in the writers knowledge, there was no better
stockman (and few better bushmen), except per-
haps “ Old Man Read ford,” on the tableland.
* e o V Vi®’ the “ Corella Lagoon ” and making across
e r ?7i (^ r * Kdward Lamb’s station on the
1 Jayford), he must have expected to hit a water-
hole on the Playford which turned out to be dry ;
then he knew all was up. His two boys, only
little fellows, but as cool and game as their master,
no doubt met their fate as quietly as he.
F or Dyspepsia and General Depression—Take
Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Last Thursday morning there was thunder
an d the crash of imprecations in
Me lb. Age. A half-crazed editor rushed round
seeking the heart’s blood of the chief of the staff
while Boss Syme awaited the arrival of Premier
Shiels’ head on a charger. “ The cause of all this
excitement was not far to seek.” The Argus, an
obscure twopenny rag, published a little higher up
the street, had got in front of the Age with the
news that Matthew Davies and Co. were to be
prosecuted by the Crown. Of all ghastly out-
rages ever perpetrated in the local newspaper
world this was the most horrible and unaccount-
able. To think of David Syme’s own (Ministry,
the Cabinet he had created and nursed through a
dozen want of confidence ’ motions, throwing
such a tit-bit of intelligence to the enemy !
Later in the day, so goes the perjury, Shiels
was allowed to call personally upon the pro-
prietor of his soul and make terms of peace.
He undertook to invent a new political
or social sensation as soon as possible, in
order that the Age’s own special reporter might
take out patent rights in the same, and have the
latest particulars all to himself. Meanwhile,
Shiels bogged Mr. Syme to accept of the informa-
tion that the Crown was about to offer, subject to
Mr. Syme’s approval, the billet of Chief justice
to Dr. Madden. Having taken a solemn oath
that the Argus would be kept ignorant of this
new item, and having again protested his regret
that there had been a leakage in the Mercantile
Bank secret, Shiels was permitted to withdraw
(backwards) from the presence of King David.
Next morning the penny oracle proclaimed the
“ Nomination of Dr. Madden ”in bold type, while
the Argus stood out in the cold and said “ Dam!”
fi n C ?- l | 10l ' (! *?as Phased Heaven to bless
the British arms—in Burrnah.
Medwa y Da y» of Adelaide
Voice, and H. Congreve Evans, of Quiz, will run
Oi Parliament at the S.A. general elections. In
the present Parliament the journalists and ex-
jnurnalists are O Loughlin, M.L.C., and Ward
f it ’ T Wl h Asl, Grainger, Hancock,
, Johnson, Lake, and Solomon in “another
place. Kirkpatrick, M.L.C., once set type on
the Advertiser, and M‘Pherson, M P did
similar duty on the Register, while Treasurer
Kounsevell, to Ins great cost, once owned a so
■ :^,r n iV° Paper, now happily extinct. J.
Langdon Bonython, owner of the Advertiser
was expected to stand for a city constituency, but
irJm papel haß l seour f d tl,e Hansard contract,
thtit luxury inust now be foregone.
Sussex-sfcreet revels in G N U N Darlings.
“It is worth its weight in gold,” is a common
expression But, while the value of gold is easily
affected, the worth of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla as a
blood-purifier, never depreciates. It eradicates
scrofula from the system.
Tiie S.A. Risawißß, having lost the Han-
FourS gone. W Pedueinflf its reportin * statf <
Shah of Persia smokes GNUN Darlings,
Princess Marie of Edinburgh has declined
'badem worth All,ooo from Ron-
a m i „ She wants the money to be
t'nnntn! ” 6 4 ®T n e purpose beneficial to the
to s o n H f r l,S f IHK Bdlletin is inclined
to scout the heredity doctrine.
Kaiser William smokes GNUN Darlings
Ueid ’" ia ti,e
arf e on he f r^K b °r ne . nor Brisba ne can (situated as they
direcHv f lverB ' t " afrow and tortuous) be
remiiro o" by sh, P 3 of war. and would therefore
place ll thi ! “ s | When f the R opular takes
atoms I f! PS ° f war Ciin s,nash Sydney to
“" ' . 7' ,™ ant to- Then, when the row is
Z F : ; r , Puil l a better and healthier citv on
the little bill f 6 the ., Austral ian Republic deducts
bondholder. 8 am ° Unt due to the Britlsh
v A good tip-smoke GNUN Darling cigars.
Graham Berry has been adjudged (by his
po.ihcal colleagues) irresponsible for the Mercan-
tile Bank scandal All that Graham did wls to
H ntlsh de P° sitols to “wade in,” to
howl at Melbourne (immediately after his return)
Sid «" ‘ Uh ' ht y °< «h. S
handsome become one of the liquidators at a
1 nnidT 'Tf 7- Also ’ he held the billet of
able H VV fL e ’ ° n h . ls ovvn admission, he wasn’t
forced I.?” f l 6 W ° rk ’ a ? d u,,fcil Public opinion
forced him to resign. In fact, 'Berry drew a
salary from the funds before and after the bank
matter ’ti no { hin ? e,se to do with the
™.l , afc aIL The shareholders and depositors
ought to express their sympathy in the form of a
purse of sovereigns,
Darlings G N U N—cost 3d. only.
Tears ago, in a certain Sydney Govern-
ment office ‘ Charley “ sat in the outer room
and upon Sharks ” calling for “ Billy,” who sat
and Billv 8r ro, ? ai > Charley would give warning,
an I Billy would disappear m a retreat formed
e dled a tab,e ' vlUl ' old ledgers. One day a dun
called, and after Cliarley had given the usual
warning cry, the devil took possession of dm a d
leading the Shark to “Billy’s” retreat be re
marked, “You’ll find Mr. So-and-so under there.”
to the ordinary debtor the position would have
been embarrassing, but Billy was no ordinary
debtor, and seizing the situation on a glance he
theTibll -f ’T W J n * t f he ° ld lftd^ers from under
the table, as if looking for a particular date ; and
asked to be excused for a moment. When that
coulcf WaS ° VBr PUt his man °i f as only Billy
At Marriekvilleyou can buy GNUN Darlings.
Dr. Morgan T. Wills, a recognised
American authority on cerebral disease and in-
sanity, vyntes “It is well for us to know that
the emotions cause more unhappiness and crime
than any other function of the brain. Human
well g fbaf rB fP Ve T d ,l ,y , motions; and it is
well that they should be, though it is emotions
that wear away the brain. It is the emotions such
: .',‘T ty ’ fear ’ Sol ™'v, and love. I consider that
eight hours are sufficient for a man to me his
btain, because if he exceeds that time he becomes
nervous and fretful, and an exhausted brain h an
of r th a e b itrp ra "‘f I Y -° U Uli Y nofc feel the evil effects
of the stress of brain work at that time, but you
will sooner or later, when it will be too late. The
men that work at night with their brains are the
whieh h w?n eXP °T khemse!ves to danger and death,
winch will surely come unless the great strain on
the mind is lightened. Any man that neglect"
of , a bram or a nervous system
that is becoming exhausted, overtaxed, or about
to break down, is not only a fool but a criminal,
ihese signs arc not many, but they tell the story
°; co , mm S dangers only too plainly. Headache
sleeplessness irritability of temper, neuralgic
pains about the head and heart, unrefreshed sleep
U Vr Pe rrV dldl eyes > heaviness of the
head and stupid feeling after meals, worry about
In Ik!’ l un [ easona,l,< ! anger, tingling and numbness
m the limbs, cold feet and hands, flushed face and
burning ears, palpitation of the heart, and ir-
regidar, weak and unsteady pulse. When you
note these symptoms, beware; the brain and
nerves are about to break down, and it may be
insanity, perhaps death.” For all such troubles
we recommend Clements Tonic. This is
scientific specific, brain and nerve food, and posi-
tively repairs the ravages of overwork, time, and
disease, strengthens the whole system, adds new
to ne, and animation, as it did in the case of
Edward Gardner Esq., Hamilton Commonage
near Newcastle, N.S.W., who writes I write
these few lines to you with thanks for Dr, Fletcher’s
wonderful pills; they are a wonder to many I
have tried them with great benefit, and they do not
purge or gripe but give relief m a few hours, and
hilt'?, thankful /hat I ever read of them for the
bilious attacks for they worked wonders in a day
or two and I hope you will long be spared to
supplythemto the public.—l remain, yours truly,
Edward Gardner, Hamilton Commonage, N.S.W
C. Barber, Esq., Wyman-st., Broken Hill, who
writes - ‘! have been taking Clements Tonic
with such wonderful results that I am induced as
a matter of justice to send a plain statement of
my case, which you are at liberty to publish in
the interests of similar sufferers. My complaint
was poor and impure blood, inability to sleep
nervous debility, poor appetite, palpitation, giddi-
ness and the usual string of symptoms, getting no
rest or peace from my misery night or day After
many other treatments had failed I was induced
to try your Clements Tonic, of which I took nine
bottles and I am glad to state that mv health is
p erfect ly restored, and I heartily recommend it to
all others who suffer from the same cause. You
are at liberty to make what use of this you like.—
I remain, yours sincerely, Charles Barber
Wyman-street, Broken Hill, N.S.W. ’
Life in the Bush.
(For The Bulletin.)
I live in the bush, and I know the bush. One of
the many afflictions which I bear with as much
fortitude as is possible for one who is, after all,
but human, is the nightly visitation of a large
number of oxen of inquiring character and assorted
sexes. My hut is not fenced in, because if a bush
cattle means business he doesn’t trouble his head
about fences. Fence —why a coffer-dam wouldn’t
stop pur cows ! So, about the time I have got
into my bunk, and am knocking the ashes out of
niy last pipe, some robust young steer out-
side begins to paw up dirt. This is pre-
paratory to organising a party to prospect for
soap, or shirts, or towels. (Cattle are very fond
of shirts—Crimean, for choice.) Pretty soon his
comrades, and the milky mothers of the herd, and
the little cowlets, and a lot of working bullocks,
chip in. They eat up any soap that is left lying
about, also saddlecloths and undershirts and socks.
1 hen. they “moo.” Singly at first, then as
duettists, afterwards in trios, and finally as a full
orchestra. Sometimes they go away after this
but as a rule they stay till daylight. I arose one
night in my wrath, and hunted them all away
about two miles and a distance. At least, I
thought so, but when I returned, I found I had
overlooked two brindled steers and their ms.
They were inside the hut, chewing my blankets,
what is the use of telling a man he shouldn’t
swear ?
The exertion of this pursuit and the subsequent
wrath did not agree with me. I took a chill, and
afterwards contracted pneumonia, as well as a
large abscess on the liver. I also stubbed my
great toe severely while pursuing the oxen, t
made myself a roomy mustard-plaster, and applied
it to some of the aching parts. Next day I threw
it out. About evening, the same old deputation
of bovines waited on me. A meditative, matronly-
looking old cow elbowed one of her sons out of the
way, and attacked the poultice. She got a fair
grip of it, and laid it well back on her tongue.
Then the poultice began to get its work in. The
female ox laid it down, sighed deeply, and retired
to look for some sourgrass. The next candidate
was a red steer that I had once helped to pull out
of a shaft. On that occasion he had put down his
head and dispersed his rescuers as soon as he
emerged. He opened the plaster out before sam-
pling it, and thereby got about five ounces of
mustard well under his tongue before his suspicions
were aroused. Then he went away to the creek,
breathing hard. My spirits rose on seeing two vic-
tories scored in such rapid succession, and I began
to think of patenting the invention and becoming
A BAD SPEC.
HE: "Yus, I am in several mining specu-
lations at Broken Hill.”
SHE: “Indeed, and does it pay?”
HE: "Oh, yes; but I do all the paying.”
wealthy. I was quite exhilarated. For the first
time m thirteen months I smiled. The thought
that 1 had at last got a lead on those piratical
oxen had a truly wonderful effect. For fully ten
minutes I was happy. Then one of my most
constant interviewers came along. His name is
(strawberry, and he is a working bullock. “Work-
ing ' is a courtesy title given to Strawberry
because he is yoked up with a team, but it has no
real significance, for Strawberry has long since
given up the habit of pulling. He is a gaunt
beast, and his hide is scored with old whip-marks,
so that it looks like a railway-map. His favourite
food ,s gunny-bags, but he will also eat tarpaulins
and bridles. Strawberry ambled up to the
poultice, looking modestly confident, and I realised
that my imaginings had been vain. They were
He swallowed that poultice without a tear. He
lingered over it as if he loved it,-and I saw him
nVh V / n ff tle 01 5 d , 0f T thafc mustard-plaster a fort-
night afterwards ! I mean next to try the effect
of a compost of dynamite, spread on gun-cotton.
A. CHEE.


THE
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.
OF NEW YORK.
ASSETS EXCEED £33,000,000 STERLING.
The Largest, Best, Safest and Cheapest Life In-
surance Company in the World.
rpms
Company has a VACANCY for a BRANCH
MANAGER in Victoria. It is also open to engage
one or two gentlemen on Salary, who would be drafted
into similar appointments. Previous experience unneces-
sary. Bond required. Apply MANAGER, “ Olderfleet,”
No. 473 Collins-slreet, Melbourne.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACH El!
Capillarine!
83F" The Lightning Moustache Producer. Isa
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. Cd., Post Free.
PU4HI .V 4ITKBN, Sole Agents,
080 and 082 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
60S GEORGE-STREET, SYDNEY.
ESTABLISHED 1860.
3- COTTAGE FURNISHED for
,£l9 19s. 6d.
4- HOUSE FURNISHED for £32
17s.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£5O.
10-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£lOO
DEPARTMENTS:
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY,
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS,
FURNISHING DRAPERY,
and IRONMONGERY,
GLASSWARE and CHINA,
ELECTRO PLATED GOODS,
SPECIAL LINES IN EVERY
DEPARTMENT.
Suites in all colors and materials. Prices begin at
£7 10s.
We upholster our own Suites, and can give the
best value.
Early English Suites of 9 Articles, in Tapestry
and Plush, .£lO 10s.
Suites are quite a speciality with us. We generally
have between 10 and 20 to select from, uphol-
stered in all the pretty patterns and styles
imaginable.
Our Occasional Suites are exceedingly pretty, and
of good value ; they have a ready sale, and our
stock is always nice and fresh.
We have exceptionally good value in Walnut
Inlaid Cabinets and Sideboards and Occasional
Tables ; also. Bedroom Furniture.
In fact, we are enabled to do the best for our cus-
tomers throughout, simply because we are
Manufacturers and Importers.
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues
(Free by Post.)
Communicate freely, you will be promptly
answered.
JOHN LAWLER A SONS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Medical.
' BETTER THAN GOLD.
—THE—
Dr. TYSON SANATORIUM,
BAND WICK.
Patients received for the Treatment of
OPIUM HABIT, DRUNKENNESS
and
Mewrastlxenia.
Cures Guaranteed. No Pain, Discomfort, or Restriction.
Private apartments and attendants if desired. Dr.
Tyson’s Infallible Vegetable Cure is warranted to cure
any case, and is the ONLY REMEDY which can he
taken at home with certainty of success. All business
strictly confidential.
For terms, etc., call on or address— H. Franklin,
Sec., Scott Chambers, 96 Pitt Street, Sydney.
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic Injections Used.
NO MORE BLEMISHES.
We will have now
Natural Complexions!
• ••
m
Anna Ruppert’s Skin Tonic
Will certainly give this result if properly used.
SKIN TONIC is now famous recommended by
leading doctors for Eczema, Salt-rheum, Acne, etc. ; in
fact, to cleanse the skin of all its many ailments. Harm-
less. Easily used. Beneficial for everybody. Tones the
relaxed muscles, and brings I he skin back to its youthful
condition. Contains no ars nb, lead, or injurious ingre-
dients. Price per bottle, lz/6; three bottles together
(usually required), 32/6. Complete course of remedies
specially prepared for the Australian climate, £3 35.,
including postage.
Full line of Toilet Requisites. Perfumes very choice I
and reasonable. Manicuring and best Manicure Instru
ments.
Celebrated New and Popular Long-waisted Cor-
sets, price 12/6. Easy, graceful and durable.
All letters treated confidentially. No names used.
Anna Ruppert’s new “Book on Beauty” given free to all
callers, or sent upon receipt of 4d. postage. Correspond-
ence solicited. No trouble to answer by letter or in person.
Address all communications to the celebrated American
Complexion Specialist,
ANNA RUPPERT.
gOLE AGENCY for Australasian Colonies
153 Strand, Sydney.
Head Office, 89 Regent-street, London ; also Paris,
Barcelona, etc.
66
T
ALES OF THE
CONVICT SYSTEM.”
Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
Amusements,
p I L L I S’ CIRCUS.
Last Three Nights.
The Season Positively Concludes on Saturday Next.
: PERFORMANCES TWICE DAILY. :
EVERY AFTERNOON at 3. EVENING at 8.
All the Novelties
AT THE FAREWELL REPRESENTATIONS.
The Beautiful Lion Queen,
: mdllk. jasia scherazade :
AND THE FOUR NUBIAN LIONS.
Fillls’ Great Military Act.
Dying to Save the Colours - an Episode of the Zulu War.
The Programme concluding with the Immensely Successful
WATER PANTOMIME,
i NIAGARA IN SYDNEY, j
Water Pantomime commences at 9 30. Time and
PRICES as Usual.
To-morrow (Friday) Benefit tendered by Mr. Fillis td the
Broken Hill Distress Fund.
SATURDAY! SATURDAY I
Last Day Performance at 8 p.m., and in the Evening at 8
Grand Testimonial Benefit to
Mr. and Madame Fillis.
Farewell of the Trouve.
The Troupe leave on Monday per s.s. Cintra for Mel*
bourne.
Sole Proprietor, F. E. FILLIS ; Business Manager, Signor
Agrati; Advance Representative, Allan Hamilton •,
Press Agent, E. 0. Clitherow.
OPERA HOUSE,
King and York Streets.
Sole Lessee ... Mr. Harry Rickards.
NOTHING SUCCEEDS LIKE SUCCESS! 1
therefore
Mr. HAltltY IUCKAKD3
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Co. are playing
to Crowded Houses Nightly. Our New Artists received
nightly with thunders of applause. 40 Rial Artists.
MILLION PRICES—2s., Is., and SIXPENCE.
Theatre royal.
Lessee .. .. .. .. Mr. S. lazar.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, Amory Sullivan.
Brilliant Success of Fallen ! Brilliant Success of Fallen !
THIS and EVERY EVENING,
until further notice, the celebrated Comic Opera, in 3 acts,
“FALK A..”
(By arrangement with Mr. George Rignold)
In which the Charming young Prima Donna,
Miss CLARA MERIYALB,
and an Exceptionally Powerful Cast will Appear.
Large and Efficient Chorus. Complete Orchestra.
Wardrobe and Properties by MAY, london.
BOX PLAN OPEN at the THEATRE DAILY from 10
till 5. STALLS and FAMILY CIRCLE Tickets may be
had at any time at Maokay's, King and Castlereagh Streets.
Doors open at 7.30. Commence at 8 sharp. Carriages
10.45. Children in arras not admitted.
PRICES Dress Circle and Reserved Stalls, 5s ;
Stalls, 3s. ; Family Circle, Is.
AFTER an ABSENCE OF 11 YEARS.
Q.ARRICK THEATRE
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, RETURN of
(Qommy (Hudson
And HIS RENOWNED SURPRISE PARTY
The Most Travelled Entertainment in Existence.
Two Weeks Only.
Y~ oITk sir REET RINK,
between Market and King Streets.
WIRTH BROS.’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS
WIRTH BROS.’ COLOSSAL CIRCUS
Glorious and Increasing Success.
Delighted Audiences.
The Best Circus ever seen in Sydney,
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Fresh Novelties every Saturday.
Monday, 16lh January, Vice-regal Command Night.
Afternoon Shows, Wednesdays and Saturdays at 3.
Prices —3s, 2s, and Is ; children', half-price.
Furniture from M. Goldberg, 98 & 100 Kiug-st., Newtown.-
Day Tickets for Chairs at Nicholson’s.
Accounts paid every Monday from 10 to 12 by the'
Treasurer, Mr. Geo. Wirth, at the Rink.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.-
IMMENSE SUCCESS ! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
The Gorgeous Christmas Pantomime
LITTLE RED RIDING- HOOD, and BOY BLUE.'.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Leasee Mr. George Rignold.
EYE RY EVENING! EVERY EVENING !
Magnificent Production of
THE GORGEOUS COMIC CHRISTMAS PANTOMIME'
“BLUE BEARD”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE,
ADVT
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeous, 12s. Cd., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., 18s. 6d.. steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines. 855., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp■ Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent ♦ lality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping lea rued in five minutes with;
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD-immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. To be obtained through;
any music-seller or stationer in Australia, or direct from
J ALBERT & SON, 108 King-street. Cheapest Music
Warehouse in Australia. Illustrated catalogues and par-
ticulars posted FREE.
*5l
Aaoi^no
ADVT
Cutlery
It.V Post.
This RAZOR, black handle, 7s. 6d. each (post fre?). Fine-finish, Ivory Handle, 12s. 6d. each (post free).
W. JNO. BAKEE, Wholesale, Retail, and Practical CUTLER,
3 H UITTEE STREE T, SY D 3STE Y IST. S- "W,
Illustrated Price List Post Free.
A N.S.W. country paper remarks paren-
thetically that “the new year, 1893, is fresh from
the Almighty hour-glass.” This sounds new.
In the gloaming with my 6NUN Darling.
.Bathurst (N. S. W.) is proud of being known
as “the City of the Plains.” Why? Sodom
would be much shorter, and Gomorrah wouldn’t be
much longer ; besides, it would sound ever so
much more aboriginal.
Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay—G NUN Darlings.
At St. Lawrence (Q.), the harbour-master
is chief pilot, registrar of births, marriages and
deaths, C.P.S., inspector of nuisances, commis-
sioner for affidavits, high bailiff, water-police
magistrate, sub - collector of Customs, mineral
lands commissioner, inspector of distilleries,
acting-gold warden, police-magistrate—and J.P.
Wonderful value —four G N U N Darlings, Is.
The Australian dailies publish a cable
stating that 100,000 men are out of work at Bar-
celona (Spain). Not one editor among the crowd
seems to see anything extraordinary in 100,000
men being unemployed in a city which doesn’t
contain more than 80,000 men all told. Yet, when
some British editor doesn’t know that Perth isn’t
in Tasmania the excitement among these editors
is awful.
Freetraders smoke G N U N Darlings.
More people (says a London paper) have
heard of Jarndyce v. Jarndyce than of the great
Jennens case. Nevertheless, Dickens’ famous
Chancery suit was founded on the latter. Another
claimant has been found to the enormous property
involved, which is valued at something like twelve
millions sterling. A large portion of Birmingham
is built on the estate. Lord Howe is the present
holder of a goodly portion of these riches.
G N U N Darlings take the cake.
Messrs. J. Ireland and Cos., or Ireland’s
bond and various warehouses at Newcastle
(N.S.W.), have sent their friends a very instructive
Christmas souvenir in the form of an illustrated
brochure, with pictures of Sydney Town Hall,
Anglican Cathedral and so on, and brief com-
ments about almost everything from Captain
Cook to the Zig-Zag. The book is a great deal
more reasonable than a flower-strewn Christmas-
card, and the firm’s advertisement doesn’t stick
out too far among the pictures.
At Paddington you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Some months ago The Bulletin drew
attention to an egregious mistake in a map then
just issued for the use of N.S.W. schools. It
showed a railway passing down the centre of
Cape York through an almost uninhabited
waste. Since then the map has been distributed
to the schools with the railway in question care-
fully erased. The place has been patched up as
well as possible, but the line is still plainly visible.
The department has as yet sent no purse of
sovereigns to this office as a token of gratitude for
having been saved a ridiculous blunder.
Luxury for the million, G N U N Darlings.
Dear Bulletin, —It is claimed that the
popular educational advantages of Australia are
second to none in the world. This fact was borne
in upon me with much force the other day. In a
well-known Melbourne street I encountered a
wheelwright’s sign, wherein “tire” was boldly
rendered “ tyre .” Half a mile further on I found
another wheelwright who spelt it tyer. Just
then the delivery waggon of a much-advertised
confectioner passed; on it was emblazoned
largely—“ Confectionary Cos.” Further on, over
a tailor’s door, was the inscription “ no missfits
in the window of a butcher’s shop appeared a bill
stating that “ stakes ” could be bought at per lb.;
a fruiterer’s printed card spoke of “lemon ade”
and “ sarsaparella.” This, bear in mind, was the
result of observations made in less than a mile
walk in one street! And yet, think of how much
our education owes to the use of our eyes when
abroad. —Yours, F.
Constipation, or costiveness, is one of the
most frequent results of liver complaint, and re-
quires prompt and careful attention, for if the
faecal matter becomes impacted in the bowels
dangerous effects are to be apprehended. The
justly celebrated Dr. Abernethy said that in-
attention to the action of the stomach and bowels
was the cause of ninety per cent, of our physical
ailments, and modern science has proved this
assertion correct. Care, however, requires to be
observed in the choice of remedies, for there are
numerous drastic and violent cathartics sold under
various fancy names, but Dr. Fletcher’s Pills are
used with the best advantage in such cases.
These pills are from the prescription of Dr. Bell
Fletcher, Birmingham, England, and were used
by him in his private and General Hospital
practice there for many years with the greatest
success. This, as a matter of course, proves their
reliability, and Mr. A. M. Beauchamp, Rata,
Rangitikei, N.Z., says “ I wish to inform you
of the good Fletcher’s Pills are doing here.
Everybody uses them, and speaks well of them;
and so do I, for they are the best I ever used in
my life.” They can be obtained from F. M.
Clements, Newtown, Sydney, for thirteen penny
stamps.
Pro bono public >. GNUN Darlings.
The cutlery establishment of Mr. W. J.
Baker, 3 Hunter-street, Sydney, is now one of the
finest—if not the finest—in the city. This huge
warehouse is the embodiment, in polished steel, of
the whole art of gluttony, shaving, murder,
suicide, and death by misadventure. Among the
stock are carving-knives, cattle-knives, hunting-
knives, pen knives, pocket-knives, sheath-knives,
yachting-knives, razors in several dozen varieties
—hollow-ground Bengal razors, Swedish razors
with flat blades, Safety razors which enable the
patient to shave himself automatically, scissors,
nail scissors, flower scissors, pruning scissors,
grape scissors, tailors’ scissors, barbers’ scissors,
folding pocket scissors, all sorts, shapes and
varieties of scissors, a perfect blizzard of scissors
blowing in all parts of the premises, also scissors
Repaired and sharpened, likewise many other
varieties of scissors. And, in addition to these,
the firm trades in special descriptions of knives
for carving poultry and rending the leathern
turkey asunder at the festive Xmas season, and
for tearing apart the indurated fowl, and does all
manner of repairs, and sells almost every kind of
destructive weapon beneath the sun, besides
hundreds of other ripping and tearing implements
not enumerated.
“IT FEARS NEITHER ARMY NOR
NAVY.”
Those things used to be called the wooden walls
of England. . .
The scene was the Naval Exhibition at Chelsea,
in the Summer of 1891. The speaker was a young
man, and his auditor one of those lithe, bright-
haired girls one so often sees in this island.
“And aren’t they the wooden walls of England,
now ?” she said, as a child might ask when Noah
might be expected in Liverpool with his ark.
“Not exactly,” replied her escort, tenderly;
“ they are rather out of style. Come ; I’ll show
what sorts of walls we have now,” and he led her
off in the direction of the beautiful models of the
great steel ships of war.
The young fellow was right in assuming that
this country had a big and powerful navy, but the
chances of war decrease with the preparations
made to meet it. Besides, the interests that
would be put to hazard grow constantly larger and
nations avoid fighting as long as possible.
This is a hopeful consideration, and if England
had nothing to be afraid of beyond the danger of
being attacked from abroad, we might sleep in
peace. But there is an enemy against which
neither army nor navy is of any avail. It defies
the gunboats in the Channel and the redcoats on
the shore, and kills more people than are ever
likely to fall in battle.
If we could stop the ravages of this foe we
should soon be able to surprise our distant colonies
with the arrival among them of a splendid class of
our surplus population.
We allude, of course, to disease. Not to epi-
demics of cholera or influenza, but to diseases
which are at work year in and year out, in every
season, carrying off rich and poor alike. Unques-
tionably the worst of these is the one that attacks
the digestive system, the one from which springs
the majority of ailments, which go under various
names, as, for example, rheumatism, gout,
bronchitis, consumption, the several fevers, and
others which were formerly, erroneously, supposed
to have distinct characters, and to require distinct
treatment.
Now, however, the best medical authorities
recognise these ailments as symptoms and out-
growths of indigestion and dyspepsia, and treat
them accordingly. In illustration of what can be
done, we cite a single case. A man named
Edward Kelly, who resides at 27, St. Vincent
Street, London Road, Liverpool, having pre-
viously had perfect health, experienced a dull
pain in the right side, a bad taste in the mouth,
furred tongue, loss of appetite, discoloured skin,
unnatural langour and fatigue, and what he des-
cribes as a “ sinking feeling,’’ as though the sup-
porting power were exhausted beneath him.
This was in 1887, and he bore it without obtain-
ing relief from the usual medical treatment until
April, 1890, when one day, when he was working
in a bonded warehouse, he says, “ a dreadful pain
struck me in the back, and I had great trouble in
getting through my work. Getting worse,” he
continues, “I went to a doctor, who said it was
inflammation of the kidneys. He gave me
medicine and attended me off and on for six
months, but with no beneficial result. He said he
could not understand how I could keep on with
my work. Still, I did struggle on, though the
disease was wearing me out. From a strong, able
man, I became thin and weak, and was afraid I
should have to give up my work. Last July,
1890, a Custom House officer recommended me to
try an advertised preparation, entitled Mother
Seigel’s Syrup. I did so, and before I had
finished the first bottle the pain left my back, and
I began to digest my food and gain strength. By
continuing to use this remedy I was soon as well
as ever in my life. My master, seeing what the
Syrup had done for me, also took it for indiges-
tion, with so much benefit that now he always
keeps it by him. I have no interest whatever in
testifying thus, and only speak of the medicine as I
found it.”
Mr. Kelly evidently had a narrow escape from
Bright’s disease, a malady very common among
all classes in England, and one of the surest and
most direct products of torpid liver, itself a
symptom of indigestion and dyspepsia. We
mention this case not to put money in anybody’s
pocket, but for the sake of the sufferers who need
help—no matter what it comes from.
He Didn’t Anticipate Trouble.
AN amorous couple on the verge of committing
matrimony entered a Paddington ’bus the
other night, and oblivious of the presence of a
third passenger, who to all appearance was enjoy-
ing a comfortable nap in the top corner,
commenced billing and cooing in dead earnest.
Of course the conversation turned upon the sub-
ject of their approaching nuptials, and many were
the expressed anticipations of the joy that awaited
them in that estate which all are anxious to enter
into and not a few would be glad to obtain release
from. “ Ah,” whispered the fair one, suppressing
a mild, hysterical sob, “ what a pleasure it will be
for me to listen to all your troubles and share all
your griefs.” “But, darling,” rejoined the hope-
ful Romeo, “ I have no griefs nor troubles.”
“Oh, but you will have plenty, you know, when
we are married,” added she, with ingenuous
emphasis. The passenger in the corner coughed,
and a silence followed that would have tipped
down the scale at 300 pounds. The prospective
benedict assumed a thoughtful mood. Up to that
moment he had regarded marriage as an unmixed
blessing—a path strewn with roses—not even
once pausing to think of the discomfort attending
a pair of feminine cold feet, of an icy reception
after a late night at the lodge or club, of a colicky
baby with leathern lungs and a voice like the
shrillest of steam whistles, or of bruised and
lacerated fingers, the combined result of unskil-
fulness, a blunt tomahawk, and a chunk of knotty
firewood. These, however, are among the little
troubles that the average young man undertaking
one of the great responsibilities of life must look
out for, and the best thing for him to do is to
soothe the self-inflicted injuries of inexperience,
and to prevent the attack of chill or rheumatism
which shooting by night at lightning speed out
of a warm bed, and rushing wildly along linoleum-
covered passages in quest of paregoric will in-
evitably bring, is always to have in the house
ready for use a supply of St. Jacobs Oil, the great
conqueror of all pain. Mr. John Breakwell, of
Milson’s Point-road, North Sydney, gratefully
acknowledges; “I have suffered severely for
some years from rheumatism in my knees, and
have tried many remedies. I have found St.
Jacobs Oil gives me great relief, and am pleased
to speak in praise of it.”


Twice already this year Adelaide Tele-
graph-office has sent cables to the Advertiser
which were paid for by the Register. They were
published in each case before the mistake was dis-
covered.
Labouchere: “As it is, anyone can add
Esq. to his name, though, in strict legality, only
a small class has the right to tins decoration.
If E, S, Q behind, why not H, O, N in front ?
Why not both at once, if a man has a fancy that
way ? ”
Fanoy ! GN U N Darlings threepence each.
The Wild-Cat Column.
How was it that the telegram about the Anglo-
Australian Investment Co.’s London debenture troubles
was printed in Melbourne a day before it saw the light in
Sydney ?
* * *
The inevitable calling-up of the unpaid Anglo-
Australian I. F. and L. Co.’s unpaid capital will mean
much misery to many Sydney citizens. The shareholders’
and depositors’ meeting to consider the method of wind-
ing-up is fixed for 17th inst.
* * •
Even the strongest banks in Brisbane are calling
up advances, fearing the financial crisis, which cannot be
far off, owing to the persistent heavy fall in the shares of
some of the local institutions.
# * *
Fitzgibbon, Me ill-fated loan-floater, has returned
to Melbourne with his tail considerably down. They are
all wondering why he didn’t save expenses by staying in
Oollins-street and borrowing the money from Marks
Hermann or the representatives of Waxman deceased, or
David Henry, Esq.
# # #
Several ex-directors of Melbourne banks and
companies (in liquidation) were visibly affected by the
news of their Chief Justice’s death.
•• ' *
At the Mercantile Finance 00. meeting in Mel-
bourne, the other day, an indignant shareholder referred
to “those knowing, slippery devils ” who had dummied
their shares. The words, “slippery devils,” glared out
in capitals in the evening papers, but were carefully
“battered” in the Argus, and the sentence read like
broken English in consequence.
* # #
It was inconsiderate of bank-manager Millidge
to go after that vague “situation in London,” whereby
he has possibly put stone-broke Victoria to the expense
of bringing him back again.
* * #
According to statements furnished by bankrupts
to the N.S. W. Court, the aggregate deficiency for ’92 was
£706,705 in excess of the aggregate deficiency for ’9l.
#
W. M. K. Yale, an ex-Attorney General of
Victoria, believes that 10 members of Parliament can
always be found to justify a rogue big enough and bold
enough to embezzle £1,000,000. Ten members only’
Vale ought to know better. Just look round! Whole
Parliaments stand ready to suck the perspiration that
oozes from the feet of a millionaire thief.
* * #
Lovely Irish bull from Sydney D.T. : “ The
average investor is anything but an ordinary commercial
man. He is veiy often an nate and voluble and vicious
woman.”
* * m
Melbourne tram returns for last December were
£9OOO hss than for December’9l. During the year the
mile ige was increased by 17,500 miles.
* * #
On the day that the Argus announced that
Davies and Cos. were to be prosecuted, the local Herald
“purchased by (he old D.T, “Gascoigne” Cos pre-
served a deathlike silence on the subject. ’
* * *
In answer to a correspondent —“ T.W ”(N S ) •
Yes, that’s the co. . o.) .
# * *
Probably the most deplorable feature in Aus-
tralian journalism is the way in which the metropolitan
papeis of Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney are made the
in ahum for bearing and bulling Barrier stocks. Pro-
bably, too, the conductors of these papers are absolutely
1 mooent of their evil influence. They claim no special
mining knowledge, and regard the mining industry and
stock marketsas insufficiently importantto give them more
than the ordinary attention devotu.l to general news To
the fol owing paragraph, we are certain rot a thought
was given bj the person who passed it, with probably as
much indifference as a weather-telegram “ Much bitter
complaint is being made by many shareholders in Block
Ten mine who believe that important information re-
-1111 mcdmte p rasped of the mine and the
extent of the ore bodies has been imparted to a favoured
few, w'ho unloaded their shares before the information
reached the central bodies of shareholders. It was freely
stated yesterday that the rich ore which provided
the dividends was nearly exhausted, and that not more
than one dividend at the present rate can be expected
and that the directors have not decided upon any plan
for tile treatment of the large masses of sulphide ore.”
It worked splendidly. Down came the shares, and in due
tune there came along the bulling wire in winch there
was as much exaggeration as depreciation in the other!
Of both cause and effect the obliging newspapers are
obvious y ignorant, for ignorance is ti e only possible
excuse. The Mixing Standard asks fie Board and the
s landholders to unite, “to stamp out that gang of
sl arpets who are for ever bearing and bulling Tens to
the dtsgnst of the legitimate shareholders.” To stamp
out bulls and bears is about as big a contract as we know
of. Possibly there is only one bigger, i.e.~ to transform
the M S i,fto S u raHan nie . t '°P.°! ita " Newspapers, including
madeof themselvT" aUth ° ntles after they have
* • #
fhFj d ? ey .? ) ’ T 7 hails wifch a wild shriek of victory
the declaration of the Greta miners concerning the folly
afcsteen e o 8 f Th ° Greta miners have nS
always been of the same opinion, nor his the DT It
ye!’r 0 s C ag e o and Th/m'V' coaim in emsonm
strikes g w hiob n a 'i e not ? lways been vanquished in
stlines which, after all, have done more for the miners
lh. K'SiS™ o„ " ,ouM " m “ b "
* # *
A man who really ought to know, informs the
Shln " S of lh f H °meward Bound mine,
M ralwal, A.S.W., average under sdwts. to the ton • that
fulfilled Us former hand f V f its owners has not
1W thin U reputation, and that somebody knew
was'sold As°m he f rock was o,le before tbe "SLe
crusW r,m . u lJb - f ton defrays the cost of breaking and
crusnmg, sdwts. return a fair profit.
* * #
forty LSl^wJh 1110 ’ is now inning
nH „t u I • 01 the same management, the formation
* * *
lor months past we have referred to the mvs-
Croydon reP lt waf- the J -K, lds f from the True Blue
Seethe vTeM a mp ° SS f ble f ?‘\ t 10 reader t 0 understand
If from the J and 8 Tu re f. 10nl tables or complete returns.
latter” l^ m y ind lf ed dividends ;if from the
left m th°» • ln ” ■ u .- a Payable concern. Too much is
manj peotle bhtte--n° n - -r* l ast > Probably too late for
effect nn it* i’ f bese 'jjexpltcable yields are having their
ThtthinttteUs! e ‘ a ” barometer - the share-market.
• # ,
-■D I6 H ew -Deputy-Master of N.S W Mint
says tm' BuL™ n ’r eX 'n ember for ,ba Wick Burghs,
hearty send off n? f l° nd ? n correspondent, received a
about as toinfa V tho Savage Club . 1,1 the form of
rio-bt a BB 1,0 y , a dmner as ever was given. He is a
wS?id and d ° V : n Vr and fell ° W ’ a much-travelled man of the
he goes He t ?, make friends wherever
a , e ]»« been a stalwart G adstonian and is
Who ,? al ,- a - T ld J much-esteemed friend cf the GO M
ment U Te ll wßl d Vc n off b er | d n him bis Present 6 appoint
. . rte "ill reach Sydney about March He is s
As tohls m i l ' 1 rt bU f fc vf t ’ 11 a good Bohe mian of the‘best type!
to L| P : y T can be 110 question, for in addition
inetallur-k 8 r T ? ood . mineralogist he is renowned as a
reDortinf ir H - pn . nci P!d occupation has been for years
Sh! r b° n . m, T 111 and fferent P arts of the world, for
mines he ™ T!' ‘‘ eCeived fat fees - Amongst other
“thou”? fo,?°so ted r pot |- ? Io . nnt Morgan (fee nearly a
what ho ' investors. He claims that
up sky hkh l . u , WaS tb u® means of ending the shares
D’Ai/v tt!Vi a i ba , s ratber a grievance against Knox
view in’ ih a and G ,°’- that they did not recognise his aor-
S? r pe ? ln some substantial way. He fully
?Uhe nH tO ba r C b f" Kivpn the of a Block of shares
it dicing come off! bef °‘ e h ® made h ‘ B re P ort ’ Ho " B ' er,
A medico tells us he has tested “Storite ” in a
smal. room, hermetically scaled, and discovered no ill
effects to the head, lungs, or eyes from the smoke. We
are glad to hear it, but think that a greater test would be
m a hot rise or crosscut, where one candle burns, but two
will go out. It is in places like these, of which there are
too many in Australian mines, that miners are slowly
done to death by fumes of explosives, all of which, so far
as our experience goes, are more or less poisonous.
* # #
Warden (inspecting absolutely untouched gold
lease reported for non-fulfilment of labour conditions):
I thought you said in court that you had done a lot of
work on this ground?” Conscientious Miner: “So I
have. Why, it’s h re I sharpen all my drills ! ”
* * *
Antimony regulus, pure metal, is quoted in
io" at i „ 3 and a 1,011 !50 per cent, antimony ore
at ±-12 and £l3. Can anyone reasonably explain the differ-
ence, except that it is mysteriously eaten up by brokers,
assayers, agents, and other middlemen, largely assisted
smelting establishments? The figures themselves
would indicate that it takes three tons of 50 per cent, ore
o°.Jai oduC f °. ne of 100 P er cen t- metal. This is only
another of the innumerable anomalies of which the
Austialuan mining community is the victim, and will pro-
*■2,,, remedied when we have our own metal market
as well as State smelting works.
* * *
, /V s re P ort()d °f Mount Gahan mine that anew
Up W - of the one worked ;l " d running
snectl of nn h o t ; r nd test shnfts along the line give pro
oerni p on f *j° * lve ozs - to the ton. So many lies con-
m have , been unblushingly disseminated by
I'm- tm? 1 tha f t P u eop i? niay well ask can this be true ?
it is * £e ° f the dlstressed Place we sincerely hope
* # #
me l ans A of tI Dn 1 .I 3a mi , nes and lninin £ stock are sold by
E emffeously-written ads. There are signs of a
ivi . |, a j e of things coming in Australia. Brokers, ea^er
thr rl n u g th - e “dimity” and etiquette
~ • ® x chanofes to the winds. Thus one Sydney firm
° f „ thG year ’ s transactions: “Thedron™
ha\ e suffered on all sides, but the workers like ourselves
hm;di„ d r; e he fa ello Wel i- uis the who
oura iud civos - ° W , ant t S t 0 Hve by your l allou r and
oius ana gn es no equivalent. Ben-one the old vp-n- -inrl
may the new he better.” How havf "he might/ fallen 1
would W havp tl,new a en thewrath of the Stock Exchange
» k °.“hSa„TsVir, " po " “»
A # » •
oil' Beidi.m l eth r° d of pu ™P in ß has been inaugurated
water hid to be fif/nT 11 " 1 . 8 '- v tbe old Tyson reef much
, i ° 1)6 1 ed, tor wlnoh purpose a Worthington
pump has been slung in the main shaft and is ranidlv
draining the locality. The Worthington is a grand fS
pump, but as it must be placed within 20 feet of the
suction-point, to sink a shaft with it would mean much
trouble in protecting it from blasts.
tt * ■ * *
iT as '31 ari * a as big’g'esfc tin-mine in the
world m Mt. Bischoff.” The Bulletin is sorry to sly the
f’ a “ I "* 1 true There are bigger stream-thf parties
' vd ?. ere one Chinaman alone owns a mine in
y hich 14,000 conhes are employed ! He is rich as Croesus
and has many wives, in the selection of which he displays
sssm£r‘“ t “'“ does in m
* * «
mi/n W K- 1I ' kn( - 1 Wn Australian ex-mining official now
fills a big position in connection with the Straits tin-
IV' Me , S ; .He was not long there before he secured from
the Rajah two tin-concessions into which Victorians
plunged their capital. The Melbourne Cos. paid many
dividends .that owned by a Bendigo crowd ended disas
trously. Theirs was a sidc-on lilock. Manager after
manager went out but all failed to make it 'pay, and we
believe it was finally abandoned as a duffer. 1
* # *
Gold and silver miners are, if anything, better
paid in America than in Australia. Throughout California
the wages are 10s. to 12s. per 10-hoi.r shift, and in cases
where speed is an object, three 8-hour shifts are worked
vii OU rl anj l In Victoria, for over three
yeais, the standard miners have been 7s fid for
8-hour shifts, the principal exceptions being in wet
gionnd or deep shafts. Bendigo miners, seme 20 yeans
rd SIS Th f °f u a a y o- eekS the red uction from Bs. 4d.
to ,s. bd They failed, Since then the mines have been
deepened fiotn hundreds to thousands of feet, ground is
harder, ventilation worse, and explosive fumes conse-
quently more poisonous, but wages remain the same.
* * *
Hillgrove, last year, produced 31,2070zs of e-old
from 27,353 tons stone, as well as 1125 tons antimony ore
averaging 55 per cent., 397 tons of crude metal, and 72
tons of oxide of antimony. The gold average is almost
equul to anything ~ Australia, but it is sadly reduced
when the Baker s Creek mine yield—l9,ss9ozs. from 8847
the S £s S W. re n co7d ay ' mine seems destinGd to hold
* * *
The Great Extended Hustler’s is again to the
front - its last yield 783 ozs. from 1000 tons. Twenty
years ago this was a long way ahead of all other Bendigo
mines, and for many months its fortnightly cakes of
between 3000 and 4000 oz. attracted thousands to the
bank-window, into and out of which they were lifted to
J n y rr - i rl ? ultitude - Then came the
n,. d »ni f l y Uußed cakes, also weighing thousands of
ozs., and for a time there was an exciting gold-cake race
ar ! d !? uc .i "’agering between these two mines. Eventu-
aliy the Ilustler s receded into hundreds and was lost to
fame. The G.G.U. continued for years, yielding to share-
holders some tons of gold, and like its one-time great
rival is again coming into the field. The shares in those
days went from pence to pounds.
* * »
Editor Bulletin,-You tell a circumstantial
tale re the Cosmopolitan Co.’s (Hillgrove) first crushing
Alas, that story of the “sumptuous banquet at which
champagne flowed like water,” and the alleged subse-
quent announcement in mining papers that “Mr Pelton
Wheel was giving every satisfaction,” are pure periuries
worthy of Ananias in his palmiest days. The “ sumptuous
“^ow-our’-GR 1 C ° St jUBt £S 7S ’ 6d> So much for the
* * *
Editor Bulletin,— Re your recent paragraph
concerning the affairs of the Lode Hill Tin Mmin» Cos
Are you aware that a contract was filed with” the
Registrar by the Lode Hill company’s solicitor which
contract was accepted in good faith by the vendors’ of the
property, who therefore never dreamt that their fully
pan! shares were unprotected against calls and the rapacity
of official liquidators? Now, because of a trifling in-
formality the official liquidator, with apaltry debt to liqui-
date, may legally endeavou r to “ equalise con t ribu tories ” as
it is humorously termed, by calling up some £l2 000 from
the shareholders. Why, the commission on this little
deai (if it comes off) will probably far exceed the amount
of original indebtedness ! Happy official liquidators who
thus fatten and flourish where hundreds famish and fall
headlong into insolvency (bringing, thereby, still more
grist along to the omnipotent 0.L.). How much longer
will New South Wales endure this sort of thing ?—H
Hildbr. 6 ‘
* * *
Since their discovery to the end of 1892 the
£62 sWo mmOS haVe yielded 15 > 577 * 509 oz - equal to
# * *
Xu an endeavour to gain excuse from payment
of municipal rates, a Richmond (Melbourne Vic Hand-
monger protested that, within 12 months, his rent-income
had diminished from £2BOO to £32 10s.—or 12s 6d a
week ; and that even this was not easily to be collected
Precipitous yarn.
* * #
The revolving stamp, probably the greatest im-
provement ever made to the ordinary crushing battery
was invented some 25 years ago—by whom, it was never
proved. A big effort to secure a patent for it was made
h y a Bendigo engineer, but his claim was long contested
and finally lost by the use of the revolving head in
America ; but whether it was used there before or after
this man conceived the idea was never actually deter-
mined. Anyhow, somebody missed a million.
# * #
George Tjansell, of Bendigo, has commenced to
erect a 100-head battery to treat quartz from his mines
on the Red, White and Blue line. The foundation stone
was laid a week or two ago by his son, a stripling of 12
years, arrayed in fine linen and a belltopper. This, we
believe, will be the flr.-t instance where a 100-head mill
has been put up on one place straight away. Roberta
and Sons, than whom there are no better battery-makers
in the world, have the contract.
• # *
The committee of investigation appointed by
depositors in the English and Australian Mortgage Bank
has reported on the ruins of that institution. The report
discourages the idea of reconstructing the bank for the
reason that there is so little bank left to build upon, and
because reconstruction would be much about the same as
fixing anew iroiclad to a foot of old keel. Yet the late
directors of E. and A.M. Bank had the cold-blocchd
impudence to draw up a list of “advantages” to be
derived by depositors and shareholders from a proposed
scheme of collecting more money and resuming the same
old game!
Wolfe’s Schnapps. —Sternly refuse imitations
A certain Melbourne man used to go about
boasting that he was the most odious character
drawn by Thackeray. Not that this reminds us
of Parkes graciously admitting Tennyson among
his friends.
Are you Nervous? Take Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Justice Hartley Williams’ late father, the
old Victorian Judge, is being hauled out and dis-
cussed. He was a cushiony Methusaleh, like Lord
Snugasabuginarug, in the fairy tale. If his son,
Hartley, goes on worrying, he won’t last out as
long. Williams, sen., toyed with a knighthood
for his last year or two.
In Park-streec you can buy G N U N Darlings
Mr. 0. E. Winston (who, with Mr. S.
Calvert, constituted Melbourne’s first wood-
engraving firm) died last week in Sydney, where
he had long resided, at the age of 68. Mr. Win-
ston’s father, a well-known theatrical manager,
was closely associated with the foundation of
London Garrick Club.
In Pitt-street you can buy GNUN Darlings.
The new bar of George Tattersall Adams,
in Sydney, is unquestionably the most gorgeous
triumph of the decorator’s and furniture dealer’s
art yet achieved in this country. It is not given
to every architect to find a client ready to expend
an enormous sum of money in one room, and
Varney Parkes must have experienced some diffi-
culty in disposing of the residual of many consul-
tations within such a limited area. From an
artistic point of view, the ornamentation, as might
have been expected, is considerably overdone, but
the devotees of the bar, even if they recognise it,
are not likely to find fault on this score. The
most striking feature of the show is certainly the
series of pictures, by Julian Ashton, with which
the panels of the walls are filled. The subjects
treated by the artist are varied and extensive,
embracing the seasons, the elements, and out-door
life and pastimes, susceptible of picturesque treat-
ment. All these are represented “allegorically,”
which means, in this instance, that females of
diverse ages are shown disporting themselves in
more or less primitive costume—principally less—
and in heterogeneous postures of an unsophisticated
character. These decorations of the Shrine of King
Grog are beyond question the best work Mr. Ashton
has yet produced, both the drawing and colour
being excellent. A social gimietee would naturally
object to the public exhibition of representations
of nude figures, but, as a matter of fact, there is
not the slightest trace of vulgarity in the paint-
ings, except to a mind either over-burdened with
pious pruriency or stimulated by alcoholic sugges-
tion. The stained-glass windows and doors were
designed by Mr. Ashton and Mr. F. P. Mahony,
and they are commencjably quiet and effective in
colour, the gilded “leading ” giving them a parti-
cularly happy effect. Mr. Adams is to be con-
gratulated on having shown a desire to encourage
our local artists, and it is to be hoped that the
example he has set will be followed by other
speculators who intend to build hotels in the
future.
Potts Pointers delight in G N U N Darlings.
The most recent additions t 6 the masonic
pigeon-holes in the facade of the new Sydney
Lands Office are alleged counterfeits of Mitchell
and Sturt. This building is already assumedly
decorated with free-stone effigies of Mitchell,
Sturt, Leichhardt, Hovel!, Bass, Flinders, Phillip,
Banks, Robertson, Wentworth, Burke and Wills.’
But why the two last-mentioned are included in a
collection representative of the men who were con-
cerned in the discovery, the settlement, and the
legislative administration of the lands of N.S.W.
is indeed difficult to surmise. Had it been in-
tended to honour all those concerned in the ex-
ploration of the continent we might be able to
understand it, but under these circumstances the
building would have been far too small to accom-
modate them. Granted that Burke and Wills lost
their lives in the noble effort to pierce into and
make known to the world the mystery of the
interior, has N.S.W. not had explorers of her own
who have sacrificed themselves in furtherance of
the cause of colonisation ? Besides the ill-
fated Leichhardt, there was Richard Cun-
ningham, botanist to one of Mitchell’s
expeditions, and brother of the more famous
Allan; there was also the scientific enthusiast
and brutal commandant of Moreton Bay, Captain
Logan; there were the unfortunate Cape Otway
explorers. Grelli brand and Hesse; there was the
intrepid Kennedy, ruthlessly murdered by the
blacks during his disastrous exploration of'Cape
York. In view of the names we have mentioned
mere martyrdom is evidently not the passport to
a niche in this fane. Indeed, the method of
selection appears to have been purely arbitrary
or eccentrically careless. Had it been intended
to honour the first of the N.S.W. explorers, why
was one of the earliest, namely Evans, omitted ?
Why were two of the earliest, as also two of the
greatest, Oxley and Allan Cunningham, passed
by in silence ? If Captain Hovell is deemed
worthy of recognition, why not his more notable
confrere, Hume? Sir Joseph Banks and Captain
Ihilhp have their statues—why not Captain
Hunter, the earliest of Australian marine sur-
veyors, and Lieutenant Shortland, the discoverer
of the Coal River and the port of New-
castle? These men are all more or less
intimately bound up with the early history of New
South Wales. If, however, it was the intention
of the authorities to honour the memory or sub-
scribe to the fame of the greatest Australian
explorers, surely more representative names might
have been selected than those of Burke and Wills
What of Sir George Grey, of J. E. Eyre, of A. c"
Gregory, of John M'Douall Stuart, of Egertoii
Warburton, of Ernest Giles, of J. M'Kinley and
of John Forrest? All these men have written
their names across the interior of the continent
and have performed noble work, beside which the
labours of Burke and Wills sink into insignifi-
cance.
Sterling value, GNUN Darlings.
PRACTICE AND PRECEPT.
“ Turn ye the left when struck on the right!”
Is the word that the parsons preach.
But “ blow for blow, to a finish fight,”
Is the way that the worldlings teach.
PAUL MELL.
The Bogus Letter.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Extract from letter of Mr. John Kendall
to his brother William ;
Dear Bill, —Pleass address all my letters to Cropee, not
to Doobar. Every letter I get from Doobar has evidently
been opened. As you know, that old woman Macphee
loves to meddle in other people’s business, and, now that
she has got charge of Doobar receiving-office, she has
many soul-satisfying chances, and no doubt makes the
most of them. Kettle of boiling water— nuf sed.— Jack.
Extract from letter of Mr. W. Kendall to his
brother John :
Dear Jack,—l am surprised at what you say re Doobai,
though I never did think much of old Mrs. Mac. How-
ever, look here—we’ll trap her. I’ll write you a bogus
letter containing a lot of sensational news, and if she
reads it I know she’ll never hold it. When you find she
has talked, just tackle her on the subject.—Bill.
Extract from letter of Mr. John Kendall to his
brother William :
. . . A famous idea. Write something startling,
and mark envelope “ very important.”—Jack.
Letter from Mr. W. Kendall addressed “ Mr.
John Kendall, Doobar P.O. via Bourke :
My dear Brother, —I have had such luck since last I
wrote that I don’t know rightly how to begin the story.
I had two tickets in the big Hawkesbury sweep; this
morning came a wire from town, asking how and where I
wished to have the money! t hadn’t taken enough
interest in the thing to look at the printed result when it
came, but on getting that wire, I rushed to inspect the ticket.
“ Here,” I exclaimed to my wife, “ here ; see if No. 7689
is on that.” She, almost as excited as myself, looked and
found the number immediately. “ Here,” she said,
“opposite Ust.ler.” “What!” I shrieked, “Ustler! the
winner! the winner! Hurrah! Three thousand pounds!
No more poverty !” I sat down on a chair and hugged
myself. I hugged my wife. She hugged me. We laughed
and cried alternately. The excitement, in fact, is on us
yet. In our slightly calmer moments we resolved to say
nothing about our luck to anyone outside our own family;
so please keep it quiet for awhile. I suppose, though,
news like that will leak out somewhere. Please accept
the accompanying cheque for £250 as a small present.
You will notice that I have crossed the cheque, payable
only to you at the A. J.S. Bank, J . [The cheque was
undated, a circumstance not likely to bother Mrs.
Macphee much.] With best regards, your affectionate
brother, Bill. P.S.—lt never rains but it pours. Did I
tell you that my salary had been raised to £316? That,
with interest on £2500, will make me a millionaire.—W.K.
* # #
About a week after the above letters had
performed their respective missions, a young man
sauntered up to Mrs. Macphee’s, at Doobar. The
mail-boy had just arrived, and as the young man
sauntered on to the verandah he was accosted by
the corpulent, red-faced and untidy Mrs. Macphee
herself.
“Arrah, gud day, Mr. Kindell, an’ it’s letthers
ye’re afther ? Sure an’ Oi’ve had wan here for ye
this wake, jest, an’ it’s marked ‘lmportant’ on
the envelope, shure, but I hope it’s good news an’
not bad that’s in it.”
A moment or two after, the old dame was
eagerly watching the face of young Kendall as he
read. She watched intently, saw him first smile,
then grin, then clutch his hair and mutter in-
coherent exclamations, until she could stand it no
longer.
“ An’ there’s no bad news, Mr. Kindell?”
“ None.”
“ Good news, p’rhaps?”
“ Not particular.”
“Ah, now! it’s from the gurril, I suppose?”
she said, laughing.
No reply.
“ How’s yer brother gettin’ on now, Mr. Kin-
dell shure, an’ it’s many the day since we’ve
seen him.”
“ Oh ! just about the same, thanks, Mrs. Mac. —
no better, no worse; this letter is from him. It
seems to have got a bit of rough handling, too,”
he Ridded, musingly, as he glanced at the seal
“ Och, indade ! I saw someone from over his
way the other day just, an’ I had a long chat
about ’im ” —this with a meaning grin.
“ Indeed ! Was he all rig'llt when you heard ?”
“ Ay, troth and he was right, he was right as
iver he cud be, and more’n that, too—ah ! but you
know as much as I do,”
“ What? Mrs. Mac., I don’t rightly under-
stand you.”
“ Och, but you’re the dape divil now. Don’t
you think much’ll happen widout I know. Isn’t
everybody talking of the big swape he won the
other day?’ this with triumphant emphasis.
“Ah, dear! but you’re the dape wan, ah, dear!
ah, dear ! My ! it’s the brave shpree yer’ll be
givin’ us now, won’t ye?”
There was a long pause here. On one side of the
counter was a red, triumphant postmistress with
her hair flying in all directions. On the other,
a young man who fixed her sternly with his eye.
“Look you here, Mrs. Mac, the next time you
open a letter belonging to someone else .”
There was a wild whoop and a “whirroo” at
this juncture, and for a moment it seemed as if
the air was full of Mrs. Macphee.
“ What, ye blaggard ! de yez sav that I
opened the people’s letters ? De yez ? De yez ?
And me that honest that ud cheat no man of a
farden valley, let alone open a letter. Och
allanah ! An’ ye ter call yerself a man to insult a
lone widdy like that ! Shame on yez, ye dirty
varmint !”
“Now, hold on, Mrs. Mac,” said Kendall
quietly ; “ just you go easy for a little bit and 111
tell you something.”
And he did.
* * *
Three minutes later there was a stout lady
in frantic hysterics on the back verandah of the
post-office—a prostrate, tear-bathed, fat woman
whose shrieks rent the air and made half the
township start for the place at a run.
And now there is a huge abyss between the
families of Kendall and Macphee,' and they never
speak as they pass by.
But sometimes Kendall thinks that he mis-
managed the joke, and lost the flavour of it some-
how. Next time he suspects a postmistress of
opening his letters he means to stagger her witli
another kind of epistle (addressed by himself to
himself), and in it he will briefly state that her
father was hanged, and that she herself has been
11 times in gaol and has been once tarred-and-
feathered by an outraged community on suspicion
of infanticide. Then when she wrongfully opens
and reads the document he will stand off and
watch her bursting with rage day by day yet
unable to speak without giving herself away.
That, he thinks, will be artistic vengeance, arid
satisfying to the soul.


MEDICAL.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
MEDICAL.
CELEBRATED BLOOD and NERVE REMEDIES.
Alfctline "V itality Pills
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
ALFiVX-IKTE LOCK PILLS
(registered)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
&
<k
&
DECERNEE
m
&
m.
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—awarded—
GOLD MEDAL!
SYDNEY and PARIS.
m- CURED 100,000.
vP
0
o
a
100,000 Testimonials.
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain ?” ■
Indisputable Evidence.
Curea Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
ADVT
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALE ALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALE ALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
bB trU6 ‘ THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Balt, Esq., a Commissioner ol the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. 1 shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial.
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist. —Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me ud,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good. — John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
Jour wonderful remedies.—A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
llizabeth-st., Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaliue Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System a guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
and Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Pills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CUKES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
•*atacat
m
- -
HERR RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alpaline
Remedies.” Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
Paris and .Sydney ; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Disc overer & Proprietor
OF tub CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
which have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
Herr Rassmussen’a Diploma,
attorn
isaa
ElfTtS
JMFFSSRaQf^hSTemBIS
Si
BES
■MS
mm
W^yr
%
EXPOSANTS
INDuSTRIELS
FT
Sw\ UPltoililßflllMiJLE MNUiHIg
*o&gta*A
4fj f avec le tiire de ~.,, i %
”*#i mm
iJiUh.. „ - sJifa
WmM r JS&**, mwe ■■, aSia
iPCANIQDE
**'
rTTgLJbgPVBUOVE PBOTECE LE TRAVAIL
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.” —Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his 1
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian'
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored tc
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials- oft
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Sta®»
“ Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.” — Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other-
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the bona fides of his testimonials appear to be well-
established.” — S.A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.” — Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir. —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable. — Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rass-
mussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform i
you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality Pills acted I
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in i
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use.—Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luokham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning'
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and moustaches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,',
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s -
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Pills;
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
- .A,
Alfaline Lock Fills
( I RFa the blood.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
ALL PACKETS SENT INOBSERVED.
“ Tlie Natural Doctor.”
A valuable Herbal Work, uy Herr Rassmussi-N, which contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Price, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register all letters containing money.
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
IW Beware of Imitations !
HERR RASSMESSEN’S GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS
FOLLOWS:-
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT :
i5O Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
547
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.


6i SSe&iaGi xxi.o:rife.<3. ’* Typewriter.
UNRIVALLED FEATURES
ALIGNMENT—Perfect.
TYPE —Interchangeable.
IMPRESSION-Uniform.
WRITING-Visible.
WORK—The most beautiful.
PAPER—Any width Used.
The FRANKLIN SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTE, which P ®f feCt T YP e ' w ’ riter ;
construction is excellent. . . Celerity a,d certainty of Zrkand
D. B. THOMAS, Australasian Agent, 101 Sw^nston
. , . _ - r Its general mechanical
for Sample Work and Prices; Catalogues and Testimonials .
Street, Melbourne. Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
Special Advertisements.
The most reliable aperient is, undoubtedly
Ayek’s Cathaktic Pills. Except in ex-
treme cases, physicians have abandoned the
use of drastic purgatives, and recommend a
milder, but no less effective medicine. The
favorite is
Ayer's Pill
the superior virtues of which
have been certified to under the
official seals of state chemists,
as well as by hosts of eminent
doctors and pharmacists. No
other Pill so well supplies the
demand of the general public
fora
Safe, Certain, Agreeable
family medicine. If yon suffer from consti-
pation, sick headache, dyspepsia, jaundice,
liver complaint, or biliousness, take Ayer’s
Pills, which are unequalled. Though prompt
and thorough in operation, their effect is to
strengthen the bowels and restore regular
and natural action.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Maes.,
U, S. A. Sold by Druggists and MedicineVendora
Every Dose Effective
A GREAT REDUCTION.
Weigel’s Journal of Fashion.
Subscription :
Yearly 4/_
Half-yearly .. 2/6
Single Copy .. 6|d.
Catalogues, containing
over 1000 different
styles, 4d.
Post Free:
payable
in advance.
Madame WEIGEL’S PAPER
PATTERNS of DRESSES
MANTLES, etc., sold from ,3d. to
2s. Sent Dost free on receipt of
oostal note or postage stamps from'the principal offices.
Sydney
Melbourne
• ■■ 161 KING STREET
(near Tramway).
99 SWANSTON STREET
(opposite Town Hall).
easiest. quickest, cheapest, and
BEST BLACK LEAD IN THE WORLD.
ADVT
r a oAfr™ the land Wlt h HALF the
U Tnm y< !!' ? an P rodu( -'e wore polish
TWO Packets of the “RISING
oUN than with HALF DOZEN
P'aCkets of ordinary Blacklead.
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.!
Agents: T. H. MATE Co., Ld., ALBURY. (
Barry’s Tricopherous
. . FOR TH E
HAIR an°SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Wakes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
i eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Genuine i.„„ * -Heals c “ ts >burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., i\ef York.
ADVT
ROWLANDS’
. . KALYDOR
A soothing, cooling, emollient milk for the
sunhmJ 4 pr ? vents and removes freckles, tan,
soot& r J d P esa and roughness of the skin
pr?ckfv bent ,Oa , S ?, tI PS? of insects, eczema,
fair skin nmi aT i d a , trrtjat'ons, produces soft
is warranted f,.l°7 e i y dehcate 1 complexion. It
{ 00 f ™ m a,, y lead or mineral
fiettow®rw’„ lnd ' s , pper fect 0 ect . | y harmless to the most
uuicate skin. Bottles 2s. ;j d. and 4s. 6d. Ask for
£ST' ot Hatton G,„S'
"SANDS’ ODONTOi.a,.,, ~a
the teeth ■ s L pi ®P aied tooth Powder; it whitens
breath. prevents deca y and sweetens the
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
NEWBY'S KUBGTUS
ADVT
to The only thoroughlj
reliable Remedy for
OOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
A!TD
influenza.
It can new be had of all
Chemist;?, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
• H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, Qeorg-e st.
wnolesale nf Eihnt.t. Limited
Special Advertisements.
J\ Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
yp
-
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
ijyr ALTED MILK is made from the (
111 richest and purest of milk, combined 4
with the nutritious and digestible 4
parts of wheat and malted barley. {
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
111 no milk is to be added ; it is quickly i
, and readily prepared for instant use <
, by dissolving in water. <
\ MALTED MILK is the best food for In- J
) I>A fants. “ The composition of Malted {
\ Milk resembles that of human milk.’ |l
( — Lancet, April 4, 1891. q
» IWrALTED MILK, as a food for In f
) Ifl valids, surpasses all other light diets. 3
1 Being most nutritious and easily S
1 assimilated, it is constantly pres- 3
cribed by the Medical Profession 3
in England and America. “ Very 3
palatable, and free from adulterants.” 3
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891. 3
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate. /
Of all Chemists and Druggists. 3
Vholesalc Agents : 3
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane. 3
MALTED MILK CO., 39, Snow Hill, London, e.c. v
Established 1876
ASTHMA
CURE
W«IT£ roR
D?
HAIRS i
TREATISE/
ON
ASTHMA
'fc.vv
HAIR'S
ents
SYDNEY: EJllOft BfO?
Brisbane
iofr Bro?*(
auldinjj art
DELAI Df.
ELLINGTON N.Z 3
TharTand * (* , SPQ>.
jW Treatise and Test/moma/s
e's Maiglockch^l
liljfoflheYal'ti
gUSUV LOHSf
9 eriin
LOHSE'S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
-LILY OF THE VALLEY-
PERFU ME
TOILET SOAP
are tlj ? most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high classferfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE. Berlin.
Ventus Textilus Calor yEQUALIS.
“Clothed with Air ”
(Cellular gloth gay Shuts ]
(With Linen Fronts and Cuffs), J
S’. Si.
HEALTHY, COMFORTABLE and DURABLE.
n,. ' rtisni T ad ? o . tho piie t'cllulai- fabric with
linen fittings. It is invaluable for evening wear, as it
Rues perfect ventilation, affording; the utmost comfort to
the wearer, and freedom from the danger of chill and cold
which is inseparable from the use of the ordinary lon<>-
cloth shirts. J n
SsJ
Cellular Cloth Dress Shirts-
With extra Wide Fronts.
Sole & MTutcJi,
75 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
tne liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
, . «... . enough for the strongest, do not after
•wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Prof,*,
sion. The smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a phial.
ORIGINAL and BEST TONIC.
OFTEN IMITATED.
VINE.
NEVER EQUALLED.
L'iliDiklJH . .T.T> nhoiHVnnn D/m.J- T_ ~1 ni i • »
P , nt , f . nno „ u •>£«■>< pussesseu oi excellent ionic properties.”
used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,'and' f writes:—“ For many years I have
DFODGrtiGs I mnv «av tbaf T hov« oio-. 1 -iGiorG p6isonall\ testify to its many excrl’e t stTeno’thenino’
with the most aVe i a eon’sci” U tO / he «"Pty e « of.h company, and ahvavs
ml^sh^^^^ton^^nervin^!’^ 68 rec * u ' re t B «**ribe^^
Tome has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to alUhose dmiluly afflicted.” C]aU " ed f °*' y ° Ur
„ „ „ N ’ B ’- Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from heinsr published.
. >• J Ansa ALL’S TONIC NERVINE is warranted to be absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs
On Sale Everywhere at 2s. and 3s. fid. a Itottle
MAH.SHAI.X. BROS» Sole Manufacturers.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
E ST AY at JES ruton’s,
Nananmoo
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lakk Macquarie.
Under New Management. ISa
o a S V'!?'i < ? r Accommodation for Families. Terms from
08. per Day and £.2 2s. per week.
Manager .. « eo . Ily. James
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
ST AY AT THE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
Tourist Season
AT
KANGAROO VALLEY and FITZROY FALLS
VaTl h ev COMMERCIAL HOTEL (T. Hii.es), Kangaroo
i.n! .v,’,nc i ery conve mence for Tourists visiting the
°. f MOSSVALE. FITZROY FALLS,
BARRENGARRY and CAMBEWARRA MOUNTAINS
en route to Novvra and Kiama.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
grand 1/07^
Melbourne.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed in-
nlpni" 8 f Br f akfas f t > r, s-: Double ditto. 10s. Special arrange-
SdfcSXK”: A - F - Bmm - The
E
Shipping.
NGL A N D via AMERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
PoT a va.ua Die tor months, and Saloon
Honohdn% Can v Feak . their j° urne y at Auckland,
to New York" I<rancisco ’ and an y cn route
lancD—' gfl 3rares ’ S y dne y or Auckland to Eng-
SALOON .. pco «„,i ond
C °STPFRAp T r ket ’ ■ £s2 ' ios - and £57 fas 4d.
Si EE RAGE £3O i Bs . 9d.
b °° ked *° Apia ( S ““»)
“'.'"“r m “P». «n<l guide books
Lowing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK - w. JACKSON. Manager.
QOMPAGNIE MESSAGERIES MARI.
SYDNEY to LONDON
.OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS
Pmf ,eiS n'' ldcrposbl contract with the Government ot
Fiance, calling at MELBOURNE Aniff aii.p t-il?!
GEORGE'S SOUND, MADE, SUEZ, a^dPORTSA.D
M Aimn-ulk. hooked to KURRACUEE BOMBAY
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA A ’
jiits as
line - -“Si “'ll desp.std.ed
Commander. .Leave Sydney Leave Mel-
J J hniirrm
Steamers.
Oceanien . iFiasohi
Polynesien ~ j L. Poulard
. January
..‘February
bourne
25 January 29
25 March ' 1
And thenceforward on the 25th of each month
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £65
RFTURNTtPK^« a " d Sa I Z Canal dues 0,1 passengers!
RE 1 URN TICKETS issued at the following
Available 9 months
Available 12 months
rr.T,u7. . tnrongn passengers for
London on arrival ot steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. IL— Passengers' I“4
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London "’For
freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
The Coonamhle Independent.
A LIVE RADICAL NEWSPAPER
—AND—
GOOD UP-COUNTRY ADVERTISER.
CON MOOY and HUGH MACDONALD .. Proprietors,
Coonamhle, Castlereagh River.
BOOKS! BOOKS! BOOKS!
Ronght, and Exchanged.
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW.
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel).
The Simple Code of the Business Man.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Oily of visage and ample of girth,
He is the pride and salt of the earth.
Long are his fingers—his talons are keen,
Little escapes them or slips them I ween ;
Searching and cold is the glance that he flings,
And this is the song he eternally sings :
Grip what you get—and get what you can
Is the simple code of the Business Man.
Mark how he takes in the Senate his stand ;
Mark his demeanour—so polished and bland ;
Mark him at banquet, so smooth and sedate,
Gazing on turtle and pfitd and plate ;
Mark his white wrist and bediamonded hand,
Mark how he lives on the fat of the land.
Grip what you get and get what you can,
Is the simple code of the Business Man.
Parmer who trudges behind the plough-tail,
Sailor who weathers the southerly gale,
Bushmen whom hardships have grizzled and worn,
Shearer who comes from the shed to be shorn,
Sportsman who potted a pile on The Pet,
All are as fish to his wide-spreading net.
Grip what you get and get what you can,
Is the simple code of the Business Man.
Whose is the carriage that drives down the road ?
Whose is the princely, palatial abode ?
W hose is the vineyard and whose is the vine ?
Who is the saint of the latter-day shrine?
Sultan and Kaiser and Chief of the clan—
Lord of the Earth is the business man.
“ Grip what you get—and get what you can,
And you shall be king ’’—says the Business Man.
Murmuring low to his idol of Pelf,
See the High-Priest in the Temple of Self ;
What are the words that he utters in prayer?
What are the sounds that he breathes on the air?
What does he sing to his idol so grim ?
What are the strains of his soul-stirring hymn ?
“ Grip what you get—and get what you can,”
Is the holy hymn of the Business Man.
Rub-a-dub-dub,” saj's the loud-beating drum,
“Country’s in danger—so come along—come ! ”
Rifle on shoulder, the brave boys and tall,
Bushman and miner and farmer come all,
But where is Sir Fat Paunch? O! where does he stay
Can the first at the feast be I he last in the fray?
“Grip what you get—and get what 3011 can,”
Is the battle-cry of the Business Man.
P. LUFTIG.
In 1854 the Argus attacked Dr. Lang for
advocating “cutting the painter ” at a Sydney
public meeting, and the Doctor concluded his
retort as follows: “We commenced with the
Lord’s Prayer and concluded with the doxology
and the apostolic benediction, which, I think, you
will admit was no bad omen for Australian inde-
pendence.” The Argus subsided. Even it knew
that Australian independence was very much in
the clouds under those circumstances, and it was
satisfied.
Barrister Moriarty (N.S.W.) lately told
the following story at a Bar dinner. The
planners Co., of London, had large estates
in Ireland which were Paying anything
but a decent rent. An agent was sent over
to expostulate. He called a meeting of tenants,
and explained the position ; he knew times were
bad, but the Co. must have its rent. One of the
tenants rose, and, addressing the agent, blandly
said that he quite agreed with the gentleman—
times were hard. “For instance,” said he, to the
agent, “ three years ago I could have got you shot
for a sovereign, an’, now, be jabers, the market-
price is three poun’ tin.” The agent made tracks
and told the Skinners to collect their Irish rents
themselves.
Daring one of the long mining strikes at
Newcastle, Jack S., a notorious practical joker
had, at considerable personal risk and by the
employment of blackleg labour, succeeded in load-
ing five American vessels. The grateful skippers
organised a picnic in his honour. They rode out
to the lake some 10 miles distant. On their
return, darkness came on before they reached the
confines of the city. _ “ Hello,” said Jack, with a
countenance full of simulated anxiety, “we’re in
a nice fix. We have no riding lights.” “ Riding
lights ?” ejaculated one. “ Yes,” said Jack, who
with his natural turn tor the invention of plausible
detail succeeded in convincing the skippers that a
bye-law existed compelling each horseman to show
a light when riding through the town. Then
with a pound of candles, purchased at a war -
side store, and half-a-dozen bottles from a
pub, he improvised six rude lamps. The
cavalcade then entered the city, and luckily
for the success of Jack's joke met no other horse-
men. Their passage along the main streetcreated
the greatest amusement. A pack of yelling de-
riding youngsters followed in their rear, while
sidewalk wits vociferously exercised their ’talents
for jeering. The yells of the arabs and the general
laughter at last apprised the skippers that they
had been hoaxed. “ Guess it’s a sell,” said one of
them. “Let her go ’bout.” With that the lamps
were sent coruscating skywards, and landed on
the road with an explosive crash which scared
their jaded steeds into a mild bolt. “ Hello you’r
off before the wind !” said one of the crowd.
“ Bring her to and square your main yard,” yelled
another. The scoffing crowd followed them along
the road, till the party, effectually routed by new
jeers, turned up a side street and clattered awav
into the darkness.


STATIONERY DEPARTMENT, 86 Pitt Street.
PRINTING WORKS, 44 Pitt Street.
Sydney, January, 1893.
1 \EAR SIR,—
I 9 We have pleasure in advising you that we
have acquired the business hitherto carried.on at
the above addresses, under the title of Gibbs,
Shallard, and Co., as
Printers, Lithographers, Engravers,
Stationers, Account Book
Manufacturers, &c„ &0.,
and that the same will be henceforth conducted
under the style of
M'CARRON, STEWART and CO.
(late Gibbs, Shallard, and Co.),
the members of the firm being Messrs. John F.
M'Carron, H. W. Puttmann, Andrew Stewart,
and Otto Fischer. „
Messrs. WTLLIAM GIBBS and ARTHUR
MILES, so long identified with GIBBS, SHAL-
LARD, and 00., have been retained in the new
organisation ; and the firm will also be represented
by Mr. ERNEST J. M'CARRON and Mr.
GEORGE STEWART.
We have every confidence in soliciting the con-
tinuance of the patronage extended to the late
firm, believing that the new resources introduced
will’greatly enhance the capacities of this long-
established business and tend to preserve the sup-
port of its clients.
Yours faithfully,
M'CARRON, STEWART, and CO.
And at Melbourne : M'Carron, Bird, and Co.
The “ Australasian Insurance and Banking
Record ” will be locally represented
by the Firm,
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, January 10, 1893.
riAENDERS EOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25.
Bridge, Lenane’s Creek, road Goulburn to Oooma
Additional Cells, Biloela Gaol
Erection of Station Buildings, Railway Kiama to
Nowra
Construction of a Jetty at Stockton Cemetery, near
Newcastle
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8.
Erection of Bridge, Burrowa River, at Acraman’s
road Burrowa to Frogmore
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
Sporting.
ADiAM BEDE,
The Original Promoter.
Over 20 Years before the Public of N.Z. and N.&.W.
Events
now
Open.
1
i\EWM IKKET lIINDICAP-
SYDNEY GOLD CEP.
f Register
your
Letters
Out' printed circulars posted on receipt of self-addressed
envelope and stamp.
Our Only
Address
* ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
Be sure and register your letters a id lake care of the
receipt for registration till you receive cur reply.
"PATTERS ALL’S
Anniversary Handicap.
25.000 at 10 25,000
Newmarket Handicap.
100.000 at 20 100,000
Be sure and register your letters, and take care of the
receipt for registration till you receive our reply. Address,
Tattersall, care of George Adams (owner), Pittst., S, dney.
S.EACH.
±
T Ej*
St
MONJ
U!
AS
5. EACH.
anniversary handicap.
Randwiok, January 20, 1893.
20,000 m
At 5 each
First
Second
Third
1500
600
250
At 5 each
S. (d.) .. •• 600
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
Other prizes see circulars.
State amount enclosed, and two stamped-addressed
envelopes with application - one for receipt and the
other for result. Register your letters. Stamps will be
received if 5 per cent, exchange is added with f. II amount.
The only genuine one at 5 each in the colonies.
Address: GALA, c.o. 11. Alexander, 67 Oxford-street,
Sydney, N.S.W. Printed circulars free.
fJONSTE^ -
OSHPRIZE
consultations:
CARE
landers’ Telegram Agency
Dean-st., Albury, N.S.W.
These are no bogus or bubble schemes,
but legitimate enterprises.
NOW OPEN
ON ALL
EVENTS,
Best filling ever gffered to the fiublic!
“ lMON”
FINANCIAL CONSULTATION
—ON—
The Australian Cup ■ 80,000 at Is each
7th MARCH, 1893.
The Champion Stakes 80,000 at 1 each
9th MARCH, 1893.
The Sydney Cold Cup 80,000 at 1 each
3rd APRIL, 1893.
Each 4000, as follows :
First
3 Cash at 100
6 Cash at 50
10 Cash at 20
40 Cash at 10
40 Cash at 5
each .. 300
each .. 300
each .. 200
each .. 400
each .. 200
Less 10 per cent.
Please state amount forwarded, and send two addressed
envelopes, with stamps enclosed (not adhered)—one to
send your ticket in, and the other for result. Stamps
will be accepted in payment for tickets, but one penny
stamp must be sent in addition for exchange on every
B hfi!®^ V p°LEASE NOTE !—The drawing will be under the
personal supervision of a committee of representative
commercial men of New South Wales, as a guarantee of
S °"ve guarantee to pay 10 per cent, of nett profits to
the Trades and Labour Councils. Read prospectus.
address—“ xTisrioixr,”
C/o D. E. COLTS, S Mercantile Chambers,
Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Dear Bulletin, —In some advertised sweeps I
understand that the modus operandi of “drawing” is
like this: —Suppose it is a £IO,OOO sweep. There are 5
figures in 10,000, so they use 5 revolving cylinders in the
“draw.” In each cylinder are 10 marbles numbered re-
spectively 0,1, 2,3, 4,5, 6,7, 8, 9. A marble is taken
from each cylinder in rotation, and the figures thus
drawn make up a winning number. That is all plain sail-
ing. And suppose that five noughts are drawn, it is easy
to comprehend that they must represent the number
10,000, unless the sweep starts with 00,000 and ends with
9999, which is as broad as the other is long. But, sup-
posing the very same marbles in any “ draw” are drawn
a second time, in the same exact rotation; what then ?
Suppose, for instance, the number 76,897 is drawn twice.
It represents only one ticket; does it gain two prizes ?
Of course, the odds are something whopping against the
chance ; but it is a possibility. Suppose that there are 50
prizes and No. 76,897 persists in getting drawn 50 times
consecutively ? Does the holder of it gee 50 prizes ? If so,
why? If not, why not? I dreamed during a nightmare
that this occurred. —Yours, The Dipsomaniac.
# # *
When Harry Graham, the Victorian colt, had
banged Giffen for three 4’s off three consecutive balls,
and 13 off the over, Captain Dr. Jack Barrett, who was in
with him, came down and advised him to play a steadier
game or he’d lose his wicket. “ Will 11” was the answer,
“ i'll hit him for three 4’s again next over.” Which
should make the selection committee extremely chary of
sending any youngsters on the English trip.
# * *
Victoria’s 180 against Giffen and Co. were made
in exactly 180 minutes.
# * #
The N.S.W. and S.A. cricket-matches, in Mel-
bourne, lasting into the ninth day, brought a total
“gate” of £3301. The SA. Association is plaintively
holding out an emaciated hand for a few hundreds.
# # #
The Argus “certainties” for the English
cricket tour are—Murdoch (“who has not qualified for
Sussex, and will captain the team ”), Blackhara, Turner,
Bannerman, Bruce, Giffen, Lyons, Trumble, Trott,
M'Leod, Barrett. Of that XI. no fewer than six are
Victorians. It’s long odds against that “ certain ” com-
bination.
» » •
Many protests against the exclusion of Phillips,
Melbourne professional, from the S.A. match. In proved
batting and bowling form, though slow in the field,
Phillips had a decidedly better claim than either Lover
(East Melbourne) or Stuckey (North Melbourne). Short-
sighted retrenchment?
• • *
Trotting is gradually getting a hold in Aus-
tralia. A trot is becoming the correct thing at most of
the country meets.
# # #
Two sailors were capsized out of a boat on the
Saltwater River (Vic.), the other day, and drowned. Sea-
men are proverbially bad boat-sailors. The writer recol-
lects hearing Mick Yates one day say that he preferred
any day to let a boat to a soldier rather than to a sailor,
and if it was blowing a stiff North-easter they usually
stood by to pick up, as it was ten to one the sailor would
not thresh out of Woolloomooloo Bay without a capsize.
# # *
“ Srailer ” says in his Adelaide sporting sheet
that Jarvis, behind the sticks, is a better man than ever
Blackham was. “Smiler” should stick to booming
pugilists. Australia has long been trying to find a man
to "take veteran Blackham’s place, and they have cer-
tainly not found him in the South Australian. Blackham
used to stand right up to the wicket and take Spofforth’s
lightning deliveries, while Jarvis shows profound respect
for Jones’ bowling and stands some six yards away.
« # *
There are now four N.S. Wales bred ponies,
under 14 hands, fair and square measurement, that can
do 2.50 and better round a quarter-mile track at pacing
and trotting gaits. They are Isabel and Edith, pacers,
and Satan and Maud, trotters.
# • *
Sylvia, whose name will be immortal through
her' sons, Goldsbrough and Martini-Henry, is dead.
Another illustrious recently deceased is Newbold. New-
bold’s dam was Dora, owned by Charles Roberts, father
of “ our ” Charlie.
• * «
Griffo and Jerry Marshall are to meet again at
the Hall on February 28. With a fair deal,
Marshall should win.
• * *
“Sammy’’Jones did not turn up on Saturday
and Richardson took his place. If Jones’ excuse is not a
satisfactory one he should never be picked again to repre-
sent New’ South Wales.
* * *
Jones, of the S.A. cricket team, is the fastest
bowler and one of the most brilliant fieldsmen in Aus-
tralia.
# • *
How, asks a correspondent, would this do for
an Australian Eleven? Giffen. Lyons, Jarvis, Reedman
(S.A.), Bannerman, Turner, Donnan, Pierce (N.S.W.),
Bruce, Trott, Trumble, M'Leod, Blackham, Barrett (Vic.).
# • •
The S.A. team must have been very wild at
Graham’s 86 not out against them for Victoria. At the
beginning of the season Graham was most anxious to go
to Adelaide, but the South Adelaides could not get him a
billet, and the brilliant South Melbournite stayed in Mel-
bourne.
* # *
The spectacle of Melbourne Cup winner Glen-
loth going out unbacked for a handicap at Flemington
and running “ nowhere,” without giving cause for the
least surprise, was not very improving. #
The shilling crowd at the M.C.C. ground last
week affected to mistake Worrall for Alec. Bannerman,
when the subdued slogger was playing for safety against
Giffen’s bowling.
# * *
Wallace Ross has challenged Hanlan to row for
the “ Championshiu of the World.” Little things like
this make one feel quite young again. Since the days
when Laycock licked Ross, and Bill Beach demolished
Hanlan, the writer has lost ten teeth and gone as grey as
a badger. Why don’t Shem, Ham, and Japhet row for a
purse of sovereigns, on a Flood tide, round the top of
Mount Ararat ?
» * •
George Giffen, talking about the next English
tour with some of the boys, said he had not yet decided
to join the Australian Eleven. “It all depends upon how
they treat my brother Walter,” observed the great man.
“You’d better take your whole bloomin’ family with
you ” was the practical suggestion of a rival “crack.”
It’s’tolerably evident that no Australian Eleven will form
a thoroughly happy family unless it consists entirely of
Giffens.
* * *
It is said that if George Giffen goes to England
he will probably bring a wife back with him.
« • *
Sunderland team, the champion footballers of
England, is wholly composed of salaried Scotchmen.
9 • *
A certain cricketer is tabooed in big matches
because of some bygone alleged trouble over money left
behind in the pavilion. The cricketer may steal runs—
nothing else.
* * *
W. J. Peall, playing in a spot-barred match at
Thurston’s Rooms, Strand, London, made a break of 571
—the record on a standard table.
• * *
At one of the Melbourne churches a building is
provided tor the bicycles of the worshippers. “To the
devil on wheels ” was once an aphorism. The church is
beginning to look like a halfway house.
# * •
The races at Thursday Island ended in a fight
between the whites and the coloured men. The police
charged the combatants with fixed bayonets. At the
gleam of cold steel the coloured crowd cleared off to the
scrubs. It is estimated that there were 1000 coloured
men on the island, a good proportion of whom were at
the races.
# # *
Lewis, the Yio. batsman who played such a
brilliant innings In the matoh with 8. A., was only in-
cluded in the team after much wrangling. He belongs to
the Richmond, a olub neglected by Victorian cricketing
authorities.
• * *
There are said to be 200,000 words in the English
language, and yet Hopetoun won the Bagot Handicap,
while Lord Hopetoun was second in the Standish.
• • •
Graham, not out 86, for Victoria v. S.A., made
£so—by scoring over 50 and his side winning.
• * *
South Melbourne C.O. possesses a bowler named
Over,
# * *
A more exciting finish was probably never seen
than that between Busaco, Havilah, and Pingara for the
Hurdle Race at Plemington on New Year’s Day. The
last-named nag was a bare nose behind, and had he put
out the proverbial tongue, the three would have been a
dead-heat.
• * *
The Crescent Club, New Orleans, offers an
£BOOO purse for Hall and Fitzsimmons, “ but there is no
certainty that they will be able to find it when the time
comes. Their capacity to give it must depend to a large
extent on the gate realised by sale of seats.”
• * *
N.S. Wales cricket is being done to death by
stonewallers. One blocker may be very good in an eleven,
but a team of them will not draw a crowd, and money
makes the mare to go in cricket. Cricket before an
enthusiastic and packed audience, and a sparse and
grumbling one, are two different sports.
# # *
Bowlers, too, relying on blocks instead of
fearing slogs, take liberties and experiment with a stone-
waller as they would not dare to do with a Lyons, Giffen,
or Turner.
« * *
Bannerman, who can hit when he likes, played
a cramped game in the N.S. W.-S. A. return match, and,
crouching down, allowed the ball to go over the shoulder
of the bat and was bowled.
» • *
Moore, the young countryman brought to
Sydney to win his spurs, stayed at the wickets for an
hour and a half for 14 runs. Perhaps he was nervous,
but if he shows likelihood of settling down into a stone-
waller, he had better be sent home with care. No need
to send out of Sydney for that kind of player.
* » *
Premier Dibbs should pub a stop to Jones
bowling. It is a more dangerous and demoralising show
than lion-taming.
• * *
The interprovincial cricket-match (N.S.W. v.
5. ended in the disastrous defeat of the latter by one
innings and something like 45 runs. The N.S.W. score of
335 in the first innings (apparently demoralised the b.A.
team, which scored badly and had to follow on. In its
second innings it went to pieces hopelessly on a good
wicket, the bowling of Turner and Callaway being abso-
lutely fatal. Lyons realised only 10 and Giffen a humble
6, and the innings closed with a total of 92. So emphatic
a collapse has never before been seen in aninterprovmcial
matoh on a good wicket.
» • •
A bicycle-race was substituted for the usual trot
at Lilliebridge, Sydney, last Wednesday night, but in the
interests of that really noble animal, the trotting-horse,
it is to be hoped the innovation will not be perpetuated,
more especially as the Driving Park is now closed, and all
the trotters will be thrown out of work.
• # *
The Sydney trotting mare, Yum Yum, com-
peted unsuccessfully at Auckland (M.L.) on Deo. 27. The
big event of 300 sovs., over 3 miles, was won by Little
Ben, with a 53seo. start, his time being given as Bmm.
36sea „
* * *
It was common talk in Melbourne pavilion,
durino- the recent cricket matches, that while the N.S.W.
team was in Adelaide, a neat little arrangement had been,
there, arrived at by which neither George Giffen nor
Lyons, nor yet two prominent N.S.W. men, would go to
England, unless George was made captain, and brother
Walter was included in the team. Anything in it, this
time ? Anyhow
Alas, the game was Cricket, now ’tis mostly Bluff I
True sportsmen vainly cry, “ O, quantum guff.
Ye are but men, not gods—so, Hold ! Enough 1
# * •
Trenton sired both the two-year-old winners at
Flemington on New Year’s Day. Punters could do worse
han follow the Trenton blood.
• • *
Hopetoun, winner of the V.R.C.’s Bagot Han-
dicap, is full nephew to Malua on the dam’s side, and one
of the most compact little horses in Australia.
Parkes’ habit of distributing autographed
copies of his “poems” is well-known. He was
not cured of it even by a withering letter,
received by him from Mrs. Carlyle, which he is
stupid enough to reproduce in his book ;
My Dear Sir,—ls it a compliment to my judgment or
my mercy, your sending the little book of poems to me
rather than to my husband, “on second thoughts !
Anyhow I am decided to take it as a compliment to some-
thing which you think I have more of, not less of, than
my husband has! and so I thank you heartily.
In the train, smoke G N U N Darlings.
This week’s death-roll includes the names
of two past Australian beauties, somewhat famous
in their own circles and times—Mrs. Benson,
widow of the late Dr. Benson, of Hobart (Tas.),
who died on Monday, in Sydney (N.S.W.), and
whose five pretty daughters were most popular
in Hobart society years ago ; and Mrs. Mem, the
widow of the late Judge Mein (Q.), who died in
Brisbane (Q.) also on Monday, and who had been
in her day a “ royal flush ” among barmaids.
Mrs. Mein was only 38 years of age, and still
beautiful. Mrs. Benson’s age was stated at 04
years.
All tobacconists sell 6NUN Darlings.
An announcement is made in our adver-
tising columns to-day to the effect that the print-
ing and stationery business hitherto carried on
under the title of Gibbs, Shallard and Co. has
been acquired by Messrs. M’Carron, Stewart and
Co a firm which is constituted by Messrs. John
F. M'Carron, H. W. Pittmann, Andrew Stewart,
and Otto Fischer. The new firm announce that
Messrs. William Gibbs and Arthur Miles,
hitherto identified with Gibbs, Shallard and Co.,
have been retained in the new organisation ; and
the firm will also be represented by Mr. Ernest J.
M‘Oarron and Mr. George Stewart.
Never be without aGNUN Darling.
The Workman (Sydney) remarks that “ a
well-known Sydney weekly, whose strong ad-
herence to Protection is shown in its columns
every issue’’—meaning thereby The Bulletin—
“ had its coloured Christmas supplement both
painted and lithoed outside Australia in Free-
trade England.” With regard to this, we have
only to say that The Bulletin supplement was
drawn in Protectionist France, on an order given
to Phil. May long ere he left Australia; that it
was not “ painted ”at all; that it was coloured in
Sydney by Mr. Hunt; that it was not lithoed,
but printed—in Sydney, at The Bulletin office.
Nothing smpkeg like aGNUN Darling.
PEMBLIi’S
ABC
’ granulated wheat meal.
Be a swell and smoke 6NUN Darlings.
Hon. Thomas Lodge de Montmorency
Murray Prior, just deceased, was one of the
notable figures of early Queensland history. His
home was at the very head of the Logan Liver,
almost under the shadow of Mount Lindsay, the
supposedly inaccessible sides of which were scaled
by his eldest son, Tom. Despite his array of
names and his early-century manner, Mr. Murray
Prior was one of those squatters who worked as
hard as their men, and prospered in consequence—
for work in those times did bring its reward.
His family are all fine specimens of
tralians with plenty of pluck and brains, 'iom,
the eldest, went to the Palmer with horses
during the first rush, where he nearly lost the
number of his mess by fever ; he returned about
the gauntest six-foot-three of skin and bones ever
seen, and then went squatting out Bully Creek
way. The eldest daughter has made a name for
herself in the world of letters as Mrs. Campbell-
Praed. Hervey, the second son, was prospering
as a barrister when sudden death cut short his
career. Prior himself was for some, time Post-
master-General of Queensland, and passed through
his political days with a stainless name. At
one time, during his earlier career, his teams were
late and there was a famine on the station.
Mounting his horse ho rode along the road to find
out what had happened. Presently he came
to the first dray, motionless in the road, no
bullocks in sight, the tarpaulin down all round,
the men underneath swapping yarns. Prior, a
hasty man, dismounted, oast his hat on the
ground, and with much blasphemy danced
on it. Instantly two men appeared from
beneath the dray, and when Prior paused,
out of breath, solemnly proceeded to imitate him
one after the other. By the time the last bullocky
had finished there was not much left of the hat.
Then it was explained that two of the best bul-
locks were away, hence the delay. To Prior is
ascribed the storv of how, when times were
hard in the early days, he was bull-punch-
ing for himself and met another team, by
the driver of which he was familiarly
accosted in a hail-fellow-well-met sort of way.
“ I am not a bullock-driver,” said Prior, indig-
nantly. “What the Hades are you then?”
demanded the other. “ A gentleman squattah,
driving my own team.” For a long time after
that, bullockies were known up North as “gentle-
man squatters, driving their own teams.” Not
far from Prior’s station, Maroom, is the dividing
water-shed between N.S. Wales and Queensland,
and on the station, on the extreme head of the
Richmond, on the N.S.W. side, Brunton Stephens
was for a long time tutor. It was there he wrote
“ Convict Once.”
Yachtsmen ! Smoke GNUN Darlings.
Said Lyell : “The question (of the scien-
tific v. the Biblical hypothesis of man’s ongm)
resolves itself into few words s Is mail modified
mud or modified monkey?”
Editor Reay, of Melbourne Herald to™ 50
a sailor), has earned the undying esteem of his
staff by extracting from the “ proprietors a fort-
night’s holiday per annum all round, instead of
the useless week as heretofore.
A Chinaman was in distress with his horse
at the Haymarket (Sydney), the other day, and,
after ineffectually trying for some time to back
him, to the intense delight of the cr °wd, at
tugged at the reins and screamed out, ‘ Woa back
you buddy liar ! ” The horse woa-ed.
The other day, at Rockhampton (Q.), two
ex-solicitors appeared before the Bench charged
with drunkenness and vagrancy. One of them
produced excellent testimonials showing that he
had passed his final exam, as solicitor of the
Supreme Court of England. The acting B.Ai.,
touched with compassion, dismissed both oases :
Be Gentle to the Lawyer!
Be gentle to the lawyer and kind unto the Thug !
And never clap the legal drunk within the vulgar Jug ,
Be tender to the vagrant—lor once he wore a wig
And badgered many a witness and defended many a png.
Be patient with the Fallen One-for once he collared fees,
And never thought—the guileless man—to see such hays
as these ;
Scorn not the poor inebriate, for once he wore a gown,
And chuckle not-Ye men of Sin—to see a lawyer down.
Be kind unto the banker, should he chance to come to
his soul with words of cheer, and make his
Be kind unto the sinner with a pot-hat on his head,
And place a carpet in his cell and feathers in his bed.
Be kind to the defaulter who abused his public trust,
And spare the erring darlings of the dainty Upper Crust,
And let the high-born felon in the prison precincts dine
On tender fare—the fowl prepare and pour the ruddy
wine.
Be gentle with embezzlers, judge, and with those syrapa-
And let thy voice be tremulous, and tearful be thine eyes;
Ho 1 policeman, hide the manacles and stow away the rod.
And place some velvet cushions in the thnoe-accursed
quod.
But pile the chains, Sir Gaoler, where the common felons
lie,
Aud give them planks for downy beds, and build the
gallows high ; ,
And blithely let the lash resound within thy sinewy hand,
And show the world how Justice smites the villains of the
land.
P. LUFTIG.


To Eat’Well, to Sleep Well, to Work Well, to
Feel Well —Take Wolfe’s Sghnapps.
WotFE’S Schnapps is the only pure and original
Schnapps. To be safe, ask for an unopened bottle.
Young and old, short and tall, say G N U N
Darlings the best of all.
For Influenza, Colds etc., Colemane and Sons
Eucalypte Extract is unrivalled.
Drink only Wolfe’s Schnapps. Soft as love,
and cooling as his fan.
When Cook sailed past Collingwood, near
Nelson, Maoriland, in 1769, the natives were in
the bush fashioning a great war-canoe out of a
totara tree. They were called away from their
work to see the big “ winged ” canoes, and in the
hurry one of the artificers dropped his stone axe.
The axe has just been found where it fell, and
where it has lain ever since.
Wolfe’s Schnapps may be relied upon in all
seasons as the purest and best of liquors.
Georgetown, Q., registered 153 deg. in
the sun; Dec. 21.
Wolfe’S Schnapps has no injurious ingredients
In the fifties, the Akgus advocated the
abolitioil of capital piunishmertt.
Wolfe’s Schnapps—dll orders;
The 328,000 divorces grarited by tI.S.
courts during the last 20 years, dnly represent
about 1 per cent, of the humber of marriages
celebrated there during that time.
Wolfe’s Schnapps cheers and strengthens.
The mounts supplied to the Port Darwin
(N.T,) police troopers are curiosities of equine
decay, Recently, when search was being made
for some bush murderers, “ the 20-year-old colt,
Trooper,” was the only police horse that did not
knock under !
Drink WoLfe’s Schnapps— Take no other.
Three new cases of leprosy reported : two
aboriginals and one Chinaman. All three have
secreted themselves from the police. Pending the
Chinaman’s capture, there has been a greiit
“ swearing-off ” vegetables on the Percy and
Etheridge, Q.
For debility and dyspepsia, Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Three juries failed to agree as to a charge
of murder brought against a Maorilander about
12 months back, and the fourth acquitted him.
Now he has been arrested for going into a pad-
dock and brutally stabbing a horse in five places.
The horse was tied to a fence.
Wolfe’s Schnapps— Soothing and invigorating.
Micky Davis, of Back Creek, Bendigo, is
a resourceful man. His tent caught fire last week
as he lay, partially paralysed, on a stretcher
amidst the conflagration. Unable to take up his
bed and walk, the patient Mick waited until the
devouring element had made a hole in the near
side of the tent, and then he slowly and surely
rolled himself through the aperture, escaping with
a few burns about his otherwise cool head.
Beware of Frauds. Drink Wolfe’s Schnapps.
The white master of a Maori school at
Porewa, Manawatu, recently attended to the
burial of a Maori youth who had been left to die
in a whare. The result was that the pedagogue
was declared “tapu,” and his scholars left him.
He was nonplussed for a time and figured out the
ancient horrors of the £apued state, but on the
third day he announced a school-feast with tea,
and cake and ginger-beer ad lib. At the appointed
hour several dusky youngsters elected to take the
risk and came to school, and thus was the tapu
broken.
withjlarge bottle of Wolfe’s Schnapps-
A young woman was, the other day, “sent
up ” for a long term at Nelson, Maoriland, and
as there was no provision for females in the local
gaol, which happened to be full of men, she was
sent to Wellington under the escort of a warder.
He was a blushful young man, and when the fair
creature intimated that she desired privacy, with
a view to camping preparations, he left her to the
stewardess. When he went back later to see that
all was well, his charge was nowhere to be found.
It is now understood that a young fireman, with
particularly dirty face and oily dungarees, who
went ashore early, would not have passed a female
searcher.
Wolfe’s Schnapps.— Pure, Palatable, Perfect.
( TS
hi ft
<s’4
M'y
i
«.\V
KSNS
4>-'S
1
SS
Hi
/
m
m
T\
a
A
0
uu
(Ini 1
«**
H
! ii
I.!
ill
/4 A* a&fc •
My Father’s Friend.
(Foe The Bulletin.)
Nofc far from —well, I do not wish to
localise—there is a station in New South Wales
owned and managed by, perhaps, the handsomest
man in the province. I was struck by his
expression when first I sa-w him, as I could not
exactly tell why he was not altogether like other
Englishmen. He has a face that can hardly be
’ described ; sometimes he looks fierce, but there is
a gentleness in his eye that induces trust in his
goodness, and a voice like that of one who had
been taught to be forbearing. I had no know-
ledge of the squatter’s name, and it was by acci-
dent that 1 became his guest, my horse having
knocked up one day about dinner-time close to his
homestead. Leaving the animal at the creek, I
walked up to the house and asked if I could buy
some meat. “ Come in to lunch first and then I’ll
get you some.” This sounded wholesome, so I
told my name and business and asked the name
of the place. The answer was “ Serinnggur,” and
my host was Hassan Dalhousie Hastings. The
names were familiar, and a portrait of a cavalry-
officer over the fireplace at once told me
that I knew a good deal about how and why
my memory should go back to the rosy times
of 30 years ago, when tin's man was not born and
the original of the portrait was with myself and
another in Cashmere, shooting and hunting—per-
haps doing what was the correct and sometimes
the incorrect thing to do—but, as owners of youth
and health, following the maxim diem.
After lunch, an old gentleman came in with a gun
over his arm, followed by two spaniels. I was
introduced to him : he was Colonel Hastings,
“my father’s friend,” as Dalhousie called him.
Then I knew the ground I was standing on, and
now I’ll tell you my share of the intimacy between
the father and the friend.
* * *
“Who has not heard of the Yale of Cash-
mere?” That is where we were, Captain Dal-
housie, Major Hastings, and myself, Ensign
Paget of the ’xteenth Bengal Infantry. I was
young and beardless then. Dalhousie had
got into a terrible row at Atcheful for shoot-
ing a sacred deer-bull. But for having been
hidden by a Punditanee or Sikh woman, he
would have been murdered. He escaped to where
we were at the old temple which is used by the
Europeans as a rest-house, and we pacified the
natives. Next night, disguised as a Shekarie,
Dalhousie visited his deliverer and persuaded her
to elope with him to India. There was no opposi-
tion, and we travelled towards Goojorat, meaning
to leave the valley at Bhimbur where the
boundary between our territory and the Rajah’s is
marked by a stream. Here there is always a
sentry, and we well knew that no one could
transport a Oashrneree beyond the cordon unless
by stratagem. The lady (as we always called her)
was supplied with a tent and female attendant;
we never saw her face. By day she travelled in a
jampau, a kind of sedan chair, and was guarded
by us in rotation. By night we watched in
turn, and we were watched, followed, shadowed
by a party of the Maharajah’s soldiers. We used
tp tell Dalhousie that he could never get her
through. Across the stream she. was safe, but on
the Cashmere side we dared not offer any resist-
ance to the authorities. Our commissions would
have been the forfeit had we used force. At
last we came to Rajaorie, the most beautiful
stage on all the track. The bungalow is a
cemented ancient palace, placed in a garden of
pomegranates. Here we held a council of war as
to how the smuggling was to be done. Butler, of
the Ghoorkhas, had tried it before by placing his
wife in a kilta or clothes-basket. The guards
allowed everything but that parcel to pass. The
woman was taken back to Serinuggur, her nose,
ears, and lips cut off, and she was turned adrift as
a warning to the Feringhees. The Major made
the only proposal that appeared feasible, and it
succeeded. Rajaorie is only twenty miles from
Bhimbur, a double stage, including Chingus Serai
as a half-way house.. The law is, or was, that all
Europeans quit the valley before the 15th of April.
No white man can see the oppression that is carried
on during the winter months.
On the night of the 9th I was transferred to the
“ lady’s ” tent and to her clothes, and the lady
donned my white jacket and pants, as well as a
large pith helmet. Next morning the lady (your
humble) was sick, and remained in her tent, care-
fully watched by Dalhousie, whilst Major Hastings
and Mr. Paget (Danlati Jan) rode on to Bhimbur.
There they arrived at midnight, and had to camp
in the bungalows. Next morning they rode safely
to Goojranwalla and thence to Goojerat.
And now for our adventures. On the 12th I
was well enough to travel. I wonder if the
bearers found me heavier.than the lady ? We
went slowly, passing one night at Chungus and
one at Saidabad. It was terribly dull work for
me. We never spoke to one another, and I dared
not speak to the bearers, who were, perhaps, in
the Rajah’s pay. At Bhimbur, on the morning
of the 15th, I threw off the disguise, and took a
photograph of the astonished female who came to
search the jampan. There is a mail-cart for
Goojranwalla and a coach to Goojerat, by which
Hastings and I proceeded to meet the lady, who
would soon be his wife.
* # *
Hastings had evidently made a mistake in
his instructions, for he had posted on with
Danlati to Lahore. We followed on by dakgharry
(post-chaise) and there found no trace or tidings of
them. Dalhousie became uneasy, and enquired
at the club. There he found a note. Read it: —
Dear Dalhousie,—At present I ask no forgiveness. I
have married Danlati and am off to Australia.—Yours,
Clivk Hastings.
It was not much of a blow. Dalhousie had fallen
in love from gratitude, Hastings almost at first
sight.
A year afterwards we heard of the death of
Mrs. Hastings, who left a boy, -This boy is our
squatter. Ten years later the father passed away
without telling the story of his wooing. I have
told you because, like the woman in the book, last
of all the Colonel died also.
Listen to a bit of a soldier’s will ;
I leave all I have to Hassan Hastings, gentleman and
sheep-farmer of N.S. Wales. I wish to be buried near
my legatee’s parents. His father was once my most
trusted friend, his mother the only woman I ever loved
On my tombstone print these words—“ Nearer to Thee.”‘
HIRAM ABIFF.
The Doom of the Desert: A Soliloquy.
(For The Bulletin.)
Night ! Starlit, silent ; but not cool. What will
come afterwards ? Morning ! Red and threaten-
ing, but silent tod. Noon-tide next; fierce, scorch-
ing and thirsty. Always silence. Evening may
follow, who knows ? Possibly I shall not. If I
do, then night once more; surely the last. O
God! this all-pervading silence is too much for
one crushed, lonely man. Better die in wild
delirium with the ghosts of mad fancy watchine
around, than lie thus, waiting. , Waiting for
what ? A black shadow stealing, up behind and
putting a chill, shuddering hand over my eyes.
Death ! The death we all have talked so lightly
of. I have to lie here and meet him, alone!
Where are the men who have laughed with me at
death ? Where are those who would come quickly
to my assistance if they but knew I was lying
helpless here ?
Not that they could do anything for me. My
spine is hurt, I know. I can’t move my legs. My
horse came clean over on top of me. He won’t go
back to the station, either. His rnob run right
away back at the long lagoon, and nobody will
find him —or me—for weeks.
Daylight is coming. If only something would
move! All is lifeless under the fast-breaking
sky. Even a crow would be welcome. But not a
bird is visible. Ah, there is one thing sure to find
me out. The ants —I had forgotten them. Oh !
why was I not killed outright ? The first one will
be the signal for the others, then my torment will
commence.
Nearly noon, and lam terribly thirsty. What
will it be like by night ? The ants have not found
me yet That feels like one crawling
up my arm. It is one. Now they will come in
twenties, in hundreds, in myriads. Is there no
means of killing myself before this slow torture
begins ? It seems to me that already I can smell
their acrid odour, and feel the smarting nips of
their bites.
Voices ! Surely I heard them distinctly, but
when I listen it is always that same awful silence.
Now ! there again ! I could almost swear it was
my name; but although I strain my ears not a
sound can I catch. Now the ants have commenced
in earnest. This cannot last long. I shall be mad
soon. There are those people talking again!
How cruel to stand just out of sight and watch me
suffer thus! O ! lam in hell now; my blood
seems turned to fire. Nip, prick, nip, and they
are in my eyes and ears. Still I can hear those
people talking behind me What is
this ? It is dark, and cool. My thirst is gone and
the ants have ceased to bite. Can it be that I
have been dreaming ? or
D.


Flower
I had been troubled five months
with Dyspepsia. The doctors told
me it was chronic. I had a fullness
after eating and a heavy load in the
pit of my stomach. I suffered fre-
quently from a Water Brash of clear
matter. Sometimes a deathly Sick-
ness at the Stomach would overtake
me. Then again I would have the
terrible pains of Wind Colic. At
such times I would try to belch and
could not. I was working then for
Thomas McHenry, Druggist, Cor.
Irwin and Western Ave., Allegheny
City, Pa., in whose employ I had
been for seven years. Finally I used
August Flower, and after using just
one bottle for two weeks, was en-
tirely relieved of all the trouble. I
can now eat things I dared not touch
before. I would like to refer you to
Mr. McHenry, for whom I worked,
who knows all about my condition,
and from whom I bought the medi-
cine. I live with my wife and family
at 39 James St., Allegheny City,Pa.
Signed, John D. CoN. ®
G. G. GREEN Sole Manufacturer,
Woodbury, New Jersey, U. S. A.
breathes a fragrSnee
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May he obtained
Beware of imitations. The genuine is signed
-fez °
trade: mark;= musk deer,
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
INVICDRfIJ^
tob
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those yon sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.R.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without theiniurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on.
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Claremont, Hastings, England.
glycerine
ANU
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
EVER PRODUCED. k
It keeps the Skin Cool end Refreshed in tho Hottest >
Weather. >
Entirely removes and prevents all ►
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, Ac. ►
And preserves tho TIIK SKIN from tho effects of !*
exposure to tho ►
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER, ►
More effectually than anv other preparation. ►
It Is delightfully Cooling and Refresh in o if applied to
tho Face or Hands after beiii£ out in the Sun, Tennis- .
playing, Yachting, Ac. It removes nil Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sun, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts ►
« that soft velvety feeling to tho Skin, which is so deligbtlul. >
5 Price in England, Is. & 2s. 6a. Sole Makers: >
\ BEETITAM A SON
Messrs. Oolemano and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds,' Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price, fy?" For external use try Colemans and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra'N.SAV
In King-street you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Here eft I-iast I
Some seven years ago a strange thing happened to the lady
whose photo, appeals herewith, whereby she became
SS T JE3 DEFt "'ST
Which no one can explain or account for so far, not even her
husband. How it happened was this : She lay dying of a compli-
cation of diseases ; often she would faint off, and he unconscious
as long as 30 hours at a stretch—frigid as a corpse and apparently
dead. The leading medical men of Melbourne were in attendance,
often at a cost of Five Guineas a day, yet she sank lower and
lower. Everything that medical science could suggest was tried ,
even morphia failed to give enough ease for two hours sleep
daily. At last, in desperation, some said, “ Try Mesmerism.
Mr. Harle, as a Mesmerist,
Had been very successful on the public platform, and had also
saved life by private magnetic treatment; but Mrs. Harle, being
a lady of very pronounced opinions and strong mind of her own,
never could see anything in it but a hobby of his, and so, when
urged to try it, she ridiculed the very idea ; but they said, 2ry
it for sleep only —you will go mad for want of rest. ror a long
time sbe could not bring her mind to submit; at last, after much
praver to God for guidance and help, she was willing to try.
After about halt an hour’s mesmeric influence and passes, she
went off into a peaceful hypnotic state, which lasted, as was
intended, from eight at night till ten next morning; and she
awoke rested and refreshed. The experiment was repeated, when
Lo! Everyone was Startled
Mes. r. N. ITARLE,
To find that whilst to all intents and purposes she was asleep, yet in another sense, the mind was far more awake,
and she commenced talking about what the servant was doing on the ground floor, what an acquaintance was doing a
mile awav what was happening in the home of a dear friend some few blocks away, and so forth. Then she was
requested to Ilookinto her own body ; this she did, and was surprised herself, and surprised everyone else, by tracing
the cause of her trouble, which proved to be mainly an internal cancer. She then told them how to cure her.
Crowds of Friends Came to See Her,
For she had a large and influential circle of acquaintances. She astounded all by her marvellous powers of vision-
to Le into the!rbodies as if they were made of transparent glass, to see the members of their families, to know all
about their commercial affairs, seemed quite easy to her ; England, America, New Zealand, etc., seemed just like next
door- The Sensation was Immense J
Drawing-room Sitting-room, Dining-room and Bedroom were crowded with inquisitive people, and the invalid became
a phetlomenon’. The doctors were nonplussed with their patient-she gave directions how to soften the cancer to the
lincing state* this was done ; then, as they dare not give chloroform on account of her heart, Mr. Hade put her undei
mesmerism whilst Drs. Teague, of Collins Street, lanced it. She awoke without having felt anything that had hap-
pened. Everyone said : “ Start and use your powers for doing good, you can
Save Lives hy Thousands.”
But her health was too low. First, she cured herself-in three months' time she was again taking her accustomed
drives on the Esplanade, in her phaeton, to the astonishment of the whole district. To properly tone the system a
chan "e of climate was needed, and she came to N.S. Wales. For a short time she resided in Maitland ; her retreat
was known by those who were aware of her powers, and she got no peace till she agreed to start practice, hive ycais
ago Mrs Hade opened in Newcastle ; three years out of the five have been spent travelling in the Northern district,
and away in the bush discovering gold mines, and she seems to be able to find gold as easy as trace disease.
Seven Thousand People Have Consulted Her
In her mesmeric state ! some about business, but most about their health. Not one can say; “I am worse for your
treatment ” whilst all who have followed the advice and treatment, rejoice in restored health. Mrs. Hade describes
each diseased organ finds the cause of every trouble, and prescribes remedies and treatment. Her wonderful mental
vision or ctear°sigh” enables her to see just what medicine, and how long it will take to cure it, often giving the
medicine three months ahead, and never changing a bottle.
I
If vou wish to mortally offend Mrs. Hade, just class her along with the card-reading palm-scanning fortune-telling
crowd and the task is done. No such rubbish 1 Mrs. Hade is mesmerised by her husband, and when in the hypnotic
state she sees with her mind. She cannot open her eyes, yet she hears, talks, asks and answers questions, etc. When
toemes^rismto undone, aim awakes, and knows no more of what has happened, than if she had been chloroformed
or dead ' It Causes a Terrible Mental Strain,
Therefore Mr. Harle reserves the right to say when she has done enough, and may refuse any or all at such times.
The Fee is half-a-guinea for bodily examination, and a guinea for business advice. The half-guinea includes a
complete tracino- 0 f your case, and a full statement of how to cure you. Business men have voluntarily paid as high as
£5 and even £l5, for the arrangement of a business tangle. She guarantees in all cases a full value in the treatment,
and more satisfakion all round than can possibly be obtained by any other means whatever. Special medicine is
prepared for each case treated. Mrs. Hade is prepared to work with the family physician or any qualified medica.
man if her suggestions are carried out. She is prepared to treat any case that can be cured, but insists upon only
ustn- Lr Eclectic Botanic Remedies-she has no faith in mineral medicines. It is desirable to make appointments or
come eadv in the day, whilst her brain power is fresh. Outdoor visits must also be arranged.
Simple oases send £1; Complicated Cases send £s—with age, sex, occupation, all symptoms, particulady state of
bowels how long suffering, and a Photo.- if you have one (we will return it) and you will receive post or lad fiee a
course of Mrs. Hade's latest marvellous remedies and her personal cave of your case—with full advice on diet am
eXel pS-Mrs. Hade’s chief reason for visiting Sydney for some six months is to introduce her Remedies to the
Public, and open a Dispensary where people may call and see her or write for the Remedies or call foi them.
SYDNEY ADDRESS-200 PITT-STREBT, SYDNEY (between Market and Park-Streets),
One minute from G. P. Office. HOURS :-10 to 12 a,m. ;2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
Newcastle Address; HARLE'S BOTANIC HALL, Tram Terminus (City), Newcastle.
Wholesale and Retail Botanic Remedies, and all Druggists’ Sundries.
ADVT
0* is & solid fr&rrdsarrre cake of
SGoaiKtng soap which baa ao equal
for all cleaning purposes except in
the laundry-To use ft is to value it---
What will SAPOLIO do? Why it will clean paint, make oil-cloths
bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new appearance. It will
take the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour
the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly. The
wash-basin, the bath-tub, even the greasy kitchen sink will be as clean as
a new pin if you use SAPOLIO. One cake will prove all we say. Be a
clever housekeeper and try it.
BEWARE OP IMITATIONS. THERE IS BUT OHS SAPOLIO,
ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS CO.. NEW YORK.
SOLD BY GBOCEES, CHEMISTS, AND lEONMONGEES.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
ADVT
ADVT
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia—T. JT. Ma,cWillia,m, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
WORTH KNOWING.
“ Its fame, like gold, the more ’tis tried,
The more shall its intrinsic worth proclaim I
WORLD WIDE.
“GrOLDEIV SPECIFIC”
“GOLDEN SPECIFIC.”
The celebrated and only safe, sure and
speedy ANTIDOTE TO DRINK.
The SYSTEM ONCE IMPREG-
NATED BY THIS REMEDY THE
USE OP ALCOHOL MUST CEASE.
THOUSANDS PROVE IT. -*■«
The “Golden Specific” neutralises the effect of
alcohol and promptly corrects and stays its use. It
supplies the place of the accustomed liquor and
prevents that absolute physical and moral prostration
which so frequently follows the sudden discontinuance
of stimulating drinks. Prepared in both ponder
and liquid form according to the formula of Dr.
Haines. Hundreds in tl»e colonies have
tl»e “©olden Specific” in use and testify
to its complete efficacy and success. Read the scores
of Testimonials received by ns daily from all parts.
TO THE DIPSOMANIAC.
The “ Golden Specific" is a positive and certain
antidote to drink and cures the worst cases.
TAKE IT IN TIME. SEND FOR OUR BOOK.
SciEUTi A OmmwViNCIT
ANT
DRINK
a
EID
m
&k
SPi
LCOHOU
VERSUS
he Demon Drink.
R
R
The acknowledged cure for
Dims
or the liquor habit, inehrlacy and alcoholism
(in any form). Can lie g-iven secretly or other-
wise. Placed in a Cup of Tea orCoffee, or in food, its
presence cannot be noticed. V arranted perfectly
harmless and easy to administer. It operates so
quietly and with such certainty that the patient
undergoes no inconvenience, and ere he is aware his
complete reform is effected. An overdose is
harmless and it docs not impair or
Injure the health in any w ay.
DRUNKENNESS IS A DISEASE.
Write for book of particulars and colonial testimo-
nials, scut post free on receipt ot stamp Beware of
Imitations. We have no Agents.
Sole Vendors and Proprietors, and our only Address
GOLDEN SPECIFIC CO.,
145 and 147 COLLINS STREET,
MELBOURNE, VIC.
BEAD THIS!!!
Muscular Action.
[For The Bulletin.]
Most people have seen weird instances of mus-
ular action amongst dying animals and birds. A
cock vvid caper about the yard with its head cut
off, a fresh-water tortoise will swim to the bank
and crawl ashore with its throat cut, and I have
seen a bullock, after being shot and bled, land a
man halfway across the killing-yard with a heave
of its hind leg. The strangest thing that I know
of, however, was a case of muscular action on the
part of a corpse which was the cause of two men '
ruining themselves by a law-suit. j
Old John Fawkner owned a public-house and a j
bit of land in one of the country districts of Vic- I
toria. He had made money during a successful
career as publican and had nobody to leave it to
but a couple of nephews—one his wife’s, the other
his own. Fawkner had amassed about £30,000,
but ho had an inordinate idea of the value of the
pub. and land. His will was drawn out on
the basis of this impression. One nephew got
,£25,000; to the other was left the pub., land and <
£5OOO, The nephews held views on the '
matter directly opposite to Fawkner’s. _No |
doubt by strict attention to business '
another £25,000 could be made in the i
old house, but the young men preferred it
ready - made. Hence arose much tribulation.
Whenever one of the nephews offended the old
man he was put down for £25,000; consequently
they were always striving who should offend him
the worse, and there is little doubt that the un-
fortunate fits of temper induced by this line of
conduct hastened the old man’s death.
He was very ill and had taken to his bed, and
Jim entered his room one evening and, snapping
his fingers in the invalid’s face, told him he was a
lazy old deadbeat and only shamming.
This was enough. Fawkner immediately sent
for the barman, a broken-down lawyer’s clerk
who drew out his wills, and the exulting
Jim was put down for the disgraceful £25,000.
Sam came home late that night and immediately
went upstairs and talked to the sick man in the
poetical language of a bullocky. “By —■—, I’ll
disinherit you 1” screamed Fawkner —“send Jones
up.” And the delighted Sam at once hastened to
do so. Jones was the ex-lawyer’s clerk, and at
that time of night was pretty full. However, he
drew out another will endowing Sam with the
coin and rewarding Jim with the house and land.
Two wills having been drawn on the same day,
it was necessary to put the time down on the
last one, which was done, and Jones stumbled
downstairs, knocking at Jim’s door as he did
so, and jeering at him. Jim at once jumped
out of bed, rushed upstairs in his shirt, and com-
menced such a tornado of lurid abuse that the old
man drew up his knees and, mad with rage, was
about to spring out of bed when he dropped back
dead. Jim had gone too far.
The first thing Sam knew about it, for he was
sleeping the sleep of the just, was being hauled
out on the floor and pounded by his infuriated
cousin. When they had settled the little affair,
Sam learnt that he had been successful. The
uncle was dead and the last will unaltered. The
old man died about 11.30, and by midnight the
women folk had straightened him out and made
him decent, for he had died in a howling rage and
looked awful with his knees drawn up and his
hands clenched. Shortly after that hour Sam and
Jim entered the room, dressed, but still quarrel-
ling. The women abused them in an undertone
for quarrelling with the dead man in the room,
but Jim, who was beside himself with rage, walked
up to the foot of the bed and shook his fist at the
remains of his uncle. Then occurred the most
curious instance of muscular action on record.
The corpse drew up its right leg and gave Jim a
kick in the stomach that sent him sprawling. The
women fled from the room, and it was some time
ere they could be induced to come back. When
they did, old Fawkner was found to be as dead as a
door-nail.
Now, this is how the law-suit commenced.
When the barman drew out the second will he
was pretty muzzy, and when he put down the
time he wrote 12.6 thinking he was making out a
grog score for twelve-and-sixpence. If Fawkner
died at 11.30 he couldn’t possibly have signed a
will at 12.6, consequently the former will held
good. This was Jim’s contention. Sam, however,
pleaded, first, that it was a mistake of the bar-
man’s ; secondly, as Fawkner, dead or alive, had,
in the presence of witnesses, kicked Jim across
the room some time after 12, he was quite capable
of signing a will if h*» liked, consequently the will
was valid.
It wjll be seen at a glance what a splendid field
for litigation there was here, and Jim and Sam
eagerly availed themselves of it until what with
appeal after appeal, fresh trials and medical
expert testimony, they are both “ cleaned out,”
and the case has not yet been decided by
the Privy Council.
DELCOMYN.


Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING TMls TRAD*! MARK.
ADVT
Dr. Jaeger’s
—GAUZE-
UN DKII VESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woo leii System Go., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
“
Ellscsllaneous.
No Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles is Bunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. Send for List
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
PRICE W A RUNG.”
Price, Is.;
per Post, Is. 3d.
IJOT
'AT
ISEIESDFt
ZES-AJO.
FHE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. «3c*. & 5S Set.
3s. 6( 3L & ss. 6c3L.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
Gr. 3HC. Sz SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
DBF
NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck’s Invisible Tubular Kar Cushio
Whispers heard. Successful when
remedies fall. Write far book of pit*
49 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
A. M. MAST,
[FREE,
m
“■ult.
Best on Earth
Sole Agents
Allt's Brswing Si Wine Si Spirit Co,, Limited.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
4 Price Warung,’
FrdVn Tiik Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to apy
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps;
Posted to any English address for is. XOd.
in stamps.
Hotel
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding' Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
■«
£Ol m, ManagEil,
Many, years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
MedicaL
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecliam’s Pills
&
RA'i
m t
PILLS
-
Are: universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous dis n’ders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling' after meals,
dimness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for. removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
tie found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the loilg-lost complexion,
tiring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
-tand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bercham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beceham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. Ud. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
E P P S’ S
&EATEFUL—OOMFOETINa
C OJC O A.
Ask for
GLASGOW
GROSS
Bottled
WHISKEY
De Lissa & Phillips,
Bir.'ack St., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
Whisky
DRINK
“MID
imtir
WHISKY-
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
L. Henderscn,
58 Margaret St.,
THE ESTATE OF
FONTAINEBLEAU,
WENTWORTH FALLS.
HPHIS MAGNIFICENT ESTATE of 239 ACRES has been
surveyed by Messrs. Miller and Lewis, of Pitt Street,
Sydney, into 133 Allotments, ranging from 1 Acre
Residential Blocks to 10J Acres, situate only 500 yards
from the WENTWORTH PALLS RAILWAY STATION,
on the opposite side of the line. It embraces all that fine
and elevated land opposite the mansion of R. M. Pitt,
Esq., whose splendid garden excites the admiration of
every passenger on the Great Western railway.
When the delightful climate Of Wentworth Falls is taken
into consideration, the place may be safely described as
The Madeira of the Blue Mountains.
Delicate constitutions and worn-out business men are
benefited equally by the refreshing purity of the mountain
air, and the estate is not surpassed for residential purposes.
The FONTAINEBLEAU ESTATE
is well described by the poet, viz.:—
The waratah, all sh aming red,
Lifting in pride its stately head,
Shines through the clustering ferns ;
While as the wattle’s yellow bloom
Falls in soft showers, its deep perfume '
The air to sweetness turns.
Would you this haunt of beauty know?
’ Tig the charming Estate of Fontainebleau !
The Blaxland Road is now being made from the Railway
fence, and, as it runs right through this magnificent estate,
it will, when finished, be without exception the finest
Carriage Drive on the Mountains.
The FONTAINEBLEAU ESTATE is the most elevated
and beautiful about Wentworth Falls far and away
superior to the land on the other side of the line. The
picturesque views and the extreme fertility of the soil
renders the place very attractive, and specially adapted
for Fruit or Flower Gardens, Orchards or Dairy Farms,
for which Nature seems ro have intended it.
Early Buyers will do well to secure their Lots at
once <; as they are likely to largely advance in value. The
terms are liberal, to suit all buyers. For lithos., and all
particulars, apply to the Proprietor—
Ml I,M An EYRE, 112 King St., Sydney.
4k A Golden Shanty.”
Neatly Bound in Cloth, Price 2.5., post paid, to
any of the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs. Fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “ A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
r*?” A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes o> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary 7
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IP YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. JggF” Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
suurious.
.4ROSE’Slf<s
mmm
s
mm
CPI
LOT*
B
S^T
THUS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
-L and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
THE-
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
Ifos-ter IMColilxears.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. RADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms : 84 Bathurst Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A
'S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will novv.be REDUCED from
2ls. to 14s. fid, per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S POEPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street- Send pTo.O. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &0., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case mcst minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid And
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “ Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
X>x*.
i. m
M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Jlandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private -and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake tile treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat d of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his path nts with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the hody. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.rn. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 t) 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays,
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN
M
SS
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC
belt;*
- V.
6S
m
-V>n
\
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwaids This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Bains in the Bark, Lum-
haeo, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney, and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improve nvn ts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what « e represent them to be. Those hi Its are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened’parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cmed in three months.
It is more convenient to wi ar than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
>0 f
&
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager


Free Freaoriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than Ip.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS. Ltd.
Dewar’s Wliislsy.
20 GOLD AND PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents; CURCIER. ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, G.P.O.
Telephone 912,
W. MAMMATT & SONS,
I <
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
ISJOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
BEUEST IF^^riElUrG,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling-Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Put Street, Sydney.
—THE—
COLONNADE HOTEL PALACE.
ADVT
656 George Street, Sydney,
IS THE
BUST HOTEL IN SYDNEY
FOR
Few South Wales, Queensland, Victorian and Few Zealand Visitors.
AH Visitors wishing to obtain the GREATEST COMPORT, BEST TABLE
and PUREST LIQUORS during their stay in Sydney, should try this
HOME in every sense of the word at REFORM PRICES.
Per WEEK .. .. .. £1 ,10s. and £2 2s.
Per DAY .. .. .. (is. and 7s. 6d.
PLEASE NOTE THE ADDRESS, and telegraph for Single or Double Rooms.
The House contains 32 Bedrooms, Drawing, Dining, Reading, Smoking and Billiard
Rooms. Bath-rooms and Lavatories on every landing.
L. JENNINGS McGRATH, Proprietor.
Tt
A
za
So
o
O
o
<RAc\A'rocK>
<?•
o
Ci
c
o
r
o
V
K, A, Hervcy, Agent, 144 €larcnce>st , Sydney.
///
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson's Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothiiur else! ”
tSST“ Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Hill.
Knowles’ Pnmpft.
PARKE & LACY
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&C., «BeO*9 &o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, IV.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
(LIMITED).
l£ock Breakers,
Wfstlnehonse Engine*.
Juf
Hay-street ‘ H ™ rt onuv] Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
Wood Burning Boilers.
SIZES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal*
WORKING PRESURE.—SO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMIIS and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
'SHOWROOMS:
Wolfe-street, Newcastle
Queen-street, Auckland.
yiw;
