

&
o
ri*
ft?
CO
£
&
CADBURY'S COCOA
| ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
AITKEFS ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND. USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
THE BEST in THE MARKET AND SUPPLIED TO THE PBINCIPAL CUDS IN SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 George-st., Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. G. WATKINS «SC 00.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE,
The Bulletin
FRY’S MALTED
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT c
COCOA.
MALT.
%
4
*
/
&
r /
o
The Bulletin
0
v.
o
75
0
o
&
•/*
T He AUSTRALIA.
Australia Gaf * s admitted to be without a rival in
cost! 6 maMmum of comfort is secured at a very moderate
Terms, from t i
per %, includi.Hv'f la Shillin K s and Sixpence (12s. 6d.
Special ar g baths and all dieals.
an oements 0 ements made for permanent boarders.
H. EDWIN MOORE, Manager.
I
_rx
- <
o*
rHE
Sx£S
Hi
roai
|II»
: .’»D® u ®- ,OT!
The Oxford. Hotel, ZSixig Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
Lenten Season. Lenten SeaSOn ! Lenten Season.
NEW SOUTH WALES
gresh sood and gee Company, Ltd.
Fish! Fisii! Irish. I
/"AWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
w DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.—as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
£d. per lb. for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 percent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note We shail bo pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily, to all parts of the city and
suburbs Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
Hy. PSbtesosa, Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WiLEEK’S WHISET. ALLSOFF’S ILL
JOHN 24 BOKTID SYU3JBY.
J. & O. HOWARD.
Sole -A.g'eacx'ts in.
plough
0 Plough of the Times.
“L*; 2 - and 3 Furrows-
WIT H HAXD LEs
GOv£nt RY PEERAGE
VVERNOE STEER AG Id,
Also ia Riding.
AND
Wew South.
for Messrs. Clayton elxx«3L
I CLAYTOH. » BWUIILMIWVHU»T.»" » ' '"•’gjgr-’ -
IMP HOVE D PORTABLE ENOINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
■ ■
„ ■' i
IMPROVED PORTA RLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.-S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Hinkle Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Rightness in Draught, (Strength,
AND DURABIfc,TY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each.
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ENGINES. WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. OS' Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
& C. Howard, 2SO| Pitt street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13 iNo. 683. J
[Saturday, March 18, 1893.


TALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
. Bv “PRICE WARUNG.”
/*S
O ““
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
WEAK MEN.
“Br. Pierce’s Galvanic
Chain Belt” (with Electric
Suspensory) is the latest im-
proved and only perfect body
BATTBEYmowin use. The Elec-
tricity goes direct to all weak
PASTS and restores them to
Health and Vigorous Strength
Avoid Imitations! Use none but the Best!
Send for Pamphlet No. S.Wash. H. Soul &Co.
A f.sl
kjcuu iur jramimieu i*o. V
.Sydney, and Elliott Bros..
MAGNETIC ELAS. TEtJSGCO..
ERC
BELT
HAIM
TRADE WAR
A BLESSING IN EVERT FAMILY.
H°_k L °WAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
In every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, pg- p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, they are
rounous.
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
> Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance), Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
The Most UsefnTointment in the World,
Bar None.
a
\
OID^Q
IF
HMs
a UN bitm-
FINg
HARPED
h
o Ne
H
Y
P *OP
Edward Row & Co,
SY3DUEY.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
foe INFANTS afd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. ”-Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROTAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
fs
v.o
A
mm
Whisky
CfUSltrs Spcthcw
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
-T. F ERR. E,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Const Cssar MATTUrS
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIES,
Cure CANCER, Anannia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Dropsy, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and ali other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTEI’s
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
_ Box 379 G.P.O.
ATKINSON’S
Universally admired. Other Odours
“Whi?°p tfae „ sense ’ but Atkinson’s
Vv kite Bose isever fresh andsweet
„ ATKINSON'S
EAU DE COLOGNE
7 m ~ ***** b ivea rise zo a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English— the finest.
Of all Dealers.
&E. ATKIPWSON, I
24 Old Bond Street, London.
° nly Kdiulnp with Shield
usual?
Tade Mark—a “ White
and address in
AX AiVHOO IX.
O s R< CORO 1 ;
Lt Ft.
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
ana unprecedented success throughout the world.
s of Life restores Health and
Strength to the. most shattered and debilitated constitut ions
regenerating all the important dements of the human frame.
ca«M of 10s, or four quantities in one for S6s. Freight
Pamphlets free on. receipt of stamped addressed
for Australasia—Perry it Co., 7S Gertrude
Street, Fituroy, MELBOURNE. venruae
AgentsforN.S. Wales-W. H. Sou! & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
foa Consumption use
£oi(W E Sons
-
g
V
cl
Co^ 5
,l^ s
r
<o
f
/
K A
\W
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT^IN THEWORLD
Manwactort :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
Honourable Treatment.
m
''''
fSMiS
>®^BWs
M *
1
SURGEON LANGSTON,
THE EXPERIENCED AND RENOWNED SPECIALIST
Practice Entabliiilieil 40 Years. ’
Late of Imperial Porces, Army Medical Staff
Engineers, registered in England and Auatrnlff'
and authorised by Act of Parliament to nraotVi
in all the branches of Medicine and
is now permanently located at SBr T;
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery
suffering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified
I feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon to PubH.a
my address, so that all in need of medical skill mav hav
the benefit of my experience. Consultation is freetH
all, but when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicine sent 9
My life-long experience, extending over
years, and practical method of treatment insure a
speedy and permanent cure in all
Special Diseases.
NEURASTHENIA or DEBILITY
ORGANIC WEAKNESS, LACK of
ENERGY, FAILING MEMORY, PHYSICAL
DECAY, V
producing some of tne following effects—Debility, Dimness
of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
Face, Loss of Ambition, Lack <Jf Confidence
Gloominess, Despondency, Melancholy, Dys»
pepsia, Want of Energy, Palpitation, Stunted
Development, Pains in the Back, etc., treated
with success, safely and privately. x
w/fjm
BLOOD AND SKIN DISK ASKS
all* forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful
swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Tim ©-tested Remedies. Stiff and Swollen Joints
matlsm the result of Blood Poison, CURED. Constitutional or acquired Weaknesses
of both Sexes treated successfully. Rupture instantly relieved and permanently cured. Surgeon -Langston’s
ELECTRIC QUADRANT,
, supports, price £2. I
only the best remedies. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with skill in a
respectful manner; and knowing what to do, io Ex|i«rimcnt« are made. Home Treatment.
Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home. Those requiring- Immediate
treatment can., by forwarding particulars of their case and £l, receive a course of treatment by return post
Befo re om P 3 r our case elsewhere, Consult the Old and Successful Specialist, SUKGEOIf
‘ j ' O -1 . Age and experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future suffering
and add golden years to life. I¥o mercury or poisonous drug-s used. New Edition Of my
latest work, “ Hens Sana in Corpore Sano,” 68 pages, sent free to men.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.G.8., k,
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
N.B.—The Only Qualified Surgeon practising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Vft
ES
5*V
QEB
9 «•
&
s-:
£
Scale of Advertising:
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year „
Paragraph Advertisements
An KXTBA DISCOUNT of 5
per inch per insertion, nett.
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs,
NOW IN THE TRESS AND SHORTLY TO !?E Pl lIUSII Hl>.
LAST SIX ;»
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
IB IS IT IB £3 T T 7" E IT C
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
■ -
n Jz: .KS "i m uirlt;lt* " f “ T 7r ■» •«* *.
arc not less true than terrible I tkke it upon myself to affi’rm half - unknown - regions of tropical Australia. That they
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


Medical.
Assisted By Dr. ELMSLIE,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A-, L.M., Etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Square,
SYDNEY.
P.O. Box 920.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
of N.S.W. and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
to the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
DISEASES of MEN and WOMEN. All applying
to him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
plaints. No experimenting ; no mercury used. A posi-
tive cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
tells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
proper remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
be the most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
his particular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
Of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Office Hours : 10 to 13 a.in. j 3to 4 and
7 to 8 p.ui.
In consequence of the prevailing
HARD TIMES,
Dr. SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to their
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr. SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
his charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all cases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.B.—TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER,
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER Whl forward, post free, the following
celebrated
PILLS.'
1. “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nefvousnesa,
Weakness, &c., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. od.
2. —AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. Cd,
3. -PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s,
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
C. ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper when writing.
“ Men I have Smiled with.'
W E
W
STAY at B ruton’a,
Nanainos
STAY AT THE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale
CHILTEUN, VIC.
JJ McSWINEY’S STAR HOTEL
Is the Best.
WAGG-A.
E. INTaughton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
&AT Under New Management.
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
Bs. per Day and £2 2s. per week.
Manager .. Geo. Ily. .lames
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
ALBURY.
the globe hotel
(T. K. BROWN, Proprietor)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
&3T New Sample Room just Added. TEt
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
MKLBODUNB.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10a. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BKKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
*
L. R.C S, L M R.C.S.
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, he directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE HO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne’s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skin
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
Tli is book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, if
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions ; —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
/Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine-s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
.with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be yon ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Pa.tlen.ts may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. BURGOYNE for
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Honrs of Consultation s
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.ra.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
aar Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney,
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
ESsf
n
eSS
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. liis practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailmqnts. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION TREE.
_ Shipping.
EN GLA ND VIA AMER I 0 \
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN:
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San. Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £6G.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and .£57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MAWiIeS.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS,
Steamers under postal conlract with the Government or
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers hooked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from 120 to £55,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates;—
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep,
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
22_™5 Kill Scrub Co.’s
DE STRUCT ANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
£2T Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Esq.,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednic Browne (Director-General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
«SM
of tb(VallO
U*"
LOHS E’S
IMiGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFU ME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all lyigly class'f’erfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
Qn, FOR A MOUSTACH Ell
Ca plllarinc!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. Ttli
Helialde, Safe, and Simple (oUse. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
(lUli; A AITKFK, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, BricLfleld Hill, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
£49.460 worth for £l.
Column.


♦
PUREST.
SAFEST
BEST
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
(lIOKi; S€EXT.S DDUCATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
‘•An ideal S'.ip, delightfully perfumed.”—Chkmist and Druggist (London). In five kinds —
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
WBIONDEAU&C'*
London OEPOT/S^Sp
Rylandßoad/
V V^\OON_^>>^
ITCHING, E C Z..E M'aCl
FOR
UGHNESS.&
K 1
For SUNHUHN, INSECT
PRICKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
HITES,
M
v,
ondon.Paris&NewYork.
O f V~V)
<--CV7J-J
YLAND RpADcji LONDON.N.W. c/S)
For Toilet, Nursery&9
A SANITARY, SOIjIIBIjE HOSE-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes-in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
The Most Delicious Sauce in the World.
g
HE cat
KSHldt
U BA
EEDS
W:
' ‘ *l' '»/!.V* v •
Simply Delicious
WITH
CHOPS,
STEAKS,
FISH, &c.
MAKES GOLD MEAT A LUXURY.
BLENDS ADMIRABLY WITH ALL (JRAVIES.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
.. . |
Sold Everywhere.
; t
Wholesale : TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS. SYDNEY.
S..U Prnpripin'*: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
Darlings GNU N—cost 3d. only.
Freetraders smoke G N U N Darlings.
Walking to business, smoke GN'UN Darling.
At Waterloo you can buy GNUN Darlings.
CARTER & C°?
f jDUAIi'TABLE H':
(NON • REVERSIBL£V U
r piIIS Ingeniously Constructed it I ill ,4 It l>
* TAItI.K in acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combln-
inggentlcexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
Tlic PRICES—W to .‘H'fj finlncns, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, ami
On Ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Co:iias-ut., Melbourne. Factory, Uaiwrsity-St,
A.D. in Queensland now means Before the
Flood.
“Woman loves much—and many.”
Heine.
The Sugar Journal estimates the Q. 1893
sugar crop at 90,000 tons, but the late floods will
probably reduce the amount to about 75,000 tons.
Taking that figure, the crop’s value will touch
<£900,000.
“Jordan water,” for christening pur
poses, is now sold in London at 425. the pint. As
Jordan water looks just the same as the ordinary
pump fluid there should be money in the business.
A correspondent, contemplating a trip
down the Darling, from Bourke to, say, Murray
Bridge, wants to know the exact distance (as the
river winds), and the rate of current, and any
other information that may be useful.
N.S.W. squatters are getting married
couples at £4O a year, but Whiteley King, the
N.S.W. Pastoralists’ Union man, is credited with
now being able to provide squatters with rouse-
abouts willing to accept 7s. Gd. per week.
At Ramsgate (Eng.) recently a fashionable
marriage was somewhat spoiled the_ eccentric
conduct of the curate, who read the burial service
over the couple, and then laughed a hollow laugh
and ran away in his surplice. The curate’s state
of mind is under consideration. Meanwhile it is
a pleasant omen for the newly-wedded pair to
begin housekeeping with.
When a paper named the Dead Bird was
first prohibited in Adelaide, one of the street
news-vendors—a fat, old lady, familiar to all
Adelaideans—was standing at the corner of
Bundle and King William Streets droning out,
“ ’Ere ye’r, Register, Radvertisee, Dead
Bird ! ” Presently a policeman appeared, and
learning what she was doing, marched to the
police-office, and brought down a sergeant who
immediately asked for a Dead Bird, but was told
he would first have to produce the necessary three-
pence. The money was paid over, when the
woman, amid much laughter, put her hand into
her pocket and delivered to the officer —a dead
sparrow.
When Greymouth (M.L.) was in its infancy
the skipper of a vessel trading between that port
and Hobart received orders—more in joke than in
earnest —from a dozen men for “wives” to be
brought from the island. The skipper was to
receive £2O per “ wife ” passage-money. This was
the agreement. In Hobart the astute old salt
gave glowing accounts of the rich bachelors at
Greymouth waiting for wives, and succeeded in
persuading about a dozen Hobart girls to go out
with him on speculation. Arriving at Greymouth,
the ancient mariner calmly reported to each of his
customers that his commission had been executed
and the consignment was to hand—,£2o to pay.
.£2O was not much in those days for a good joke,
especially'one that required hushing up, so nearly
everybody “in the soup” (specially the married
men) paid their debt and laughed. Some of the
sweet young Hobartians were married to their
“importers the others
The Maoriland Govt, thinks of importing
camels for mountain work. A camel can carry
loads of from 5001 b. to 6001 b., can travel faster
and further in a day than a dray and team, can
camp anywhere, and find his food in the bush, so
that it is unnecessary to carry chaff or provide
stabling for him; and he can travel all day, if
necessary, without food or water. Thus explorer
Lindsay on his recent trip: “Previous to 20th
Aug. ’9l, my riding camel had carried me 20 days
on 6 pals, water. On Ist Aug. all the camels,
save my riding camel, had a drink. On 24th
Aug., an interval of 23 days, they had their next
drink. On 30th Aug. they all had a full drink,
and we left for the march across the Great
Victoria Desert, some of the camels carrying as
much as 7001 b. weight. On Ist Sept., at 25 miles,
the camels had gallons of water out of canvas
troughs. On 4th Sept, a few camels had 2i gals,
each. On 7th Sept, the rest of the camels had
about 24 gals, of dirty water. On 25th, an
interval of 18 days, at 400 miles, in the evening
the camels had about gals., some only 2 gals.
The whole of that journey had been over sandy
country, much of it very hilly, and all clothed
with spinifex, the feed being of the poorest and
insufficient.”
Dear Bulletin, — lie the Argentina exodus.
I am a native of Azul, about 200 miles south-west of
Buenos Aires, and remember a good deal about it.
The plains of the River Plate are superior from a
grassy or watered point of view to any ordinary
Australian grazing properties, but they are
absolutely treeless and shadeless. Fences are
impossible to make and the common fuel is sheep-
dung. The pilfering of stock is common, the chief
rations are mutton, ycrha mate (a tea imported
from Paraguay), and hard biscuit. The natives
are reckless and vain. The gaucko will cover his
horse with silver mountings while his wife goes
through childbirth across a sheep’s hurdle brought
down from the home station (provided she can
obtain one). Not a particle of furniture will be
seen in most huts, Reading and writing are
reckoned the padre's privileges. Game is plentiful.
The native alcohol, cana, produced from sugar-
cane, is a powerful and extremely cheap, beverage.
In flavour it is something between brandy and
rum ; a tumblerful would cost you 3d. Gold or
silver coin is never seen, paper-money taking their
place. The 2d. paper-note, or peso, is the com-
monest form of coin, the pcso-fuerte, or hard
dollar, consisting of 25 of these. Its average
interchangeable value with gold is at a discount
of 75 per cent. The Buenos Aires women are the
handsomest in the world, especially the trijas dc
pais, i.c., daughters of Englishmen who have
intermarried with Castilians and made the River
Plate their permanent homes. What has kept
Argentina back pastorally is footrot, scab, and
militarism, but all these are disappearing, and
before long the country will be quite as habitable
as this.—Yours,
CHARLES JONOR.
Kenneth Mackay is at work on an Austra-
lian novel.
Coroner Youl (Melb.), in considering the
case of the man who was killed by Constable
Spillane’s baton in a street row, laid down the
law that “every man is entitled, when attacked
to defend himself with a similar weapon ; you
could not assault a man with a gun or a pistol if
he only attacked you with a stick.” This looks
all right, but how are you to manage it?
The present writer was once attacked by a frenzied
drunk with a saw, and as he had never possessed
a saw in his life, he couldn’t legally retaliate.
Therefore, he left in great haste. Not long ago
in Adelaide, one man floored another with a ham*
and the other didn’t have a ham about him.
There is also a well-authenticated story concerning
a professor who banged his enemy with a broken
mummy-case, and there was no “similar weapon”
within a hundred miles or more. Youl’s law may
be good, but his sense is awful. A man may be
hit at any moment with anything, from a bad egg
to a human thigh-bone, and he can’t have every
kind of weapon handy.
Dear Bulletin, —Some two months ago,
in Goulburn (N.S.W.) gaol, two prisoners were
flogged for an assault on one of the officers. (It
may be remarked that usually prisoners, after
being flogged, are transmitted to another gaol for
sufficiently obvious reasons. Such was not done
in this case). A little later, one of the same
prisoners attacked no less a personage than the
Deputy-Governor of the gaol in conjunction with
four other officials, bruising the whole five to an
alarming extent. Tor this offence he received a
punishment of 28 days cells on bread and water,
evidently upon the assumption that, flogging being
of no avail, starvation might prove of service.
Within seven days from the occurrence just
mentioned the Governor, at about eight o’clock,
p.m., actually went into the cell in which was
confined one of the prisoners who had been flogged
and asked him, “ for God’s sake to allow him a
week’s peace ! ” The next morning a first-class
official in charge of the cook-house had large
pieces knocked off him by a young lad in the
course of a difficulty concerning some rations—
the balance of the prisoners rushing to the rescue
in time to prevent any fatal consequences. The
assailant, for this offence, received 15 lashes.
Surely discipline must be in a curious state at
Goulburn. —Yours, &c.,
Z.
REMINDED OF HIS DEAD MOTHER.
[EXTRACT FORM A PRIVATE LETTER.]
It was the latter part of August, 1891. A friend
and I had come down from Ramsgate to Minster,
to see the venerable church there, which is a
thousand years old. I entered the churchyard
and seated myself upon a nameless grave while he
went in search of somebody to unlock the doors of
the edifice and show its wonders. In a few
minutes ho returned in company with an elderly
lady, to whom he introduced me, saying she was
the custodian and guide of the place. I gazed at'
her face for some moments without a word. If
my own mother, dead and gone 15 years, had
come back to speak to her only son, I should
scarcely have been more astonished. For this
woman was almost my mother’s double ; the same
size, the same face, and the same way of parting
the hair and combing it in smooth bands from the
forehead. I told her so, and we were friends
before either fairly knew the other’s name. What
a queer world it is.
Who then conducted us through the ancient
fane, and spoke of the long vanished past, of the
monks and nuns who once sang and prayed with-
in its walls, of the .quaint carvings on the hard
oak seats in the chancel, of that precious relic, the
Cranmer Bible, which reposes in a glass box
against a pillar, and of many matters besides,
drawn from the apparently exhaustless well of her
detailed and accurate information.
Finally the talk veered round to the wholesome-
ness of the vicinity, the bracing nature of its sea
breezes, and so on. Then our guide, Mrs. Sarah
Herd, said “ I have lived here in Minster 50
years, and seen many ups and downs. One of my
sons is now in America, where ho is doing well.
He wants me to leave England and make my home
with him, but I doubt if 1 ever shall. lam some-
what like that old yew-tree out in the yard, deeply
rooted to this soil, and might be the worse for
pulling up. Then lam getting on in life, and ills
grow apace with age. In the spring of 1878 I had
a serious attack. At first I scarcely knew what
to make of it. There was no disease that I recog-
nised in particular. I felt tired in body and
weary m mind. There was much pain at my
chest and back, and a kind of tightness at the
sides, as though physical force were applied there
to restrain me from moving. My appetite, which
was usually good, fell away ; and whatever I ate
or drank gave me pain, and I lived almost entirely
on bread and water. 1 was always in pain and
couldn’t sleep so as to feel refreshed by it. After
a time I grew so weak as to be unable to go about
my work. A bitter and sickening fluid arose into
my mouth, and I perspired to such an extent that
the sweat sometimes rolled off my face to the
floor. ”
I (the writer) break in upon Mrs. Herd’s story
at this point merely to say that this tendency to
sweat without the provocation of labour or of
exercise is always a sign of a debilitated condition
of the system.
It means that the blood is impure and im-
poverished, the kidneys working badly, and that
the body lacks nourishment and is living feebly on
what was previously stored in it. In other words,
the stomach has refused its duty and the other
organs are in sympathy with it. Now we will let
the lady proceed, begging pardon for the inter-
ruption.
She went on to say:—“For a time I tried to
cure myself with various domestic remedies which
sometimes answer. But they failed, and I con-
sulted a physician. With all respect to the doctors,
they occasionally fail too. This one did. You
know there comes a time in all long illnesses when
we get in some way used to pain and misery, and
make no further efforts to get rid of it. In fact,
wo don’t know how, and so don’t try. For about
three years I remained wretched and ailing, and
dull unhappy years they were. My sufferings
were beyond all 1 had over known before, yet
there seemed nothing to do but to bear them as
patiently as I could. At this date, 1.881, certain
friends of mine spoke to me of the great benefit
they had received from the use of Mother Seigel s
Syrup, for indigestion and dyspepsia. This threw
light on my mind, although f cannot say it made
me at once a believer in Seigel’s Syrup. At
length, however, in July 1881, 1 began to take it.
In all I used six bottles, and found my health
fully restored. Ten years have elapsed, and I
have had no attack since. But if Ido in future I
shall know where to put my hand on the remedy.
Our visit being virtually over, we called for a
few moments at Mrs. Herd’s honm, 2. Ifieh street,
Minster, Kent, and then wended our way back
Kanmgnte.
C.M.R.
New York. October. 1891.


SIIPIUE TABLETS.
CAUTION.
IT IS HEREBY NOTIFIED that legal proceedings will be immediately in-
stituted against any Chemist or person discovered infringing Frazer’s Tablets’
Labels or Registered Trade-marks, or Selling Fraudulent Imitations of ‘Frazer’s
Sulphur Tablets” or Sulphur Soap.
|5 REWARD! |5
%
Will be paid to any person giving such information as will lead to the con-
viction of any Chemist or person selling an imitation put a fraudulent
wrapper —in particular, one bearing the * representation of sat “ Yellow Tablet
on a Black Ground.” »
- '{i .. *
■ " ,BI ,Mld 11 1
1 ""
T. K.
Attorney hr FRAZEH’S TABlXTSi( Limited),
y 6 Margaret Street, Sydney,
-AND—»
231 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNtl'E, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each AS SHOWN, 18/- each.
ĝ
IW~ POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stalhps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.'W.
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and
the best suburb of Sydney.
beautifully furnished Situated in
Terms very moderate.
T. BUOWN, Proprietor.
m
SiM&SST
rt&SBST
©Wins
maefiine
WsrLb
Before purchasing any other
SEND FOII CIRCULAR OF ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
'\Koii
°f
A
■ —. ,
I:
IMohnston&Co..
746 GEORGE ST. (Hajuiarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
GRAHAM’S
PREMIER BRAND * BOOTS & SHOES,
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
I’airs MAILED 1 to any |lart SYDNEY^HOLd^^TLE^PlTlC^^Oi^njige PiS?
Try Them.
DEPOTS—32O George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street.
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ğ
arrange indeed l+ial-H—
.A;
'Vll
/, ll
like SAPOLIO should
ma.ke everything so bright-, but
A needle clothes others,arid is itselj:
naked’.Try itin yournexthouse-deaning
T\ hat folly it would be to cut grass with a pair of scissors! Yet peo-
ple do equally silly things every day. Modern progress has grown up
from the hooked sickle to the swinging scythe and thence to the lawn
mower, bo don t use scissors!
But do you use SAPOLIO ? If you don't you are as much behind the
age as if you cut grass with a dinner knife. Once there were no soaps
fhen one soap served all purposes. Now the sensible folks use one soap
in thei toilet, another in the tub, one soap in the stables, and SAPOLIO
tor all scouring and house-cleaning.
BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
A. and J. STEWART CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TTTTVEa
Russian
Brand.
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia
Makaokr for Australia—TC*. jt tvtf, „„„ „
JM-ao william. 2i>7 oeoror strupt
“s? j nr* -jp
THE
‘ Plum’
ġ
the
* Plum *
I growid*hllantiflfl S, r ' 0r f tc ? an y, t,li . n » that has ever been offered to the public,
guarantee each razor for two voir " tT '° r stoe ’ rin K* like a bell; set ready for use, and we
solves they belter ®? n^®,nen who shave then*
Price { Single Razor In R^SSf'“7™°’ 1°*' S* : 1>air ' in beautiful morocco leather case 21s
nJ T, VV7 y ’ 1,W - ; 1 a,r RflZOr, > v,)r .V handles, in beautiful case, &
°* >rr t0 anv °f thr Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Solo
Agents
CRAIG & AITKIN,
G80
George Street, SYDNEY.
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT A KODAK.
nvr a d e
IN—
FIVE SIZES.
M I
PULL the
STRING!
PRESS the
BUTTON!
We Do the Rest!
SIEITO FOE ITEW XLLU-STEATED CATALOGTO
-A-XSro MOFTTHEY OIECTOAE.
BAKER and ROUSE,
375 —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY 375
DireCtly Opposite SYDNEY
And at 256 Collins-st., Melbourne; 69 Rundle-st., Adelaide; 46 Queen-st, Brisbane.
SAYWELL & CO.
OEPOT’
FOR
MARVEL
£fOftc E S r SVO^i
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.'
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
Steam
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Engines, Boilers, Gag Engineß,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
" Write Srir;sr- <*
INSTRTTMEKrT MAKERS.
SURVEYING ‘ mathematical, electrical,
photograpmus”^"’‘wT h a te "Y E "" anteedperfec ‘- Divided B,lbbl “.«<=■
fff. ““ F 1 Ad “P to --". B«k and Pinion, etc.
Surveyors and Architects' Requisites in Stock. TlWrotorl n,,+„l , a tvdtit-
w a srpvxxTnoß 0 _ _ J-Gustrated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves cannot do better than .end u« their Razor, to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Si;Z’h Tlr over ail ° tb “ ■*■*" Ti—
X r^toX^zt; 0 : >ha,,nE - - we are - -
LADIES.—Send us your scissors to grind and repair ;we can fix them up equal to new.
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments jor Families.
'1 >use Hotels contain overjoo A part-
ments and ate highly recommended hy
Australians. The Theatres, Kxhi
T“**> Paths, Colonial
Institute, &■*£., are easy of access.
o_ ll+ . Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Quecn*s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Heplete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY. Managing Director.
‘TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”


The Bulletin
701. 13—No. 683.
SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1893.
Price, 3d.
N S-Vv
UPPE^
' A/ 'C
YMIDiTy
\4
1 A** fiCf-
ģ
■°> 9
CntcWi
Mi j
L** ivs
3\vi
(Nol)
jh
03“*
.'A,
THU N.S.W. UPPER HOUSE “GLADIATOR”: SOME DISTANCE AFTER GEROME.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for tho Australians.”
Pkoptuetous ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt stbeet, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tup, Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with ichom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches (those dealing with itw-
Italian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Neicspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that tee are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also; - B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £1, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers mil be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this ride.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, MARCH 18, 1893.
The Proposed Insurrection.
The Orangemen of Ulster—a handful of
people of foreign origin who have long claimed
to dominate the entire Irish nation—are
understood, by their own statements, to be
getting ready at this present moment for a
great and horrible civil war. Also, the
Orangemen of Australia are understood, by
their own statements, to be quite seriously
considering the advisability of sending mone-
tary assistance and men to prop up the
gory cause of treason and insurrection. The
reason of this movement is the proposal to
grant to Ireland something less than one-
half the self-governing powers at present
enjoyed by the provinces of Australasia.
In this matter the Orangeman is unique.
There has never been anything like him in
all history—the spectacle of a party propos-
ing “to die in the last ditch ’’ rather than
get even a small measure of national liberty
has nowhere been seen before. So far,
neither the Orangemen of Ireland nor those
of Australia profess to disguise their senti-
ments in any way. The course of action
which is being solemnly considered and
discussed is plain and unadorned treason with
infinite possibilities of bloodshed and whole-
sale murder behind it ; it is the same crime
for which innumerable other individuals
have gone to the gallows in comparatively
recent years, and to places infinitely worse
than the gallows at earlier stages of
British history. And all this is pro-
posed, not by the “disloyal” section of
the community, but by an organisation which
exists for the express purpose of upholding
loyalism, which vociferates for Queen Vic-
toria and that shadowy thing described as
the Constitution, which exists especially to
buttress the blessed Throne, and to uphold
“civil and religious liberty.” Therefore,
when the most conspicuously “loyal ” section
of the population of the empire is openly
proposing insurrection and murder, what is
to be expected of the great balance which is
not so desperately loyal ? And when the
loyalists arc banging the drum of civil war,
what docs the prospect of Imperial Federa-
tion amount to, and of what value are the
“ silken bonds " and all the other drivel
about peace and eternal union ?
The Bulletin has no affection nor has it
any respect for that assortment of sour and
gloomy fanatics who imported to Australia
the sectarian hatreds of Britain, and who
have consistently supported British authority
here, not because they regarded it as good
for Australia, but because they reverenced
it as the emblem of hob-nailed oppression in
far-off Ireland. But, on the other hand,
this paper has a deep-rooted objection to
capital punishment, and for that reason it
desires to give solemn warning to the Aus-
tralian end of a faction which is too drunk
with its own self-importance to realise
its position. If the Orangemen of Ulster
rise in rebellion, as they openly declare
they will, then they will almost inevi-
tablj7 be executed like the Irish insur-
gent leaders of ’9B, or the Sepoy mutineers,
or the men who were “ out in ’45,” or
any similar adventurers. And if the Orange-
men of Australia assist them, financially or
otherwise, in their doings, the time may not
be so very far off when the local Orange
Grand Boss, M.P., will be hanged on the
same gallows with the local Chief Chaplain
and various other equally well-meaning but
misguided individuals of the same political
persuasion. Insurrection is the same in
Ulster as in Bengal or in Tipperary, and it
generally ends the same way. The Orange
faction, however, has called itself “loyal”
for so many years that apparently it is unable
to realise that its proposed upheaval will be
just as distinctly treasonable, and just as
short a cut to the gaol and the hangman, as
that of any other gang of malcontents. This
inflated little fragment of humanity has been
the fly on the chariot-wheel of so many
successive British Governments that it now
firmly believes itself to be the entire machine,
and is obviously incapable of realising that
its proposed uprising is a great deal more
hopeless than even that abortive eruption of
pikernen which came to grief long ago at
Vinegar Hill. And by reason of this in-
ability to comprehend its own futility, the
possibility of some otherwise respectable
Australian citizens being ultimately hanged
is all the greater.
* * *
Meanwhile, it is about time to abandon
the idea of Imperial Federation for good and
all. The principle of that Federation is that
each nation or community in the empire shall
have its own form of local government, and
shall also send representatives to the Parlia-
ment in London, the latter being the
Federal Legislature of the empire. The
very first experiment at Federalism is that
now proposed in Ireland, and as the
immediate result the most horribly and dis-
tressingly loyal sect in the whole empire
openly threatens anarchy, strife, sudden
death, secession, and all manner of calamities.
If even prospective Federation produces
these effects on the “ loyal ” section of the
community, what will bo its ultimate effects
on the section which is not loyal 1 If the
incurable Protestant of Derry is going to
fill the land with graveyards rather than that
the Catholic of Galway should be federated,
then what of all the other five or six
hundred creeds of the empire with all their
five or six huiujred hatreds, frenzies, and
murderous fanaticisms ? And if the seeds of
disunion are so widely sown that this first
feeble attempt at logical combination arouses
a blast of execration in every part of the
world where the Orange flag is known, then
is not the great, crumbling, imperial wreck
obviously too shaky for many more hazardous
experiments of the same kind ? The central
idea of the proposed Anglo-Saxon league is
political equality, and the very first attempt
at promoting equality promises to bring
into the battle-field a small but insuffer-
ably arrogant boss - sect which insists
on being uppermost, or else committing
murder. The beauteous dream of the
League’s apostles is a confederation of
nations gathered reverently around their
“beloved Queen,” and immediately the most
rampant admirers of that monarch announce
their resolve to go shooting at that beloved
Queen per medium of her representatives.
There is to be the greatest Parliament on
earth, in which the wisdom of a wise majo-
rity is to keep peace and order for all time,
and already about the smallest minority in
the empire announces that it must be
supreme or else carnage will eventuate.
• • •
The Orange faction in Ulster is mostly
English by descent, and, therefore, it would
appear that even England is disunited. In
other words, the Englishmen in Ireland hate
Ireland more than they love their own
country, and when they have to choose
between their hatred and their affection,
they seemingly prefer the former. The
bond between these two branches of the
English people was their common loathing
of Irish Nationalism ; it was a - brotherhood
of loot—a community of brutal passions, and
when this link separates the connection goes
to pieces. Their union consisted simply in
the fact that they both jumped on the same
victim. The fury of the English in Ireland
arises from the obvious fact that they will
not command a majority in the Parliament
at Dublin, where the Celtic clement must
needs predominate, and England only
believes in government by the majority
when she is herself the majority. There-
fore, what is the prospect for a Federal
Legislature where jtlio entire body of Eng-
lish representat.ves will not bo able to com-
mand a majority ? The idea of the English
Fedorationists lias always been that of a
Parliament containing representatives from
every section of the empire, with the Eng-
lish vote permanently on top so that Eng-
land will directly govern the entire empire.
It is one of the Englishman’s characteristics
that he cannot possibly realise any other
state of things. The fact that England
would be a mere province—that some acci-
dental coalition of “colonial” representa-
tives with those of the other sections of the
United Kingdom might, any day, overset
the balance of power, and make the English
party as helpless as was the Irish party in
days gone by, and that, as the centre of
population shifted, England might eventually
become a mere outlying dependency governed
from Ottawa or Melbourne or Calcutta, has
never yet been even mentioned. The pro-
posals of the men of Ulster are a fore-
shadowing of what might readily happen
under such circumstances. When the Eng-
lish minority in Ireland announces its fixed
resolution to practise wholesale slaughter
rather than be outvoted by a Parliamentary
majority, then it is quite possible that an
English minority in England would go on
the shoot in the same way under the same
conditions. The Imperial Federation idea
originated in England, and it is being pressed
on by Englishmen for the sole purpose of ex-
tending England's power and glory, and yet,
should Federation ever be accomplished, it is
by no means improbable that it might prove
a tolerably short road to the utter disinte-
gration of the empire. The men who openly
propose to go gunning for an Irish parlia-
mentary majority would probably be as
ready to go gunning for any other parliamen-
tary majority when the blessed supremacy of
England was endangered. Meanwhile, The
Bulletin trusts that it will hear no more of
the weary cant of “ loyalty ” from any mem-
ber of the Orange brigade. This paper is
frankly and openly Republican, and advo-
cates separation from the empire, and the
overthrow of the Imperial authority in
Australia, but still it is content to accomplish
its ends by the votes of the citizens, and
between it and the electoral minority which
proposes to foment civil Avar in the United
Kingdom there is a great gulf fixed, and the
disloyalty of the “ loyal ” secret society is
abhorrent to its soul.
An Open Letter to the N.S.W. Labour
Leagues.
Deau Bulletin, —My first Parliamentary utter-
ances was on the qualifications for Labour repre-
sentation. I then said that it was not indis-
pensable that a representative of Labour, meaning
Democracy, should have been either a head or
hand worker, but an absolute necessity that, what-
ever his position, he should have given strong
proof of his sympathy with the cause, and shown
not only that he knew the people's wants and
could interpret their aspirations, but that he had
an intelligent idea of how these might be satisfied.
In short, that a well-developed head and a warm
heart should be enlisted in the cause. My legis-
lative experience furnishes me with no reasons for
withdrawing or qualifying these statements. On
the contrary, I would intensify them with
thoughts that are simply outgrowths of the cen-
tral idea.
The Labour representative has a more diffi-
cult task, a more conspicuous place to fill than
any other non-Ministerial member, no matter
how elected. His position has more complex-
ities than that of men elected on a distinct
party issue, and many moments arise when his
course is so obscured by artfully obtruded motions
and amendments that it is impossible to move in
any direction without becoming compromised by
the tricks of one side or the other. Therefore,
the dangers being greater, it follows that the
judgment and determination of Labour members
should be correspondingly in advance of members
of the old pat ties. Their actions and speeches,
moreover, are more keenly criticised outside the
House-than even those of Ministers. Firstly, by
those most interested their constituents;
secondly, by those who believe that if Labour is
to be kept down its foremost men, in and out of
Parliament, must be “downed thirdly, by the
Press, which, for class purposes, by sneer, sup-
pression innuendo, mis-statement and distortion,
loses no chance of prejudicing the public mind
against the section they also would fain drive out
of politics. Confronted by such powerful antagon-
isms it is little wonder that many Labour mem-
bers, losing heart, have held aloof, not only
from their constituents but also from many
public meetings where their presence was de-
manded as a duty, and have also lately failed —
deterred, doubtless, by fear of newspaper criticism
—to speak out in the fearless manner that char-
acterise 1 their earlier utterances. Through this
weakness, faults that might have been condoned
have been remembered by constituencies, and
temporary errors of judgment with members have
become confirmed habits. It seems, therefore,
undeniable that from the Labour member is
demanded even more than sympathy and intel-
ligent knowledge of the Labour problem. He
requires an enthusiasm akin to fanaticism, an
energy ready for all demands, a nncerity equiva-
lent to self-sacrifice, a courage bordering on
heroism, and an unassailable honesty. In short,
tire wisdom of Solomon, the determination of
Moses and the patience of Job, covered in, if
possible, by the hide of a hippopotamus. But the
latter is not a necessary qualification before selec-
tion. It will follow election, for every Labour-
member has to go through the tanning process. The
difficulty, of course, is to get hold of such men ;
once found tiny should never be forsaken. To
them, disunion would be impossible ; with them,
self being a secondary consideration, no dread
of personal results could intervene to save minis-
tries from the consequences of popular displeasure
while selfish motives would not assist the further-
ance of the Opposition’s ambition for office. With
them, the Ministerial blandishments of billets for
constituents and local works for constituencies
would weigh lightly in the balance against the
weighty reasons for solidarity. Here I am con-
fronted with the question: Whore can such men
bo obtained ? “■
At last election time, organisation was incom-
plete, selection hurried. This time there can be
no such excuse. Unless the leagues would lose all
their influence, they must perfect their organisa-
tion and at once begin to make search for suitable
candidates. If such men cannot be found in the
unions and in the ranks of lalreur, they must be
sought elsewhere—at the editor’s desk, in the
lecture-hall, on the judgment-seat, in the pulpit,
and the palace. If they have to be dragged down
out of the very heavens, nevertheless they must be
obtained. The selection of superior men is neces-
sary if you would capture votes outside the unions
and leagues and be’ strongly represented in Par-
liament. Moreover, the very attempt to obtain
superior men will create them by raising the
parliamentary ideal. The dissatisfaction of con-
stituencies with the ordinary member will make
him dissatisfied with himself. Self-dissatisfaction
is the fore-runner of self-improvement.
In thus writing I have endeavoured to eliminate
all thoughts of self. I advocate early selection in
justice to the cause, in justice to those who now
represent or misrepresent it. Whem new men
are likely to be selected it is only fair to
sitting members that they should-have such notice
as will enable them to seek the suffrages of new
constituents, or make preparations to use their
energies, when finally freed from legislative duties
in other paths of livelihood. In the interests of
newly-selected candidates, it would also be well
that a sufficient interval should elapsfe between
the day of selection by the league and the election,
to permit of them becoming known to the elector-
ate the league desired them to represent. Speak-
ing for myself, if I am to be rejected, I would
prefer that rejection should come from the league
that originally selected and ever since has loyally
supported me. This, to enumerate personal
motives first, for two reasons already stated, and
further, because such a rejection would, at al’l
events, save me the expense and trouble of an
unsuccessful election fight.
The reasons which animate a league to reject
an old member will weigh even more heavily with
the bulk of the electors. The rejected of the
league would rarely be the selected of the con-
stituency. Therefore- and here the impersonal
motive comes in—it would be well that all likely-
to-be-defeated candidates should allow themselves
to be retired by their leagues. As I have en-
deavoured to show, such a course will not harm
them, and it will benefit the cause by increasing
the area of primary selection and permitting
the leagues to run the men who have the best
chance of being selected at the ballot-box.
The result of the South Sydney election makes
it evident that, like the party inside the House, the
workers are split into two, if not more, sections.
The reasons are probably similar in’both cases, but
it is just probable that had the party inside
been proof against attempts at division, their
solidarity and the success necessarily consequent
would have united the toilers outside into such a
solid voting phalanx that another election would
have given labour an absolute Parliamentary
majority. At present it is probable that an elec-
tion would weaken the party in point of quantity,
but should it be strengthened in quality, the good
therein contained will more than counterbalance
the evils of numerical decrease. Therefore, while
time affords opportunity, every league should
begin to search for the sincere, clear-headed,
honest, courageous, unselfish, intelligent, deter-
mined and mentally vigorous enthusiast. The
latter qualification should be insisted on.
The man who quickly becomes mentally leg-
weary, whose brain gets so footsore under
the strain of long sittings that it refuses to pro-
ceed, is not only useless as a fighter but a source of
positive danger, because artful politicians usually
make up his mind for him. If stronger men can
be obtained it matters little to Labour if all its
present members bo swept away. The instru-
ments may perish, but the cause is immortal and
will eventually triumph. But it must be first
better understood by its leaders, for not till then
can it be fully apprehended by the community.
The present representatives may have sailed in
on a tide of enthusiasm only to
be stranded by its ebb, but our primary triumph
has shown the power possessed by the waves of
public opinion, for what has been done can be
done again and improved on. Our failures,
our errors have marked the channel wherein
future captains of labour may slowly and pain-
fully warp the vessel of “Reform over the
shoals and hindrances of cumbrous Parliamentary
procedure, and through the reefs of sectarianism,
ambition, jealousy, ignorance, cowardice, and
insincerity whereon we were wrecked, until the
fair haven of equal opportunities and rights at
length be reached.—Yours, &c.,
GEORGE BLACK.
P.S.—I have long been of the opinion that the
born democrat is, as a rule, by no means equal to
the man who has become one in spite of his sur-
roundings. When you improve the environment
of the former yon remove, too often, his reasons
for democracy, but the latter, having logical
reasons for the faith that is in him, is neither to
be cajoled nor intimidated by either good or evil
fortune. I need scarcely instance Sir George Grey
as a case in point. By the way, the leagues have
a further duty. Should the Labour-party continue
to neglect to elect a leader, it will be their duty at
the next general election to obtain a pledge from
all Labour candidates that, failing to make selec-
tion of a leader for themselves, they will be pre-
pared to follow the man selected by the leagues,
—G.B.
The N.S.W. Labour-party.
A PROTEST AND AN APPEAL.
[BY ONE OF THEM.]
Now when Job’s three friends heard all the evil that
had befallen him, they came every one from his own
place—Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite,
and Zophar the Naamathite. For they had made appoint-
ment to come together and visit him and comfort him,
and when they had lift up their eyes afar off, they knew
him not, and crying out they wept, and rending their
garments they sprinkled dust upon their heads towards
Heaven. And they sat with him on the ground seven
days and seven nights, and no man spoke to him a word
for (hey saw that his grief was very great.— Ancient
Sacred.
Save us from our friends!— Modern Profane.
In the year 1891, a burning resentment against
all things political, social and industrial im-
pelled tfie working masses of N.S.W., at their
only convincing ground—the ballot-box-to send
about 30 new representatives into the local Parlia-
ment. I was one. We were mostly taken from
the ranks of Labour itself, and we described our-
selves as the Labour-party—a pretty comprehen-
sive and hardly a “class” name, when looked at
closely. We were full of the experience neces-
sary to indicate what was wanted by our numerous
constituents, but devoid of the political training
or knowledge so necessary to enable us to give
it effect. Of ardour we had a large stock ;of
legislative experience none. A railway bridge
would hardly support the weight of our earnest-
ness ; but a muffin-basket would easily have
carried our knowledge of public affairs. Our
capacity to survive “with the fittest” (ortho
fattest) in the arena of political circumlocution
was limited ; but we were full of good intentions.
We were a band of unhappy amateurs in the
most intricate of all human arts —that of govern-
ing men. And wo knew little of the intricacies of
the political machine by which men are supposed
to be governed. I think we were made up some-
what as follows : Several miners to start with,
three or four printers, a boilermaker, three sailors,
a plasterer, a bricklayer, a journalist, a draper, a


suburban mayor, two engineers, a carrier, a few
shearers, a tailor, and (with bated breath) a mine-
owner, a squatter, and an M.D.
Ere we had fully recovered from our astonish-
ment we found ourselves inside the Legislative
Chamber with the doors shut and bolted behind
us and two strong, skilful and merciless parties
dowering down upon us—and at the same time
watching each other out of the corners of their
eyes. Meanwhile, outside the House, the flood-
gates of Heaven were opened, and it rained advice
for forty days and forty nights ; it has been drizz-
ling ever since. A microscope was affixed to every
eye, and focused upon us. Then a sort of uni-
versal limelight was turned upon us, and there we
stood in the full glare, with nothing to cover our
nakedness. People who had never cared a curse
for politics developed a rabid interest in that
abstruse subject, and every citizen considered him-
self singulai'ly competent, and, indeed, bound in
duty, to write recommending our proper course of
action —either to us or the public press. Then
was preached from every housetop the duty of the
Labour-party, according to the gospels of Dick,
Tom and Harry.
A few there were in the earlier stages of our
advent who anticipated the direst consequences
therefrom. Despair gave them ink, and they pre-
dicted a debacle in New South Wales. The grass
would stop growing, sheep would wither and die,
rain would cease to fall in a country whose popu-
lation had perpetrated this thing. But the sun
shone, the grass and the flowers grew, the birds
sang, the wool matured just in the same old way,
and the banks burst, the booms failed, the finan-
ciers absconded or were imprisoned, and the de-
pression continued just as if we had never been
born or elected.
Our programme included everything under the
sun, or upon the earth, or in the waters beneath,
or in the air. All the whole broad river of reform
was enclosed, and, moreover, every billabong,
creek, anabranch and tributary was explored to
its source and mapped, while every little fish
therein was at least mentioned by its scientific
name. True, one great and mighty reform stood
at the head of our list—One-man-one-vote. Behind
the ramparts of plural voting privilege sits
securely, and to obtain true equality of citizenship
we must batter down the ramparts of our enemies.
Yes, that was something worth fighting for and
sticking to.
Parkes, cunning old dog, baited us with this
great reform as his first measure of legislation,
and we bit eagerly and were hooked. And then,
chaos ! Our supporters outside split into a thou-
sand fragments. It would have been just the
same if we had decided to support Dibbs. The
fiscal question had been sunk to put us in, but
only for 24 hours on election day. It was exhumed
the following morning. It was not our fault.
Labour showed for 24 hours what it can do when
it does what it ought to do. But it awoke again
to the everyday battle of minor fads and hatred of
race and religion—those agencies which, duly
fanned by politicians, keep the multitude in sub-
jection. It was not our fault, this split. Our
people outside split, and then blamed us. We
were more to be pitied than blamed. Quickly our
political inexperience found us out. During the
six months Parkes played with us we were placed
in a position of such strategic insecurity as men
never occupied before. On either hand an enemy
faced us—old veterans opposed to raw recruits. For
every stepa pitfall was prepared. The most innocent-
looking motions proved to be charged with poli-
tical dynamite, which exploding, racked, maimed,
mutilated, and discouraged us. And, cruellest of
all, from our own supporters outside came the
shots in our rear which showed we were deserted
at the critical moment. This desertion was
brought about, no doubt, by an interested daily
press owned by plutocrats and office-seekers. And
our own men believed everything this press said
about us, as they always do and will do until a
democratic daily paper throws down the gauntlet
to Australia.
But to proceed. At first this happened : Inside
the House all the speeches were made at us.
Invectives from the side we opposed, encomiums
from the side we supported—covert appeals from
both. Outside, the press followed suit. The
Freetrade organs praised us while we remained
Parkesian, the Protectionist papers blasphemed
at us and hinted that we were a set of political
scoundrels who would, if justice were done, be
hanged to the nearest lamp-posts. Our own little
labour organ yelped at our heels, giving us an
occasional bite from behind while we were watch-
ing the enemy in front. Parkes, having success-
fully angled for our support, ought to have been
happy. But presently it was seen that our sup-
port was not the kind he was used to. We were
too independent. We would not be “ dumb
dogs,” or voting-machines, to sit silent and
vote “ early and often.” That had always
been the rule with the supporters of Henry
iarkes. Again, it is now known that the public
treasury was empty, and how could a patriotic
Government carry on with an empty treasury, and
a Labour-party which would insist on speaking its
minds, and which voted independently? Of course,
it was preposterous, and so a rumour went abroad
that a clever piece of political horsemanship known
as riding for a fall ” was about to be performed
by I arkes. It only wanted an excuse. That
came with the Coal Mines Regulation Bill, on
the Light Hour clause. Parkes made a declara-
tion of his duty on “’igh publick growns,” and
with one hideous shriek about “class legislation ”
threw up the sponge, and with the sponge the
Llectoral Bill, the Coal Mines Regulation Bill, and
all the work of the session up till then, Dibbs
came in, passed the Electoral Bill, and while it
was hanging up brought in a donkey tariff mas-
querading in the lion’s skin of Protection, which
nacl to be swallowed by those who wanted to savo
tlie Llectoral Bill, by others who wanted to re-
plenish the Treasury, and by a large number who
would have voted for anything down to John
Gaviea, rather than have Parkes back.
And then, outside, the daily morning press let
cose the long-pent up fire of abuse upon us, and
scorched us and blasted us, and singed our beards,
fa , om jks caves and hiding places crawled
tortli the thing called the National Ass, the incar-
nation of “class legislation” in its very worst
orm. This thing demanded that we should be
dragged our dissolution. And the many-
minded caught up the bray of the National Ass,
and even the Labour-candidate, Flowers, shrieked
A i° udly or want of ideas of his own.
And so the cry went on, till it was dis-
covered whence it emanated ; and then a cloud-
compellmg shriek against a dissolution shook
the heavens. And then the Labour Electoral
league, waited upon the “Freetrade” Labour-
nien and implored them to do what they had
denounced the “Protectionist” Labour-men for
doing— SU pp° r t the Dibbs Government to carry
the Electoral Bill and other necessary measures.
I hat is our history up to now. A history of
failure mostly, and but limited result generally.
Gut I might yield to temptation to ask a few
questions of the world outside the Labour-party
and make a few general suggestions, if only in
retaliation for the numerous advisory onslaughts
made upon us. Well, to begin with, though we
stand to-day divided, leaderless, unsupported, yet
even to-day we are the arbiters of the political
destinies of the House. And we are justified in
maintaining that power as long as we can, and
making as much use of it as we can, for we may
never get it again for 25 years, or thereabouts.
And let our misguided friends outside remember
that those who have done most to discredit us
are entirely interested faultfinders —either of the
type of enemy we must always expect, the rich,
and their tool, the daily prdss; or the man from our
own ranks who thinks he ought to be in our
places, and who has a scheme for the reconstruc-
tion of everything and the winding up of the sun,
moon, and stars.
But has two years of occupancy meant nothing?
Has it been thrown away ? If there has been
little positive result, there has at least been a
negative good. Political jobbery slunk away when
we entered. The private bill pedlar did not
obtrude himself in any conspicuous way. Reform
got a fair hearing at last, and for a year at least
most of the party rancour kept low. And this, to
my mind, has been conclusively proved for all
future parties: No reform is possible while a
second Chamber exists, unless that Chamber is
swamped with men under thirty years of age, who
would force an unwilling Councd to pass reform, or
vote for the extinction of the Council itself —the
latter for choice. Before us we have the prospect
of doing something now in the last fifteen months,
which may retrieve our prestige. And are we to
dissolve and perform the “ happy despatch ” now
at the bidding of the National Ass, backed
up by Reid and the blatant Flowers? No;
while we are there at least the masses
are represented, however inadequately, and
though we cannot make figs grow on thistles, we
will pave the way for those who come after us,
and our dearly-bought experience will be of use
to our successors. We have discovered that the
political trade cannot be learned in a few days,
any more than shearing, boilermaking, printing,
or newspaper-editing. It requires a long appren-
ticeship, and the only sad reflection is that, just
as we have got an inkling of the business, a fresh
lot of apprentices will probably take our places,
and start to learn the whole thing over again, and
make the same blunders in the process.
This also we have learned —that the Labour
representative, if he is to do useful work, must be
free from outside influence and control. He must
secrete his plans, and disclose them to nobody.
No league, limited in number and unstable in
counsel, should have power to instruct him, for he
should not be elected unless he is wiser than they,
and more capable (with his nearer view of the seat
of war in addition) of forming a correct judgment.
This freedom, of course, should only extend to the
jnethod of his action, and not to his political
principles. The fiscal question has only to be
settled once in a blue moon or so, and it ought to
be decided next election or referred to a plebiscite.
Then, again, we are not everyone in the com-
munity. There are others besides ourselves who
are democratic and progressive even though they
may have bank accounts, or overdrafts. We can-
not succeed alone, and must be prepared to work
with the party nearest to us, and against the party
furthest from us. And the latter party will always
be the one Parkes has anything to do with,
whatever the former may be. Tom Mann explains
the situation in a sentence: “It is not possible for
a section of the community, however sound their
economic views, to secure immediate results if they
refuse to work with others, and also refuse to take
what is possible to be got at present because they
cannot get all they want.”
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Baker and the Saddler.
The other day, in a Sydney suburb, a busi-
ness man of no particular note or brilliance was
invited to stand for the billet of alderman. He
had no experience of public or semi-public life,
and consequently he consented. Then he went
out on the customary personal canvass. He
began his rounds at the shop of a saddler, and
the saddler, after hesitating a while, gave a
sort of qualified promise of his support. After
that the conversation drifted on to general
topics. “ This depression’s just awful,” said
the man of hide ; “ here I am with three big
orders on hand and can’t get on with them for
want of a side of leather. No money, and
nobody’ll give any credit. Yet I must have
that side of leather,” &c. It ended in the can-
didate becoming security for the aforesaid side
of leather, and going away thoughtfully. The
next man ho canvassed was more than willing
to vote for him, but hadn’t a decent pair of
pants to go to the poll in. He got at the pros-
pective alderman for a pair of pants. After
that the candidate ran against a baker. The
baker delicately switched the conversation on
to the fact that he was also stone-broke, and
his flour-merchant had stopped his credit, and
before his vote was secured the candidate had
undertaken to go security for the price
of two bags of flour. The next six trades-
men all insisted on selling something to
him, and after that he met a man
who wouldn’t vote unless the incipient
alderman filled in a life-insurance proposal, and
a person who wanted a corporation pick-and-
shovel job, and so on. When he got to the
end of that one street he gave up the business
for good and all. This story is a fair
indication of the way to get into public life in
Australia. The first step is to be an alderman.
To be an alderman, it is necessary to run the
gauntlet of the saddler who wants a side of
leather, and the baker, and the man whose
pants have begun to go, and all the rest—not
one, but many streets of them. Also, it is
necessary to be solid with at least one church,
which means a big subscription; with the
teetotallers, or the publicans, or the social
purity crowd ; and with one or more secret
societies. In fact, it is often advisable to begin
with the secret society, and work up gradually,
in the course of years, from the position of
an ordinary member to that of Past Grand
Thingumbob, or something equally influential,
and then start out after the aldermanship.
When the latter elevation has been attained,
it is essential to keep on at the pants and the
side of leather and the flour business, and the
religious racket, and the other fads, and to
continue grovelling to the secret society, with a
view to next year’s election. When the billet
has been held continuously for several years,
a supreme grovel to the baker and the
saddler and the rest of the crowd gene-
rally lands the rising public man in the
mayoral chair. After that he stands for
Parliament. This is simply an aggravated
edition of the old grovel ; it is the baker and
the saddler business and the abasement to the
man with the worn pants, conducted on a larger
scale and over a wider area. If his purse or
his gall or his mendacity, or all three com-
bined, hold out long enough he gets into the
Assembly. Also, if he is reasonably successful
in advocating “ local interests,” and is liberal
in his dealings with the baker and the saddler
- —for the constituent who got a side of leather
out of him in the first begh n ngs of his career
sits upon him as a continuous incubus for ever
afterwards—and adheres to the church and the
lodge, and lends money to impecunious consti-
tuents, and stands drinks for them, and gets
billets for them, and otherwise makes himself
useful, he may keep his position long enough to
rise into office. But at every step he has to
keep his eye on the baker and the saddler and
the constituent whose pants are giving out.
Through them, and them alone, lies the road to
greatness in Australia. And the reason why the
public men of Australia are so utterly and hope-
lessly degraded may be found primarily in the
baker and the saddler.
-♦
Legal Safety in Numbers.
Eloquent Alfred Deakin, counsel for manager
Staples, of the Anglo-Australian Bank, boldly
advanced the theory that no land-boom transac-
tions should be called dishonest, inasmuch as
land-boomers were so many and so influential.
“ If rash, even wild, speculation be considered
a crime, who of us shall go free ? ” pleaded
Deakin. With about equal force he might
have argued that in a community of lepers no
individual man is scaly. But the most un-
pleasant feature of Deakin’s rash, even wild,
apology for land-boom indiscretion is the word
“ us,” which personal pronoun expresses such
unbounded belief in the importance of a mere
handful of men, and such hearty contempt for
the odd million of Victorians who were
never interested in syndicates. The humble
depositor and the vulgar, commonplace person
possessed of no cash that he could deposit
are not included in Alfred’s estimate of
his local world. lie surely doesn’t deny the
existence of conscientious, ungrasping creatures
somewhere in the background, but he treats
them as nonentities in the sum total of public
morality. To all intents and purposes Alfred
Deakin complains that the Law is guilty of
gross impertinence in ranging itself upon the
side of the outsiders who don’t count and mak-
ing things unpleasant for “us.” If we were
permitted our full right to draw the line at
dishonesty, which of us would have been prose-
cuted ? The one question implies the other,
and the answer to both is much about the
same. The land-boom created criminals in
such a hurry that they scarcely found
time to discover that they were com-
mitting crimes, and when they happened to
make the discovery the circumstance was very
apt to slip their memories. Furthermore, they
drank too much champagne at the time to be
capable of soberly considering anything they
did remember. Nevertheless that gaudy mob
of speculators who chased the phantom golden
butterflies in the fleeting sunshine formed but a
small proportion of Victoria’s populace. There
were those who put their savings into banks
and building societies, as well as those who
gambled with the money after it was put in.
And if Thrift be entitled to an extra vote at
the poll it is hard to see any reason for grant-
ing special privileges to wild speculation with
other people’s money.
Extract from Sydney Daily Telegraph’s
leading article of last Friday :
The difference which the completion of this vast scheme
makes upon the measure of OUR maritime power is
remarkable. In 1886 OUR naval force consisted of 57
ships of 15-knot speed and upwards, exclusive of torpedo-
boats, built and building. In 1892 WE had 140. In 1886
WE had afloat and in reserve 490 heavy guns. In 1892
WE had 1868, and these are in the dockyards ready for
the equipment of the new fleet. In 1886 WE could only
boast of 33 light quick-firing guns. Now WE have no
less than 1715, while the number of officers and men on
the active list has been raised by 13,000 and of the reserve
by 5000.
Who on earth is this “We?” If it is Mr.
Nash, the newly-imported journalist, what
does he want with all these ironclads ? And if
by “we ” he means the country at large, then
it may surprise him to know that he is about
the most inaccurate man on earth, for “we ”
have only a hired fleet of six or eight shoddy
cruisers, also the bottomless Wolverene, the
Nelson (now rotting at her anchors in Hobson’s
Bay), the Palumah (recently ashore in Brisbane
Botanic Gardens), and one or two more ruins of
the same order. Therefore, “our maritime
force ” is just about the strength of a big onion,
and all the above statistics are absolute bosh.
A. T. Saunders writes from Port Adelaide :
Editor Bulletin,— One of the planks of the platform of
the S.A. Labour-party is specially good—l mean the pro-
posal to take the Customs duties off all goods which can-
not be locally grown, produced, or manufactured, and
make up the deficiency in the revenue by increasing the
present land-tax. Suppose the duties on unmanufactured
tobacco (Is. 7Jd. per lb.), tea (3d. per lb.), sugar (3s. per
cwt.), kerosene (2s. per case), and coffee (3d. per lb.) were
abolished, tobacco could and would be sold for Id. per
stick, kerosene 2s. per case, and tea 3d. per lb. less than
the present prices. The duty paid on these goods in 1891
was £128,000, and an increase of the present land-tax to
IJd. in the £ would be needed to make up the deficiency.
Now, on whom would this increase of the land-tax fall?
Our rich city men who support and run the National
Defence League say it would fall on the farmers, but they
well know that it would fall on themselves and their
absentee friends and principals, as the following figures
will show ; There are 84,000 men over 21 years of age in
the province. More than 44,000 of these do not own any
land, so the land-tax could not fall on them, though their
tobacco, tea, &c., would be cheaper. There are 40,282
land-tax payers, who would pay £201,600 in land-tax if it
were raised to lsd. in the £ ; 26,000 of these land-tax
payers would only pay £14,700, or an average of lls. 4d.
each, while the 703 land-tax payers who own nearly half
the land-value of the province would pay £99,400, or an
average of £l4l each. The S.A. Co. and seven other absen-
tees own one-twelfth of the whole province and would pay
£16,400 land-tax, or £l7OO more than the before men-
tioned 26,000 land-tax payers (none of whom, by the way,
own as much as £3OO worth of land), to say nothing of
the 44,000 men who, having no land, would pay no land-
tax. Only 5861 land-tax payers own more than £9OO
worth of land, and these 5861 own £25,125,000 worth
—just three-quarters cf the alienated land values
of South Australia province—and they would there-
fore pay 9d. out of every Is. raised by a tax on land
values. It is these men and their agents and friends who
got up the National Defence League and who find the
money to oppose all attempts at reform and pay
secretaries and lecturers and the expenses to Adelaide
of so-called country delegates to the conferences held in
the city. They want the 44,000 landless men and the
3400 land-tax payers who own less than £9OO worth of
land to pull their chestnuts out of the fire by being led to
think that the land-tax is to be paid by the poor man and
the farmer ! The three Hundreds of Adelaide, Port
Adelaide and Yataia, containing 286 square miles, would
pay £BO,OOO land-tax at Xjd. in the £. Some of the land
in them is worth as much as £llO,OOO per acre, while the
three fanning Hundreds of Appila, Belalie (which includes
Jamestown) and Booleroo and which contain 295
square miles, would only pay £3BOO land-tax, which is less
than they now pay in Customs duties.
A number of large landowners around Bris-
bane are protesting against the action of the
Government in issuing a map showing the por-
tions of the Brisbane valley that are liable to
inundation. The protesting parties own land
that is liable to inundation, and they complain
with one unanimous curse that the Govern-
ment’s action tends to depreciate their property,
and is consequently an “outrage.” The
funeral of this kind of landlord ought to happen
a great deal more frequently than it does.
Experience has shown that the person who
sinks his savings in buying the complainants’
allotments is liable to wake up some damp
morning and find himself, his house, his wife
and family, and all his other belongings, hurry-
ing out into the Pacific. He is speculating in
destitution and sudden death, and as the “ old
man ” flood is sure to return sooner or later, so
long as rain falls from the sky and water runs
downhill, the destitution, at all events, will
come to a certainty if the purchaser only lives to
a good old age. The landlord, however, hopes,
when recent episodes are partially forgotten, to
sell his sodden allotments as ground that is above
flood-mark ; which means that he almost openly
proposes to get money by lying and false pre-
tences. And, therefore, he objects to the State
issuing a record which may possibly bowl out
his lie and expose his false pretences. In other
words, he wants to wipe out a piece of national
history in order that he may sell a death-trap at
many times its value; and facts and dates must
be abolished when they interfere with his
speculations. After this, The Bulletin fully
expects that a time will come when the
Registrar-General will be requested to falsify
the death-statistics because the records of some
specially unwholesome region prevent a bloated
politician selling his agricultural allotments at a
satisfactory figure, or when the Mines Depart-
ment will be requested to perjure itself in order
to facilitate the floating of wild cat properties
on the British market. Anything seems to be
possible in Queensland.
+
A Sydney jury has decided that the Makins—
the notorious local baby-farmers—are both
guilty of murder in the case of Horace Amber
Murray, one of the numerous infants com-
mitted to their charge, and presumably one of
those whose remains were buried in one of the
famous back-yard sepulchres. Sentence, how-
ever, is deferred until the Full Court decides
points reserved—the principal being that the
body mentioned in the indictment cannot be
legally identified as that of baby Horace, and
that the death of the infant in question is not
proven by evidence. It is quite possible that
the murder verdict will be quashed. When a
considerable number of live infants are last
heard of in the possession of a certain indivi-
dual, and a considerable number of dead and
absolutely unaccounted-for infants are after-
wards found buried in his yard, and the other
evidence is as strong as in the present case, any
jflry would convict on a bulk charge (such as
might be preferred before the Court of Mr.
Justice Lynch) of wholesale murder. But
when it is necessary, in the ordinary pro-
cess of law, to take one decomposed
“remains,” and identify it—which is next to
impossible, considering the decomposition and
the fact that infants are difficult of identifica-
tion in any case ; and to trace its name—when
it, perhaps, never had one; and its origin—
which was most likely kept as secret as possible
from the start, and its history, which is about
as indefinite as that of so much protoplasm, the
difficulties are tremendous. The law doesn’t
recognise any such charge as baby-slaughter in
bulk. And, under these circumstances, it is all
very much like holding an inquest on a mummy
whose inscription has been lost.
Purves, Q.C., asserting the miserable poverty
of the Anglo-Australian Bank fiddlers, struck
one as a somewhat ironical circumstance.
Purves (who had a junior counsel with him)
doesn’t open his mouth for nothing as a rule,
yet he undertook the long job of defending a
young fellow (originally a railway porter) who
had, according to P., brought nothing into the
bank and taken nothing out of it. Another
defendant was said to have been “ dragged
from the tail of his father’s plough,” whilst
Staples had crept back from Mexico, or some-
where, with twopence in his pocket rather than
be accused of running away. But these, not to
mention other starving directors, had hired
fairly expensive counsel in each instance. The
Bulletin knows several victims of land-bank
duplicity who, if accused of stealing a loaf
to-morrow, wouldn't be able to raise the price
of even a pettifogging attorney to defend them.
Is there a land-boomers’ fund to provide counsel
for the indicted brethren ?
The most genuine believer in Staples, the Anglo-
Australian bank manager who comes up for
sentence this week, was Charles Raymond
Staples himself. His financial religion was,
and is, the religion of the Land Boom. He was
a conjuror who produced something out of
nothing and saw no hanky-panky in the per-
formance. He put fictions into figures, and
then treated them as serious facts. It is
questionable whether Staples will ever give
his Melbournian conscience a chance to realise
that he went w r rong, or will ever admit that he
wasn’t necessarily honest because he gambled
with other people’s money until he had become
stone-broke. The only way of assuring men
like Staples of their moral guilt would be to
put them in the witness-box and cross-examine
them into a corner until they convicted them-
selves of having formed a code of honour which
no line of reasoning could make consistent with
the fundamental principles of legitimate
business. And when you had taught them that
credit couldn’t exist in a world full of Stapleses,
they would still plead that they had never
looked at the matter in that light, and ought
to be let off with a caution.


LBA.DS THEM AT.T.
THE MUTUAL LIFE
INSURANCE
COMPANY
OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination
eluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows
of the affairs of the Company up to, and
The INCOME for 1803 was X 8.000.000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS
X 35,900,000 ; and tho SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES TUB BEST AND .MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS TUB LARGEST DIVIDENDS; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES* MOKE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
in-
are
Australian Department; - Z. 0. ZENNIE, Genera) Manager.
principal Agency—l3l gitt Street, Sydney, N. S. W.
Branche*—473 Coluns Street, Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street, Brisbane.
NCFWUt
The Oldßleacl
WMsky
OIJUPT FROM OIETILLCRC. '
ALWAYS THE SAME, runt, MI>LCE
MATURE* SCOTCH HALT
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty s “ Man to Man.”
Lyceum .... “ Faust up to Date.”
Opera House Lyric Combination.
Criterion' “ Niobe ”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Comic Opera Revivals.
Opera House Variety Show.
“Man to Man,” which came up like a
flower at Sydney Majesty’s last Saturday, is a
convincing melodrama in five massive shrieks
with much limelight, red flame, and gore. It is
not what could lawfully be defined as a well-
constructed play, but it has sundry good points,
which, if they don’t altogether justify an acquittal,
at least furnish an excuse for allowing the drama
out on bail. It starts with a desperately good
man getting married, and a desperately bad man
gnashing his teeth and biting fragments off the
furniture in the background, and immediately
thereafter the good man gets 14 years’ gaol owing
to sundry papers which the bad man planted in
his pocket when he wasn’t looking. In the next
act the good man is found chopping stone at Port-
land prison with a dreadful conviction in his soul
that his enemy is wiukingat his wife in his absence,
and will wink at her for 14 years. The horror of
this idea makes him bolt and create a railway
accident, in the course of which the wife and the
relentless persecutor are shot out on their heads
into the snow, and thereafter all the parties,
including a murderer and an escaped forger, meet
and have a free fight in a barn, and the hero is
shot but not injured. Also, it is demonstrated, on
the posthumous assertion of an old woman who
drank herself to death, that he and the bad man
were changed in infancy, the wife of a rich iron-
founder having—apparently for a lark—swapped
babies with a gipsy ; and the planting of the
original papers in the other person’s pocket is
fully proved by the statement of a Romany woman
who is just out of gaol; and a curate, who is sup-
posed to be mad, orders the funny man to “ arrest
him,” whereupon, so far as the present writer can
recollect amid the confusion, all Parkes’ dis-
honoured promissory notes are eaten by bears, and
a brass band goes along the shores of the story
spearing dead cows and eels or something to that
effect, and the audience goes home regretfully and
puts its feet in hot waterl
• # »
The realistic collision scene, with an over-
turned engine and a broken smoke-stack in the
centre of the stage, and a mass of shattered car-
riages combusting all over the place, and the com-
pany picking stunned villains, dead bagmen,
hysterical females, bankers and dead dogs from
among the ruins, is the feature which will
assuredly make “Man for Man” a profitable
speculation. It is bright, unobtrusively cheerful,
and trimmed with red flames. Also the quarry
in Portland, with Mr. Augustus Glover, as an
awful hangdog ruffian, cutting stone in the fore-
ground, is another triumph of art. As for the
company, it only gets a show here ami there.
Miss Lilia Wilde keeps well up to the level of her
former success, and Miss Watts-Phillips is a con-
vincing gipsy woman with one serious exception—
she isn’t grovelling enough for a member of that
free and independent race which steals fowls and
peddles clothes-pegs. Mr. Cates, in a leading
character, is hereby buried in oblivion as utterly
unequal to the part, and a tear is dropped over
his remains ; and Alessrs. Norman, Sweeney, and
Glover receive the warmest commendation. But,
in any case, the company is a mere outside con-
sideration. “ Alan for Alan ” travels on its rail-
way collision, and wants but little else here below.
** * *
“Joan of Arc shook the sword of Char-
lemagne at a Sidney Lyceum audience last
Saturday. There were several square pegs in
round boles, and a lot of the performers feet
didn’t seem to be on their native lieath. In
“Joan ’’ the Gaiety people are but a lopped and
scattered remnant. Marion Hood, Alaria Jones,
and Katie Barry (who has seceded because the
managerial valuation of Katie didn’t come up to
Katie’s own ideas on the subject) are largely
missed, although Clara Merivale, in a modified,
but still golden, wig, did very well in the rather
serious name-part; and Aggie Kelton, as the
Queen, carried off the trying position of a local
artist interpolated into the conservative ranks of
tlieGaietycrowd(whodon’tsoeni to like playing to
stranger.*) lo the evident delightof the gallery—the
tribunal before which all Gaiety favourites stand
or fall. But Grace Wixon, as the mother-in-law,
seemed a deliberate waste of shapeliness and no
visible reason for it, either. The massive Grace is
much better placed coming in with one red leg and
one blue one behind a brazen trumpet than
essaying a principal in floppy skirts. Lonnen,
Courtneidge, Haslem, Lethbridge, Leamar ami
Conyers, were the same as usual—but CoraTinnie
pervaded the stage at an Essie Jenyus angle, and
nearly broke £lie spell of her front row audience
attractions by a dance with the queen. Cora
shouldn’t dance. Nobody whose gyrations
resemble the bobbing of a hard-boiled dumpling
ever should. “ Joan of Arc ”is very gaily staged,
and the music and ballets are specially lively,
though you miss little Alaie Saqui among the
ballerinas.
m* * *
“ Niobe,” at Sydney Criterion, is, if possi-
ble, even a little more prosperous than it ever was
before, and no change looms on the farthest hori-
zon. Harry Rickards’ company at the Tivoli is
much as it was before. A fighting kangaroo is
engaged in the noble art of assault, and battery at
the Gaiety ; and in the vicinity of Air. Lannonr’s
Coogee Aquarium there are rumours about a
coining attraction in the shape of a strange misfit
animal, which is a dog at one end and a goat at
the other. The goat-end of the animal is in front;
nevertheless, it converses in barks, and runs after
cats, from which it is assumed that it is a <j|og by
choice and a goat under protest and owing to
extreme pressure.
** * *
The demand for variety show seems to
have no end in Sydney. The Opera House,
which long ago burst up in a dramatic sense for
good and all, is doing particularly well in this
line. Miss Jennie L u e, a favourite who never
grows old, Mr. Slade Murray, and Madame
Scherazade, who has given up the lion-taming
business and taken to snake-charming instead, are
three unfailing attractions. The latter lady’s
change of occupation is alleged to be caused prin-
cipally by the relentless manner in which Premier
Dibbs burst up her former engagement on hearsay
evidence, which evidence he afterwards tacitly
acknowledged to be incorrect; and the fact that
he has not even lent her his patronage in her new
sphere of usefulness is only another proof of the
readiness with which the average big man tramples
with his iron hoofs on an unprotected female
when he is dressed in a new title and a scrap of
brief authority.
* * He *
Sydney Royal remains closed, and the
shadow of the misfortune which befell the Baker-
Howe combination hangs heavily upon it. Also
there are rumours of about sixteen varieties of law
proceedings, and it is asserted, on unreliable
evidence, that the lessee, having fallen in with
Mr. Baker in a city thoroughfare the other day,
was chased for a considerable distance by that
gentleman, who evidently wanted to lay the
matter before him in a perfectly friendly manner,
and throw some new lights on the subject.
** * »
Mr. W. H. Jude is in Sydney again, and
opens in the Y.M.G.A. Hall as per advt.
Despite the present show-glut, his refined and
interesting entertainment is sure to catch on.
* # *-
At Melbourne Princess’s they revived
“ The Old Guard ” on Saturday, and a great
audience came, mostly from the races, to draw
comparisons between George Lauri and Elton in
the character of a certain Maire, of somewhere.
This was no small compliment to Lauri’s previous
appearances in the shoes of his predecessor.
Everybody remembers that “The Old Guard,”
although called an opera, is practically the afore-
said Maire in three acts and a sweetly suggestive
ballet. This village potentate radiates from a pub
which does several barrels a week and is particu-
larly strong in its jug-trade, but his career becomes
suddenly darkened by some family complications
relating to a marriage under the Flag. There-
upon, fleeing from the jug-trade, he joins the army
of Napoleon, and turns up in a shattered state
smoking a clay pipe. Finally Napoleon achieves
another glorious victory, or is defeated with great
slaughter, and the complications having pulled
themselves round unexpectedly, the Maire returns
to the abode of his beer, leaving everybody to get
married. Very likely he gets married himself.
But one may witness “The Old Guard” a vast
number of times without feeling certain on this
point.
* * #
lo arrive at the real value of Lauri’s
performance it is necessary to forget all about
Elton, and to consider whether the present Maire
could, in the first instance, have made the one-
part show a great success. For an answer
to this question, anyone is at liberty to find the
missing word. Lauri’s particular triumph on
Saturday was accomplished off the stage, when he
was heard crying unctuoudy in the wilderness—
lam glad you stuck to Carnoola.” His fooling
accompaniment to Florence Young’s song also
caught on all round, and was liked for its un-
selfishness in allowing the lady a big slice of the
joke. _ \\ hen he came to the military' business in
tiie third act, Lauri fell short of expectation. He
was neither as tricky nor as grotesque as the old
original identity, and his song of “The Dashing
Militaire’ was encored chiefly for the reminis-
cences hanging to it. People laughed at
their thoughts. Kyley, Howard Vernon, Bracy
and Florence Young are much the same
as before. Violet VarJey’s singing is an ample
apology for her outlines, and Flora Graupner
seems unusually golden about the head. Also,
Osborne makes the most of her pretty
air in which she bids farewell to the dog that used
to help her clean the plates, but the Jin dc sieclc
ballet has lost some of its early abandon. This is
probably owing to the disappearance of the tall girl
m yellow, the strongest and most classical kicker
of them all, She has fulfilled her destiny by
marrying a |>oliceman—happy man in blue !—and
Fiik BULLETIN commends this circum<tance to the
notice of johnnies at large. There’s a wholesome
moral in it. More Gilbert and Sullivan revivals,
beginning with “lolanthe,” will occupy the
coming -week, and on March 25th the firm pro-
duces a genuine novelty. “The Mountebanks.”
** * W
The Alhambra Palace of Varieties (other-
wise Opera House) helps to fill a large and grow-
ing want. People who seldom or never patronise
a “ hall ” under its proper name, show a disposi-
tion to sample the Alhambra show. At present it
is not much of a blessing in disguise, but the
interval for refreshments comes at an opportune
moment, and the second part, being infinitely
better than the part which goes before, tends to
wipe the tear from every eye. A strong Irish
programme is promised for St. Patrick’s night,
whilst the orderly behaviour of the gallery remains
a matter for congratulation. 9
m* * m
The Coghill Bros, keep things moving at
St. George’s Hall. The Gaiety, too, still hangs
out Us banner, and those depressing relics of
Aboriginal Australia are pretending to return to
savage life at the Rotunda. Exhibition Concert 8
threaten to cease at an early date, and Fillis’s
Circus, after taking a fond farewell of Melbourne
in the distinguished presence of several naval
officers, has gone to Adelaide. Talking of circuses
reminds us that the Ancient Druids are getting
ready for another Gala.
«» » «
George Darrell intends to open his season
at Melbourne Royal with a new drama entitled
“The Double Event,” introducing a thrilling
spectacle of the Cup. George will, no doubt,
play the part of the Cup, and Edith Blande has
been engaged to represent a lost female who once
loved the man who tried to nobble the winner, or
something of the kind.
For “Poverty Point,” see page 17.
Cereals worth £240,507 were exported
from S.A. during January.
Ulster calls upon Orangemen to rise in the
name of William of “ pious and blessed memory.”
Pious Wdliam’s favourite mistress, Elizabeth
Villiers, was, says Macaulay, “destitute of per-
sonal attractions, and disfigured by a hideous
squint.”
The Australian Star (Sydney) reports
the arrest, for riotous conduct, of “ a mysterious
man with a large pocket-book and a wild eye,
named Russell Sutton.” Which calls up once
more the old question : What was the name of his
other eye ?
Rarely does the S.M. Herald contain
so radical, pointed and logical an article as that
it published on the “ thrift ” vote and the atti-
tude of the N.S. W. Council last week. O’Connor
read it to the “ ancient fogies.” A bad ad.
for the Herald; they will withdraw their sub-
scriptions.
Up to the time of writing, no one seems to
have even begun to estimate the flood-damages in
northern N.S. W, But when the bill is made up,
it seems just possible that even the invoice of the
Brisbane inundation will not be in it with this
latest disaster. Railway communications are
burst up in all directions, bridges are gone, roads
are in a state of eternal smash, houses, fences,
crops, and farm-buildings have vanished, and the
north in general looks as if the original Deluge
had just subsided, so slimy and woe-begone is it,
and so widely strewn with dead animals and
rotting vegetation. Also, about six respectable-
sized towns want to be shifted bodily to higher
ground, or the trouble will be worse in the future.
It is only the want of population which prevented
the late floods being about as fatal as the periodi-
cal bursting of the Hoang-Ho.
The results of the Crick (M.P.) and Willis
(M.P.) “criminal” libel actions against John
Ferguson, of the Cumberland Times (Parra-
matta), are perhaps the most wonderful—con-
sidering all the facts involved, and the penalties
awarded in past libel actions —of all the extra-
ordinary judgments that have ever been recorded
in the annals of N.S.W. courts. This was a
prosecution undertaken by “the Crown,” in-
volving heinous offences under the criminal law ;
yet, too evidently a mutual understanding—if not
an actual compromise—was arrived at. The
criminal libel against Crick, M.P., may be glossed
over perhaps, as of really little moment. Crick
was accused of being a drunkard and a > ettifogging
lawyer; as he is a lawyer, and as lie was once
expelled from the Legislative Assembly for
hilariousness, there is room for the excuse that the
statements against him, although libellous, were
believed to be colorably true. But the slanders
against Willis, M.P. were stupendously inex-
cusable, unless dearly provable. Willis was
accused of abominable crime unmentionable
among civilised men ; the defendant pleaded
guilty to a defamatory libel, but urged that he
had not intended to convey the meaning attributed
to the libel. Judge Backhouse, in passing
sentence, observed that no other interpretation
than that taken could be given of the article
under review, and—His Honor inflicted fines
of £3O and £5O respectively, with the furnishing
of two sets of sureties as to “good behaviour ” for
three years ! This was Judge Backhouse’s deli-
berate verdict, his Honor having taken five days
during which to ruminate. During that interval,
John Ferguson’s paper condoled with itself as
having had the “ misfortune ” to “ make allusion
to persons so thin-skinned as thememhcrs of Parlia-
ment mentioned.” “Thin-skinned,” because one
is represented as being steeped in unnatural and
abominable practices ! The more the case is con-
sidered, the greater becomes the conviction that
the legerdemain of garrotting law-proceedings is
not a lost art.
Up to the time of writing, neither the
N.S.W. nor Victorian authorities seem to have
taken any steps for the suppression of the “Free
Portrait ” fiends who are doing so prosperous a
business in both provinces. There now appears
good reason to believe that one co. which is boom-
ing in the south is either the “Star Portrait C 0.,”
or its brother, which formerly resided at Folke-
stone (Eng.), but which finally got into serious
difficulties with the police and packed up its
“enlargement process.” Also, most of the
other “ companies ” appear to be institu-
tions which left England, and left in haste,
under a cloud of trouble. Probably they have im-
proved somewhat on the modus opcrandi of former
days; at all events their methods seem to be
many, and almost every day new dodges come to
light. One of these is to return a number of the
photos, sent for enlargement with the explanation
that they are not good enough to properly adver-
tise the company’s work. A day or two after their
return, however, the agent of what professes to be
an altogether different concern calls on the dis-
appointed customers and solicits orders. He
generally hears all about their unsuccessful
negotiation, whereupon he points out that this
particular ‘ enlargement oo.’ doesn’t amount to
anything, that his firm —which travels on an
honest cash basis—does much superior work and
is eminently fitted to tackle the photo, which the
rival institution has given up, and bring the job
to a successful conclusion. Very often this results
in an order at an exorbitant figure, and then the
same old “enlargement co.” does the work, and
collects the money, and frequently sells its ghastly
frame to the customer as well, '['he free-portrait
business is still boomed in the daily papers, and it
is an interesting fact that one Sydney daily, while
publishing the "ad.” of this exploded confidence-
tnok, flatly refused to insert a notice from the
vigilance association which is collecting evidence
for its suppression.
In vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
limes’ Hoar's Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour itnd aroma, are Unequalled by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar’s Head
brand comprises wines of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, muscats, hooks, and others tvw
umerous to specify. *
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
„ 15th March, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
There is, one tiling the Australian stage does not
do—it doesn’t lead the fashion. Of course, I
mean the modern-dress-comedy stage, for you don’t
expect people to get from the burlesque folks the
neatest way of wearing your nether limbs, or loop-
ing your back hair. Take any dress-play in a
time like the present, when nobody except the
favoured few know which way the fashion is
going, and what do you see ? Do you see what
will be worn ? Do you get a valuable pointer how
the new slab-sided gusset, or whatever it is, will
look on the figure? I can almost hear an invisible
chorus screaming “ No, we don’t.” Instead, your
popular actress clings to what the circle is wear-
ing ; she repeats the old style, very elegantly and
artistically sometimes, but the old -style all the
same—even when there is a new mode dawning in
the shops, and everybody is dying for somebody
to set it.
Herein is a lovely idea for modern-dress
actresses in Australia. They might as well lead
the fashion as let it be foisted upon us by the
dress-makers. As vice-regal women obstinately
refuse to dress themselves in any but their own
half-hearted way, why doesn’t the stage lead local
fashion instead of following it ? Not, at the same
time, that I want to see Mrs. Brough playing
Niobe in a crinoline.
The lovely by-play between Mrs. |Brough and
Cecil Ward (in “Niobe”) when the resurrected
Greek lady ingenuously asks in regard to his trou-
sers, “Why do you hide your legs in these things?”
is apropos of what once happened to an extremely
bashful member of a New Guinea prospecting
party. He contracted fever and was left un-
defended and alone in camp while the rest went
fossicking. When they returned, they found the
trembling patient surrounded by an excited crowd
of Papuan belles who were endeavouring to dis-
possess him of his nether garments. An inter-
preter revealed the fact that the dusky dailings
thought he was wounded. But I don’t believe a
word of that statement. It is my firm conviction
that they had heard of Charles Kyley.
The latest gossip from the North-west concerns
a medicine man. First he married a girl with a
rich pa, who refused to shed any coin in the
interest of his son-in-law until death claimed him
(the pa) as Ids own. But, as luck would have it,
the lady obligingly died within a year, upon
which her relict hotly courted a young widow of
superior pecuniary attractions, who had quite
made up her mind to be married in lavender satin
—when her lover encountered a susceptible maiden
with two thousand a year, and over went the
widow.
The doctor and the maiden became dulv
engaged, and the widow “out up rusty.” Saw'-
bones played a very open game. Hearing that
the maiden and her ma were voyaging to England
he took a passage in the same ship—but at this
juncture a male trustee elevated himself and
protested violently. The result was a quarrel,
ending in law, between the trustee and the
amorous doctor. The end of it is that the maiden
and her suite postpone their trip to England, but
the doctor is still in tow.
The dual bathing at Coogee hasn’t led to a
regular rush of the dual public. On the first day
one lady turned up—but as there were 60 youths
she said she felt diffident about it and would wait
until another time—and she hasn’t appeared since.
The most interesting “dual” time is when the
baths are reserved for the cleansing of the male
and female members of the Gaiety Co. Nobody
else is allowed in—much to the chagrin of many
gilded youths who would fain teach Addio Conyers
to_ tread water, or dive in search of periwinkles
with Alice Loamar.
I don t think dual bathing will ever be very
fashionable, for the simple reason that there are
more knock-knees, twisted spines and bow-legs in
the feminine world than are dreamt of under pre-
sent conditions of dress and rules for decorous
deportment. If bathing shows off one fine woman
it shows up a hundred feminine weeds. Taken all
round, woman an naturel is a disillusionising
spectacle. Why should a mass of unsightly fat
parade itself, or an aggregation of twisted spindle-
shanks, and shocking hollows and knobs? One
woman in 500 may “ peel ” to conquer ; the 499 are
much safer behind the impregnable entrenchment
—Dress.
Another point in favour of being born a woman
occurred in a recent Sydney divorce-case, when
Judge Windeyer violently objected to a rather
delicate question being put to the petitioneress,
and almost insisted on the wicked barrister begging
her pardon, as he had to beg the pardon of the
irate Court. Now, if it had been a man in the
mill, that horrifying query would, no doubt, have
been enlarged upon, and allowed to soak in until
the victim wished ho had sought death before the
divorce-court. I hat always strikes me as being
one qf the worst features about being a man in


THIIE
NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured,
overall ifftdSt 1 ? 7 ?’ I.o 9 f l , J t ,i^ r f U^ nviated S und amounted to £25,915,080 , and its SURPLUS
Zi^lf 436 ’ J the LARGEST Sur P l ™ held *y ™i V ur ely Mutual Life
conclasitSt nn>v^ U ihl?^n EndOWlnei ;[ and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
very piovmg the superior excellence of its policies,
Befoie msnrniK elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
HONE) ST U BBT CHAM BEKS, SYONBV, N.S.W.
BURROUGHES
—AND—
WATTS, ltd.
BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
Asr Orders by Post receive prompt attention.
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
0 f the Law, whose steely optic detects in
Fdwm no trace of the modest diffidence which
iSs out of its way to seek in Angelina. Yet,
X ,11 most men are ever so much more modest
than most women.
Bv the way, Judge Windeyer made public note
of his astonishment at the number of unhappy
Images entered into in 1887. Now, I wonder
if the Judge has his dates conectly . If yo
remember, leap-year came in 88.
About the most amusing things in the subdued
Lenten season —or, at least, so 1 think are the
flood-subscription lists. It is quite proper for
Km to put the Governor of the place, with ms
modes t fifty pounds, at the head of the poll,
because that’s where he always has to be but
fhev do scruple so over the placement of the
others' If Lady Snooks gives five guineas, and
Mrs Blank fifty. Lady Snooks has ever so much
better a place on the list than Mrs. Blank. I
sometimes think that lists ought to be according
to length of donation-not that length of donation
goes for very much either. .If lists could be
arranged according to the spirit of the givers the
“Friend” who gives two-and-six at the very tail-
end of the thing might get the flagstaff position
from the Honourable So-and-so, who grudging y
doles out ten tenners. And, of course, that would
never do. . . ~ . .
Almost the funniest thing in the world is to
hear the married, but festive, youth, who has
escorted his wife to the theatre, maintaining the
most innocent ignorance when she asks him if
Miss Flossie Redlegs is handsome off the stage, or
whether the star and the premiere danseuse are
married ? For him, you know, the stage is but a
dazzling and fleeting spectacle seen only from the
plush elevation of the d.c., and its men and women
merely plavers whose real names are an utter
mystery to him. And then he carefully packs his
enquiring wifey home in a hansom, and takes
Flossie where the wild oyster grows.
By the way, I witnessed the fast and sinful
spectacle of a bold, bad johnny seeing a Gaiety
girl to her hotel after the show the other evening,
and it didn’t seem to be a very gay proceeding,
although the johnny was a gilded youth in full
evening dress. Indeed, the flash of his linen
under a lamp-post was the most stylish feature
about the whole thing. First came the johnny,
then the beauteous Gaiety girl huddled up in a
pink blouse and jacket; next to her the female
companion or watchdog—all strung out in a line
across the pavement. Nobody was speaking, and
they were walking as if for a wager. It was a sad
disillusion.
I read that a bevy of interested society women
occupied a conspicuous position behind a Bigwig
in court on the last day of the Makin baby-farm-
ing case. The question naturally arises—were
they there for curiosity, or for instruction ?
Folks are so listless nowadays that a person of
distinction like the following, only gets into the
newspapers when she drops something :
LOST, at Neutral Bay, Black Silk Lady’s Umbrella.
E.S.M. on silver handle; reward. Oragmoor,
Raymond-rd,, Neutral Bay.
But a black silk lady—if she is silk every way—
wouldn’t need an umbrella. She wouldn’t cockle
in the wet like a common black cotton female ?
As someone seems inclined to publicly deny the
accuracy of my statement concerning the two
Gaiety women and their “mashers,” who lately
pounded a wretched oat to death in a hotel, let me
give some further particulars. The incident took
place in a leading caravanserai, where the women
and the “ johnnies ” in question (one of them a
bank-official) resided. They all got home at an
early hour a.in., and found that a canary had been
damaged, presumably by the cook’s cat. Where-
upon they threw at the cat a missile which struck
the door of a room occupied by a lady who was ill,
and who was made much worse by the unearthly
yells of the vengeful women as they chased the
oat along one corridor after another, until the
miserable brute landed in a cul-de-sac in the bath-
room. There they “bashed ”it furiously until it
was almost beaten flat. The shrieks of the
wretched cat and the yells of the other eats dis-
turbed all the inhabitants of the flat. Just when
the “artistes” were getting exhausted, the two
obliging youths arrived on the scene, and while
one of them held the shattered pussy steady, the
other sawed its throat with a knife; after which
the cat was again “bashed,” and finally thrown
out of the window into the street. A nice story,
isn’t it ? And how pleasant to live in a hotel with
such people!
In “ Joan of Arc,” at Sydney Lyceum, Aggie
Kelton (she got a good reception—l have often
wondered at the way the gods recognise an old
favourite, no matter how deeply she is tangled in
an oakum wig) as the Queen, and Alice Leth-
bridge as Catherine, seemed to lead the dressing.
Aggie’s first dress of pale-blue satin and silver was
the freshest-looking frock about the revival, in
which the lowest hems of the chorus showed the
usual signs of having borne the battle and the
breeze. Aggie’s second dress of white satin
slashed over cigar-brown plush and figured about
with gold, made a very satisfactory splash ; and
the fragile Lethbridge, in white satin brocaded in
silver and contrasted with pale-blue silk, was
another pleasant feature. Alice, by the way,
sporteth no diamonds.
.Bearded in the light of general dazzle, “ Joan
Are ” wanted re-varnishing more urgently than
Esmeralda ” did ; and it was probably the slight
suggestion of tarnish that made Cora Tinnie paint
her ears and cheekbones the colour of the blushing
tomato, and tuft a big, black hat with sudden
sprouts of red, as if her topping-off had caught fire
m places—also, tie a large, red bow-and-ends in
iront as if she had just taken second prize for
porridge-eating’. But I liked little Zetter’s larri-
am get-up—it was closer to the mark than
Lonnen ,s. The little nipper allowed himself more
typical freedom about the weskit, anyhow, for one
nmg, and then he looked stunted and precocious
nd more like the Australian scape-goat than the
oraced-up star was wont to do.
on the sta g ß affords much amuse-
ment to the crowd behind the scenes. The dot of
a six-year-oid g,rl who had a little song and dance
” ,- e ,f cen m pantomime was the most quoted of
any in the green-room, lam told. When she was
first promoted to the aforesaid little song, she
bailed up the manager in his den : “Now, Mr.
Goodman,” she lisped, “ tan’t I dwess wxf the big
girls ?’’
The era of cheap and educated kitchen servitude
appears to be upon us —judging by this advertise-
ment from Sydney Daily Telegraph :
TXTANTED, for Bathurst, LADY willing to under-
' V take general servant’s duties and cook, small
family, 10s., washing out, must be energetic and re-
fined. Mon. morn., 27 Great Buckingham-st., Redfern.
She is to be both refined and energetic—wlnch means,
for instance, that she will have dinner ready on the
stroke, and find timeto make her taper fingers snowy
white before she removes the covers. I don’t quite
see what there is to encourage the lady-servant.
Instead of getting double wages, she only com-
mands the little nurse-girl figure, while the plush-
covered domestic iconoclast revels in her servant-
gal’s-union rate of pay, and snaps her grimy
fingers at a refinement which only means refined
wages.
A very Hamiltonian story is told of a lofty
Westralian Government official who gave an
afternoon tea-party to a number of lady friends.
Early in the day he called at the local baker’s and
bought a dozen penny tarts which he took home
with him—but the next morning he turned up
again with the bag of pastry still under his arm.
It seemed that the guests had avoided the tarts,
which were left on his hands like a flabby monu-
ment of unjustifiable extravagance, and the great
man called round to see if the baker would take
’em back and return him their value in bread!!!
The only person who does what you may call
dress in “Man to Man,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s
(where, if the size of the treasurer’s boutonniere is
a sign of prosperity, things must be lively) is Mr.
Sweeney, who changes his raiment more frequently
and dazzlingly than any other member of the cast.
Lilia Wilde made about the most realistic-looking
stage bride I have ever seen. The ordinary stage
virgin on her promotion trusts to a gleam of white
and a veil of mosquito-net to induce the_ sacri-
ficial aspect, as a rule, but Lilia was dressed in real
bridal array up to orange-blossoms. By the bye,
Miss W. ought not to wear a wedding-ring on
her finger before the bridal scene. Watts-Phillips
as the avenging gipsy cut an artistic figure in blue
and brown, but she wanted a touch of vivid
colour to make her really picturesque. “ Man to
Man ” is thrillingly staged, and may go down to
posterity as probably the only drama where a
realistic snow-storm is on when the heroine hasn’t a
scene.
The only time I look leniently upon the con-
necting dash between a high-flown name and a
stuffy one is when the victim has been left money
conditionally on telescoping his patronymic.
Anywhere else I feel inclined to_ snigger at a
hyphen. The name that you bring into the world
with you is the real trade-mark, and nobody is
impressed by a Montmorency-Jones, for baptism
isn’t conducted on the sixpence-a-letter-principle.
Everybody, for instance, sneers at a Montefiore
whose real name is Levy, or a Montmorenci who
was born Smith, just as they do at the Montague
who came into the world as Isaacs. There is no
redaction or otherwise that I am aware of in
taking a quantity of appellation. Hyphenated
individuals always seem to have put the cart
before the horse. If Brown is so anxious to infer
that he is three-parts Fitzspillikens, why does he
bother about the Brown at all? Some dashed
people do drop the last impossible name. I know
a married hyphen (call her Mrs. Capulet-Snooks)
who is always addressed as Mrs. Capulet.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Wild-Cat Column.
At time of payment of the last dividend in
the Broken Hill Proprietary Co. the distribution of shares,
money, and scrip was as follows : Adelaide, 4182 holders,
363,814 shares, £36,381 Bs. ; London, 2000 holders, 256,391
shares, £25,639 25.; Melbourne, 967 holders, 291,185
shares, £29,118 10s. ; Sydney, 170 holders, 30,298 shares,
£3029 16s. ; Hobart, 120 holders, 8462 shares, £846 4s. ;
Broken Hill, 168 holders, 5830 shares, £583 ; Pt. Pirie,
37 holders, 2192 shares, £219 4s. ; Silverton, 10 holders,
1828 shares, £lB2 16s.
• • •
The shares of the Commercial Bank of Australia
are still sliding downwards. They were quoted in Sydney
on Feb. 11—“ Buyers 88s., sellers 985.” All through the
month they climbed steadily dewnwards, until on March
11 the quotation was: “ Seller 675., no buyer." Who are
the “sellers” that seem so desperately anxious to stand
from under, and how is it that as prices go down buyers
seem to grow scarcer? It all is flourishing surely it is
worth the while of the directors, who know the soundness
of the concern, to go into the market and buy up every
available share at the present depreciated figure?
« « *
Queensland National Bank shares are also
crawling steadily downwards. The latest Sydney quota-
tion is, “sellers 905., no buyers.” No buyers 1 The
decline is slow at present, but, by-and-bye, it will probably
accelerate. It is like skating down a roof ; you slide from
the ridge to the gutter, and then you go gently over
and drop the rest of the way.
# * #
Australian banks are appealing feverishly to the
Imperial powers to veto the Bill to secure to the S.A.
Treasury all unclaimed bank balances. These moneys are
as naturally the property of the nation as unclaimed
intestate estates.
# * m
The mission of Sydney D.T.’s imported editor
is seemingly to denounce the potent influence in
financial circles of the Banking Record.
* * *
Melbourne tram-shares once reached <£9, and
there were many who purchased at the figure because
they quite made up their minds the shares would go to
£l2. They are now 12s. 6d., or 2s. 6d. above par. A few
enormous fortunes were made in them at the big prices.
Several Melbourne financial big guns cleared over £lOO,OOO
each, and, of course, as a natural consequence, by far a
greater number of small fortunes were lost in the shares,
and that which was thought a blessing has turned out a
curse.
• * m
The Imperial Land, Building, and Deposit Co.,
of Sydney, whose manager, the lamented yachting mag
nate, Smairl, is now in gaol, is just coming fairly into the
light of day. Regarded as a bowelless swindle and a
highway robbery, the Imperial seems to take a high place.
So far as the accounts reveal, it has been all along a fraud
in which there is not one redeeming feature. The capital
account was faked from the beginning by the issue of
bogus shares to bogus shareholders, or shareholders
who can’t be found and who never paid up. The
first half-year showed a dubious and uncertain
kind of profit, or rather a prospective profit when
certain land-buyers paid up ; and every succeeding half-
year resulted in a loss. The loss, however, by dint of
hard lying and a clumsy faking of accounts, was repre-
sented every time as a profit, and dividends ranging from
6to 20 per cent, were paid—out of the deposits. The
losses amounted to about the whole capital, and the divi-
dends and steals ate up everything else. Part
of the capital, moreover, consisted only of the
cheque—dated six months ahead and finally dis-
honoured— of a man whose paper remains unpaid
to this day. The properties owned by the Co. were
constantly written up in a falling market to keep up
the appearance of prosperity ; even the office furniture
had £BO added to its original value when it grew old to
swell the “profits.” The securities lodged to cover
advances were pawned to all sorts of Jews and Gentiles;
bogus deposit receipts were issued to bogus depositors,
and then pawned in various quarters ; the company’s
land was all covered with first, second and third
mortgages; and everything that could be borrowed,
begged, or taken in trust, was swallowed up to pay
dividends and expenses. Meanwhile every succeeding
balance-sheet vociferated louder than the last about the
“ prosperity” of the hollow wreck, until suddenly, in the
midst of the vociferations, it closed up with absolutely no
assets left, barring some £BOOO of customers’ overdrafts
and uncalled capital which, it is hoped, may pan out for
£BOO in ail-not enough to cover liquidation expenses. At
latest advices Attorney-General Barton, was “consider-
ing ” the advisability of prosecuting somebody. This
habit of consideration is evidently borrowed from that
dreadfully considerate person—Shiels.
* # *
The Bulletin regrets to note the bankruptcy of
Mr. Henry Gorman, late of the widely-known Sydney
firm of Hardie and Gorman. Mr. Gorman has earned
respect as an enterprising man of business, possessed of
much public spirit, a staunch friend and a liberal em-
ployer. He has lost his fortune in business risks and
only succumbed after a long drawn-out series of unfore-
seen calamities. He is cleaned out and has made no
settlements. A very wide circle will be glad to see him
fair'y afloat again.
# * *
The world’s greatest goldfield is Witwatersrand,
South Africa. The yield for Dec. was 117,7480 z., value
£429,812. The ore-bodies are very large and permanent,
the tonnage enormous, and yields from sdwts. to 25dwts.,
the average being about 12dwts. It had its boom three
years ago, when many millions of English and continental
money went there. Depression outran development, and
now development has placed the Rand on top of every
other goldfield. Country flat and barren of timber;
climate something like Broken Hill, with a fierce summer’s
sun and bleak winter’s winds; labour cheap, because
black. The greatest drawback—freights, which make
timber most expensive. The field also suffers from a
grievous dynamite monopoly.
» # #
The best local mine on the Rand is one of the
earliest—the Robinson. In Dec. it crushed 7958 tons for
82380 z. free gold from stamp mills ; 15170 z. from the
tailings treated by cyanide, and 7630 z. from concentrates
which were chlorinated. Next, for December, came the
Langlaagte Estate mine, whose output was 18,191 tons for
55010 z. ; total yield, 98590 z. It has the largest battery on
the field —120 heads. Here are a few proditrious Dec.
returns : —Ferreira, 3540 tons, 55700 z.; Crown Reef, 9925
tons, 72270 z. ; Durban Roodepoort, 6745 tons, 32950 z. ;
City and Suburban, 4553 tons, 34800 z.; Geldenhuis Estate,
4226 tons, 33720 z. ; New Primrose, 9100 tons, 46370 z. ;
Simmer and Jack, 9498 tons, 35120 z. ; May Consolidated,
5200 tons, 28500 z.; Nigel, 1735 tons, 25010 z.; Randfontein,
4954 tons, 20020 z.; Meyer and Charlton, 2130 tons, 23350 z.
There are a number of others whose cakes for the month
were between 1000 and 2000 ozs.
# * «
There are between 2000 and 3000 stamps at
work on this marvellous field. The 117,7450 z., the record
December returns of the Rand, is thus made up From
stamper mills, 91,1570 z.; concentrates, 69820 z.; tailings,
14,8710 z ; alluvial, 140 oz.; other sources, 45980 z.
* * *
The output of gold of the Transvaal for 1888
was 230,1890z5. ; 1889, 369,5510z5. ; 1891, 494,8100z5.; 1892,
1,198,1190z5. Progressive figures, these.
# # #
The most remarkable feature of the Rand is the
almost entire absence of any alluvial, though the char-
acter of the lodes, being layers of conglomerate waterworn
rock, clearly demonstrates that at one time it was all
alluvial. The Rand is generally described as a huge
sunken lake. Another proof of the original alluvial char-
acter of the auriferous ore bodies is the coaly formations
occasionally found in conjunction therewith. In fact,
there is one mine in South Africa where coal and gold
are drawn out of the same shaft. Generally the coal is of
little commercial value*
• * *
The Witwatersrand Chamber of Mines furnishes
monthly an analysis of the field’s gold production, in
which are tabulated the respective tonnage, number of
stamps, days’ milling, daily tonnage for stamp yield of
gold, value of yield, and the processes used with results
in the treatment of concentrates and tailings. This
analysis might well be copied by Charters Towers, Bendigo,
Ballarat, and other fields. The Bulletin commends it to
consideration.
• * •
There is now only a few months’ supply of
carbonate ore in the Broken Hill South Mine, which
means that unless fresh discoveries are made shortly the
smelters will have to be shut down while the mine is
added to the list of properties passively awaiting a
solution of the sulphate problem.
• # #
The Broken Hill Proprietary shareholders, who
recently voted £2500 for distribution amongst the officers
and shift-bosses who remained at work daring the great
strike, could scarcely have anticipated such a wholesale
greasing of fat pigs as has taken place. Howell, manager
of the mine, got £5OO ; Secretary Knox, who remained at
his office in Melbourne during the whole strike, was
content with amodest £250, while a host of smaller officials
were rewarded with £lOO each. The rank-and-file got a
humble tenner.
# * *
It is pointed out that in the U.S. the production
of silver has advanced thus;—“lB6l, 1,200,0000 z. ; 1871,
18,288,0000 z. ; 1881, 34,000,0000 z. ; 1891, 58,000,0000 z.
Silver, which stood at ss. o|d. per oz. in 1871, fell to
4s. 3Jd. in 1881, and is now only 3s. 2jd.” The world’s
production reaches 125,000,0000 z. annually, or nearly
double as much as it was 10 years ago.
# * #
All the best mines on Charters Towers (Q.) are
falling into the hands of the English syndicator. When
the tentacles of this octopus have grown strong enough
to bear the strain, the wage system will be strangled and
the contract system introduced. And this as surely as
to-morrow’s sun will rise. It is only a question of time.
# * #
There are 116 gold-mining leases on Charters
Towers (Q.) whose average area is 16 acres. Of these, 99
are at work with 104 steam engines and 135 shafts. There
are also 57 steam-pumps, 57 rock-drills, 17 air-compressors
and 21 mills and works for treating ore. The total value
of the mining machinery on the field is £355,944. The 99
mines employ 2154 men at an average wage of £3 per
week. Therefore the total wages paid weekly will be
£6462. The bank returns show that last year’s output
was 269,0000 z., worth £3 7s. 6d. per oz., and valued at
£907,875. So that from the value of the gold produced
last year the cost of all the machinery on the field
could he deducted, and of all the labour employed, and
then the speculators, mostly English syndicators, would
divide £445,439. And this is a big leak that lets out a lot
of that £4,000,000 which the absentee annually gets from
the Queensland people.
# * *
In opening up an apparently new discovery of
carbonate ore on the 200 ft.-level of the Junction mine at
Broken Hill recently, a number of drill-holes were found
to have been put into the formation from an adjacent
drive at some long-past period. These had been carefully
covered up again, and a rich ore-body was thus left ready
to be discovered at any time the state of the share market
rendered its finding expedient. The Junction had an
evil reputation in the past for this sort of thing.
* * *
The Charters Towers banks shipped 270 OOOozs.
of gold last year.
So, after all, that wonderful find m Peak Hil
Proprietary mine is a myth. It is candidly confessed
that in prospecting the enormous formation the operator
used a dish, which had been previously used in connection
with cleaning copper plates, and when rubbing the stuff
in it sufficient gold was liberated to make the result look
like an ounce to the ton ! Outside N.S.W. such a mistake
would be laughed at as more the result of ignorance than
accident. Was the same dish always used, and, if so, how
often ? Hid the directors who went up specially to
examine the find, and afterwards declared it phenomenal,
use the same dish ? Was there not one man amongst the
crowd with sufficient sense to see that it was retorted
gold? Moreover, if the blessed dish had been used suffi-
ciently often to warrant their calculations, all the gold
would have vanished. It is only another instance of
N.S.W. dense mining ignorance, and of an estimate made
in haste repented at leisure.
# # *
P To what base uses, etc. A special meeting of
the Broken Hill mine shareholders is culled to consider
the purchase of the Brisbane Block for £5OOO. Ten times
that amount has been spent on the claim, and now it is
only wanted for a slag-dump !
# * *
The “solution of the sulphide problem ” has a
black side, of which the public never hear a word. One
would imagine that low-grade sulphide ore only existed
on the Barrier, whereas hundreds of mines in America,
Germany, and every other silver-mining country, shut
down at the sulphide levels. The economical treatment
of sulphides would mean that hundreds of mines would
re-open, silver would fall, and o ily those with cheap
labour and other favourable conditions would survive.
i'c ic *
To newspaper-mining, and otherwise to amateur
mining men, including some thou-'aiids of shareholders in
Barrier mines, the solution of the sulphide problem is an
engrossing subject. To practical silver-mining men who
have had some experience outside Australia it is regarded
by some as possible, by others as probable, but by a great
number as a good card to play.
• * *
Two or three mining men, iust returned to
Sydney from the W.A. goldfields, - rt eloquent on the
richness of the claims they want tv. float. If the shows
are even only half as rich as described, it would still be
an enigma why the travellers ever returned.
Again we are told by the local newspaper that
everything at Mount Stewart is “looking up that new
ore-bodies .are being discovered, and it is quite confidently
anticipated, when another smelter arrives, monthly
dividends will be paid—and so on. The writer is tired of
this sort of thing. You can’t make black white. Months
ago Mount Stewart squeezed out one sixpenny dividend.
It had little effect on the market, and was a mistake. The
prospect of others is remote. At Newcastle, or any
other N.S.W. seaport, Mount Stewart would be a divi-
dend-paying mine. Where it is, with heavy railway and
team carriage, it is not—audit never will be until silver
increases in price and the lode in richness.
# # #
Hard, cruel, frozen truth. Dividends are abso-
lutely unknown on the Zeehan-Dundas silver-ttelds,
although the mines have been two years in active develop-
ment, and hundreds of thousands of pounds have been
squandered.
# # #
Mr. L. Aarons, one of the summarily-dismissed
members of the Wentwoith Proprietary advisory board,
maintains that the returns from the mine since May last
are the outcome of the extensive development carried
out by the general manager, Mr. Irwin, during the exis-
tence of the board, and that to him the credit is due, and
that the local vendors and not the London board have
been victims of misplaced confidence.
# # #
Mr. Robertson, manager of the Helensburgh
colliery, in his evidence before the N.S.W. Conciliation
Board, is reported as deposing : “ The sab ty-lamp was no
drawback to the men’s labour, the illuminating power was
equal to that of a candle.” The writer trusts the
commissioners had an opportunity of judging the value
of such a statement. The meanest apology for a light at
all is that of a safety-lamp, ai d to give the lamp equal
luminousness to an ordinary candle, would simply mean
to make it equally dangerous.
* * #
Returns of English shipments of concentrates
by Z. Goodman have been published to show that, as a
ride, unless the ore is exceptionally rich, all value is eaten
up in charges such as freight, wharfage, cartage, assaying,
sampling, smelting, commissions, &c. Local sale or
treatment is advised, but there is precious little remedy
in this, as far as N.S.W. is concerned. To treat concen-
trates in Sydney means, as a rule, from £5 to £7 a ton,
allowing for everything. Tub Bulletin's remedy for this
deplorable state of things is the establishment of a State
Mining College and Metal Works.
* # *
Disappointed in England, the New England
Emerald Co. are now offering 4000 shares for sale by
tender to continue the development of the mine. What
has become of the thousands of emeralds already found?
It would appear that the owners have been mistaken in
their value, for in their own advt.'offering the shares, a
London gem expert, while admitting the promising char-
acter of the mine, is quoted as saying: “ Its final success,
however, must mainly depend upon finding emeralds of
line quality and dark colour, and should further explora-
tion realise this hope, undoubtedly there is a great future
for the mine.” Streeter, too, says darker stones will no
doubt be found in the mine at a greater depth. Altogether
they have an encouraging show.
# # •
If reports could make a mine, that of the
Argentine Proprietary, N.Q., would soon be the biggest
on earth. In the latest we have it that the “ inex-
haustible deposit of auriferous quartz in the Jerky Jim
block strongly resembles the famous Day Dawn lode at
Charters Towers.” Unfortunately, even assays only prove
it auriferous to the extent of 4 dwts. to the ton. The
writer knows many enormous lodes which strongly
resemble Mt. Morgan in everything but its gold-contents.
The manager bewails the want of capital instead of the
want of gold.
# # *
J. T. Thompson & Sons, of the Sydney big
Exchange, fire off the truth about the share-market.
“No change in the pulse of the public. Nobody seems to
have any energy left. It is impossible to trade or to
finance a transaction. If an effort is not made soon we
shall have grass growing round the streets of our Stock
Exchange. The question naturally arises, what is the
matter with us all ? Is this horrible state of dry rot to
continue much longer ?” It is refreshing to see the truth
printed occasionally.
The policy of a paper is shown, not by its
leading articles, but by the anonymous letters it
prints.
The Ministry of insolvent N.S.W. pro-
poses to expend about .£60,000 in mobilising the
military forces at Easter ! By Jingo !
Barton defies the N.S.W. Upper House to
“chuck ” out the Elections Bill, and says that it
will contain no vote but one for one man. Jacob,
on behalf of the Council, accepts the challenge
and defies Barton to eliminate the thrift-vote and
“snuff out” the Council. The Dibbs-Barton
Government will now have to show how much
spine it owns.


rv if
FOKFUi* .« AISTKAI4MAII
KTAVfl**.
100 different, Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 6/*: Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue. 0/10—all post free,
price list gratia. Unused stamps
accepted. Rare stamps bought.
VINDIN «5c CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Boon to the suffering—G N IT N Darlings.
After dinner, smoke a G N U N Darling.
The 6 6 YOST” Typewriter.
IllVOHlOil hy Mr. «. W. !V. VO.HT,
Who made the “ Rkminoton ” in 1873; “CauoKapii in
1880; Wonderful “YOST" in 1888-89.
rpHK “YOST” WRITING MACHINE has ft Self-inking
Pad in place of the usual dirty and expenst
Ribbons; a “Centre-Guide” for the type, prevent' *
irregular and uneven printing ; a “ Pointer, ’ to rnoje* '
the printing point on the paper; DIRECT PKINU* ,
from the Steel Type, giving sharp and clear work, a
better carbon copies, etc.
Particulars and Samples of Work free from
The YOST TYPEWRITER CO.,
1‘26 Pitt-st., Svoitttv,; and DU Elizabellvst., Mki.ikk unb
Personal Items.
H. L. Bertrand completes his 27th year in
gaol on 21st inst.
Neville Cayley, the Australian bird-painter,
is about to visit England.
Zox, M.L.A. (Vie.), has resided in the
same boarding-house for 30 years.
Chief Justices Lilley and Higinbotham
were Australian editors at the same time.
Mortimer Menpes visits Australia about
Christmas on an extended sketching tour.
James Rutherford, of Bathurst, N.S.W.,
an American, is the only man in the province who
illuminates his house on Queen’s Birthday.
A certain S.A. Personage’s dog sleeps in a
nightshirt in a baby’s cradle at the foot of the
great man’s bed ! A truly plutocratic pup !
One of the wealthiest men in S.A. —
reputedly worth a million and verra thrifty—does
King William Street with patches on his trousers.
Ballarat Courier Bateman has departed.
He was much more of a wire-puller than Jimmy
Harrison, of the Age, in the days of the “ Old
Hats. ”
A. M. Ferguson, who died a few weeks
ago, was 55 years in Ceylon, as a journalist. He
visited Melbourne as commissioner for the Exhi-
bition.
A. Wilson, the proprietor of Scott’s Hotel,
Melbourne, is a candidate for Lang’s vacancy in
Melbourne City Council. “ Everything comes to
him that waits.”
Thomas Elder, the S.A. semi-millionaire,
is a bachelor. His money will probably go to
Barr-Smith, his partner and relative, already
equally wealthy.
Joseph Julius Ciesar Patrick Kelly is
applying for admission as an attorney of N.S.W.
His first action at law will, it is understood, be
one for damages against his godfather.
Southern, the Melbourne man without a
memory, is writing a book. He is competing
fairly with some prominent historians. The
Bulletin, by the way, doesn’t believe in Mr.
Southern’s loss of memory. It gave him up as a
malingerer after reading the report of his inter-
view with the doctors in Melbourne gaol. Mr.
Southern forgets too much.
J udge Macfarland
(N.S.W.), when once
oa a country circuit,
strongly desired to hairy
out of a township for
personal reasons, but
collided against a law-
suit between two time-
seasoned foes. “You
two here again! ” ex-
claimed his Honor;
“can’t you make it up
and live in peace?”
“ Yer Hanner ! ” yelled
the plaintiff, “s h u re,
how can there be any
peace, whin war-r-r is
declared ! ”
“Billy” Lane, of
“New Australia” noto-
riety, breathes libel-
action against a Sydney
Sunday paper; and Crick
vows similar vengeance
against a Hawkesbury
print.
Robert Louis Steven-
son’s “ Island Nights
Entertainment ’’ is to
be published at Easter.
Much of the matter was
supplied by Tom O'Day,
known as the humorous
liar of the Pacific. Pom
was recently in Sydney.
He lives at Nukunau
in the Line Islands.
One of his yarns is about
a ship running under
bare poles before a gale
of wind into a Maori-
land harbour the entrance
of which was so narrow
that they had to cock-
bill the yards to get in.
For two whole nights
Tom paid out his yarns
to the gifted Robert L.
The priests of Kil-
kenny have taken up
arms against that curly-
headed Sydney boy, Tom
Curran, junior, M.P., for
marrying Marie Brooke,
the burlesque actress.
Marie does not “ dig with
the right fut,” and the
pair were married at a
registry-office. It is ■ vid
that old Tom is not
overpleased, and that
young Tom will have
to resign his seat.
S.A. Register has
four employes who
have been on the paper
over 40 years ; one of
these, W. Holden, is the
oldest working journalist
in Australia. Ten other
employes average 31
years’ service. Editor
Finlayson started as
office-boy 32 years ago.
Of the speakers who took part in the great
anti-transportation meeting on Circular Quay,
Hth June, 1849, but two remain -Michie,
in Melbourne, and Parkea, m Sydney.
Ericsson : “ My best stroke of fortune was
an unfortunate marriage, and separation from my
wife Instead of concentrating my energies on
the support of a woman I gave them to invent,on.
Already there is a man on the N.S.W.
South Coast who claims kinship with the coming
fiovernot t)uff. Gov. Jersey found a relative
somewhere in the same neighbourhood. Also,
Duff has another relative in Balmain, and more
arc expected every day.
Bishop Carpenter, in England, gets £4OOO
a year> and j t is announced that he generously
donates to charity the proceeds from the sale of
the kittens of an invaluable fancy cat he pos-
sesses.
There is but one Hebrew in the Victorian
police force-Constable Felsenthal, of Russell-
street barracks. The wily Semite seldom risks
co jij s i on between his figure-six nose and a slung-
shot.
There are two portraits of Speaker Bent
in « Q uee n’s Hall,” Parliament House, Vic. Mr.
R en t cannot be blamed for being exceedingly
plain, but it is criminal of him to repeat the
offence. ,
The Lazaruses of Melbourne are always
sure of a daily feed on the scraps from Dives
Surgeon Fitzgerald’s table The little porting
medico's address is on the list of all the vagabond
cognoscenti.
Speaker Bent, m a gorgeous, go pa e
~be, was the most dazzlmg feature of the Vm-
tonan Benfc must y ' ha “ b e e „ mistaken
for Peacock.
j Q h n Woods, of Manly Beach, told the
a t the farewell picnic given in honour of
railway-contractor Angus, that he (J.W.) had
loaded, with his own hands, the first rail ever laid
down in N.S. Wales.
When lowly offen der in a big trial comes
before the jury, the evening papers publish horrible
ca l um nies called portraits on their front pages.
Matthew Davies and Co., however, are left
severe ly alone by the press of Melbourne,
Ex-King Milan of Servia, it is cabled,
immediate iy after his reconciliation with the
beauteous Natalie, bolted to Paris. Reconciliation
with one - s wife must be especially trying to that
one o{ tbe pa i r w ho has lived long in Paris.
In a Market-street (Sydney) shop may be
f B .. V C hilde Harold,” formerly
?be property of Parkes with Lady Charlotte
Racon’sautoW Lady Charlotte was Byron’s
i an the and, we think, died in South Australia,
’.V ~ . , /vr n® \ in
Minister Copeland (N.S.W.),
Melbourne, used to spin a yarn of a favourite cow.
which, after calving 12 years ago, had milked
continuously ever since. Perhaps this is an
allegory, and the bovine referred to is intended to
symbolise the province of N.S.W.
HE DREW AN INFERENCE.
SMALL ROUSEABOUT (who has been employed by Squatter M'Skinney):
“Father, I’ve cleared out and left old M'Skinney’s
place.”
FATHER : “What for?”
ROUSEABOUT : “Well, one of M'Skinney’s cows died of plenro,
and M'Skinney salted her down and me and the other
hands had to eat her.”
FATHER: “Is that all?”
ROUSEABOUT: “No. One of M'Skinney’s BOWS died from sun-
stroke, and she was salted down and we had to eat her.”
FATHER : “Anything else?”
ROUSEABOUT: “Yes; two sheep were found dead in the creek,
and M'Skinney made us eat them."
FATHER: “They all do that.”
ROUSEABOUT: “But as soon as we had finished the sheep,
M'Skinney’s mother-in-law died, and I was sent to the
store for fourteen pound of Halt—so I cleared.’
Miss Aida Jenoure, the comic-opera singer
who is engaged to Justin Huntly M'Carthy, is in
private life Miss Ada Ullathorne, daughter of a
solicitor, and a grand-niece of the late Dr. Ulla-
thorne, formerly of “New Holland,” and more
recently R.C. Bishop of Birmingham.
In a short biographical notice in “ Haz.eU’s
Almanac” for 1893 we read : “Sir George Dibbs
is an eminently handsome man. In looking up
Parkes’ bio. in the same publication, wo find no
mention of good looks, but we do read that ho
had “ a child born unto him a year ago.”
Dear Bulletin, —In a recent issue of your
paper Mr. J. T. Bell denies that Premier S. W.
Griffith’s subscription to the Q. floods-relief fund
was 4525. It is an incontrovertible fact that that
amount was given by someone in his name and
afterwards, on the Premier’s return, altered to
XlOO.-A.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Prevents the disease of the functions of the
kidneys, which speedily produces the ultimate
destruction of their substance. Buy whole
bottles.
Mahershalalhashbaz Haberdashah writes
to The Bulletin : “ Courteous Mr. the Editor,—
For what reason so exercises the agility of your
intelligence upon the legs of Hindoos ? Wrap his
excellent noble Hopetoun in adhesing pants—
compare our hair with the ball billiards of the leg
worshipfuls.”
Rev. Dawvid O’Donnell, of Malvern
(Vic.), wants to vault back again into Wes-
leyanism, which he deserted years ago for the
showier glories of Congregationalism. Sec-
tarianism will never be truly lovely until all
d c» a? »c y e
discern to which heavenly football club each
belongs.
.
An eloquent Queensland preacher, the
Rev. R—— B , was lately interviewed by a
parishioner who begged the loan of Jl4O to enable
him to meet a pressing engagement. The parson,
who is generous to a fault and hates cant, readily
agreed to do so, but was much disgusted when
after having “parted” the recipient unctuously
said : “I am so thankful, sir, but it was only
what I expected. Last night when I was sore
perplexed, I prayed to God for guidance, and a
still, small voice within me whispered ‘ Apply to
Mr. .’ I thank the Lord I obeyed that voice.”
“ Ah,” said Mr. , dryly, “had you told me
that before, devil a farthing would you have had
from me.”
Tui Tonga (a re-
puted son of the late
King Thakombau,
of Fiji) serving 20
years for the murder
of h : s Kanaka wife,
is a cool hand. Some
three or four j ears
before he killed her,
he paid the Queens-
land Government .£5
for her return passage
to the Islands, this
sum “to be refunded
in the event of her
death in the colony.”
After his conviction
and sentence, he ap-
plied for a refund of
the money, merely
observing that the
coin would be useful
to him when he came
out of gaol. Tui
Tonga is evidently a
man of strictly busi-
ness principles; but
he looks forward
a bit.
“ King ” Casey,
when in Victorian
politics, resolved on
emulating Duffy,
who always got his
speeches by rote : so
he gave the MS. of
his corning Bendigo
oration tonis favour-
ite Melbourne paper
beforehand. But the
paper took the pre-
caution to send two
reporters, who wired:
“ Dias. He is not
speaking one word
of it.”
“ Why do kings have their photos, taken
in tup-hats and umbrellas? These things give any
monarch away,” says G. R. Sims. He is right.
Hereditary greatness doesn’t seem to justify it sett
unless it is carefully dolled up. The Bulletin
could never quite associate Jersey s hat with a
bulwark of the Constitution, yet Jersey, per-
sonally, was esteemed on account of the aforesaid
“tile.”
J. F. Hogan’s article in Sydney Daily
TELEGRAPH indicates that the copy of (the late
Chief Justice) Martin’s “ Australian Sketch
Book ’’was the only one extant. Now, there are
a good many copies of the book in Australian
private collections. A copy, inscribed “From
James Martin to his friend Richard Davies
Ireland,” was lately bought in Melbourne for six-
pence.
On one occasion only in N.S. Wales has a
Judge assumed the black cap in passing a capital
sentence. Justice Hargrave put it on once and
burst out weeping. The culprit was not hanged
after all the hysterics, and the Judge, in disgust,
never used the “item” afterwards. Old (Vic.)
Judge Williams (the disappointed Hartley s
father) always had the black cap on the desk
before him at criminal sessions, but was too indo-
lent to lean forward and put it on.
Schultz, third husband of Anna Bishop,
died in America a few weeks ago. He used to go
about Melbourne and Sydney in a fur cap, a
grumpy kind of substitute for her other two hus-
bands, the courtly Sir Harry and the ugly old
harpist Bochsa, with whom she bolted from
London. Schultz was a wealthy elderly San
Francisco merchant when he fell in with her, but
seemed to get quite demoralised, and ran through
a fortune wdiich she left him. He died a mendi-
cant.
A fortune-teller, who was brought'up in a
Sydney police-court Inst Friday for disorderly
conduct, longed the following defence : “ My real
name is Russell Sutton—my professional one is
Professor Lutini—er—let me offer your Worship
a card. lam the only genuine reader of the hair,
hands, head and heyes. I ham an hextempore
poet, I am a horator, and I was aggravated.
They threw flour at me, hand I said ‘lf you har
men come on.’” The only genumfe hair-reader
was fined ss.
Phil May, says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, is in enormous demand just now,
and there is the keenest competition amongst the
illustrated papers to secure his services. Au
ordinary man might easily be spoiled by such
popularity as he enjoys, but not so Phil, whose
modesty is in proportion to his great ability.
There is no such thing as vanity about him, and
jealousy is an unknown quantity in his composi-
tion. His studio in Holland Park Gardens is the
rendezvous of numbers of young black-and-white
artists, whom he is ever ready to help on. lie
must now be making a very large income indeed.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Should be used when t(io eystom is exhausted and
the nerves, shaken and weakened by disease, need
sustenance and support.
The experience of years furnishes the most con-
vincing evidence that thousands of lives are
annually saved by the use of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. It speedily cures all affections of the
throat, bronchial tubes, and lungs.
If Ileseigh Martin, as claimed, is impli-
cated in that big lottery confidence-trick, the
prospectus of which stated that valuable estates of
the late Mr. Laidman {sic) Mort, of N.S.W., were
to be drawn for, by permission of the N.S.W.
Attorney-General, at =£l a ticket, cash for tickets
to be forwarded to Wilson Wilfred Grey, solicitor,
Pyrmont, N.S.W. (alleged to be identical with
Reseigh Martin aforesaid), it is pretty e'ear that
Martin was not the only man in the transaction.
He was known to be miserably poor, and the very
nature of the swindle implies that the projector or
projectors must have had some ready money.
Always the same —G NUN Darlings.
A Sydney newspaper says that Deputy-
Coroner Pinhey is the oldest Police-Magistrate in
Sydney, having arrived in the forties. This is
incorrect. Mr. Pinhey arrived in the fifties, and
never was a P.M. He was a chemist in Pitt-
street, about where J. L. Hordern’s shop stands
now, having purchased the business of Mr. Foss,
who in turn purchased from Tawell, the godly
Quaker, who was the first criminal caught by
the agency of the electric telegraph, and was
hanged in England for murdering his mistress.
The next shop was occupied by Sarah Gale, an
exile, paramour and accomplice of the notorious
English murderer, Greenacre. Sarah, who died a
few years ago, was a woman with a squint so pro-
nounced that she could eye at one time the
mutton-pies in her window and the customer whe
had come to buy them.
SIMPLE PROPORTION.
THE OLD MAN : “If the Government puts two-and-a-quarter millions
in a certain bank, the shares of which sell for—well, what you
can get for them, how much will they get out? ”
THE BOY : “As 'what you can get for them’ is to their nominal value,
so is two-and-a-quarter millions to the result.”
Lord Jersey told the Sydney .bankers:
“ Your leading banks are conducted in such away
as to be a credit to the colony and the world.”
With a hard accent on “ leading.”
A new religion has arisen in England, and
has been receiving the attention of the police.
Husbands inform their wives that the Lord has
commanded them to live with other women, and
that they (the wives) will be comforteckas the Lord
directs. Shortly afterwards the wives are inter-
viewed by male members of the sect and informed
that they are the Lord’s chosen sent to comfort
hem. The old Scriptural twang of the scheme
as made it an emphatic success.
"Pain Entirely Left.”
Mrs. Elizabeth Lutherborrow, North Rocks,
Carlmgford, Parramatta, N.S.W., writes on
December 2Gth, 1892 :— Having found such won-
derful benefit as I have from the use of Clements
Tonic I think it my duty to forward you this
letter so that you may publish it, as it may be the
means of getting some poor sufferer like I was to
try Clements Tonic. I had suffered fearful pam
for seven years, caused by poverty of blood and
indigestion. The pains all over my body, es-
pecially at my joints and under my heart, were so
severe that I could not rest day or night ;Jw.
became so weak and debilitated that I could only
with the greatest difficulty attend to my home, i
spent pounds with doctors, but daily grew worse.
The agony I suffered after eating oven the smallest
quantity of food was more than I could bear. I
saw Clements Tonic advertised and determined to
give it a trial. I have taken seven bottles, and
am quite a new woman, all pain has entirely left
me. I sleep well at night, and can eat any food
without feeling the least inconvenience, and do
my work without any trouble.—l remain, yours,
&0,, Elizabeth Lutherborrow, North Rocks, Car-
lingford, Parramatta, New South Wales. ;


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
tfio
Messrs. Charlemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Platinotype Photographs
gams rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
will without doubt establish itself very soon as
one of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE. SYDNEY.
Advice to Young Mon —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
-"How can they make them? Four G N U N
Darlings, Is.
WITH THE APPROACH OF OLD AGE
One is generally troubled with weakness and
physical decay. Wolfe’s Schnapps stimulates the
various organs and endows them with new life.
At Botany you can buy GNUN Darlings.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
22 A 24 Clnrence-slrccl,
SYDNEY.
ğ
_iT.
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various,
strata, WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
ġ
POLITICAL
POINTS
The great question : Mass legislation v.
Ass legislation.
Wanted, all over Australia, a prohibitive
import duty on borrowed money.
The progressive land-tax is giving way to
the direct land-tax with S.A. electors.
It is expected that the Downer (S.A.)
election programme will now include an increased
income-tax,
Gladstone has been burnt in effigy at Bel-
fast. Burning in effigy is ever the outcome of
impotent rage.
Old Parkes: “ This (the N.S.W.) his the
worst Parliament Hi ’ave hever seen.” Naturally:
it has repudiated Parkes.
Labour is now so cheap in the Queensland
coastal towns that there is scarcely any market
for other beasts of burden.
Sydney Burdekin, M.P. (N.S.W.), who
opposes the Income-tax Bill, is said to have an
income of .£ll or £l2 an hour.
Pleasing expression one often sees in the
papers of late : “The man was given work out of
charity.” Fin-de-siecle charity !
They say the proximity of the general
elections alone is responsible for the non-insolvency
of a big “ lawnorder ” organ up North.
The “ Young Victorian Patriotic League,”
perceiving that it must either procure a paid
secretary or die, has chosen the former alternative.
Wealthy members of the National Ass are
subscribing to the election expenses of the candi-
date opposing Dr. Cockburn, at Mount Barker
(S.A.).
Parkes declares against the referendum.
Naturally. Directness is his enemy. Straight-
forwardness is loathsome. Parkes’ gait is side-
ways.
In Australia there are only two political
classes, the wage-earners and wage-payers. Stay,
we had forgotten. The clerks—they are political
eunuchs.
Premier Dibbs (N.S.W) has vowed with a
big oath to glue himself and his colleagues to their
Parliamentary seats until the Ministerial policy
is made law.
To have a plutocracy it is not necessary
that the “ statesmen ” should be rich. The rich
can, and do, in Australia, America, and elsewhere
own the statesmen.
Modern socialism spreads with a rapidity
which is only paralleled by the spread of Chris-
tianity, “ the revolutionary Asiatic creed,” in its
pre-Constantine days.
Joe Lesina, the Single-tax free lance and
“boy politician” No. 2, is editing Gosford
(N.S.W.) Times. Joseph or his “proprietor” had
better study the libel-law.
Henry George's latest book is called “ The
Perplexed Philosopher,” and is a forceful attack
upon Herbert Spencer’s change of attitude re
private property in land.
The jibe of Pilcher, Q.C., about the
man who hangs on for beer and £3OO a year
doesn’t touch the N.S.W. Labour-party. More
than half its number totally abstain.
The death of Matthew Lang has created
an extraordinary vacancy in the Vic. Upper
House. The election of his successor will probably
create yet another extraordinary vacancy there.
Henry Parkes, G.O.M. (N.S.W.): “Hi
will not hask hany helector to vote for me ; but
hi do hask you to vote for men hof principle.”
Quite right, Enery ; part the sheep from the goats.
It is predicted that an urgent necessity for
“doing something” to relieve the depression in
the two leading provinces will bring Federated
Australia into existence within the next three
years.
No Labour-member should be mixed up
in any capacity with any private syndicate formed
to acquire public rights. The Labour-party can’t
afford to have truck with such things—or such
members.
Demand for reform of both Chambers
becoming hot in Victoria. It costs at the rate of
£12,000 per head to accommodate members now
sitting, their club house standing the country in
£1,700,000.
It is stated that one of the S.A. Labour
candidates, who is in the Government service,
withdrew from the contest for an Adelaide con-
stituency in gratitude for an opportune advance
m his wages.
The “ Young S.A. Patriotic League” held
a meeting, last week, which had been much
boomed, but only forty persons turned up, about
twenty being lawyers. Only 20 lawyers out of
forty— persons !
. political, or, rather, parliamentary,
situation in N.S.W, may be likened to a meeting
of gamesters who have cast the dice. The Govern-
ment declares that the understanding was that the
issue should be decided on a “ sudden-death ”
basis ; the Opposition vows that the agreement was
best two out of three.” And so the barney is
pulled out, like the elastic dough of a “ sod ”
damper.
Rev. Rentoul is back in Melbourne from
the Paii-Presbyterian Conference, Toronto, where
he spoke in a manly style about the coming Aus-
tralian Republic, and the hatred in these regions
of the word “colony.”
mi pN
ihe lattersou-OLoglileu Mmi&try (Vic.)
proposes to reduce the total of Cabinet Ministers
salaries from .£14,000 to £lO,OOO a year, while
each private members screw is to be pared
down from ,£3OO to ,£250.
Tavit Tnwl klrlnn phper lilm be
lucres Tory Lord Eldon, cheer him, he
never ratted. So said one of a London demo-
cratic crowd, and it is Melbourne sentiment re
Acting-Governor Madden. Likewise Sydney
sentiment re Bruce Smith.
Postmaster-General Kidd was the last to
enter a recent N.S.W. Cabinet meeting. “Mines”
Slattery : “ Here comes the tail of the Ministry.”
? ldd t % k6S a g °° d b ,^ siness tail to keep the
ffies off this Government.”
What a farce to appoint departmental
under-secretaries to the N.S.W. Commission
Enquiry re Civil Service travelling expenses !
guinea ' PlgS
to report on directorial fees.
J. Medway Day, until lately editor of
S.A. Register, will probably be nominated by
the Labour-party for one of the country districts
at the April elections. Day is one of the ablest
men in tlie local democratic ranks.
The latest S.A. National Ass is to
issue circulars soliciting orders for wood and coal.
In the event of the circulars not being claimed by
the addressee his name is struck off the roll.
These circulars are always sent to working men.
Vic. Government altered the charge
against Mat. Davies and Co. to conspiracy, “ to
enable the calling of evidence over a much wider
field” It is notoriously hard to prove conspiracy
The defence feels much benefited by the change. '
... .
In poetic justice, the bust of Higinbotham
at Melbourne Trades Hall ought to have been
knocked down and broken when his Excellency
Madden ascended the throne. A reminder, again,
TO BE REPEALED.
INTELLIGENT ELECTOR (to candidate) : “Will
you repeal the Law of Gravitation?”
CANDIDATE : “Well, I haven’t fully considered
the point, but I’ll look into it, and if
the Law of Gravitation is unfavour-
able to the working-man, I’ll go dead
agin it!”
that Madden officiated in its presentation year
ago.
Dear Bulletin, —Please do retain in your
pages the titles of Sir Matthew Davies and Co.,
whenever you have occasion to mention them, so
that those who hanker after titles may know the
sort of company they will have to keep.—Yours,
Democrat (M.L.)
Griffith’s apologists say that even he stands
appalled at the fearful villainy his advocacy of
MTI wraith’s land-grant railway scheme has made
possible, and that he goes to the Bench in order
to save the few tattered rags of reputation that
still cling to him.
Traill has epigrammatised the. N.S.W.
political situation : “ The Rise of the People
took place at last general election, when they
captured 40 strongholds. The Daily Telegraph’s
‘ Rise of the People ’ is designed to involve the Fall
of the Proletariat.”
The latest dodge of the Adelaide associated
plutocrats is to insert insidious advts. in the news-
papers, and to sign them on behalf of the United
Labour-party. In any other profession but poli-
tics, this kind of action would be called forgery,
and would mean seven years.
A Melbourne member wants to introduce
the political patronage system into the working of
the local Labour Bureau. Parliamentary recom-
mendations for billets at relief work yielding
half-a-crown a day ! There arc some men who
would rob a corpse, even now.
The “retort courteous.” National Asa
meeting at Petersham, Sydney. Mister Henry
Rule (to an ex-M.P.): ‘‘lf I had your cheek, I
would cut a few slices off, and throw them to the
pigs,” (N.B. —The ex-M-P. is a fat man, with
cheek? in tiers, and terraces of chin).
Labour and its friends constitute 80 per
cent, of the population of N.S. Wales. Labour,
therefore, if Parliamentary representation bo any-
thing more than a name, should have 80 per cent,
of the representatives. On the contrary, it has
less than 25 per cent.—33 instead of 112 in a
House of 141.
There are 84,319 men over 21 years of ago
in S.A., and it is pointed out that 44,037 don’t
own an inch of land, and consequently would not
pay one penny land-tax. Also, there are 26,066
taxpayers who only average 3s. 9d. each. Facts
like these brought into existence the National Ass.
, Hia< . : n< , t „ ad 0 f
18 definitely expected that, msteat or
the surplus of *35,000 which. Premier Downer
soM S.A. would show-at the end of Ju e there
will be a deficit of <£50,000. ihe feverish Civil
Service retrenchment policy is designed to prevent
t^ja catastrophe, but the money saved will not
bear any proportion to the misery caused.
Hmiidntor of Hie defunct Com-
Ware, the liquidator ot the clelu » cc
mercial Bank of b.A., National Ass candi-
the wealthiest
of the directors of the deceased and rotten insti-
Lion, “me out against him from sheer
s P ite - Robinson, the Labour nominee, laughs at
their calamity.
Otago (M.L.) Witness remarks that “it
will be regretable to see men like Matthew Davies
and Millidge in the criminal dock.” Well, it
would be a lot more regretable not to see men like
them in the dock It is regretable, no doubt that
anybody should be in the but jf
must be there, it might as well be somebody like
Davies as somebody like anybody else.
It is satisfactory to know that both sides
of the Victorian Assembly commended Speaker
Bent’s public spirit in keeping the seat for Kara-
Kara vacant, until such time as J. L. Dow had
become qualified for re-election. Evidently t lere
IS a deal brotherly feeling in that impecunious
senate, and the general anxiety to stick to every-
b °dy who has gone bung deserves great ere i .
Blessings on thy heart, for thou brewest
ale one can find no other reason than
such a one for the eminence of the blatant JMtz.-
S erald of Castlemaine or of the departed wine-
merchant, Matthew Lang, Melbourne s Whit-
tingtonest man, Jacky Tommy Smith of yore
alone excepted. Nothing like the alcohol trade to
drive a man ahead. Even Graham Berry’s was a
Toorak grog-grocery.
When, the other day, The Bulletin sug-
gested that John Burns should take a lecturing
tour in Australia it was unaware that Burns was
already thinking about the matter. It has since
been cabled that he will arrive in September. Let
the Labour bodies note this fact in view of their
electioneering arrangements. Let them organise,
in each of the two biggest Australian capitals, a
daily paper, and get Burns to start the machines.
S.A. Assembly consists of 54 members,
about 20 of whom are Democrats. It is computed
that, including 10 Labour members, between 25
and 30 members will be elected in April who will
vote for doubling the present land-tax. S.A.
National Ass expects to assist in electing at least
20 members in the Property interest, excluding
the present Ministry. The success of the demo-
cratic party, therefore, depends entirely upon the
tactics of the labour leaders.
G. H. Reid says that the N.S.W.
Electoral Bill will probably tend to a political
crisis, as it is evident the Upper House will not
pass the One-man-one-vote limitation. Let there
be no immediate political crisis out of the Electoral
Bill. Let the Ministry accept the decrease in
property-voting effected by the Council and fight
that body with another Bill putting before the
country one plain, straightforward issue: Shall
Property have one vote or two ?
Dear Bulletin, —Your dig at the “ Queen
of Sheba ” atrocity purchase in the N.S.W. Art
Gallery reminds also of the purchase for
the State of several volumes of an illustrated
work on Australian birds, &c, these volumes
for a considerable time adorned the official
sanctuary of Poet-Minister Parkes, but it is not
clear where they are now. In the Public Library, I
suppose. They may have honestly been worth £5
apiece, and I think there were eight of them. A
certain County of Cumberland member is credited
with having succeeded in inflaming the admiration
of “ the State ” for them. At any rate, .£3OO is said
to represent the sum paid for them with public
money. Will somebody enquire?—Yours, Com-
MIBH.
The N.S.W. Parliament seems determined
to assert as a constant principle that all bills,
whether Ministerial or private, belong absolutely
to the Committee of the House when once placed
before hon. members in committee. Ministers
squirm, but invariably submit. The coming event
of the abolition of Party Government casts its
long shadow before. Surely, the paralysis of the
present system has a real and radical cure other
than the worse ill of a coalition Government?
J. C. F. Johnson, M.P. (S.A.), once a
Radical journalist, is now (after a bit of successful
company-promoting, etc.), a prop of the bogus-
National Defence League. He is one of the great
army which “can’t stand its oats.” He has dis-
continued subscribing to the only local paper
circulating in his district, because it spoke of his
pet as the National Ass. Johnson, in his Liberal
days, seconded the motion, carried by the
Assembly, in favour of payment of members. He
now talks of moving for its repeal, but is expected
to get his quietus at the general election first.
Eyeglass Reid at Wagga : “In order to
conduct Party Government properly Parliament
should be divided into two distinct parties.” In
other words, it should only consist of the party
which has got office and will sell its soul to the
devil to keep it, and the party which has not got
office and will lie and steal and commit perjury to
get it. The Labour-party, says the same
authority, “should not be a distinct party from
the other parties.” Neither it should, according
to the ethics of Party Government. There is no
room for any party which wants anything except
office.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) has got a “Christian
Electoral and Moral Reform League ” whose
object is “ the enrolling of Christian electors into
an organisation for the purpose of taking common
and united action in the matter of selecting
gentlemen of known uprightness of life and
Christian character to come forward as candidates
for Parliament.” A word in the capacious ear of
the League. No man’s “ Christian character ”is
ever “ known ” sufficiently for the League’s pur-
pose unless he announces it himself. If he
announces it himself that is a tolerably conclusive
proof that he hasn’t any “ Christian character” at
all. It is the man of unknown uprightness that
is wanted, and he can’t be got because his upright-
ness is unknown. Therefore, the League is engaged
on a hopeless contract and had better give it up.
A Disease Of Civilisation.
In the “North American Review ” for Decembet
Dr. Henry Smith Williams, Medical Superin-
tendent of the Randall’s Islands Hospital, and an
authority on diseases of the brain, had an article
on “General Paresis of the Insane,” which
attracted wide and deserved attention. We quote
its opening paragraph :
Of all the diseases that menace the race, only a
few are absolutely fatal. Indeed, there is but one
common disease that invariably brings its victims
speedily to the grave. This most ruthless of
maladies is that terrible form of insanity, technic-
ally called general paresis or paretic dementia,
and known to the laymen as “softening of the
brain." Its unvarying history entitles it to
precedence over consumption, cancer, Bright’s
disease; in short, places it peerless in bad pre-
eminence. And if this were not enough, its
malignity is emphasized by the way in which it
juggles with its victim before it extinguishes his
life. It changes his personality, dethrones reason,
almost eliminates the mind, and steadily weaken-
ing the body, leaves towards the last a mere
skeletonal, vegetative being, scarce recognisable as
the vestige of his former self; unknown, unfeel-
ing, mindless; to his friends at once a tearful
memory and a terrible objective presence.
Finally death comes in a form horrible enough to
be the fitting climax of so awful a disease.
Paresis has numbered among its victims scores
of eminent men. It does not strike down the
clod, but the active, alert, nervously organised
business man, author, actor, statesman, physician,
journalist, etc.
What is its cause ?
In a word, abuse of function; over-activity of
the brain. Who among us does not know of a
once brilliant intellect now periodically clouded,
or, perchance, brought to an incurable condition
by overwork or abuse of certain functions.
We do not wish to unnecessarily harrow up the
feelings of the reader. What we desire is to
point out the way of escape. When a man feels
that he is losing his grip of business, that his
memory is failing him, that he tires easily, that
his head aches, and that he cannot eat and sleep
well, it is high time to call a halt.” It is either a
question of less business, less self-gratification, or
softening of the brain and death. A certain stage
of the disease having been reached, death from
paresis is just as certain as from an advanced case
of consumption. It is, therefore, the part o'
wisdom that when a man realises that he is ovtr
exerting himself, to put a break on his desires and
begin intelligent treatment. Let him not foi 1
ishly resort to stimulants, narcotics, drugs, etc.,
which are but temporary expedients, but to that
which will put him on the road to permanent
health. Such an aid is found in Warner’s Safe
Cure and Warner’s Safe Nervine. Warner’s Safe
Cure will relieve the engorged kidneys, aid diges-
tion, and assist in making healthy blood, while
Warner’s Safe Nervine will bring rest and sleep
to the tired brain and nerves. Thousands have
escaped the asylum and premature death by pur-
suing the course we have outlined, and we beg of
you, reader, if so afflicted, that for your own sake,
as well as the happiness of those who are near and
dear to you, to be wise in time, and to-day begin
that course of living and resort to that help which
will lead to a vigorous manhood, with faculties
unimpaired and with years of usefulness in store.


MoraL leacher “My boy, do you khow what kills more than the sword ?*’
Boy (promptly) : “ Boxin' gloves ! ’
3
Kp~*
Uißßs : “ You see, ray idea of retrenchment is to lake a square
post out of a square hole and put it in a round one
BETWEEN WIND AND WATER
Life in the country yuat now it not worth living
A NARROW ESCAPE.
A genius of the name of Jeremiah Wilson discovered d caVe tip country the
other day and got lost in the darkness thereof. A terrible death stared him in
the face, when, as by inspiration, it occurred to him tt) light the Caddie Which
he held ih his hand, and so escape a lingering death.— (For .full account see
daily papers.)
Vi'lv
T
ELECTOR AL BrLu
frlM, Jrl
THE LEARNED PIG.—He only knows one word
/£?/•
irritating effects of the floods.
Sir George Dibba and Sir Henry Parkes are both flood-bound, the
former at Musweilbrook, and the latter at Quirindi.’'
Djuus That miserable old imbecile.’ i
Parkes; "A man who says that'is a liar." <
-rfixtract* from recent tyeecKei
% j .
SYDNEY TOPICS.


L Blfc
Wesleyan united
CONFERENCE.
•m , .. . .
The Rev. E. Greenwood, a returned mis-
fioiwry from Tonga, delivered an address, in
which ho described the improvements made in
the habits aad customs of the South Boa.
Islanders by the spread of C^fetatiauity.
Tfji s istfye 'Bulletins
Lise s c rij)it on, oj-
f/-je imforoVtmtrit.
(W** . r A
ģ
<4^
"e/ei-G
(I)
(?)
(3;
(*)
IVerVoUS DaLir»sel._, Here Come % tKe.
Tohioii.. I li£ w'onf AskTne if-
fmtaiUk I donr kn»«r o
' -for Cerfcmx
"flu graft jot- on a f/,eJture. I shouT
i s geo-i', a.ncl (Are. d id.
TATCK nt To be jatle* ec(
So h»dlf
'.Mr. ■Pitbves addressed the jury on behalf af
[Haraldson. The man he defended was tlfe
JjrpongSter sitting beside him—a mere youth-
nwwdwri 'had been arrested iyuh
Whet (or his sole ‘wealth,!
Ou.etjf' —' Dtd '/u.ns'as, hafhimicljr
* o*? of i/jcii vcA Jr?
%
/n S Cot\ y.'t'i cl rot rrx
" If wild, even reckless, speculation is to be
. treated as a crime, who in Melbourne in to-go
'free f‘
*** w
r*'
V 1
g
‘finjvs'n
rtta-diny
1/[C. ehbvrf 10-dywlio
yu~o>.i At- o iat n tc t • i -1 2. J"
of* viro>-‘tei* J— "Wow'’ ij* Icou/fd on ly
incli«-cc- M txl~!ldix. ■u
~ia.Ke, cv "bo'-l’K every'
ttvorrtiny—“tlxeTc’s no wKo.It
Ttv'i Ixo.JjJo ca!*’»
SOME MELBOURNE NOTIONS.


ODD SPEC.
HAI'E, PROFITABLE*
The Coming Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
returns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, Ac. Snlendid returns
gold crushing*, Yilgam. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops.dwellings, going
up all over Perth. The colony is coming along
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
£35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SC nr KHAN BLOCKS, PERTH, PKOM CIO
£l5 (PROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small DepotH. Easy Tcrmx. Pcr/rrt Title,
Write or call for marked plane and all information
to
The Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Eslnl). ISSa), ;m>!» riil-M , Sydney. VS.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager.
Branch Office; BT. GEORGE S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Neither mind nor body can not healthfully, if
the blond is vitiated. Cleanse the vital current
from impurities by the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
This remedy purifies the blood and restores health
to the debilitated system.
PBMKU/H
W HE ATEN A.
The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem,
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemnne and Sons, are unsurpassed.
On the ferry, smoke Ci N U N Darlings.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
BOSE'S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL.
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
THE BEST DIIIN K FOK AL L.
Prepared from the finest Went Indian Inino
Fruit.
.Soli! by n*l Storekeepers, etc.
Ornkrai. Aornts:
JULES RENARD «3c CO„
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
Military men tell a tale of an Australian
commandant who recently drafted a very com-
prehensive scheme of mobilisation. When the
work was completed, all draft copies were
destroyed, only one “ edition ” being kept. This,
Major-General , for safety, carried about in
his pocket. Of course, he dropped it. But the
point of the story is the place in which he
dropped it.
• * #
Up on the Blue Mountains, in the days
when visitors were many and hotels were few, it
was a common practice of one hotelkeeper to
stable four or five people in each apartment,
foisting the men on to some unfortunate male
who had engaged a room, and the women on to
the female lodgers. He used to say: “The
worst visitors are those blessed newly-married
couples. You can put neither male nor faymale
in with thim.”
• • #
A well-known Sydney man was being
shaved the other day by a terribly loquacious
barber. The barber talked about everything
under heaven —the state of politics, the Makin
case, Jersey’s departure, the Newmarket Handi-
cap, and the vote for thrift. At last the wearied
customer lifted up his voice and remarked : “ Yes,
I quite agree with you. It would be a grand
world if it were only glassed in to keep out the
fleas.” The- utter irrelevancy of the remark so
jolted the barber that he has never turned his
tongue loose on that customer since.
• • «
A true story, but names and places
fictitious. Long ago, the affiliation case of Blue-
bell v. Taffington occupied the petty sessions of
Goannertown, Australia. The complainant was
only 15 years old, and afterwards her infant died.
She lived with her mother, and was much be-
friended by Miss Woolly, a squatter’s daughter,
who subsequently came to utter poverty through
marrying one Timberside, an amateur steeple-
chaser, killed while riding his horse Chickamaroo
on the Flemington course. Miss Bluebell, ten
years after the Court incident, married Yolkman,
a wealthy pastoralist on the Barcoo. Widow
Timberside, her old friend, only found it out by
accident. She began a course of blackmail on Mrs.
Yolkman, and even came and lived in the house,
driving the poor woman to the verge of distrac-
tion. She had to invent all kinds of stories about
the obligations she was under to Mrs. Timberside.
Ultimately Yolkman found out the truth, and
- generously forgave his wife for the deception.
'• • •
AS. A. love-story. A few years back, in
Adelaide, when immigrants were arriving pretty
freely, Mick D (about the wildest Irishman
who ever lived) happened to be at the railway-
station when some of them came in. Mick made
himself “moighty handy” with the trunks and
boxes, especially of the colleens, and eventually
started off across North-terrace with a huge box
on his shoulder, and accompanied by its owner, a
fresh, young countrywoman of Ids. Arrived
half-way across the terrace, Mick slammed down
the box and enquired : “ Are ye married ?”
“ Faith, Oi’m not,” was the reply. “ Well, begob,
Oi’ll marry ye.” And, begob, he did, for he
re-shouldered the box and in two hours she was
Mrs. Mick D .
# * •
Dear Bulletin, —A love-story for you.
Quite recently in the North - West Pacific I
dropped across an old acquaintance—a former
fellow-trader. He is a stalwart half-caste, and
son of Captain , a well-known German mer-
chant. When invited inside I naturally looked
among the many native women present for his
wife, whom I remembered as a particularly witch-
ing little dusky damsel. “How is Serena?” I
asked. “Oh, fine, fine.” “ Got any more children,
Edward ? ” " Oh, some more.” “ Well, where is
Serena, anyway ? I want to see her.” “ All right,
you’ll see her presently. But, you see, she—she
isn’t my wife any more. About a year ago I
began to like her sister ; you remember that little
one always laughing, don’t you ? Well, you see,
Serena belongs to a chief family here, and as I
didn't want to disgrace her by sending her away
to marry a native I kept her on, and now she
minds all the children. She’s a good girl,
Serena.”
* « #
Nearly £‘40,000 have been subscribed for
the Queensland flood relief. By the way, is it
possible for the Brisbane committee to dis-
tribute the funds entrusted to them without
humiliating the recipients? You’d think that
some of the inflated beadles who have to do with
it were philanthropising on their own account—
so much humility do they extort from the
unfortunates.
• # •
At the N.S.W. Presbyterian Assembly a
new Moderator has raised his aggressive voice
against Sunday-school picnics, declaring that they
“ interfere with the purity and usefulness of the
church.” He doesn’t regard those occasional cor-
roborees from a practical point of view, like The
Bulletin man who writes these verses :
A wealthy Western N.S.W. squatter is so
miserly that, when a son of his died, he with his
own hands botched up a coffin to keep down
funeral expenses. Give him an extra vote for
“Thrift.”
Rev. J. Wat-
son, a Wesleyan
missionary toNew
Guinea, has re-
turned with the
story that the
“brutal and
savage ” natives
of Doubou have
“in the short
space of two years
been changed to
peaceful, God-
fearing Metho-
dists.” And the
rev. gentleman
calls this glad
tidings.
# •
Cable gram
from London
states that
Thomas Hillier
Green, a young
student from
Maoriland, took a
f atal d ose of poi son
“in consequence
of having been
attacked by small-
pox.” This un-
necessary tragedy
may be attributed
to the small-jiox
scare, which |K>or
Thomas had taken
over with hi m
from his native
land. Probably
he was afraid that
Great Britain
would rise up and
howl for him to go
into quarantine
and remain disin-
fected for the rest
of his natural life.
Visions of legisla-
tors bringing in
bills to prevent
him from spread-
ing had begun to
haunt his fevered
brain, no doubt.
So the young fel-
low, instead of
keeping warm and
taking care not to
scratch his face,
killed himself.
One pities him,
although it is not
usual for English
small-pox cases to
get pitted nowa-
days.
There were twin brothers at Sydney High
School so much alike that no oue could distinguish
them save from the fact that Julius occupied a
seat on a front form and Leopold one on a back
form. Leopold was disciplined one day to stay
indoors during the noontime play-hour. This was
a crisis period in his calf-love, too, as he had
“ an appointment ” during that identical hour of
penance. Julius entered sympathetically into his
agonies and agreed to act as scapegoat substitute.
While performing this deed of heroism, however,
Julius was detected in an act of horseplay and
was duly minuted —as Leopold, mind you—for a
caning next morning. Of this he told not his
brother. Next morning, at the punishment hour,
the thundering voice of the schoolmaster sounded:
“ Leopold Blank, stand out!” And Leopold
forthwith received one of the tastiest whackmgs
which the High scholars had ever enjoyed wit-
nessing. The compensation of mutual substitu-
tion 1
•• o .
An ominous tale about a wedding comes
all the way from Jundah, in the remote Queens-
land wilds. A local bushman had made the
usual arrangements to give away half his
victuals in order to get the other half badly
cooked, and the priest, who lived in a township
about 80 miles distant, was expected to make his
usual pastoral visitation on a certain date. He
didn’t come ; the only thing that did come was
an intimation that there was no water on the
road, and his reverence couldn’t travel. When
the bridegroom heard this, he promptly got drunk.
While he was drunk another message intimated
that the pastor had started after all and had got
to a place 30 miles distant, where he and his
horse had both broken down. Then the bride-
groom went forth in a buggy to fetch him, and,
being drunk, wisely took a boy with him to help
to find the road. He got to his destination and
got several times drunker than before, and then
in a yelling, hilarious state he shoved the good
man into his vehicle and went off at a gallop.
Five miles out the water-bag burst. Fifteen
miles out they lost their way, and after
many struggles the bridegroom and the priest
left the buggy and proceeded to take a
look round in search of an alleged water-
hole. The priest had no knowledge of the
bush, and the bridegroom was in a state
bordering on frenzy, so presently they lost them-
selves, the- buggy, the boy—everything. They
camped out that night, one praying, the other
swearing, and walked most of the next day,
and at last, towards evening, they accidentally
reached their starting-point, and were saved.
Then somebody sent forth an expedition and
rescued the boy and the buggy; the bridegroom
got drunk again ; the terrified priest started for
home to get away from the scene of the orgie, and
an unfinished marriage is still awaiting comple-
tion in the vicinity of Jundah.
# # •
A present inmate of Callan Park (N.S.W.)
Lunacy Asylum is ordinarily sane enough, but,
when alcoholised, becomes tolerably “balmy.” He
was a “clerk in holy orders.” Once the writer’s
informant met him and asked how he was getting
on. “Oh, very well indeed. I’ve just come out
of gaol.” “Nonsense.” “ Yes, I assure you . .
Well, not exactly gaol, but I’ve been in the lock-
up.” “What for?” “Oh, I suppose I was
drunk.” “ Well, how did you get on ? ” “ Oh,
very well indeed. The officer brought me in a tin
mug of tea this morning.” “But how did you
get on in court ? ” “Well, they took me in along
with the other convicts, and, by and by,iny name
was called. ‘You’re charged with being drunk
and disorderly,” says the magistrate; ‘how do
you plead—guilty or not guilty?’ ‘To tell you
the truth, your Worship,’ says I, ‘ I don’t remem-
ber anything at all about it.’ ‘Do you plead
THE DEPRESSION.
JEHU moralises: “Bein’ a purty woman 'pears the on’y pnrfession that
there’s any money in these times.”
guilty or not guilty ? ’ says he again. ‘ I tell you,
I don’t remember anything about it, and, as a clerk
in holy orders, I will not endanger ray soul of
perjury by swearing one way or the other.’ ‘Do
you plead guilty or not guilty?’ says he, getting
cross. ‘I repeat,’says I, solemnly, ‘that 1 don’t
remember anything at all about it; but, if it will
simplify matters for the Judges, I will plead
guilty, and may God forgive me, a clerk in holy
orders, for affirming a matter of which I have no
recollection whatsoever.’ ‘Five shillings, or the
rising of the court,’ says he. ‘ I beg your pardon,
your Excellency,’ says I, ‘but will you be so good
as to inform me what you mean by the rising of
the court; lam not versed in legal technicalities.’
Just then an officer pulled me out from among the
other convicts, and presently I was let go. Yes,
Ido not mind if Ido have a drink. I’m a clerk in
holy orders, but I’m not bigoted.”
» # •
A certain influenza-made widow, in a
Sydney suburb, was allowed .£4OO a year and
“perks,” by her father-in-law, to he good ; but
alas ! it now seems shecouldn't. Oh ! frailty, thy
name is widow !
• • •
At Wellington (M.L.), a deserted husband
named Snelgrove was lately granted a divorce.
He explained that his wife left him just 22 years
ago, and all that time he had lieen saving up the
money to get legally separated, but had never got
enough com together until now. Snelgrove should
get a vote for Thrift on the strength of his decree
nisi. At the same time, The Bulletin would like
his photograph. He must be either a misanthrope
or a desperately ugly man who can’t, some time
inside of 22 years, borrow from some other woman
enough money to get divorced with.
One has now only to look closely at the
gorgeous lamp-posts (£5OO apiece !) of Martin-
place, Sydney, to see the disgraceful job that has
been perpetrated at the expense of the Treasury.
The marble pedestals are seamed with cracks and
scarred with chips. Putty has been freely used in
the “make-up,” and in some instances the blocks
have been too short and thin slices of marble have
been introduced to “fake” the required height.
Moreover, three lamps would have given ample
light for all purposes—one at each corner and one
in the middle--and this would have saved half the
squander. Bronze cats (!) are now being fixed on
the lower portions of these costly candlesticks.
# # *
From Sydney Evening News :
‘TAT'ANTED, a kind Motherly Person to Care Infant.
” S. Thomas, Darlington P. Office.
■\X7ANTED, a kind Lady to Adopt a Baby Girl, 8
’ ’ years old. 71 Engine-st.
T)ABY to Adopt from birth, of gentle birth. No
premium. A. 8., G.P.0., Sydnej’.
WANTED to Adopt a Baby 9 days or a fortnight
’' old, or from birth, fair, no premium required.
W.G., Newtown P.O.
TtT'ANTED, Foster Mother, for 4 weeks, for rough
” terrier Pups. Campbell and Miller, shoeing
forge, 64 Dixon-st., Haymarket.
TATILL elderly gentleman kindly Assist Widow in
distress? Gertrude, Post Office, William-st.
One of the foregoing somehow recalls a good old
English story. Northumberland miner (to his
wife) : “ Wheat ’ave yer dun wi’ th’ mulk they
broaght this moarnin’? ” “I gave it to the baby.”
“ Th’ baby be domned ! I woanted it foar me
bull-doag.”
# # #
In Melbourne a recent deceased left his
property, worth about £lOOO, to two young people
who had befriended him. Deceased’s sons dis-
puted the will and took the matter into court.
Result: The sons’ costs amount to £lOOO, and the
young couple’s to £075. The sons won the case.
# # *
A member of Melb. Women’s Christian
Temperance Union impresses upon her sisters the
solemn truth that “men who drink beer think
beer,” and that “ man is tremendously influenced
for good or evil by what he eats.” She firmly
believes there are foods that tend to foster and
encourage Christian sentiments.” If logical, the
lady at least should not begrudge missionaries to
the poor heathen who eat them. Who knows
what noble Christianising influences may be
exerted by missionary steak ?
• # *
One visible object-lesson to be studied in
connection with a drowning occurrence in Mel-
bourne (Vic.) last week is that any man who
insures Ids wife’s life in favour of himself, places
himself in a most unsavory position, espe-
cially when his wife becomes the victim of an
accident while out alone with him. It should
also seem that no insurance company, careful of
its reputation and not altogether gluttonous for
premiums, should care to entertain any such pro-
posals. The arguments for life-insurance can only
be maintained fully in respect of the bread-winner
of a household. If the life of a bread-winner’s wife
must be insured, the amount of the policy should
bo made payable to the children only, or to their
guardians; but, even in this. f here remain dark
possibilities of suspicion.
# # #
Thirteen more solicitors admitted to prac-
tice in N.S.W. last week, the majority being harm-
less-looking, clean-shaved youths, with large
collars. If attorneys go on increasing at the
present rate —there are already over 700 on the
roll—The Bulletin sees a boom-time ahead for
another form of culture —tank-sinking and ring-
barking. By the way, it wouldn't be a bad idea
for some millionaire squatter to give, say, £lO,OOO
to Sydney University to endow a Chair of Ring
barking.
• # #
A high-toned dame from 'Ome was in the
cloak-room of Melbourne Princess Theatre,
recently. Wishing to communicate with some
friends in the circle, she demanded of the atten-
dant: “Bring me an ushah !” She was brought
one—Usher’s whisky (advt.) But what a lovely
satire on the customs of female society ?
• • #
The co-respondent in the latest “tapis-ed”
Melbourne divorce-case is a public-schoolboy of
17 summers. The action of the comedy took place
in an up-to-date Temple of Venus—a coffee-palace
—and the remaining characters are the usual old
husband and young wife. The co. was chosen by
the lady from a score of applicants for the posi-
tion. It is understood he will make no defence,
but plead infancy in extenuation of his weakness.
Thus does the minor abandon his claim.
• # •
Dear Bulletin, —The Lord Howard de
Walden divorce-suit, concerning which late
London cables have been eloquent, should revive
racy recollections amongst old West-Queens-
landers. The noble Lord, I think, was one of
three brothers (Ellis) who once bought a Barooo
station, and “went through” £300,000 in three
years. Then was the time for sundowners. Bay-
day every month would witness the billycocked
dodgers mustering at the head-station and
parading as regular wages-men, trusting—and
effectually so—to the notorious fact that the
“boss” was always too drunk to remember
anything. Thus, Jack Nodhead would range
up. “ Who are you ?” would say Ellis. “Shure
don’t you remember, sir ? You put me
on at the dam beyant on last Friday fort-
night at £1 a week and rations.” “Well, I
s’pose it’s all right, though I don’t remember your
face.” And the boss would write a cheque in-
stantcr. One of the Ellises was, from his ophidian-
gathering partiality, known as “Snakes.” Inis
joker once, when evil times had fallen upon him,
applied to his Brisbane banker for an overdraft,
and was peremptorily refused. He departed in
visible anger, went and poured down his throat
many libations of raw whisky, and returned in
an hour or so, inflammable with alcohol.
“ I want that overdraft.” “ You have re-
Don’t “ blow ” upon the picnic, where the slender, callow
saint
Gets a chance to roam with Ruth behind the rocks,
And folds her to his bosom with such Christianlike con
straint
That she wonders why his ears she doesn’t box.
We have heard of ma complaining in a melancholy tone
Of the trouble that a little trip has brought;
But the blushing lady teachers, in their innocence, will
own
That religion, sans the picnic, were as naught.
Don’t “ blow ” upon the picnic, it is only once a year
That the damsels’ warmer feelings find a vent;
The seagulls may be shrieking, but no other eyes are near
To spot the “ brother’s ” kiss she can’t prevent.
And if they close proceedings with a little classic hymn,
And gather up some shells before they go,
They can wander back together when the light is growing
dim,
Like a pair of weary pilgrims here below.
It is good to teach the children on a Sabbath afternoon,
It is well to be a seeker after truth ;
But the quiet, calm reflection that the picnic’s coming
soon
Giveth joy to Obadiah and to Ruth.
The tea-fight hath its pleasures, and a lecture’s pretty
fair,
Yet shepherds truly mindful of their flocks
Must let ’em have the picnic, for they ought to be aware
That church religion’s founded on the rocks.


EYESIGHT PRESERVE I).
“SPECTACLES; their Use, when Required#
and how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read hv all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualified Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to nil who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address* the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
462. 474 & 687 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
LADIES WHO IN FEEBLE HEALTH
Seek a wholesome invigorant will not be repelled
by Wolfe’s Schnapps, and will experience speedy
benefit. Buy whole bottles.
Secure an overdraft with a G N U N Darling
qigar.
FOR LOSS OF APPETITE,
General debility, impairment of the organs or the
body, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the best remedy known.
Buy whole bottles.
Russia complains that the English are
showing at Greenwich Hospital, as a war-trophy,
a bogus Russian flag “made in Germany.”
THE TONE OF THE STOMACH
Is at once lowered by imprudences in eating or
drinking. Avoid these and medicate yourself by
taking Wolfe's Schnapps.
All civilised races smo\ce GN UN Darlings.
MANY ILLS INCREASE WITH AGE.
This being so, it is highly necessary that a stim-
ulant and restorer, such as Wolfe’s Schnapps, be
taken at the outset.
Premier Dibbs owes much of his success to
G N U N Darlings.
a clear night,
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & CO.
(LIMITED),
Solo Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY k SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.’
Pianos by all Good Maker®’.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’s RANT) INSTRUMENTS
338 George Street, Sydney.
ceived my final answer.” “Not by a jugfull,
you (imprecatory apostrophe)!” And, with that,
“ Snakes ” Ellis pulled out of his clothing half-a-
dozen lively, hissing snakes which darted around
frantically at the surroundings generally. The
bank-managei - , clerks, &c., made one unani-
mous rush into the street, leaving “Snakes”
monarch of all he surveyed, until some plucky
bushman-volunteer came in and despatched all
the reptiles he could get at. Even then,
“ Snakes” made the manager’s afternoon a sputter
of horror-spasms by saying that he had seen “ the
most venomous serpent of the lot ’’ crawly right
into the manager’s own safe. One of the Ellis’s died
in the climax of insanity born of brandymania,
being shepherded, as a harmless lunatic, to the end
by a well-known Brisbane man who had retired
to a seaside resort, and who alone among local
people knew whence the insolvent drew certain
resources whicli were undoubtedly forthcoming.
I notice Lord Howard denied- that he was a
drunkard!—Yours, Gi.
# * *
An American employed as a labourer at
West Maitland (N.S.W.), and a brother now on
his way from the U.S., claim several of the best-
known estates on the Paterson River, which they
say were willed them by a brother, killed in
N.S.W. some years ago. The man from America
is said to be armed with documents which go far
to prove the title.
# * *
Legal “ amalgams ” are not now permitted
to occupy offices within the sacred precincts of
SelborneChambers, Melbourne, which is religiously
restricted to members of the “ old ” Bar.
9 9 *
Rockdale (N.S.W.) has risen to the
occasion. Two poets at one birth! “ Gruss ”
howls a dingo’s tuneful “ Farewell to Lady
Jersey," whom he tells—
Sublime suds of the soul! The very garlic of
pathos ! And listen—
Why are the fates unkind? Why do the ties unbind? Why
should our Countess be taken away ?
Why did the message come, too soon, to call her home,
when there so many were who wished her to stay ?
After this vomit of veneration it is positively in-
spiriting to hearken to “B. Smith, builder,” on
Rockdale’s “New Post Office
The new Post-office, Rockdale, is opened to all this day,
And is prepared to help you on business terms always.
After a blood-curdling enumeration of Rockdale’s
tradespeople, the gifted Smith exults—
We have a population of some ten thousands souls so
dear,
And these all been accomplished within this last seven
years.
A municipality of infants ! Not a man or a
woman who is “ over seven.”
* * *
The real Miss-ing word is Marriage.
# * #
Sydney D.T.’s law-reporter: “The peti-
tioner and respondent came to N.S.W., and in
1887 the domestic quietude was raised to the con-
dition of a volcano by respondent’s admission of a
compromising attitude towards the moral code.”
Which piece of newspaperese recalls the elabora-
tion with which horse-haired counsel earn
refreshers in the same Divorce Court. Counsel :
“ When was that?” Witness : “ Last November.”
0. : “What do yon mean by that?” W. :
“November last.” C. (indignantly): “Novem-
ber, ’92, do you mean?” W. ; “Yes.” C.
f reprovingly): “ Then why didn’t you say so ?”
9 * *
That eccentric mass of beef, our recent
visitor, the Marquis of Qucensberry, has been
lecturing in London on the advantages of poly-
gamy and polyandry. His fixed opinion is that
every man should be permitted to take at least
three wives, and that any lady should have several
husbands if she feels so inclined. The fatted peer
read his lecture in a nervous voice, and plunged .
all over the stage at intervals in quest of missing
fragments of manuscript. Nobody seems to have
been much gratified, and the prevailing impres-
sion is that the fat and bloated peer is off his
head—like all the rest of the Douglases.
# * *
Advertisement from a London paper :
To Lonely Maiden Ladies of Means.—A young man, of
good family and prepossessing appearance, is prepared to *
act as cavalier to an elderly lady of means, who has no
one of the opposite sex to take her about. Theatres,
dinners, and suppers at restaurants, music-halls, drives
to Richmond, mornings in the Park, &c., &c., are sug-
gested. Advertiser could manage luncheon and dinner-
parties. Address, .
• • •
A fact to be considered alongside Hen-
Emancipation movements is that nine out of every
ten fortune-tellers, prophets, astrologers, &c., are
supposed females. This is good in one aspect;
they “ sweat ” would-be guinea and half-guinea
fees to half-a-crown or one shilling, thus cheapen-
ing the penalty of folly and superstition.
* * *
While the Australian Legislatures are
abolishing women as barmaids, they should also
abolish women as waitresses. Tottie and Nellie
serve grog with much grace (though with little
expedition, as a rule), but they can’t wait at
table. It is their wretched male customers who
do the waiting.
# * *
A Kinsman benedict in Victoria has man-
aged to accidentally drown the wife of his bosom
in two or three feet of water at Albert Bark
lagoon (South Melbourne) a few days after con-
summating a joint insurance policy for =£7oo on
his and her life. Good luck generally follows
the lightning hitches of the ex-reverend-black-
smith.
* * *
The largo (amateur) Bench was unanimous
in dismissing the charge of sexual hypnotisation
preferred against Rev. Ralph Brown, of Mel-
bourne. But the chairman said he could not carry
all with him in the complimentary remarks he
would have liked to make. The decision seems
perfectly right, but a Police Magistrate should sit
in every such case. The present amateur justice
system is a disgusting scandal.
* * *
Six suicides in Melbourne one day last
week. Politicians and the press point out to the
people the necessity of self-sacrifice. But politi-
cians don’t suicide.
* » #
Rev. J. Watson at the Melb. Methodist
Conference:—“The people of Doubon are the
worst in the Pacific. They are out-and-out canni-
bals, and by-and-bye will make good Methodists.”
They are out-and-out cannibals, and will make
good Methodists !
Scene—Newcastle District Court, Counsel
for the plaintiff in the midst of a wild burst of
oratory. Drunken juror interrupts : “ ’Scuse me,
sir—hie—if you don’t choose your—hie—adjec-
tives better, I shall not sit here and listen to you.”
—hie !
• * *
At the Sydney Central Police Court, last
week, while three young men were being tried for
bag-snatching (of which charge they were
acquitted), the real culprits stood within five
yards of the dock calmly listening to the evidence.
» 9 #
Ructions are, brewing at the Melbourne
Warrawee Club for Women. At the general meet-
ing recently the committee applied the cloture,
%’hich to the fair gagged ones was, of course,
torture of the crudest kind.
# • #
Society girl: “Dear me, what a terrible
woman that Emily Zola must be ! ”
# # #
It is rumoured in Melbourne that a certain
magistrate, who has previously shown much dis-
cretion in regard to his treatment of people in
good society, is now holding an enquiry in camera
A MIXED CREST.
ENGLISH MATRON : “Although engaged to Julia you have never told me what your family
crest is.”
HE : “Ah, hem—an arrow through D’s with small cross-bow. "—[Partly the old man's
cattle-brand and partly an ancestral ( Government) brand, don’cherknoiv.)
into a charge brought against several well-to-do
young men, who have been imitating De Cobain
and some of the London gilded youth.
The Woman Suffragists held a meeting in
Sydney the other day. Dr. Vandeleur Kelly in
the chair. The following extract from the pro-
ceedings (as per Evennooze) requires to be read
with a powerful Scotch accent: —
Mr Jas. M‘Blain read an interesting paper on “ The
Mental and Moral Capacity of Woman,” in which he stated
that woman having a stronger brain of finer capacity than
man there was reason to believe that she was superior in
intellect to man. A beautiful woman was, he said, the
most beautiful work of God. All the good principle man
really had he had to thank his mother for. Still, the
essayist had a good word to say for the men. lie referred
m their genius for building up and other sterling qualities,
but regretted that there was one thing wanting in them—
they had neglected to place woman side by side with them
on the same throne. He hazarded the opinion that there
could he no good government in any country unless
women took part in it.
The Bulletin doesn’t know Mr. M'Blain, but it
presumes, from the style of his essay and as thus
reported, that he runs a ladies’ underclothing
emporium.
• * *
v Candid ad. from a Sydney suburban
paper: ,
q p begs to return thanks for the liberal
natronave accorded him, and also to inform his customers
that he has had the city water laid on for dairying pur-
poses.
Another variation of the matrimonial ad.
blushing in a Sydney daily :
I\/rATRIMONIAL.— Country Gentleman (aged 32),
-M- about to retire , wishes to CORRESPOND with
young Lady (Protestant), age about 25, musical, witn
view to above ; photos, exchanged; state position.
Anxious, Whinstone Valley, via Cooma.
This is quite the latest way of putting it.
9 * *
Who will say Dickens did not portray real
characters? Said a son to his father, as they came
out of an hotel in a Sydney suburb the other day :
“ Straighten yourself up, old man, and don t go
carrying on as though you had had a dozen pints.
To which the elder, surveying the young man
sorrowfully : “ You don’t think for one moment i
will be able to deceive your stepmother, dp you .
“ Then you shouldn’t have married again, re-
turned the son. “Ha 1 ” sighed the father, you
don’t know how fetching she looked when s “ e
her widow’s weeds on, my lad.” Sam Weller and
father over again !
# « *
Mrs. Barr writes, in the North American
Review ; The present principle is—fools marry,
and wise men follow the wives. So knight
errantry is replaced by wife errantry.
# • •
Dear Bulletin, —Are square-shouldered
women and slope-shouldered men indigenous to
New South Wales. If so, why so?—Yours, Gi.
The Pope is jarred most by the King of
Italy claiming a voice in choosing Italian bishops,
and prelates of local jurisdiction. This explains a
cable of the present week, the Pope’s complaint of
interference in his spiritual work.
“Convicts should be paid the prevailing
rate of wages; out of their earnings, the State
should deduct its outlay for housing, feeding,
guarding, and clothing them ; the balance should
be applied to the support of the convict’s family
if he has one, and if he has not, should be passed
over to his credit to support him while he is
looking for work after his liberation.” —J. D,
Altgeld.
London Echo : “ No bird, beast or creep-
ing thing will touch a castor-oil plant.” Now, in
North Queensland cows rather like it. In fact,
some Queenslanders (and they are a people
renowned for truth) instead of taking medicine,
prefer fresh milk from such beasts.
That recent visitor, the Earl of Meath,
says that during his tour in Australia “he never
heard a good .word in any colony for manhood
suffrage.” Considering the sort of company he
kept it would be surprising if he had. For that
matter we could have taken Meath on a tour
through Australia in the course of which he
wouldn’t have met one single man who wasn’t
ready to damn the Queen, and the House of Lords,
and the British empire the instant he heard them
mentioned. It all depends on the route. Miss
Shaw, of the Times, probably travelled much the
same road as Meath.
Pall Mall Gazette says that the Austra-
lian provinces must buy out the French from the
New Hebi-ides if they wish to obtain possession of
those islands. Australians don’t want thaislands,
but the Australian New Hebrides Co., composed
of a lot of gilded religionists who want leave to
import outside black labour to the lands they have
snavelled, wouldn’t mind seeing a bloody war over
the matter. Australia might almost as well buy
Ceylon as the distant New Hebrides, and having
once bought Ceylon that would be a reason for
buying England, and Spitzbergen, likewise the
Crimea and Patagonia. To once go beyond your
own boundaries is to begin an eternity of grab.
The Victorian Purification of Rolls Act i®
being worked for all it is worth in the interests o‘
Property. The inspectors have various ways of
doing things, but the most popular seems to be
to compare the list of voters with the list of rate-
payers, and as the latter is carefully written up
every year it is assumed that every voter w'ho
isn’t on the ratepayers’ list is dead, removed, or
otherwise disqualified. The beauty of this
arrangement lies in the fact that not one in ten
among the poorer class of tenants ever does appear
on the ratepayers’ list. The rent, in almost every
case, covers rates also, and only the landlord’s
name appears. Therefore the Revision Court
might just as reasonably and as lawfully compare
the roll with the subscription-list of the Queens-
land Flood Relief Fund or the membership list of
the National Ass.
And the isles of the ocean were pleased with thy presence,
when to know them thou voyaged across the blue sea;
And now we no more shall behold thee among us, thy
voice over us will no more cast its spell,
We ne’er shall forget thee, may all blessings attend thee,
and heart-felt is the wish, when we say “ Fare ye
well.”
In other days in Southern seas,
The heathen, smart and sinister,
Inspired by appetite’s decrees,
Oft ate his loving minister ;
But in these latter times, we know,
They’ve stopped these wicked ravages.
The saintly men now run the show—
And live upon the savages !
He
AFTER TENNYSON.
Home they brought her worrier dead,
Slain by epileptic fit;
All the neighbours watching said—
“ Sure she doesn’t mind a bit.”
Then they blamed him loud and long,
Called him fool and lazy beast,
Vilest wretch that e’er went wrong—
Yet she cared not in the least.
Stole a widow from her seat,
Lightly to the worrier stept,
Pulled his boots from off his feet—
Still her “ pecker ” up she kept.
Came a youth in sealskin vest,
Placed himself upon her knee—
Like briny ocean heaved her breast,
Like briny ocean heaved her bre-east:
“ Swee-et my Jack ! Swee-e-e-t my Ja-a-ck .
I’ll li-i-ve for thee, live for thee,
I’ll live for thee.”
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ C.C.0.” : No, it’s the Queensland Governa-
tional Bankment! “ R.M.R.” : All hopelessly du11. ; ..
“ Tas.” : Already dealt with Not for clip-
pings. . . “ Henry M.H.”: Exciting to witness, but not to
read about.. . “J.0.L.”: Acting-Governor Darley has, as
yet, notdeclared whether he will takepay asN.S.W. Acting-
Governor as well as his salary as Chief Justice. .. “Rip.”:
Some exaggerations are humorous. “Good shooting”
isn’t “Signor Fabian”: You don’t write about the
Melb. morgue in this paper. The Melbourne morgue
belongs to V. J. Daley "L.L.”: “Prejudice never
was reasoned into a man, and never can be reasoned out.”
“M. E. Hastie” : What was its title?.... “ Geo. A.” :
The sweep in question is of good repute “W.S.”
(Ring R.): Yes, great depravity of taste. “ Stinkwood
Creek’’miles the better, but we didn’t doubt its origi-
nality “Steel Arrow”; “And let Nature take
its course!” Why the thing is 100 years 01d.....
“Pebble’’: What signifies the Englishman’s sublime
ignorance about Australia ? He may hardly know that
the place exists, but it is there all the same, and will
remain there... “Whyhra”: The Irish gentleman whc
beat his wife with a pick-handle is wooden —like the pick-
handle “0.5.” (Sydney): Declined “The Yak”:
Very incongruous. For instance, you say “ a great many
years have passed and Mabel is no longer the lively girl
she was.” In the natural course of things, Mabel is an
old woman n0w.... “ G. 5.1.”: The lovely girl who was
killed by a trunk falling on her head is too dolorous....
“Horace Foyle” (Oakleigh): You can’t write a short,
thrilling love-story “A. 8.” (Hay); So far as we can
find out, the liquidation has made hardly any progress,
and the dividend is an absolute mystery “ S.” (Frank-
ston): Essay on “Crawlers” unsuitable. Good, short,
original tales are what we want.... “Nomad” (Boulia):
The awful regularity with which people drop down dead
in your hotel is the one interesting point in the story...
“Rivulet” (Perth): Thanks. Nice, gruesome item
“ F.8.J.” (Corowa): Thanks...." 173 ”
That event happens often in many different places, and its
unvarying similarity to itself grows monotonous.,.“ E.
Rowland ” (Melbourne): “Crinoline” verse vapid, washj T ,
and tasteless....“ J. Fairnie ” : If the sentinel at tbe
heavenly gate doesn’t talk in better verse than that, he
had better stick to prose. So had y0u.... “ A.G.C.”
(lllawarra): Pars not fresh enough. The joke about
taxing “ resident absentees ” is an Irish Pralaraopism
of ancient date “Subscriber” (Perth); To hand ...
“ J.S.R.” (Wentworth): Give the term “ lovely woman ”
a rest. Woman in the aggregate is a bundle of whims
the sound of two trodden-down shoes flopping through
the age$ —an aimless search after a lost hair-pin—a frantic
dropping of parcels as a behind-hand being rushes for a
train—and a mass of back-hair and inconsequence. Our
liver, by-the-bye, is out of order to-day “F.J.C.”
(Sydney): Yours is the 112th pun about Governor Duff
which has fallen on this devastated office “ F. 0.”
(Albury): We never publish semi-mediaeval verse with
“prithee” in it “ J.W.” (Condobolin): Fine specimen
of local eloquence.... “ Thomas Cyrus ” : We knew you
the instant we saw 12 pages of hieroglyphics like insane
Chinamen hanged on a upas tree. You are the “Shepherd
Prince of Israel,” and are still howling about the sceptre
of Judah. Apply to Henry Parkes. He’s got it
“O. A.C.” (Broken Hill); Will probably use “F.J.T.”
(Euroa): Blank verse that has to be adorned with ex-
planatory footnotes isn’t publishable... “Simla”: Plain
cow story. An autobiography 1 ... “L.” (Sydney): Plain
cat story. Moreover, we’ve heard it before... “Joper
M'Jurgle ” : We buried your yarn beneath our favourite
rose-tree as a fertiliser.... “ Oak ”: Hardly good enough.
.... “ C.H.W.” (Sydney): Thanks .. “A Long-suffering
Cocky”: The idea of giving a £5 bonus for the scal| s cf
the unemployed never occurred to us before. How would
you tell an unemployed’s scalp from a selector’s, 1 y tbe
way? “Dolf Bullock”: Poem about the lost illusions
■of your childhood is like tbe song of the small, tame
curate at the “mothers’ meeting.”.. “ J.M. W.” (Boor-
hanr.m': One versa will pass muster:
Of all the fiends that scourge mankind ;
Hot fevers that burn, chill agues that shiver—
That ride the leprous, the maimed, the blind.
To rend the body and rack the mind.
The fiend that leaves them far behind,
The fellest of all, is a hobnailed liver.
But sadder si ill is Ihe lot of the man with the parchment
kidneys. He can’t find relief even in poetry. There is no
rhyme for kidneys .. “A. 6.” (Sydney): As requested, we
suppress your name. We also suppress your poem....
“Old Brevity”: We recommend you to deposit your
communication on the grave of an unbaptised child, and
put a scarabarus on top of it, and then go up in a balloon
“F.H.” (South Yarra): “Maddened, he threw the
bottle of beer at their heads, and fled.” That’s hopeless.
If the betrayed husband had drunk the beer and fled it
would have seemed more probable “ Robert Hender-
son ” (Vic.): Ghost stories are poor stuff, and your ghost
is the poorest wreck of them all, ... “ Amoker ” : Tim
Bulletin doesn’t altogether disbelieve in infanticide ; it
knows so many people who look as if they ought to have
died young “Strephon ” (Melb): Not much of a story,
and dragged out worse than the great sea-serpei t ...
“ J.L.8.” : Too much like the other kangaroo-fight st try.
....“F.M.G.” (B.): Yes, certainly. “M.R.A.”: We
weren’t “ had.” The title was “An Old Story Re-told.”
“An Australian Girl ” : Tell us—are you really a girl?
“Sigma”: Reminds us of the well-worn story about
the late Judge Blake and his bath in the hotel water-
barrel “Spinifex”: If a French translation, why not
say so? If not, why write in Australia a story of Prance?...
“A.J.0.”: “The Israel-light that Failed,” as applied to
Fink, is not a new joke. It was used by a Melbourne
paper re young Montague Levey “ Alphard ” ; Alto-
gether too improbable. In any case, Rumpore, India, is
quite “off our bate.”.... “ R.S.”: Yes, it appeared—
with alterations-just after you sent it.... “ Pinope ” :
Thanks. .. " Bluegum ” (M.L.): Well-condensed things
only “The Lyre ”: Dream business played out.


TATTERSALL’S
Jrf. O"W 31a £3 X - IVE X 3jt3E3 llawbesbury, March
10,000 at 10 10,000
SY JD 3XT S 3 X - OXJ P Bandwlck, April 3,
50,000 at 10 50,000
18, 1808.
1893.
ONLY ADDRESS:
“ TATTERS ALI”
O/o Geo. Adams (Owner), Tatter-
sail’s Hotel & Old Club Premises
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W. '
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
lietitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within five weeks from Saturday, 25th Feb.,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
m the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be addea
to that of the succeeding competition, particulars
of which will duly appear.
t, sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
1 ost-offioe order or stamps of any province; when
j j j ter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 2.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon mth One Shilling, or IS penny
stamps, to Manages', Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, Ist April,
1893.
The assumption of Premier G. Republican
Dibbs that the name of the new Governor of
N.S. Wales would be submitted to him in
advance for approval has proved erroneous.
The haughty stand taken by the Colonial
Office in this matter, even after the sharp
lesson given it by MTI wraith in the Blake
affair, is a logical consequence of the ex-
Republloan’s in accepting a
title while intoxicated with the glamour of
the Court.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person tcho fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received —No DEDUCTION whatever
being made. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
Special Advertisements.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Cures
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Indigestion
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Acidity, and
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Nervous
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Headache.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Cures
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA All Disorders
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA of the
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Digestive
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Functions.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA The Best
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Aperient
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA for Ladies,
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Infants,
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA And
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA Invalids.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWI»R
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Preserves Furs from
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE oieaiTses
Domestic Pets
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE of Parasites.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS AMD SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. Aloxr. Paterson,
*Ol Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
i
%
W//A
Mr. JAMES L. TURK,
Of the Commercial Gazette Office'
Cincinnati, Ohio, U-S-A-
Describes the Suffering and Distress
of His Daughter
How these are Exchanged for Health
and Happiness by the use ol
Ayers Sarsaparilla.
“I wish to state to you what your blood-
purifylng Sarsaparilla did for my daughter.
Some two years ago she was attacked with
diphtheria. A physician was called. He helped
her a little, but not much. Finally, I called
another. She got over the soreness in her throat,
but a largo swelling came outside ol her throat,
hard and angry looking. Wo poulticied it lor
three weeks, but it looked no better. She then
lost her voice, and her throat swelled inside
again. The doctor lanced the swelling, and it
discharged for two or three weeks. She then re-
gained her voice, but was paralysed in the lower
limbs. I became discouraged, dismissed the
doctor, and sent my daughter to the country.
My wife, knowing the purifying qualities ol your
Sarsaparilla, determined to give it a thorough
trial; and after using two bottles, tho news
came to me that my daughter had begun to im-
prove. From that time on, she continued to
gain, until she became sound and well again, and
she has enjoyed good health over since. 1 have
used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family many
years, and I know It to be the best blood-purifier
extant.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla I
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell Mass., U.S. A.
Has Cured others, will euro you.
Sporting.
5. EACH.
ĝ
5. EACH.
ğ
ġ
ģ
s. (d.) .. .. 60
N.S. (d.) .. .. 40
Other prizes see circulars.
345 EXTRA 345
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes
Address to “ GALA,” o/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
9
MONSTER
r CASH PRIZEICONSUWIONi^
Care “MANDEES," ALBUEY, NSW
NOW OPEN ON
Sydney Gold Cup. 3rd April. 10,000 at 5.
Albury Cup. March 16. 1000 at 5 each.
Birthday Cup, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each.
Blrtliday Cup, Sydney. May 24. 6000 at 5.
Grand National Hurdle. July 8. 10,000 at 5.
Grand National Steeple. July 15. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doing business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Address Carefully:
“ Robin Hood,” c/o. Manders’ Telegram Agency,
DEAN STREET, ALBURY, N.S.W.
ADAM BEDE.
The Original Promoter.
Over 20 Years before the Public of N .Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN :
SYDNEY GOLD CLIP.
BIRTHDAY €EP.
OI
00001
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
ADAM BEDE,” o/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
|3?“ Programmes Sent on Application.
ifi
'MONSTEj?
LCAS£PRI ZElMNSULTATiONS
CAEE
Manders’ Telegram Agency
Dean-st., Albury, Ii.S.W,
These are no bogus or bubble schemes,
but legitimate enterprises.
NOW OPEN
ON ALL
EVENTS.
“ Southern Cross ”
GENUINE
PRIZE CONSULTATIONS.
RELIABLE DRAWING AND PROMPT PAYMENT,
E-fficicnt Guarantees Given for These.
m NOW OPEN
on the
SYDNEY GOLD CDF
(3rd April).
10,000 at 5 TKS 10,000
as follows:
First
Second ...
Third ...
S. (d.) ...
1000
300
150
150
20 at 20 400
20 at 10 ‘2OO
20 at B 100
30 at 1 00
Loss 10 per cent.
In the event of Consultation not tilling, the prizes
will be pro rata.
In the event of the Consultation not filling to the
extent of one-half, the 50 Prizes at 1 will not be
allotted, but 10 extra 5 Prizes will be allotted pro
rata in their place.
SPECI AITIEDG E.
Wo undertake that each Consultation will be
conducted by a committee of disinterested gentle-
men under “ The Sportsman ” Check List System,
which renders fraud impossible. For further par-
ticulars of this, send for prospectus, or see Sports-
man of January 4, 189&
State clearly the amount enclosed, and send two
unattached stamps with addressed envelopes—one
for reply and the other for result. Make sure and
register your letters, and retain your receipts
until you receive a reply.
NOTE )
the >
Address J
“SOUTHERN CROSS/*
Care of J. S. WINTER
P. 0., Albnry, N.S.W.
GOIJII KOin' GOtlU western Australian
Goldfields afford to Investors and others a certain
opportunity of recouping all recent losses. Information
can he obtained hy Applying to THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
MINING SYNDICATE, Salisbury Ruildings, liourko
Street West, MEbBOUNUK.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Right in the middle of the Flemington Autumn
meeting seven jockeys, including “Teddy” Power and
Cusdin, were suspended for terms varying from one to
three months—Power being let in for the longest
sentence. The offence charged against them was dis-
obedience at the post, in their anxiety to get a good start
for the Bourke Handicap. While the veteran George
Watson continues to act as starter, his authority must, of
course, be backed up by the stewards, but the interests of
racing sport would gain more from the punishment of
jockeys who dgii’t want to get quickly off the mark than
from this continual dropping upon those who do. Any-
how, it is obvious that a starter who fines and reports
jockeys by the dozen at every meeting is no longer “ the
right man in the right place."
* • •
“A > good big horse is better than a good little
horse.” However, there were no big ones good enough
to beat such unimposing animals as Fortunatus and
Portsea in the V.R.C. “double.” The two important
handicap winners are “game ” and “ honest performers ”
enough (although they are both of them apt to get badly
beaten in £5O plates), but it is absurd to suppose that
they could have won under such heavy weights in the
days of Malua, Carbine, Trident, Abercorn, Cranbrook,
and Lochiel, when there were genuine “ cracks ” in the
land. A blight seems to have come upon racing, and the
public, instead of backing their fancies on the strength of
horses’ proved ability to do great things when they are
well, have to grope about for likely winners in the dim,
uncertain light of second-rate “form.”
• • #
The Chirnside party, and Ballarat in general,
put their proverbial shirts on Newman for the Free
Handicap last Thursday, and the shouting when the
Newminster horse got home was reminiscent of old times.
• * •
Mr. Long’s handsome Sprig o’ Myrtle will be
always worth considering when his weight permits of a
fairly strong jockey getting the mount.
* * •
The running of Oamoola and Autonomy at the
V.R.C. meeting was characteristic of at least the latter of
those noble animals, and the stewards accepted their
“ reversal of form ”in the usual manner. Autonomy is a
privileged in-and-out performer, whilst Camoola has a
seemingly bona fide weakness for getting beaten on a wet
day. wherefore the startling manner in which he turned
the tables on Culloden for the champion race didn’t even
agitate the rough-and-ready critics of the Flat. In truth,
there was some enthusiasm shown over Camoola’s victory,
despite its absolute impossibility on “paper.” The horse
was the handsomest fellow on the field, a Derby hero to
boot, and the public like to see the championship fall to a
“swell three-year-old. Derby winner first, Leger winner
second, and Australian Cup scooper third, was a result
that accorded with the eternal fitness of things. In the
interests of “ quality ” the Admiral ought to have beaten
f? rt *| e a for third place, but Mr. Sam Cook’s pet just
faded at the finish, and is evidently not so vastly improved
as his owner imagined.
* • *
The Queen’s party in Hawaii got the local
Parliament to pass an Act establishing State lotteries, the
same to be “concessioned " to a co. for 25 years, at an
annual rental of half-a-million dollars. The Provisional
Govt., set up by means of a peaceful revolution, pending
the action of the U.S., has summarily repealed the
Act, and, so far, the Monte Carlo of the Pacific has been
born dead.”
• • •
The Australians’ first match, at Sheffield Park,
should produce a win for them. The “home” team,
according to cable, is strong, but somewhat old, and there-
fore unlikely to have recovered form after the long winter
rest, whereas the visitors ought not to be much handi-
capped by their five or six weeks’ holiday at sea. It is a
mistake to assume that the Britishers are quite “fit” at
the beginning of May, On the other hand, it may happen
that cold weather will have a prejudicial effect on Aus-
tralian livers.
• * *
The disgraceful intorferenceof prejudiced ruffians
in the Griffo-Marshall fight was, after all, only a repetition
of history in Sydney, where the roughs will never allow
their favourites to be beaten. As witness the Foley-
Miller, the Jackson-Farnan (2nd) and Seale-Sandall fights.
• • •
Denver Smith, who defeated Joe Goddard, the
Barrier boy, is not a Yank, but an Englishman by birth.
• • •
A new athletic club has been formed in Mel-
bourne to take the place of the nearly defunct M.A.C.
The list of office-bearers, nine-tenths of whom are book-
makers, does not inspire the amateur or lay Gentile with
confidence.
• • «
Sydney E. News says that “Camoola is one of
the best, if not the best, 3-year-old colts ever seen,” and
Melbourne Arous states that “ Camoola is no wonder and
a positive failure on a wet day.”
• * *
Walter Giffen had to resign his situation (as a
meter-maker) with 8. A. Gas Co. to go to England. Leave
of absence was refused. Substance and shadow !
• # •
There is again great discontent at the S.A.
cricket team selected against Victoria. On their foim
Fred Jarvis and Walter Giffen should have been left out.'
* • *
The Bulletin bets that should the Australian
troopers show badly at Islington tournament the excuse
will be that they had not their own horses. To make the
team Australian, the horses should have accompanied
them.
* • •
Fitzsimmons’ victory was a case of virtue
rewarded. The big purse has undoubtedly gone into the
right hands. The Maorilandcr is a steady, much-married
tradesman, whilst Hall is a rowdy member of the Charley
Mitchell “push.”
• • •
From the meagre account to hand of the Hall-
Fitzsimmons affair it would seem honours were pretty
equally divided until the fourth round, when Fitzsimmons
knocked Hall senseless with a right on the jaw. The
Bitixstin never had a great idea of Hall’s courage, and
will not be surprised to hear that upon Fitz. punishing
him severely he took the first opportunity afforded him
of * going out.” Hall wants another shy at Fitzsimmons,
but there are no doubt many more beaten men in the
States who would tackle the M.iorilander in a few weeks
if only for the loser’s end of a big purse. Fitz. must have
been giving away a lump of weight in meeting Hall, and
he will be foolish to again meet anything above middle-
weight-at all events until he has made all he can out of
his victory in the way of exhibitions.
• • •
The cabled news that Fitzsimmons has beaten
Hall for a purse of £BOOO, recalls the evening
when George Seale fought his desperate battle with
Sandall at Sydney. One of the preliminary bouts that
evening was between one M'Ewen, aehort, fat man, and
a long, lanky, cadaverous fellow then recently from.Maori-
land-no other than the now world-famous Bob Fitz-
simmons. They gave a comic act, both pretending to be
absolute novices, and fairly brought down the house. It
was a very funny exhibition, and one or two would-be
Judges of boxing remarked that they never saw two
greater “ mugs ”in a ring. And now Fitz. is boxing for
eight thousand sovs. We wonder how much he got from
Foley for his humorous display that evening? Something
well under eight thousand, you may be sure.
• • •
‘‘The Melbourne Pony-Racing Association.
Limited. Beautiful.
• • •
Tom Malone used to be an athlete. Now ho is
Sing to become an alderman. Ochone! what, a falling,
is hero!
• • •
A queer thing happened at a recent V.R.C.
meeting. On the second (Cup) day, Power, riding Light
Artillery, was left at the post, and, on returning to scale,
complained to the stewards. An enquiry was held, and
! starter Watson admitted that he had not noticed Light
1 Artillery's back being turned when he let the others go,
and apologised. The third (Champion) day, Power was
brought before the stewards by Watson for disobeying the
starter by trying to get away, and was suspended for
three months. As Power was never before the stewards
previously, this seems very harsh, especially as several
who never tried to get away were not hauled up.
* # *
John Joyce, M.H.R. (Maoriland), is a gentle-
man who, like Dan. O’Connor, of N.S.W., always keeps
himself in evidence. The other day, for want of a better
“ ad.,” he superintended the drawing of a big art-union,
13,000 tickets at Is. each. Possibly he was nervous, for
he bungled the work hideously, till at last an indignant
ticket-holder addressed him from the gallery: “Mr.
Joyce, sorr, p'aze be a little more careful. Oi’ve invested
a bob in this meself.”
♦ » •
Mr. Victor Cohen, of theN.S.W. Civil Service
and manager of the Australian Eleven cricketing team, is
closely related to N.S.W. Agent-General Saul Samuel.
‘ llc “ accounts for the extended leave of absence obtain-
able by Victor aforesaid.
* # *
Nothing could be more popular than the failure
of the Bungebah crowd to land a well-hatched coup
* • «
Would it not be a surprise if Hanlan were to
regain the sculling championship ? Yet, if he placed him-
self under a stern trainer instead of being “lord of him-
self, that heritage of woe,” he might possibly do it. He
is scarcely older than were Beach and Kemp when they
scored their greatest triumphs.
• # •
Goddard’s defeat by Ed. Smith, of Denver, a
comparative second-rater, proves what good judges main-
tained all along—that he must go down before any fairly
clever man not afraid of his rushes and able to hit hard.
His dratv with Jackson was the flukiest of flukes; while it
was a miracle how he escaped defeat at the hands of
Ghoynski and Dooley, much lighter men.
* # #
Two recent fatalities bear out The Bulletin’s
contention, published in a lengthy article nearly four
years ago, that more danger is incurred in fighting under
Queensberry than under the old P.R. rules. The reason
is obvious. In the old style a man could slip down and
end the round whenever he was touched ; now he has to
stand up for three minutes, for nothing can be gained by
going down for ten seconds. Then when a man falls he
comes in contact_ with hard boards instead of the soft
sward. Again, with small gloves much more damage is
inflicted than with the naked fist which, when bound up
in a glove, lasts much longer. A knuckle inflicts a cut, a
glove a bruise, which is far more painful and dangerous.
In the old P.R. times seconds used to lance bruises so as
to let the blood flow.
Carter’s dual billiard and dining table*
the advt. of which appears in another column, is
the ideal billiard and dining table for the house of
onf man or of the pastoralist and farmer.
dual table is the invention of Mr. E. Carter
or Melbourne, and its low price brings the recrea-
of bllbards within reach of almost any man.
the first cost of the game, in this instance, is the
only cost, and the price is just about equal to that
of a fairly good dining table. The conversion of
the table from one form to another is simplicity
itself. F 3


'go*
The Hair, when not properly cared for,
loses its lustre, becomes crisp, harsh, and
dry, and falls out freely at every combing.
To prevent this, the best and most popular
dressing in the market is
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
It removes dandruff, heals
troublesome humors of the
scalp, restores faded and gray
hair to its original color, and
imparts to it a silky texture
and an agreeable fragrance.
By using this preparation, the
.poorest head of hair soon be-
comes
Luxuriant and Beautiful.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a toilet article much ia
favor with both ladies and gentlemen, and
the latter find it of the greatest service ia
restoring and preserving the youthful ap-
pearance of the beard and moustache.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, If ass.,
s U.3. A, Sold by Druggists and Perfumers.
g
ROWLANDS’
KALYDOR
A soothing, cooling, emollient milk for the
skin. It prevents and removes freckles, tan,
sunburn, redness and roughness of the skin,
soothes and heals stings of insects, eczema,
prickly heat, and all irritations, produces soft
fair skin and a lovely delicate complexion. It
is warranted free from any lead or mineral
ingredients, and is perfectly harmless to the most
de.icate skin. Bottles 2s.'id. and 4s. 6d. Ask for
liowr, ands’ Kalyuoh, of 20, Hatton Garden,
London.
ROWLANDS’ ODONTO is a pure and
scientifically prepared tooth powder; it whitens
the teeth, prevents decay and sweetens the
breath.
Requires No ADDITION or PREPARATION as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss, liorax. Gum, Wax, Sc.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty, i
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
) Jllbnry, Sydney, and Melbourne.
M
XII
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIRahoSKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine Las trade-mark Barclay & Co., Be w York.
:
a
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, ns well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
Heards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
''°n. The smallest and easiest to take. - Forty in a phial.
J 1 Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK.
<E>
ĝ
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
AW fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
AW valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely In any climate.
Of nil Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Elliott Bros, Limited. Sydney & Brisbane
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON. E C.
CASCARA—HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAYAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Eestorative.
QAlf ADCOQC’C Full directions.
OAVAIILOuL 0 All Chemists.
SANDAL WOOD OIL
Efficacious from tho purity of
tho Oil and the superiority of tho
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’st Pure Copaiba Capsules.
CAPSULES
ğ
CLOTHED WITH AIR
rellular Clolli
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
76 Kiko St., SYDNEY.
M. C. A. HALL, PITT STREET
Y.
Delightful Musical Evenings.
COMMENCING MONDAY 20th MARCH.
The Famous English Organist, Vocalist and Composer,
Mr. W. H. JUDE,
Composer of ‘Deep in the Mine,’ ‘The Mighty Deep,’
‘The Skipper,’ ‘Love Never Sleeps,' ‘The Better Land,’
&c., will open a short series of
DESCRIPTIVE MUSICAL EVENINGS,
Comprising Vocal Selections from his own much-admired
Compositioi s.
Wonderful FANTASIAS on the Orchestral Harmonium.
Musical Reminiscences, and HUMOROUS SKETCHES.
SOLOS on the GRAND ORGAN.
Admission -3s„ 2s. and is.
Box Office at Messrs. W. H. PALING’S.
J. J. Wyatt-Patton, Private Secretary to Mr. W. H. Jude
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
- -t
“Si
ANNA RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC will positively re-
move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter how
long standing), acne (so prevalent in moist climates),
salt rheum, oilyness, excessive redness, etc., soon dis
appear after its us?. This SKIN TONIC is a healing
r raedy. Every bottle is guaranteed to be as represented.
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan,
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientific
and healthy ; it opens the pores of the skin, so that all
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving the net-
work of the skin clean, fresh and youihtul; hardens
flabby skin—in fact, gives a new appearance. ANNA
RUPPERT S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively than
all other skin preparations coinbin d. SKIN TONIC is
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Every
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands of
letters are coming in, and are loud in their praises of this
SKIN TONIC ; old cases of acne, eczema, coarseness ol
skin, etc., are be'ng specially cured when other remedies
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. fid.,
tinea bottles together (usually required), £ll2s. 6d. All
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamp: d
envelope. Consultation at office free. Valuable new
“ Book of Beauty,” post free on receipt of 4d. stamps.
Call or address the celebrated American Comnlexiou
Specialist,
ANNA RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia
15ft Strand, Sydney,
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, etc.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For Nervousness, Weak
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Lasems, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Flectric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be suffi-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad aftereffects. Guaranteed
Never to F ail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. 6d., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAR-
SONS, Chemist, 08 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 14, 1393.
rfIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &0., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22.
Bridge, Bogan River, at Stone Crossing, road
Cannonbar to Girilambone
Wrought-iron Pipes, &c., for Crossing Bridge at
Nowra, for Nowra Water Supply
Bridge, Morton’s Creek, road Beechwood to Ennis
Additions Lands Office, Raymond Terrace
Bridge, Ten-mile Creek at Germanton. Fresh
tenders
Bridge, Wallaga Lake, on road Bermagui to Tilba
Tilba. (Time extended.)
Bridge, Moruya River, at Kiora. (Time ex-
tended.)
Manufacture within the Colony of Twelve Water
Jib Cranes —Railway Construction .
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal-
lerawang, at Cooerwull.
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Port Macquarie to
Arm id ale
Bridge, Namoi River, at Walgett
Construction of Tramway along Regent-street,
Sydney
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge, Back Creek, at Marsden-road, Marsden
to Lake Cowal
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Punt for
Tabulam, Clarence River \
Bridge over No. 2 Gully, road Dertiliquin to
Wakool Bridge
Bridge over No. 3 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge
Bridge over No. 4 Gully, road Deniliquin to
Wakool Bridge
WEDNESDAY, MAY 31.
Bridge, Narran River to Yerambah, road Goo-
dooga to Oollarendabri
WEDNESD AY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoal haven River at Bombay Crossing,
road Braid wood to Queanbeyan.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE. _
** mALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM*
1 Price Is., by post Is. 3d.
At Poverty Point.
Melba is still “ touring” the English provinces with a
concert co. and is doing good biz. People think, how-
, ever, thßt it is rather early in her career to take up this
line, which is usually considered to indicate a move on the
down grade.
Another nail in the coffln of the House of Lords. On
the day the mail left (10th Feb.) Hon. “ LarryPalk
married Madame Miska, well-known in theatrical circles.
Larry went ’Ome some years ago with the de Laurets, of
Goulburn, N.S. W., and was not unwilling to take Miss
Louise of that ilk to wife, but it did not come off. He is
a long-necked, vapid youth, and unless Miska ties him in
a knot and puts him in the dust-bin, ere his father dies,
he will be Lord Haldon. Such are the uses of the aristo-
cracy.
There is money in George Ireland’s fair daughter,
Harrie, for any Australian manager who will give her the
necessary chances. Unfortunately, girls of Miss Ireland’s
good class are left out in the cold, whilst others with half
their talent and stage-charm seem to bask in the
managerial smile. That’s so. It’s a real pity that lreland
can’t “run” his Harrie as Billolloway ran his step-
daughter Essie, because we want another Essie Jenyns
badly.
J. J. Miller, who has been doing the circus posters, was
invited to play the part of amateur Daniel in Filtis’s den
of lions, at Melbourne. He declined, on the ground that
the papers would probably attribute the heroic deed to
“a well-known theatrical printer,” whereby his rival,
Marshall, might get some undeserved glory out of the
transaction. That’s how Miller puts it, but then he is
one of those wily, light-hlue-eyed men who don’t usually
throw away chances anyhow. It is said of Miller that
whatever spec, he goes into he always comes out on top.
If he had gone into the lions’ deh they might have been
on top at the finish.
The late Hector Wilson left all his personal estate
(£27,237) to his wife, known on the stage as Eugenie
Legrand. .. .
Colonists of the fifties will remember Anna Bishop. She
died in 1884. After her divorce from Sir Henry Bishop,
she married Martin Schultz-a case of love at first sight.
When Anna died she left her large fortune solely to
Schultz, but he soon squandered it, and for years has been
leading the life of a tramp. He died recently in a N.Y.
hospital. A brother had offered him a home, but he pre-
ferred his Bohemian life.
An American railway accident has, we regret to hear,
turned Ovide Musin’s hair white. Perhaps, like Stanley,
he got separated from his hair-dye.
Why doesn’t some stage-struck Australian beginner
style herself Jessie Enyns?
Mrs. Bernard Beere attributes much ot her American
failure to the Jack of good “props.” At the Manhattan
Opera House she had no pillow to bite in her death scene
as Adrienne Lecouvreur. As if she couldn’t have para-
lysed them by chewing the turned-over end of the sofa
with her gum development. What’s the use of buying
your talent ?
Law-n’-order are seen to most advantage when a Judge
gets into the dress-circle on the nod.
According to Mrs. W. J., her Plain Bill Holloway got
London by the wool as Lear. To hear his old confreres
talk, you’d think Holloway was the sort of pill to empty
rather than fill a theatre.
Now that the lions’-den business is about played out,
some enterprising circus manager, who wishes to provide
a thrillsome spectacle for the public, should get a diver to
swim about in a glass tank full of 20-foot sharks. This
would draw like Phil. May.
Lonnen whistles in Cockney fashion, with his lips,
while the real Australian larrikin siffleur invariably uses
his teeth. Another to Whitburn.
Walter Bentley’s Adelaide Royal season will be the only
one, except Pollard’s pantomime, producing a profit, for
over twelve months.
An instance of the fondness of juries for slating a news-
paper. In London The People stated that a play called
“ The Maelstrom ” had been hooted off the stage. It was
proved that there was no “hooting,” only” derisive
laughter and boobooing.” This was enough. £5O
damages and costs.
The man who said, “ O that mine enemy would publish
a pantomime-book 1” evidently knew all about the matter.
Perhaps he didn’t say that exactly, but his sentiments
amounted to the same thing.
Leila Boze lets herself go a good deal more in the
variety show at Melb. Opera House than she ever did as
the capting of the “ Forty Thieves.” Also, her shapely
legs appear to much greater advantage. Some legs seem
to prefer stockings to tights.
Of what nationality is Geoiye Lauri ? He looks like one
in whose veins the blood of Christopher Columbus,
Washington and Garibaldi’s maternal great-grandmother
might be struggling for pre-eminence.
Mr. Joseph Brown, front manager of Melb. Alhambra,
no longer is interested in the dispute between Garnet
Waloh and Anson, because he has abandoned the idea of
his Australian drama, with the stage propped for a team
of working bullocks.
Our acquaintance, Wizard Kellar, writes in a magazine
on Indian and African conjuring, which has blankly
puzzled him, save on the hypothesis that the laws of nature
can be suspended. When the Prince of Wales visited
India, Kellar was one of a crowd of 30,000 people who saw
performances on the Calcutta Maidan. A man all but
naked lay down on the points of three swords, and the
swords were taken away, leaving him suspended on
nothing. Kellar thinks both Indian and African wizards
have a secret of levitation.
Why not put up a bit of a farce at Melb. Alhambra, and
give the funny starving comedians a show?
A R. Lawrence has received a festive send-off from his
Melbourne friends, on departing for England. A good
actor, not easy to replace in “ Peril,” “ The Squire,” or as
Blifil or Quilp. His only fault was a little too much of
Uriah Heep’s “ Mother and me's so ’umble.”
Harry Atkinson (erst of Melbourne) has just refused an
engagement in the States for 28 weeks at £65 per week,
with all expenses paid, says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent. He holds out for £75, and will probably
get it. If he does he will go out to Melbourne, as already
arranged, commit matrimony there, and then proceed to
America. It is singular that Atkinson has had no imi-
tators, which would seem to prove that his business is not
an easy one to copy, simple as it may seem to the
audience. He has made a big hit with “ What are the
Wild Waves Saying,” sung in two voices, baritone and
soprano, with a kind of obligato thrown in—cornet and
musette. It is really very clever.
In a recent Melbourne Standard, Garnet Welch defends
the few Australian dramatists, who have done local work,
against the attacks of Garner and instances
the successes of Julian Thomas’ “No Mercy,” Grosvenor
Bunster’s “Class,” Finnamore’s “Carpio” and “Fran-
cesca Vasari,” Walter Cooper’s “ Hazard,” Marcus Clarke’s
“ Plot,” Whitworth’s “ Maximilian,” and others. Anson’s
chief argument against the existence of good dramatists
in Australia is that Coppin’s offer of a prize of £lOO did
not produce a good actable play ; but Anson is easily
disposed of by the fact that the best men in any
branch of literature or art ever refuse to enter any
competition of the kind. The newspaper proprietor
who offers a prize of a guinea for a “best short
story,” and secures a ton of manuscript, fair and
bad, for the trifling expenditure, only finds his dupes
among the amateurs, who write for honour and glory,
and who generally pay-out such dreary hogwash that
they secure neither. 'Furthermore, Anson and Garner,
excellent actor and manager as they may respectively be,
are not necessarily judges of the literary excellence of a
play or of anything else. J. C. Williamson is probably
the best judge in Australia of the drawing powers of a
play, but if he had any well-formed ideas on literary sub-
jects, he would probably have chosen some journalist or
other to do his lost Xmas Princess pantomime libretto,
instead of getting the matter from a song-and-dance man
who “knew the wants of the stage.” This criticism of
literature by actors—generally a very uneducated class
—is becoming too strong to be tolerated. By and bye the
big, blatant manager will accuse Shakespeare of ignor-
ance, because he didn’t introduce the real tank-scene in
“Hamlet.” The big-drum begins to pick quarrels with
the composer, and the man who blows the trombone cor-
rects the scoring of Gounod.
C. Walsh Pugh, the chatty boniface of the Hen and
Chickens, Melb., was Sir Oliver Surface, opening night of
Melbourne Royal, July, 1855.
Modern Review : “Suppose men .were to dress in-
decently on the stage, and women thronged the stalls?”
Spagnolelti: “1 thumbnailed a little sketch at the
stage door of Melbourne Royal, after * Rip Van Winkle.’
The heavy father, a veteran pro., waited outside for his
daughter, who ran to him with a lovely bouquet. Her
eyes glistened with delight, as she poured out her full
soul. Pa was pleased but cautious.”
Olga Nethersole plays Zicka in “Diplomacy ” at London
Garrick. She lacks the necessary lightness and tone.
Australia will not soon see a better Countess than that ot
Fanny Enson. •
North Queensland theatrical scene Time, summer.
Hero and heroine on stage, making love and killing
mosquitoes. Lover screws up his courage to declaration
point, and emphasises his remarks with staccato smacks,
each bringing down a mosquito or more. “Darling, he
says, “I have long loved you (whack). In childhood s
innocent hours (bang) I worshipped you with an infantile
worship (bang) which has now developed to an energy
almost amounting to (smack) madness. Can you love me
ever so little?” She: “Oh, George, this is so sudden
(whack). But, yes, I (whack) love you (smack) madly
(biff) devotedly (crash). The affection of a life-time is
(squash) yours. Here is my place in your (smash) arms.
“My darling !” he says, as he folds her to his breast, and
imprints a kiss upon her lips, crushing 16 mosquitos in
the act. They then sit down and exclaim together
“ D n the mosquitoes !"
Max Vogrich (Mr. Alice Rees) was once rehearsing
with a Sydney musical society when someone said he
struck a wrong note. Max arose, with glaring eyes, and
demanded: “Who said I struck a wrong no-o-te? lam
in mewziok what Beesmark is in poleeteeks —King !
(Sensation).
Mary Anderson declares that Forbes Robertson is the
best jeune premier on the London stage. He has had 20
years’ experience in the business, anyway.
One of the chief attractions of a recent holiday excur-
sion at Stephens Creek (Broken Hill) was an elaborate
blacks’ corroboree, in which a whole tribe of niggers took
part. A member of the co. subsequently hauled the pro-
moters of the picnic before the local bench, claiming 10s.
for “ attending and taking part in corroboree.” Case
dismissed.
A cruel jar was administered to a certain comedian, a
few weeks ago, when he threw• himself into alighting
attitude at Melb. Princess’s circle bar, and a journalist
suggested that he meant having a row, A la Fred Leslie,
if possible.
In the window of a Fitzroy (Melb.) pawnbroker may be
seen an antique and beautifully engraved flagon with a
salver. The inscription records it as the gift of “that
ancient town,” Liverpool, to John L. Hall (deceased),
once known throughout the Australias as “ Johnny,”
otherwise “ the evergreen,” and bears testimony to his
worth as a citizen and an artist.
I hope, says Tub Bulletin’s London correspondent, I
am not anticipating Phil May’s next Annual with the
following: Gwyllym Crowe and Freeman Thomas, who
have long been associated in connection with the Covent
Garden Promenade Concerts, some time ago took it into
their heads to fall out. Some acrimonious correspon-
dence on the part of Crowe was the result, but Thomas
wrote never a word. Recently some mutual friend in-
duced them to shake hands, and there was the usual ex-
planation. “ But why didn’t you answer my letters ? ”
said Crowe. “Oh, I hate writing,” said Thomas, “ and
never take pen in hand if I can help it.” “ Then,” said
Gwyllym, “you don’t suffer from Cacoethes Scribendi ? ”
“ No, thank God,” said Thomas, holding out his hand for
inspection, “I am as clean as a whistle, except when I
take too much of that d d champagne, and then I
show it a bit.”
Letty Lind (which her real name is Budge) has a sister
dancing at London Gaiety who bids fair to rival the
famous Letty herself. She is much better-looking, too.
She has another sister on the music-hall stage, Minnie
Hylton, who is married to Didcott, the well-known music-
hall agent.
Epps, of the N.S.W. National Ass, once
ran a Radical Labour-paper in Melbourne called
the People.
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.
Wales intends holding its annual exhibition on
its grounds, Moore Park, commencing on March
29, when prizes to the value of .£2OOO will be pre-
sented to successful competitors.
| iG N U N Darlings draw free and burn even.
A refreshing admixture of city activity
and country privacy is perhaps the crowning
desire sought after by visitors who seek to put in
a real good time in Sydney, with facilities for
viewing all the many picturesque beauty-spots
within eooey of “ the great smoke.” A favourite
suburb, fulfilling these conditions, is the increas-
ingly popular municipality of Rand wick, famous
for villa retreats, .racing, and cricket-grounds,
beautiful parks and reserves, and elbowing the
picturesque seaside retreat of Coogee Bay. And
T. Brown’s Royal Hotel, Randwick, can be con-
fidently recommended to the most fastidious of
patrons as a select house for either individuals or
families, excellently appointed and admirably
conducted in every department.
Mr. Walter Sidney, late of Newcastle, is
now proprietor of the Imperial Hotel, Wynyard-
square, Sydney, which is situated in a very con-
venient and enjoyable portion of the city facing
the reserve. Visitors to this hotel have, for the
past 30 years, been unanimous in expressing their
admiration of its comforts, and no doubt Mr. and
Mrs. Sidney will fully maintain the well-deserved
reputation of the past. A noticeable addition
adjoining the new dining-rooms is a beautiful
smoking lounge, neatly planned and tastefully
decorated, which, especially in hot weather, is
delightfully attractive.
lolanthe Yachting Fatality.
To the Manager,
Queensland Mutual Insurance Co.,
80a Pitt-street Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I beg to thank you for the prompt
and satisfactory settlement of claim for death of
my husband, John McGregor, plumber, Pyrmont
Bridge Road, who was drowned when the yacht
lolanthe upset on Boxing Day, 1892.
My husband had taken out a policy with your
Company against disablement or death by acci-
dent, for the sum of £6OO, which amount has been
promptly paid upon production of Probate, which
was only granted this week..
(Signed) ANNIE MoGREGOR,
Executrix of the Will of the late John McGregor.


MEDICAL.
CELEBRATED
Herr RASSHVSSEN’S
BLOOD and NERVE
MEDICAL.
REMEDIES.
Alfaline Vitality PUla
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
W>.
DECERNEE
a
&
GOLD MEDAL,
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—awarded—
GOLD MTEDiILL!
SVKVIiI and PARIS.
US’ CURED 100,000.
ġ
He
o.
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
ALFALIME LOCK FILLS
(REGISTERED)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain f
Indisputable Evidence
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory Declaration.
ITHOS, MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New South Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “ UNIVERSAL ALP ALINE
FILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is over five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFAHNE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years' standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. I shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist.—Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it is four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albury, 64 Washington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen. —I have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfaline Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies. —A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the P-*ace.
HERE, RASSMUSSEN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alfalink
Remedies.” Author of ‘‘The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
Paris and Sydney ; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer & Proprietor
OF tiik CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFALINE REMEDIES,
wh’ch have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
Herr irlaasmußsen’s Diploinn.
Opinions of the Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as hia
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”—Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.”—“Centennial History of N.S.W.”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.”— Australian Star.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.”— Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.).
“ It may not be out of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the lona fides of his testimonials appear to be well
established.”— S.A. Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.”— Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Testimoxiiala.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir, —Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. Bishop, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any Kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
435. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
' Alfaline Asthma and Coag-h Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
and Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. 6d. -
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
ms&x'P' INDUSTHIELS itEXPOSAKIS
liFiLteiDisaliMiyi wm m mmm
Q)eccuvi at t
AVEC LE TITRE DE yS ,j|
(/ I |jji(l $|S •
■wk&A l
« .IW *&SS
V
H
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The woll-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rass-
mussen. —Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your Adfaline Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use. —Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted, 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly beards and mot. l aches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes, posted, Bs., 6s.
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/G ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
ALL PACKETS SENT lINORSEKTEIL
“The Natural Doctor,”
A valuable Herbal Work, by Herr Rassmusskn, which contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Price, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register all letters containing money,
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
Beware of Imitations I
HERR RASSMUSSEN'S GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY RE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS FOLLOWS:-
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT:
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
Horr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.


3rnian
“ We are six in fam-
ily. We live in a
place where we are
subject to violent
Colds and Lung
Troubles. I have
used German Syrup for six years
successfully for Sore Throat, Cough,
Cold, Hoarseness, Pains in the
Chest and I-ungs, and spitting-up
of Blood. I have tried many differ-
ent kinds of cough Syrups in my
time, but let me say to anyone want-
ing such a medicine—-German Syrup
is the best. That has been my ex-
perience, If you use It snee, you
will go back Is it whenever you
need it. It gives total ssssa§f and is
a quick cure. My advice & every-
one suffering with Lung Troubles is
—Try it. You will soon be con-
vinced. In all the families where
your German Syrup
is used we have no
trouble with the
Lungs at all. It is
the medicine for this
country. @
G. G. GREEN, Sole Man’fnWoodbuixNJ.
A Farmer at
Edom, Texas,
Says:
John
Franklin
Jones.
Established 1876
ASTHMA
CURE
* WRITE fOR
D«
r HAIR’S
TREATISE
CM
ASTHMA^
-Q-.
ģ
_ Agents
p- SYDNEY: DllOltBfO?
r Brisbane Wiott Bron(°
’Adelaide: FH~Fauldinj«rC?.
"Wellington. Hi. SharlandfrC.
"t)Q<LftND: Sharland *(? .-a/a.
ytHhewl Treatise and Testimonials free*
< V‘ ERV
V*'
'<l &
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
I FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM /
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
„39WS PttOn.
{
Beioare of imitations. Thegenuine issigned
'TRADE mark:- musk seer.
g
DOG TORS RECOMMEND REAST’S PATENT
invigorate?
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort*
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t he put off with old shapes; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write I’ntcuteo, 15,
Olarcmont, Hastings, England.
Sussex-street revels in 6 N U N Darlings.
In the gloaming with my GNUN Darling.
Yachtsmen ! Smoke GNU N Darlings.
A Darling that never deceives, G N U N.
“ George, dear, what a nice cigar !” “Yes, ’ti
a G N U N Darling.”
We’d better buy GNUN Darlings.
HOW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Flumors
When their tender Skins are literally On Fire with Itching and
Burning Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly, and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical (because
so speedy) cure, and not to use them
without a moment’s delay, is to be guilty
of positive inhumanity. [No greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon a child than
a skin without blemish and a body nour-
ished with pure blood,
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies, are absolutely pure, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age, with the most gratifying and unfailing success.
Treatment. Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
skin purifier and beautifier, externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn-
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, clear the skin and
scalp of crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while Cuticura Resolvent, the new
blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
“ All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations,
ioo Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
.25c.,; f yTicuRA Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
red, rough, and oily skin and
hands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
and childhood arc prevented and cured by that most effective of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the
celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps,
while rivalling in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only pre-
ventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores , the cause cf most facial blemishes. Price, 25c.
0 v f i l
'' 1/
"'v-y
' s
■w
ei _
Pimples, Blackheads,
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
OKWINAL and BEST TONIC, OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED.
Captain Fisher, Stipendiary Magistrate, writes:—“ I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and I am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic properties.”
Captain Heselton, J.P., Chairman Port Jackson Steamship Company, writes: —“For many years I have
used MAIiSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE, and I'can therefore personally testify to its many excel e it strengthening
properties. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of the company, and always
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative, a
thing which even the robust sometimes require. I gladlv subscribe my name to endorse the m nils of a remedy like
MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE.”
J, M'Farlane, Esq., M.L.A., writes :—“ Having been a great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number of
years, and having used a number of remedies without relief, I was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks’use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed for your
Tonic has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted.”
N.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
N.B.— MARSH ALL'S TONIC NERVINE is warranted to be absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs.
On Sale Everywhere at 3s. and 3s. fid, a Bollle,
MAR.BHIAT .T. BROS., Sole Manufacturers.
NEWTON & LAMB,
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS OF OFFICE FURNITURE.
LIBRARY and OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. HAT STANDS.
ENCLOSED WASHSTANDS. . COPYING PRESSES, &c.
—=
FALL FRONT PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAR,
WALNUT, &c. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS and STOOLS.
THE LARGEST and MOST VARIED STOCK in AUSTRALIA.
BOARD-ROOMS and OFFICES FITTED UF. DESIGNS and ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
*-old by Confectioners and Stores Everywher
{3® &
$
ĝ
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHILDREN’S SWEET)
CC S<crLcAsCfS.*
k. Lanttt,
St. John’s Works, Londdri, W.C.
£49,460 worth for JEI.
See Amusement
. Column.
ASK FOR
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN.
iAI.ES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price-One Shilling.
Uriah the Miner: A Love-story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Uriah the miner was working on a contract, three
shifts, in the South slope, Dalgety’s end. His
name was Bill Lewis, but, being unscriptural,
that does not matter, Bathsheba, his wife,
brought his crib to him on the day-shift, and
David, who was timber-boss, saw her daily as she
came, and the usual consequences ensued.
One night, the firing being heavy above and the
ground loose, Uriah was slain in his tracks, and
the remains were carried home on the ambulance-
stretcher by his mates. As the bearers passed
quietly through the back-yard of the dead man’s
hoine, Sam Evans stumbled over the empty fish-
tin heap, and struck his groin sharply against the
shaft of the stretcher. Whereupon, he gave a
loud exclamation of pain and swore. They carried
their burden still more quietly after that, laid the
body on the kitchen floor, and went softly outside,
to settle in whispers who was to break the news
to the bereaved widow.
Bathsheba had heard the noise of the fish-tins
and the cursing, and without disturbing David
had slid to the bedroom door. While she waited
trying to evolve a scheme to meet any emergency,
David had risen and stood behind her in readiness
to play off some lover’s unthinking folly. As they
stood so, she glimpsed Uriah and staggered back-
ward. David, seeing nothing, caught her in his
arms and in his passion kissed and fondled her
while her dead husband’s body lay outside, ghostly
and staring, in the strip of white moonlight.
C.C.
Melbourne Tramway Co. warns-its em-
ployes against forming a union, under pain of
losing all* benefits accruing from the director-
blessed Benefit Society. The latter is evidently
so completely the “ bosses’ ” concern that they can
turn its benefits on and off as they please.
The President’s chair of the London
County Council, designed by Walter Crane, bears "
caps of Liberty in place of the usual crowns, and
is generally in keeping with that artist’s views.'
The Council evidently has an eye to economy, and
does not want the expense of a new chair when
the Republic comes along.
O’Sullivan, M.P., the keystone of the
N.S.W. democratic arch (who now wears
tan-boots), at Newcastle: —“The retrenchment
party intended to fight for economy until that
place that was nameless on the lips of ladies was
glistening with polar icicles, and if they had not
won the victory on the superincumbent stratum of
winter’s congealrnent, aye, over the lavas of
Plutonic extinction, they would still continue the
struggle.” Yerrah !
Per neatly type-written announcement
The Bulletin is informed that a gentleman
employed in the shipping interests of Sydney was
made the recipient of a testimonial presented by
Liu Yick Tong, of Sydney, in honour of his
approaching marriage. Among those present
were Messrs. Green, Silly, Fook Lum, Yee Hing,
etc. The Bulletin regrets that its supply of
Chinese type is not sufficient to give an extended
notice of this pleasing function.
Five years ago a young Ashford (Eng.)
lady, while in the crowd outside Buckingham
Palace watching the arrivals at a royal drawing-
room, saw a very old gentleman who became faint
and staggered helplessly. The crowd jeered him,
shouting that he was drunk, and commenced to
jostle him rudely. The lady perceiving that he
was ill, helped him through the crowd to a seat
in a park close by. He soon recovered, asked her
name, and they parted. She heard of him again
only the other day. He had died and left her —
.£150,000 !
A few months ago a selector named Holmes
was charged at Mackay (Q.) Police Court with the
murder of a youug man named M'Donald, and
was remanded from time to time, the police,
meanwhile, searching for M‘Donald’s body, which
could not be found. On the night before he was
to appear in Court, and after he had spent some
ten days in gaol, he most determinedly hanged
himself in his cell, leaving no clue to the mystery
surrounding M'Donald’s disappearance. So far
the story in no way departs from the prosaicism of
similar affairs ; but the, sequel, also a well-authen-
ticated fact, certainly does savour of the mys-
terious About a month or two after the suicide,
a Kanaka was arrested for drunkenness and
lodged in the cell where the hanging had taken
place. It must be understood, first, that the
Kanaka was very drunk when placed in the cell,
secondly, that he had never heard of Holmes,
and thirdly, that, even if he knew of the circum-
stances, lie must have been totally ignorant as to
which cell had been the scene of the suicide. At
about 4 a.m. the officer in charge was roused by
the yells of someone, evidently in an agony of
mortal fear. Rushing to whence the noise pro-
ceeded, he found the Kanaka cowering in a corner
of the cell furthest from the door. The constable
raised him from the floor, and endeavoured
to discover the cause of the uproar. With
many fits of shuddering, and terrified glances
towards the cell door, he said: “Me go
sleep, me no savoy how long ; bimeby me open
eye, head belonga me plenty sore. Me look all
about, me no savoy place, me plenty savee look.
Bimeby me see him white man. Grass (hair)
belonga him plenty red. (This was the colour of
Holmes’hair.) He no look me. He take him
belt belonga trouser, and then he catch him that
fellow wood (pointing to a stool) and take him
alonga door, he make him fast belt alonga that
fellow iron (pointing to the bars above the door),
and then he make him fast alonga neck belonga
him. He stop a lillee bit, then he say, ‘ Hah !’ all
same, no more! He kick him wood, me look ho
hang alonga neck ; bimeby face belonga him big
fellow, two fellow eye close up, he tumble out, he
kick him leg lillee bit, and then he all same dead.
Me plenty fright, and me plenty sing out. Me no
want to stop along this fellow place, suppose me
stop me all same dead.” He was removed to
another cell. From that day to this he has never
touched a drop of liquor, and the slightest refer-
ence to the events of that night is sufficient to
bathe him in a perspiration of fear.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
RRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sngar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. IW For external use try Coi.kmanr and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundrn, N.B.W


AUSTRALIA.IN MUTUAL ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which PROVIDENT SOCIETY
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR,
Directors— The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq., Deputy-Chairipan ; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A..; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; J. R. HILL, Esq.; A. W.
MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Accumulated Funds: Ten and a-Half Millions Sterling. The CASH BONUS for the. One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over ONE MILLION STERLING.
Head. Office; 87 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ROYAL AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY. W.S.W.
1803 GREAT ANN UAL EXHIBITION 1803
Prizes, a§2ooo
Prizes,
Prizes,
MOORE PARK, SYDNEY,
MARCH 28 TO APRIL. 4.
Prizes, .£2OOO
Prizes, £2OOO
Prizes, £2OOO
IT. "W ebater, Hunter-at,, Sydney^
An interviewer of Zola wrote of “ his happy
infants, heard in the next room.’’ They were two
puppies.
At Woolioomooloo you can buy 6NUN
Parting*.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth* of what. 1
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA ...
F. J. EYRE & Go.,
98,0’ConnellSt, N.Adelaide, S.Australia
ii. «. hoot, ♦
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Is the most perfect Emollient Milk for
SOFTENING AND BEAUTIFYING
THE SKIN
. , EVER PRODUCED.
It keeps the Sun Cool and Refreshed In the Hottest
Weather.
Entirely removes and prevents all
tiOUQHNESS, REDNESS, SUNBURN, TAN, «C.
And preserve* the THE BKIN from the effects of
exposure to the
SUN, WIND, OR HARD WATER,
, More effectually than any other preparation.
It Is delightfully Cooling and Refreshing if applied to
the Face or Hands after beli.4 out in the Bun, Tennis*
playing. Yachting, Ac. It removes all Heat and Irritation
caused by the Sow, Stings of Insects, etc., and imparts
that soft velvety*—" —
Price in K..„
M. BPETHAM A !
BRIGGS’
TRANSFER
PAPERS.
A Warm Iron passed over the Back of thest
Papers Transfers the Designs to any Fabric.
BRIGGS’ Book of Conventional and Mount-
mellick Designs. Post free, sd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Braiding and Costume Designs.
Post free, 4d»
BRIGGS’ Book of Floral and Flannel Designs,
New. Post free, Bd.
BRIGGS’ Book of Ecclesiastical Designs. Post
free, 3d.
BRIGGS’ Book of Initials and Monograms
Post free, 4d. ¥
BRIGGS’ Book of Australian Native Flowers.
Post free, 3d.
All the above Books, containing upwaixls of 700
Designs , hound in One Volume, post free, Is. 9d,
BRIGGS’ Filoselle Silks are the brightest in the
Trade.
8326 Flinders Lane,
MELBOURNE.
USE ONLY THE
MAGIC CLEANSER
Cold Water Soap.
(BEST IN THE WORLD.)
To be obtained from all Grocers and.STOßE-
keepers throughout the Colony.
The Sydney Soap & Candle Co., Ltd.,
337 KENT &TREET, SYDNEY,
And NEWCASTLE.
;(BRdOME’S:M.USTCI
Full Music Hlw and Guaranteed Correct. >
1 No. SONGS. A
411. Song that Reached My Heart.
463. What are the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). (in O. 579 in 11,
677. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 878
567. Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
569. Maggie Murphy’s Home. '
585. The Reason Why, in B. 586 in Q.
602. Aileen Aroon, in E flat. 603 ip F.
618. Remember now thy. Creator.
619. Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE
527. Old Gold Folka (very pretty).
564. American Lancers (pop. melodies
671. March of (he Goblins Blue, lively
572. Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). (Gautier.)
SSO. An Old Sweet Greeting Walt* (L.
5-The country wedding Barn Dance
W. H. BROOME,
16 HOLBORN/)oJ»ypos, E.C. ENGLAND.
Every class of M gitii,Mtuucal Instruments in Stock-
How to Leanr *• The Basjtmi BEasy Lessons.” Post free. Is.
F.SI. 1815) TRACK SltrPLIEt). |F,»t. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local musio store or
bookseller.
ğ
m
m
13 Copibb, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
ġ
SSn
£2T The only thoroughlj
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
A!IO
* Influenza.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford* Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George- Bt.
wu_i„. Limited
iy
/caking^
P O W D EH
1
She; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He : “No !”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He ; “Ah ! Dem that make me love.
QDDS AND ENDS.
Writers too frequently catch on to the odds and
ends of history to sustain some pet theory or to
uphold some mistaken notion. In 1817 John
Oxley, Surveyor-General of N.S.W., explored the
country towards the interior with the object of
finding the source of the River Lachlan. He
followed the course of the river for many miles,
but was compelled to diverge by swamps of the
most dismal character. Heading these he was
again confronted and baffled by other swamps ;
ultimately abandoning his project in the belief
that these swamps merged into an inland sea.
This was subsequently disproved, but this scrap
has been the basis of much speculation about the
swamps of Australia, upon which was founded a
charge that the section referred to was unhealthy.
It is true Oxley encountered from exposure many
painful complaints, such as rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, neuralgia, and the like ; nor were his
men provided with an absolute cure for these
diseases, such as an expedition of the kind would
be provided with nowadays; but there are no
grounds for the charge. The truth is that, even if
it were so, the great preventive and cure of aches
and pains would make all things right. The
truth is, further, that St. Jacobs Oil cures all odds
a.nd ends of pain, as witness the following : Mr.
S. H. Collins, Squatters Hotel, Brisbane, Queens-
land, was cured of a terrible pain in his ribs by
the use of St. Jacobs Oil. Mr. Thomas Craw-
ford, Standard Brewery, Sydney, N.S.W., suff-
ered 16 years with a broken ankle. He now
walks as well as ever from use of St. Jacobs Oil.
Mr. Stephen Thomas, Sydney. N.S.W., says one
of his children was cured of great pain from the
bite of a tarantula by the use of St. Jacobs Oil,
when he thought the child would have to undergo
a surgical operation. Mr. Jas. M. Mort, Foot-
ball Club, Melbourne, writes : “ Was troubled
with cramps in my legs; but, rubbing well with
St. Jacobs Oil, have never had them since.” Mr.
J. D. Flower, Balmain, Sydney, says: “Should
like all fellow-sufferers from rheumatic gout to
try St. Jacob Oil. It cured me.” Such are its
unrivalled virtues, that everything in the shape of
pain succumbs to it.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
<£49,460 worth for £l.
See Amusement
Column.
Amusements.
m I V O L 1 t H B A T R “aj
* (Late the GARRICK) Castlerragh Street.
Sole Lessee and Manager Mr. Harry Rickard's,
T O-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! T 0 - N I G it f i
| Mr. II Alt K Y It ICKAIt |» S |
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
49 REAL GENUINE ARTISTS 49
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls. 2s •
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s. ’ ’
TTER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
STARTLING and TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS
of the
Great English Sensational Play,
c 3VH _A_ IN' T O IMI A UsT. 75
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster ereehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—
-105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE: Hon. B. B. Moreton, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq.,
Acheson Ovkrbnd, Esq., C.E.
SOLICITOR : Hon. A. j. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney,
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost .£30,000;
rental value, .£1,500.
.Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
te lb lb lb
Ct o-
s §
5 of .£5OO
10 of .£250
50 of .£lOO
100 of .£5O
100 of .£25
125 of £2O
1.000 of ,£lO
1.000 of £5
Total, o£ 105,000, no deduction of anv kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49*460 worth*
ģ
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Aceordeons, 12s. 6d., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. 6d., ISs. 6d., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. 6d., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. 6d. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert),
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £5 6s. Cornets,
£2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT'S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
success guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledsre of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE,
tpHE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
“JOAN OF AR. O.”
SATURDAY, March 18—" FAUST UP TO DATE.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
CRITERION THE AT El.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucioault.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS '
of
Harry and Edward Paui.ton’s Modern Comedy,
“ KTIOBB.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may b<
secured six nights in advance.
Q P E R A H ~Q iT S~ B
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. R. F. Keating.
SATURDAY NIGHT (March 18) and EVERY EVENING
Mr. SLADE MURRAY’S
NEW LYRIC COMBINATION.
Every Artist a Star.
Miss JENNIE LEE—Australia’s Favourite. Madam*
SCHERAZADE, the Lion Queen and Intrepid Snak<
Charmer. A Magnificent Combination.
MILLION PRICES —2s., Is. and SIXPENCE.
%
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
I Vow ready, post free Is fid,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
PANZA. Box 913
0.P.0., Sydnay
Fights and Fighters.
It is cabled that Hall and Fitzsimmons,
two Australians, have fought a four-round battle
in America for a purse of eight thousand pounds.
It is questionable whether in the most wicked and
Wanton-ages any such sinful waste as this has ever
been heard of. With thousands of starving poor
in their cities, with their mechanics actually
fighting with rifles to secure a fair day’s wage for
a fair day’s work, the American public has sub-
scribed forty thousand dollars to see these two
men spar with gloves for the space of, as it turns
out, twelve minutes. Over six hundred pounds a
mihute the winner earned ! Fitzsimmons comes
from Timaru, M.L. ; Hall is a Sydney native.
Fitz; is a blacksmith by trade—a lean, wiry, hairy
skeleton of a man, hard as nails, and tough as
whipcord. When Hall left here he was in ap-
pearance atypical Sydney larrikin—Heavenforgive
Us, that we should thus speak of a noble gentle-
man, whose labour is so valuable that he can
aspire to earn six hundred pounds a minute ! But
He is so. A flat-chested, long-armed, thin-legged,
low browed cornstalk, a decent-enough fellow in
his way, no doubt, but hardly a demi-god.
Dozens such can be picked up any day in any Aus-
tralian province. “Ifhe is a champion,” you say,
“he earns his money.” Not at all, as we will
proceed to show.
# * *
Apart altogether from the sinful waste of
putting up such large purses to reward these use-
less brutes of prize-fighters, there is another point
to consider. The Americans, the cute, calculating,
over-reaching Yankees, are the biggest fools on
edrth as regards fighting-men. They Jet them-
selves be humbugged in the most egregious mannet
and they worship the men who impose on them;
Once a man has made a bit of a reputation, though
it may have been achieved (as Sullivan’s was) at
the expense of second-rate opponents; the National
American Idiot is prepared to grovel to him and
to pay to see him act above all things. The
Americans will allow some whisky-sodden fraud
like this to wallow in riches of their providing,
without doing anything in return. The man may
pose as a champion fighter and yet may stubbornly
refuse to fight anybody, as Sullivan did for years,
and as Corbett does now ; yet the Americans will
tolerate him. Here in Australia we distinctly
come out ahead on that point. If a man sets up
to be a fighter with us, he has to fight or quit the
business. Even Griffo, the miniature Tom Sayers
and idol of the “ pushes,” is made to come down
when challenged by niggers and outcasts of all
sorts to fight them. And he does fight like a
bundle of wild-cats while his grog-impaired con-
dition lasts. And the moment that his “friends”
have to come to his rescue, as in the last two
fights, his prestige has gone. A man who has won
the countless victories that Griffo has achieved
might live for ever in America, and never fight
anybody, and be a champion all the time. Which
brings us, back to the question of Hall and Fitz-
simmons.
* * *
Both of the pair left here with the
reputation of being good, clever men at their
weights. While away from here they have
not beaten anybody to brag about, except
in the case of Fitzsimmons’ victory over
Dempsey and Hall’s over Pritchard. And for the
last year and more they have had the American
fools at their feet, offering them anything they
liked if they would only condescend to fight. And
with noble firmness they have dodged fighting
anybody but second-raters; they have been
idolised and worshipped, and now, at last, having
played the waiting game for all it is worth, they
have boxed for this tremendous purse. They have
done nothing whatever to entitle them to such a
sum. They have simply traded on the credulity
of a foolish public. Over here men probably quite
as good—Creedon, Pheasant. Richardson, and so
forth—have been fighting like demons for small
purses and glad to get the chance.
• • •
That is the reason why we have so many
good boxers, rowers, and so on. Because we
make them fight or row when challenged. Win n
Hanlan came over here to scull, and met defeat,
he wasn’t refused a second match on the ground
of being a “ back number ” as they say in
America. Beach and Kemp rowed him again and
again as often as he wished. O’Connor also was
accommodated with as much pulling as he desired,
in fact on one occasion he was allowed to row our
champion twice for the same stake. When young
Searle came to the front Kemp dared not refuse
him a match. What is the position in American
boxing now? The present champion, Corbett, has
only beaten that whisky-sodden wreck, Sullivan,
and now resolutely refuses to fight Jackson, or
Goddard, or Slavin, or anybody, and the
Americans applaud him and go to see him act.
Lord send the American public some sense !
• • •
However, we oughtn’t to complain. Our
men are winning the money and getting the big
purses, and they are showing themselves adepts at
the “waiting” game when the chance arises.
More power to them ! But should Jackson or
Slavin ever be allowed as a favour to fight Corbett,
if they beat him they had better stay in America.
If they come back here they will have to fight or
take in their sign. There is no money here, either
theatrically or otherwise, for a fighter who won’t
fight.


At Manly you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Out for a stroll, smoke G N U N Darlings.
At Coogee you can buy G N U N Darlings.
THE CENTRE OF ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY
AND THE
Greatest Show in the Whole of Australia.
IN THE GREAT AND * ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED ON BY
STEWART DAWSON & CO
There are no intermediary charges or middlemen’s profits. Every article 'direct from the workshop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
All goods are marked in plain figures. A child can buy with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
(Magnificent (Stock of £ewellery.
ALL AT FREETRADE PRICES.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches—birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and'CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment, Wedding and Keeper Rings, a special variety.
All at Preetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies’ beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess. Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S‘Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S i Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicestarticles suitable for wedding: and birth-
day presents in- solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets. Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
'.Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
(6d. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
■designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purses (portmonnaies), Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing' Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant desisrns, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON' & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entree Dishes, breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style. Solid Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, &c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives „of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-third
lower than any house in Sydney.
Watches, Diamonds, Jewellery, Silver-plate.
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
DIRECT PROM THE MANUFACTURERS TO THE PUBLIC.
STEWART DAWSOH & CO.’S
WORLD-FAMED
ENGLISH LEVERS.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watches
advertised as’English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
•pq OS.—S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
, ° ” LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth £5.
S.—S. D. and GO’S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
£6 6s. Beware of imitations.
1 nS--S- D, and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH HUNT-
ev 1 * tu inq LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
ft hd real chronometer balance. Perfection.
1 nS.-S. D. and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
tvw 1 U HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
£8 Bs.
£3 10
1 AS'-S. D. and CO.’S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
eVtJ IV LISII HUNTING LEVER. Unequalled.
.(?/? 1 AS.—S. D. and CO.’Sgrand Three-quarter-plate
IV Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear; without equal.
Pin - S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
S/i V. Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER.
i i aS. —S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
1 and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English.
4? i eft—S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
3J I O WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £1 12s. 6d.
A c I aS.—S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
1U Keyless flue SWISS WATCHES, the most
superb gems procurable.
pn i aS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
3JO lO an( j CO.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Pin i AS., £l2 10s., £l5 10s., to £25.—S. D. and
IV CO.'s Stock of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English 18 carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals.
Oa c AND Pen -S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking.
WALTHAM WATCHES.
We hold the largest stock of these to be found on the
Australian continent, and we ask every reader to compare
ours with the prices you have been paying. Notwithstand-
ing the duty of 15 per cent, recently put on by the
Government, the following will be found from 12J to
40 per cent. lower than Waltham Watches have ever
been sold in Sydney:—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .. _ „ 212 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, |-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra iewels .. 4 4 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside,” adjusted
3 pairs extra Jewels, compensation balance 510 0
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 7 10 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 12 10 0
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat .. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 14 10 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver oases.
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Watch in above lists sent safe per post, carriage
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittance.
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.—In this Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lockets
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competition. ’
NOTE.—Special Goods in Diamond and Gem work made
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diamonds,
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can make new work
or remake old articles into modern designs in the shortest
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every Descriu-
tion by the best WORKMEN.
Stewart Dawson and Cl’s Watch a&i Jewe'lery Palace,
412 GEORGE STREET, and STRAND ARCADE. SYDNEY. MELBOURNE and AUCKLAND.
Her Honour and His.
A TALE OF A WIFE, A HUSBAND, AND A FRIEND.
To Derracott, sunk in his extreme dejection, time
had passed like a bird on the wing, and he was
already within eye-shot of his house. But now the
passage of those footsteps in his wake roused in
him a certain vague wonder. He realised that
they had seemed to pursue him for some time
down the solitary streets; and a little beyond his
doorway he halted in the darkness, and turning,
awaited curiously the approach of his follower.
From his post he saw a figure in evening-dress
pierce the darkness, move sharply into the lamp-
light, and run lightly up the steps of his own
portico.
Struck with an amazed alarm, he watched the
man insert a pass-key in the lock, and, opening the
door, vanish without a sound into the region
beyond. The door clicked behind the invader, and
Derracott was left staring.
This, then, was to be his welcome from a journey
so dismal, and in a mood so desperate. Had he
come upon the morrow, as he had anticipated, this
house had been smiling for him, his wife bright
with a false radiance.
But the miscalculation of one day had sufficed
to rob him of his decent refuge; and plunged into
debt, embittered with failure, there was now no
longer, as k seemed, love to forgive him, neither
faith nor courage to inspire and strengthen. And
yet of her at least he had been certain, though his
world else was rumbling in his ears. His gaze be-
sieged the house as though to tear the walls
asunder and peer into its shameful secrets.
His blood ran now at a charge. Walking pre-
cipitately across the road, he marched up the steps
with a thumping heart. A.s he closed the door,
the dark silence of the hall dropped like a cloak
upon him. His feet made no sound upon the
heavy carpet; in his own house he stole with the
air and cunning of a thief.
At the top of the first flight, he stopped a
moment before his wife’s drawing-room, rapped
gently with his knuckles, and opened the door
slowly.
The room glowed in a soft, red light, which
illuminated, also, two stricken faces in the back-
ground, The man had risen to his feet and
clutched the back of a high chair, his eyes set
hard upon the incomer. But it was upon the
woman that Derracott’s glance fell first. She
kept her seat, crouched in the hollow of a large
arm-chair, her face rigid to the lips, her chin
twitching to her short breaths, her eyes wild and
staring. Mortal terror never sat upon features so
spectral; meaningless noises issued from her
tnouth. Derracott, his cheeks blanched, his
muscles strung as upon wires, stepped into the
room, and upon this company.
“I have surprised you, my dear,” he said,
quietly. “Ah, Harland !” and he nodded to the
man.
The woman gave him no answer; but Harland
lifted his hand from the chair, sank into a seat,
and laughed with uneasy harshness.
“Yes,” he returned, “ I’m afraid Mrs, Derra-
cott is startled. She I’d no notion you were
away, and looked in a few minutes ago to see if
you’d give me a game.”
“I saved a day, and so I’m here,” explained
Derracott, He stood before the fire and warmed
his hands, his white face stooped to the blaze.
The woman recovered herself with a short, in-
drawn gasp, rose, and moved uncertainly toward
him.
“Why, Teddy,” said she tremulously, “you
have given me a—a start. But you’ve got your
coat on,” and she laid a hand upon his shoulder.
He turned about, but his eye avoided her.
“Yes,” said he, “I was going to ask you
whether you would allow me to disrobe in your
boudoir.”
She laughed hysterically.
“Teddy, of course!” she cried, and fetched up
m a spasm of silence.
He pulled off his overcoat deliberately and
turned again to the fire without a glance at his
companions. He had to them the look of pre-
occupation. The silence struck a fear into the
others, and presently drove Harland to speech.
“You’re not very lively, old fellow,” he said,
with elaborate cheerfulness ; “had a bad journey?”
Derracott turned at last; his brain was moving.
“ No,” he replied, after a pause, and with pain-
ful deliberation ; “ pretty fair, but I am somewhat
tired. I had a long day yesterday.”
“ Poor Teddy !” said his wife, caressingly, and
put out a frightened hand to him.
For the first time since that exchange of glances
upon his entrance, Derracott’s eyes rested moment-
arily upon her face. An obscure and furtive terror
lingered there, and, as his gaze dwelt steadily upon
her, flashed swiftly into open panic. Her head
drooped slightly forward, poised over against him
as a bird before a serpent; his glance passed on
and touched the man. Harland was fingering his
moustache; he pulled out his watch. “By Jove !”
he exclaimed, “I’d no notion it was so late. Mrs.
Derracott, you must forgive me. Well, old chap,”
and he made as,though to rise, “you’re too tired, I
suppose, to have a game, so I’ll be off; I won’t
keep you up.”
Derracott’s muscles softened ; his body breathed
with warm life again.
“Not yet,” he said; “I’ll give you a game
before you go. Only my wife had better go to
bed. Come, Lucy ; it’s beyond your hour.”
The woman straightening herself in her chair,
regarded them both with frantic eyes ; terror had
sat upon her visage since last her husband had
looked upon her. She rose with difficulty and
opened her mouth. Some cry hung unuttered on
that tongue; some prayer was contained inarticu-
late behind those secret, trembling lips.
She moved mechanically to Harland, with an
outstretched hand, stopped, sighed deeply, and
left the room without a word. Harland, from the
edge of his seat, watched his host with doubt, but
the gray face of the latter and his veiled eyes
spoke of nothing but great weariness.
“ We will drink first,” he said.
He filled two glasses from the decanter upon the
table. Harland’s hand sfiook at his lips, but he
drained the glass and laughed.
“Now for this game, my boy,” he said, cheer-
fully. Derracott, whose fingers were playing with
his brimming wine-glass, made no response, and
Harland examined him anxiously.
“You’re very much depressed, old chap,” he
said, after a space of silence; then he hesitated
and his eyes suddenly lightened. “ It’s not
money ?”
“ I don’t mind your knowing,” said Derracott;
“ I owe you close on five thousand, and there’s
some twenty thousand elsewhere.”
“ Derracott,” said Harland, leaning towards his
companion with insinuation, “ cross out that five,
and I’ll stand in for the twenty.”
The ashes of the fire collapsed in the silence that
ensued ; Derracott’s face never moved ; he turned
the shank of the glass between his fingers.
“ That’s a generous offer,” he said.
“Generous be damned,” returned Harland,
gaily. “It’s nothing to me, and we’re old pals
and ”
“ Twenty five thousand, as the market goes, is.
I suppose, a generous price for honour,” broke in
Derracott, with an air of meditation.
The vestiges of colour ran from Harland’s
cheeks; their eyes encountered across the table ;
no words passed, but in that mute question and
its vacant answer, as it were, the position of the
combatants was acknowledged and defined. With
a thin breath, almost of relief, Harland waited for
the other, whose eyes were still upon him. Der-
racott squared his elbows on the table.
“ Yes,” said he; “and now for this game.”
Beneath the calm surface of his manner, Derra-
eott was at the white heat of fury. Pent by his
fierce jealousy, his mind converging full upon this
sudden horror, he sat, with quiet eyes and face of
stone, stalking ever nearer to his fluttered quarry.
“I think,” he resumed presently, “that I ought
to make my own rules in this game.” His voice
rang with a note of unconcern, even of pleasantry.
Harland shrugged his shoulders. “ I have
nothing to say,” said he.
Derracott rose softly, took some note-paper
from a writing-table, and scribbled some seconds
upon it. Then he handed the paper across the
table. What Harland read was as follows :
“I, Edward Derracott, being in the full possession of
my senses, have decided to put an end to my life. It has
become too much to bear. My debts have involved me
too deeply, and I am tired of the struggle. I have no
strength to go on. May God help my wife. Fo.-give me,
Lucy. I have tried, but there seems no way out but this.
Let others take warning by my fate. The turf is
accursed. God help me.”
Harland inquired of the writer with his eyes,
and the latter pointed at the pen and ink. “ Write
one like it,” he said, “but with your name and
according to your circumstances.”
Harland’s jaw dropped suddenly; he took up
the pen. When he had finished, he passed the
paper to Derracott, who nodded and rose.
“Put it in your pocket,” said he. “At this
hour, the park will serve our purpose.”
He drew a brace of pistols from a drawer, and,
motioning to his companion, descended the stairs.
The chill December moon shone frostily upon the
crisp grass of the square as the two made their
way in silence to a central bower of evergreens,
the haunt of children at their hide-and-seek
throughout the afternoons.
“I think,” said Derracott, in his sauve, passion-
less voice, “ that here is the proper theatre for our
little comedy.”
He handed a pistol to his adversary.
“Twenty-five thousand!” he murmured,
“ There is no need of superfluous witnesses. We
two can play our own hands. Twenty-five thou-
sand was a generous offer.”
His hand, with its weapon close grasped, hung
at his side.
“ If you are resolved to end this thing in this
way,” said Harland, hoarsely, “there’s no help
for it. What are you going to do?”
“ According to my idea of the game,” said
Derracott, softly, “we should have the option of
firing at twelve paces or approaching at the signal.
You may have observed it was on the stroke of
one when we left. Perhaps you will be good
enough to take the church-bell as a word of com-
mand.”
Harland made no answer, but took his station
in the open; Derracott put his back against a tree
and waited. The faint sound of a remote clock rose
from the distance and vibrated on the stillness.
Harland steadied his arm before him, but Derracott
stirred not. A moment intervened of dreadful
silence—to Harlahd a space of hours —and then a
heavy bell boomed from the clock-tower of the
church. A pistol cracked, and a withered branch
snapped on the tree by Derraoett’s head. He
himself laughed gently, and marched slowly for-
ward to the spot where stood Harland waiting
for his death. Smilingly he regarded his victim.
“ Twenty-five thousand !” said he. “It was a
notable bid. But I think my solution was the
better. My good sir.” he said, “the exigencies of
this game demanded that I should be free of all
coroners’ courts ; hence the confession of suicide in
your pocket.”
He held out the pistol; Harland, his face sickly
white, made a gesture of impatience. For a
second he looked into Derracott’s eyes. Derra-
cott wavered for a breath of time; and then,
clapping the barrel to the man’s heart, pulled the
trigger.
The body sank in a heap at Derracott’s feet.
He watched it huddle limply among the damp and
yellow leaves, noted its open eyes and its pallid,
moonlit face. He bent over the dead man; his
pulse throbbed riotously.
“Twenty-five thousand,” he muttered, in a
thin, dry whisper; “a generous offer for my
honour.” He laughed. “He might have told me
before he went how much he gave for hers.” —
American.
Spanish Proverb : For whom does the
blind man’s wife adorn herself?
Be floods, it is a common error, fostered
by the newspapers, that in swimming a flooded
creek or river the swimmer feels the current
sweeping him down, and that a man is liable to
be “ washed off his horse,” &c. Barring whirl-
pools or eddies, it is just as easy to swim a flooded
stream as the same distance of calm water, pro-
vided a man allows himself to be carried along
with it. Nobody but a fool, or a special corres-
pondent, would attempt to swim straight across a
river. George Eliot, in the “Mill on the Floss,”
makes this absurd error in her final catastrophe.
Tom and Maggie in a boat are overwhelmed by a
drifting mass of timber from the old mill,
although, according to all the laws of nature, both
would be going along at the same rate of speed.
Of course, the effect of seeing the banks and trees
glide by makes a man conscious that he is being
carried along.
The Marisb Brothers have an ecclesiastical
school at Lifu, one of the Loyalty Islands, where
they train and educate young cannibals for the
church. Quite recently they got hold of an extra
’cute young barbarian, who swallowed knowledge
almost as fast as they could administer it. He
was so far advanced that at length they thought
it time to explain to him the mystery of the real
presence in the Eucharist. They did so, but were
met by the ex-cannibal with the following indig-
nant rebuttal : “ All time you bin tell him boy,
no good he ki ki (eat) man, suppose him ki ki man
he go alone a hell fire. All right, man belong a
South Sea, he think him you apeak true ; he no
more ki ki man. You tell him boy along a school
Christ he plenty good belong altogether man. Me
no savey talk belong a you. What for me ki ki
meat belong a him, and drink him blood belong a
good fellow man, suppose him Devil all right me
plenty savey that way.” Sent down.


Have you heard the news ? 6NUN Darling
is a sure cure for the “ blues ”
At Darlinghurst you can buy GN U N
Darlings.
Ha ! ha ! I’ve struck it! What ? 6NUN
Darling the best smoke to be got.
Financial worry soothed smoke GN U N
Darlines.
4
'i
oh
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
'
ill
m
//
m
:;V
Jl-
m
yys",
V/a
f.'-y.
%
wt
m
1
i
m
Coco^
9
W
:0*
Tales of the Riverine.
The Doom oT Walmsley’s Ruby.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
BY PRICE WARUNG.
Not Randall’s Ruby, bub Walmsley’s—an
Alder boat than R uidall’s pretty, gay, little craft
so familiar to the Mildura people—a boat of the
Seventies and not of the Nineties, and, therefore,
built when the was best worth going
into by wise and keen men. With engines of
12 horse-power nominal she worked up to 50 ; with
the firewood aboard for the run from Swan Hill
to Eohuca she could also carry 50 bales wool and
“ sundries ” on a draught of three feet while haul-
ing her barge with 400 bales on a draught of live
feet. So she was “a neat ’un to handle ” (as the
river phrase went), and if she could not exactly
travel over “ wet grass ” (the boat to which was
accorded the praise of floating upon dewy pastures
touched perfection in the judgment of the river-
men) she could achieve the next best thing—she
could skim the rivers when they were “ down ”
longer than any other boat, and, consequently,
earned for her owner a considerable sum in dealing
“ in trade,” in timber-running, and in bringing in
to the port the wool cargoes of larger crafts which
had been stuck on a falling river. A clever craft,
and no mistake about it.
Fred Walmsley, owner and skipper, was justly
proud of her. She had not an inch of gilt-beading
anywhere, or a scrap of velvet on her cushions,
and yet she was always pleasant to the eye of her
passengers, and restful to their bodies. Fred, as
a general rule a taciturn, gruff, unpolished sort of
fellow, was expansively eloquent and courteous to
his fares about his boat’s performances. Every
other skipper worth his salt on the rivers—with
the exception of Locky M‘B ’s skipper—was
accustomed to affect a delight in his own par-
ticular boat, even to the verge of unveracity.
Fred, however, was under no necessity to fib
re pecting the Ruby. He talked big about her
but she justified every word, and he was a curious
man, indeed, who being borne along by the Ruby
did not respond to her skipper’s generous
enthusiasm as to her “lines ” and her “model,”
the taste with which her coat of white paint had
been picked out, here with red and there with
blue, the shiny brass of her engine-work and of
her wheel, the musical note in her exhaust-pipe, “
the rythmic beat of her paddles. Without wife
or child, Fred found all the solace of a home in
his craft, and gloried in her as other men glory in
their home, their pictures, their books, their bank
balance. He would make oath in his rough and
ungenial way that he would stick to the little
Ruby as long as she’d stick to him. He didn’t
believe, he said, in selling the little craft which
had made the first money for the owner as soon as
a second and a larger boat could be bought. That
was the River practice, and Fred disapproved of
it. It is a curious thing how, in this age which
throbs with mercenary passion, and brawls, and
cheats, and grows mad from lust of gold, even
coarse-bred men grapple to their hearts the most
fantastic of affections. Here was a rude
river - man, shrewd and keen and not over-
scrupulous, a blusterer to his equals, and
a tyrant to those over whom he was
entitled to exercise a petty authority, who loved
the combination of iron and wood called the
Ruby steamer as finer men love their ideal
woman, or the inspiring spirits of their art. He
loved every plank in her —every bolt and nut.
When chaffed about marrying, it was his standing
retort that while he had the Ruby, he didn’t
care (a quite superfluous word) for any petticoat
alive.
• * *
Of course, other men interested in their
vocation, whose energies are concentrated in the
routine of life, have said the same thing and yet
succumbed to the charm of a rounded cheek and
the flash of a long-lashed eye; and while Fred
Walmsley was listened to with the respect com-
manded by his big, brawny shoulders and iron fist,
he was never believed. It was a popular jest—
never, though, indulged in when he was present—
that when the neat-footed gal came along, “ the
little Ruby ’ud ha’ to take second place an’ sing
small.” The amours of the river men might some-
times be coarse, but while they lasted Cupid had,
as a rule, no more devoted or willing subjects.
Not one in ten of the boat-hands could boast truly
of being unsusceptible to his shafts, and they did
not conclude that Fred o’ the Ruby was consti-
tuted with any peculiar impregnability.
“Go ’long ! There ain’t a chap on the rivers as
I couldn’t get over if I wanted ter !” retorted
Miss Jenny Forbes, daughter of a wood-pile
keeper on the Goulburn, to the indirect challenge
jocularly issued to her by “a snagger” to ti-y her
hand at subjugating Walmsley. “But you needn’t
think as I’m a-goin’ to fling the handkerchief to
any river chap. A reel squatter is my dart 1”
Half in jest, half in earnest, she retorted so. And
the men who listened to her, and glanced admir-
ingly at her, though they resented her words
partly, yet thought that most of the squatters
they knew would surely think themselves lucky
if they could win a girl like Jenny.
They were river men, all of them —all of them,
too, snaggers—hands of the Melbourne, the famous
old snagging boat which did some of the best
work ever done in the Riverine. The time was
Sunday afternoon. The Melbourne was tied to
the bank, and the men, in their white shirts and
Sunday Geelong-tweeds, lay on the green slopes,
luxuriating in the balminess of the time, in their
thirty-six hours’ freedom from work, and in the
smiles of beauty.
* * *
A beauty, Jenny Forbes most certainly
was. Straight as a sapling, she held herself
with a springy erectness that added height to
her perfectly-moulded figure. Dressed now only
in snowy muslin, she would have graced
regal velvet, for, as she moved, wholesomely
ignorant of all artificial laws of deportment, she
gave to the unrefined spectators a sensation of
unreasoned pleasure, which a master of the arts
and fripperies of the great world would have
found it impossible to rebuke. The wonder was,
however, not her figure and her airiness of carriage,
though, indeed, both were wonderful enough to
people who knew that her parents were poor,
wizened, labour-stunted creatures, but her com-
plexion and her voice. That mysterious faculty
of nature which prompts her to return upon her-
self after a lapse of generations, and to revive, in
the present, the physical type she had apparently
displaced a century before, had been mani-
fested in this girl. The full, voluptuously-con-
toured features, the fruity bloom which tinged the
cheeks and contrasted with the pallor of forehead,
and chin, and neck, should have belonged to one
of those fine ladies, who first flinging away their
lives at passion’s shrine, sat thereafter for saintly
profiles to some deathless painter of altar-pieces.
And then her voice ! It wanted but that superb
touch of education which is communicated by a
broken heart to make it an organ of surpassing
quality. It had a range in ordinary speech that
was as musical as many an accomplished singer’s,
while in laughter it left on the ear echoes so
enamoured of their own sweetness that they re-
fused to die. Give it, give her, but soul and
refined intelligence, and tune it and her to the key
of a gracious life, and she would be a woman of
destiny to more than one strong man. As it was,
she was—but a wood-cutter’s daughter ; a girl of
undeveloped instincts and of faculties which,
naturally rude, were coarsening quickly in the
soulless surroundings of the bush. The “chaff”
of the snaggers she answered in her glorious voice
with zest and vigour ; for other homage she could
not imagine than the audacious jesting which
was the only form of compliment her admirers
preferred ; and which she relished. Illiterate,
barely able to read, with even less capacity in
writing, the girl’s fancy was at once stimulated
and satiated with such incense of gallantry as the
crews of the boats, and the timber-getters for
Echuca saw-mills, lavished before her. Men of
that rough mould are never unimpressed by the
delicacy of a woman’s nature, and make some re-
sponse to the thousand little intangiblenesses of
accent, and look, and gesture, with which the
woman who is sheltered by her womanliness
chastens the angularities of masculine tempers.
When, however, the woman is herself coarse, the
rough-natured fellows becomes rougher. Bodily
beauty alone does not refine the woman, and she
guides him in his defects as in his better qualities.
And so, instead of Jenny’s voice charming away
the asperities of these uncultivated spiritswith its
melody like a throstle’s song, they rejoiced the
more gladly and applauded her the louder that her
golden notes dealt out to them the badinage of
their kind. And the topics that were discussed !
The men did not exchange double entendres, for
there was no need. Neither she nor they felt
under any obligation to beat about the bush.
Their speech was Elizabethan in its coarse frank-
ness.
So, this smiling Sunday afternoon on which
nature rested and permitted the river toilers
to rest also, Jenny sat among ten or twelve snag-
gers, and jested at them and with them, and
accepted their patent homage of jests with appro-
priate eagerness. The Ruby had left the Goul-
burn with timber for Barbour’s mill in one of
Barbour’s barges, and had left her own barge to
be loaded up, so that on her return she would lose
no time in being despatched with a second load.
And Walmsley’s name being mentioned incident-
ally in the girl’s presence, had led to her asking,
“ Why the dickens that Fred didn’t get spliced ? ”
“ Why, he’s awaitin’ till yer’ll say yer’ll ’ave
’im, Miss Forbes ! ” had grinned a rouseabout.
“ Oh, Fred,” broke in a fireman before the
girl could speak, “ses as there ain’t a gal alive
who’d get him to give her first place in his
’fecshions so long as the Ruby don’t get snagged
an’ ruins him ! ”
Then the girl had answered the implied chal-
lenge by the remark we have reported. “Go
’long ! There ain’t a chap on the rivers as I
couldn’t get over if I wanted ter ! ” And as
though these words were not depreciative enough
of their class she added poison to the gall by in-
sinuating her ambition to become a squatter’*
‘ laady. ” A girl who belonged “o’ rights” to
the rivers to think of going over to the hated
squatterdom ! Not to be thought of—even though
the squatters would jump down one another’s
throats to get so fine a piece of womankind
They attacked her then with a humorous
earnestness. “ Marry a squatter—she ! Throw-
away the cleanest-cut limbs, an’ nattiest waist an’
most kissable lips on all the rivers—aye, in all
Victoria ! On rascally dummyin’ squatters as was
a-stealin’ o’ the lands ? Get out, Jenny !” And
after a while, they changed the mode of their
satire. “A squatter? No bloomin’ squatter
wants a wood-piler ! Tor yer are a wood-piler
Jenny, an’ no mistake ! Didn’t old Capt’n Hill ’>
—Hill, skipper of the snagging boat Melbourne
that was—“see yer a-cuttin’ down a red-gum-
tree one day when th’ ol’ man was laid un with
the r’duraatics ? An’ which o’ the young blokes o’
squatters would you be after goin’ for, Jenny?
Mick of Moira, or young Tom of Cannoon • or
there’s Ewey Mac. of up-river? No, no, Miss
Forbes, yer stick to the rivers. You marry Fred
Walmsley if he arsks yer—the young Walmsleys
’ll come in handy to train up as mates and
steersmen and so save screws! Nothin’ like a
lot of yer own youngsters round yer, Jenny to
save screws.” It was their notion of humour to
link the girl’s fortunes with Fred’s, because Fred
was distinctly unmarriageable, they thought, and
it was by no means unlikely that if anybody
snapped up Jenny, he would be actually a squatter
or, at least, a young boss cookie. And the hours
slipped away, in all their marvellous wealth of
colour and scent, till the shadows of trees, high
up on the western bank, dipped into the stream
or fell athwart the old Melbourne. The girl went
homewards then to the miserable hut, standing
beyond flood-point on the rise. She refused
pscort. “Yer afraid of makin’ Fred jealous, or
the bloomin’ squatter—that’s why !” was the part-
ing shot of the snaggers, and, not displeased, she
bade them, for answer, “ Go ’long an’ shoot them-
selves.” The reparte was not without aimless-
ness, but it provoked laughter, and much keener
wit does not always do that.
# * *
The girl, all untutored as she was, was yet
sufficient of the woman to perversely dwell in her
spasmodic thinkings upon the possibility of Fred
Walmsley giving her a share in his name and his
boat. She really had made up her mind to marry
a squatter; but then, till the squatter came
along, why not amuse herself with Walmsley?
She knew she was “ a strikin’ piece of goods ”
she had something about her that was pleasing to
the men, for, on last snag-boat pay-day, had the
hands not cleared out Walmsley’s stock of
jewellery for her? Had not Walmsley himself
sold her a length of dress-stuff at less than Eohuca
prices? Wasn’t that an indirect compliment to
her charms? Didn’t she know that it was her
looks that kept the wood-pile going and not any
special need to which the boats were now sub-
jected of obtaining their fuel supplies at her
father’s pile? And so, the thoughts flitted over
the surface of her consciousness as the rays of
star-shine wavered on the ripples of the river, till
she came to a decision that might hold or might
not, just as her feelings swayed her, when once
Walmsley was again in her neighbourhood.
That happened a week later. He came to pick
up his own log-laden barge to run it down to
Barbour’s mill, and called at the pile to pay his
fuel account.


Gladstone Liberals smoko nothing but GNUN
Darlings.
Are you there ? Send me up
Darling, please.
GNUN
After tea, smoke G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL’S
A.B.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
Young and old, short and tall, say GNUN
Darlings the best of all.
g
Soap.
V'\'A
«M
x'Vx.
i
ii
\
w
m
v
/
::.**►
.
M*
s
so
a.
/%> /6nrx*A /lb,
“So many cords, so much, Jenny,” he said.
“An’ you owe me for the dress ? ”
“ Right, Fred, But you kin let the wood stand.
Dad ain’t short just now, for a wonder.”
“No —I’d Square up now, for I’m not coinin’
this way till the rivers are down again. The
snow-water’s cornin’ down the Murray, an as
soon’s it safe to get afloat for ’Bidgee up-stream
I’m off. There’s heaps of back season wool waitin’
to be collared on way-side stations.”
“Oh!” The girl, wondering at herself _ for
the feeling, could not help being somewhat pained
at the news.
The skipper did not notice it. “So here’s the
damage, Jenny unless you want something
more?” Walmsley simply saw in a pretty girl
somebody to trade with.
“No ! ” Impulsively—knowing nothing of what
she was doing, she challenged his admiration with
the coquettish arts of which she was not ignorant,
“I want nothing except ■”
“What?” questioned Fred, intent upon busi-
ness. .
“ You ! ” With something of coyness, more of
lioydenish dash, she muttered the syllable.
Blaming herself the next instant, she yet would
not have recalled it. All defiant, she had yet
become entangled in the delicious meshes of an
entangled affection. Thinking much of Fred she
had unconsciously learnt to love him.
Fred did not understand her, immediately.
Then, he disbelieved her. A jolly good joke,
she was having ! But no petticoats for him !
So
“ Lord, Jenny ! What s made you sweet upon
splicin’just now? ” He laughed gaily, before he
resumed. “ An’ you’re pokin’ borak at me ! ”
“ I ain’t! Look here, Fred—l’m tired o’ this
firewood bizness ! Won’t ye have me for your
gal, Fred —an’—an’ take me ’way ? Oh, I’ll make
yer a damned good wife, Fred, I will—an’ you’ll
see how smart I kin be at sellin’ thin’s ! ”
She was convincing herself, as she proceeded, to
the point of emphasising her newly-born desire for
a lover by the oath which was not infrequently on
her lips. As for the Ruby’s skipper, he stood for
a minute amused and amazed. Then, turning
away, he gave her good-bye. “Nowimmenfor
me, Miss Forbes, even if you wern’t a sort of
joking with me. I don’t wish for no other kind of
wife than my little Ruby. So long.”
The girl quivered with the shame of her repulse.
She knew now her fate ; she really did love this
river man who cared not a rap for anything
beneath the sky save his boat; and he—well, he
had laughed at her, and would tell the chaps at
the publichouse bars how Jenny “ had given her-
self away.” Hitherto, with much reason to feel
ashamed at times, she had never known the sensa-
tion, but now she knew what it was to be pricked
with the myriad needle-points of a late-born
modesty. Till now she had been but a beautiful
lissom animal. Henceforth she was a woman,
from whose eyes looked, for the first time in her
score of years of life, a soul. She had learned to
suffer, and to the feminine nature which is deriv-
ingthat lesson from the Nessus robe of circum-
stance, all things are possible.
« # «
Even revenge. True, ’tis an old story how
a woman scorned becomes at heart a hell-fury,
but all modern art is but the presentment of the
old, old episodes of life in newer settings. And
yet this story differs somewhat from its prototypes,
which speak of the woman’s revenge direct upon
the man. Not so was the man hurt herein.
The rivers came down suddenly, bearing in
their swollen currents the juices of the snowy
ridges, and the oozings of lowland hillsides, and
the lower streams took upon themselves breadth
and depth, and became alive witli fish, and fowl,
and those creatures of prey, the humans. But
only for a few weeks. It was a short rise a brief
foretaste of flood-time when the great wheels
would turn and churn the waters into foamy spray,
and take the ore of the yellow water and mint it
into the precious gold. And the boats enjoyed
but a spurt of work. Some were stuck up in the
narrow ridges of the Murrumbidgee —two, with
their several barges, on the reef near Rental
Island—a fourth within hail of Sturt’s Billabong,
where, some day, Australia shall build a pilgrims
shrine “on those shelving banks.’’ But Walrn-
sley’s Ruby was fortunate enough to regain the
port.
Fred, doubtful whether he should tie up his
craft, or join in what, in the state of the river,
was the risky work of exploiting the State forests
on either side of the Murray, was musingly re-
garding the “State of the Rivers” sheet posted
under the Post Office verandah, when a sawmill
manager hailed him.
“Can you run up to the Goulburn at once,
Fred, for us? We have a couple of barges ready
loaded. They’ve dropped ’em down from Shep-
parton to near the junction.”
“ I was just thinkin’ whether ’twas too risky to
go up as far as Tocumwal.”
“ Take my word for it, it is ! Better run up for
us. You can only get a short job till it’s certain
whether there’s more water to come down, or
whether it’s run out. What do’ye say ?”
“Done !” said Fred Walmsley.
# # #
Jenny had attributed to him an injustice.
He had not told the story of her love-making at
the township pubs., for he had, after his first
amusement, let the thing slip from his mind in
the concentration of his energies on the day’s
task. Nor did he recollect the incident till he had
brought the Ruby carefully to the spot where the
mill’s two barges were tied up, waiting haulage to
Echuca. Then he thought of it, for Jenny stood
on the rise, waiting the approach of the boat.
She had heard the Ruby’s exhaust, and recognised
it.
In the time which had gone since the Ruby’s
departure and her return, the girl had changed.
Her colour, once so steadfast, came and went with
the passing tempers of her mind. To outbreaks
of coarse speech directed to her parents, succeeded
moods of pathetic self-loathing, which they under-
stood as little as she did herself. The mystery of
sorrow was pressing upon her in all its poignancy.
Death even the uneducated can comprehend
his presence ; physical disasters, too, can be
understood by the common people; but the
finer issues, “in clear dream and solemn
vision,” are perceptible only to the cultivated
mind. They in whom fortune has not sown re-
finement cannot recognise but only suffer. Jenny
Forbes was such.
She had been crying in dumb inarticulate
fashion for Walmsley to come back, and here he
was! Had he come for her ? The hope that,
plucks at straws, and the shadows of straws, was
fledged in her heart —and died in the instant she
saw him. She knew he had not thought of her.
“ Homin’, Jenny ! ” He hailed her from the
bank.
“Good mornin’, Mister Walmsley! she,
hugging the pain, forced herself to say. ®he
would never call him “Fred ” again, till he
asked her to marry him. . .
Unconscious of the wound he was inflicting, and
quite unmindful, till her response had passed her
lips, that the form of his question was identical
with that which had led to her curious outburst on
the last occasion of their meeting, he called out
“ Do you want anything ? ”
He meant, of course, stores dress-staffs,
groceries, what not. But the girl, whose humilia-
tion was ever present to her mind, took the enquiry
in the light of a reminder.
She flamed red —then her pulse stopped, it
seemed to her, and the pain within her so tightly
clenched her vocal powers, that, instead of tne
exclamation rushing forth in the rich throatiness
of her voice, it was uttered in a sharp, cutting
whisper;
“Y on devil! ”
Fred remembered then all the details of the
former episode. And he laughed at the recol-
lection —with humorous tones in his harsh laugh.
The girl, holding a clenched fist to her side, ran
up the slight hill, maddened. On the crest of the
rise she paused and looked back. Through a cleft
in the clearing an expiring sun-ray, widening like
the blaze of a fire, enveloped the pilot-house and
the jeering boat-captain.
It must have been from that simulacrum of a
conflagration that she drew the inspiration of her
deadly thoughts.
# * *
The Ruby was to return in the morning.
And because no danger could be suspected in her
snug resting place, by the Goulburn junction, no
watch was kept. Only the great lamps, with their
hundred facets, sheened the placid stream.
Walmsley saw they were trimmed for the night
before he turned in at 10 o’clock.
At midnight there was no sound save the
lapping and wash of the river. The girl, who is
moving forward, makes no noise, you may be sure.
She is in stockinged feet. .
At sundown there had been, stored against, tue
wood-pile keeper’s hut in a lean-to, a great heap
of dried wattle-bark. It was so much tinder. And
the bulk of it, or, at least, sufficient for her pur-
pose, this girl had removed to the boat to serve as
tinder. Upon it she had heaped wool waste, from
the Ruby’s own engine-room. Tinder, all of it!
And, yet not content, she unscrewed the cork of a
kerosene-tin, and the fluid trickled and soaked the
waste and the bark.
It had been dead-calm. But, an instant before
she struck the match, a gentle breeze arose to help
her in her work. The decking was set ablaze
without trouble.
She had calculated on ten minutes burning
before the smoke and the crackling would rouse
the men. The breeze must surely have been the
breath of Erinnys. Within her allotted ten
minutes it gave her the advantage of double the
space.
The ill-work sped as ill-work always does.
And when Fred, at last aroused by his men,
dragged himself to the bank, half-dazed by the
smoke, he knew the task of fighting the
1 flames was hopeless. The little Ruby was doomed.
And, as so frequently happened during the off-
season, he was uninsured. He had let his policy
lapse with the last wool-trip.
From the west of the rise, the girl looked down
upon her work and her rival. The boat was gone
—that was evident! Neither seriously nor
jocularly could Fred avow that the steamer would
ever contest his affections with her again.
Stark still, save for the trembling which shook
her, she gazed and hated herself for her triumph.
Yet she would not have undone the work if she
could. Let the consequences of a woman’s hate
stab herself to death daily, yet, under like condi-
tions, she would so act again.
Dear Bulletin, —In your issue of 25th
ult. you give a good specimen of Yankee letter-
writing. Its vigour and avoidance of every super-
fluous word shows the character of the writer. As
its very antithesis, I send you a copy of a letter
written by a white trader in Samoa to the super-
cargo of the brig Sheet Anchor some years ago.
His letter is interesting, if only for the glimpse of
the troubled state of Samoa during the time of
Colonel Steinberger’s sway, when that comrade of
Grant attempted to establish himself as Dictator.
His brief tenure of power was cut short by the
British :
Tiavea, i doan now the Bait. Mr. , brig Sheat-
ancor, —Pleas giv mi Son about 30 yard 1 peas naivey bin
calioow an ten peas turkey twil a kase c f kerysin oil i got
A kase of yu last tripp frome yure ship It stunk like hel
even natifs wodent talk it For a Pressunt you earn do
Busnis if you go on Robin pepil that way Also 12 bucher
Nives not any germin maik, the natifs tel.me you are selin
cloth on yur ship 4 fadomes for a Doler that is the way
you traidin ships Rob us traiders you come Crawlin to
Us for Our Copperah and Maik a Hel of A Rowh
If you earn gett Eny an then you go abowght lieng and
say Samoar is plaid Out i heer Wen you was in the kins-
mil Grope ycu bort 50 tuns copperrah and gaif the natifs
brass sovrins for It wen they gett yo i next time i Can
tel you you wil get Hel for it, pleas doan giv mi Son eny
liccer Jack Brien the lied please man has A Derrey on
him also 1 kase gin but doan Tel mi Son you can put it in
Another box and Tel him it is tinnd Beaf or herins or i
wil neaver see him. bisnis is Bad Hear the Natifs are
fiteing Agenn I whish to God that Flash Yankey aoaldger
stineberger had a holet in his nutt he is At the bot-
tom of°lt and The consils are to Dam scaired to
look At him. they Are a Lott of crawlers i served
in the Naivey with lord dundonil in chilley wunse, they
say they Wil maik Me pay Tackses i am a Gold man but i
wil Putt a Bolet in anywun who says Tackses to Me i live
in Samoar 32 years and an respeck evan if i Do gett on
The lush, the wite pepil in Apia Are a lott of ded Beets
and bummers, also pleas sent 1 box of pain Kiler. i
Hoap you Wil have a Prospus voge to Callyfournyer taik
an Oald mans Advise and Doan plai that Bad muney trik
any Moar or You Wil be Sory. mi Son has 40 dolers to
Pay you only giv him one drink of grog. Wen you come
to Tiavea i can shovvgh you How we Cook fish in cokernut
oil fit to set before the kwean of England. You Yankeys
eat like a hungrey Dog swaller yure fude all at wunse i
meen No oflens'to Yuo. I remaine J.B.
—Yours, etc.,
MALIE.
THE TEETH AND THEIR CONSERVATION.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (George-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address-Mr. J. I.
Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*


PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER
FLOUR.
Widow Welch’s Pills for Female Complaints.
ly/TRS. SMITHERS, grand-daughter to the Widow
Welch, continues to prepare this celebrated medicine
from the only original and Genuine Family Recipe. Its
just celebrity for all female complaints has obtained for it
a most extensive and increasing demand. Purchasers
should therefore attend to the following CAUTION. To
he careful that what they purchase is prepared by Mrs.
Smithers, who is the only person in possession of the
Original Receipe. The genuine are wrapped in BLUE
PAPER, and signed o» the OUTSIDE label by Mrs.
Smithers, and the names of the sole Wholesale Agents,
“W. Edwards and Son, 157 Queen Victoria Street,”
formerly of 67, St. Paul's, London, are engraved on the
Government Stamp, Sold in boxes, at 2s. 9d. each, by
most chemists.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
SdHVHS
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD- NEEDLES.
VILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
price agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold I.and »i Building €o., Untiled,
PITT AND BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant, Ourimbah,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
K3T As an illustration :—For a Block, 5 acres, at
JCIO per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd years’ rent is
£1 ss. for the 5 acres—condition, 110th to be
cleared ; rents for 4th, sth, Gth and 7th years,
,£1 17s. Gd., £2 10s., £3155., £s—condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for the £5O, or on three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H. KEAMEY. on the Estate; or
W ATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt street, Sydney
£49,460 worth for «£l.
See Amusement
i Column.
BROWN’S PATENT
DERMATHISTIC CORSET.
ELEGANCE I COMFORT!! DURABILITY!!!
::
pt*
“ The actual wearing out
of such a Corset as this be-
comes an absolute impOsSi-
lity.”— Lady’s Pictorial.
“ An ingenious method of
insuring durability.” —Myra
“It seems, indeed, as
though one pair would last
a wearer the whole course of
her natural life.”— Sylvia.
SPiciAUfE,
BONES, BUSKS, & STEELS,
PROTECTED BY LEATHER.
slrtnclpat Colours;
Black) Cardinal) Tabac,
Gold, Ruby, Terra Cotta,
Apricot, Cove, & White.
The Registered ‘ Coach Spring
Rusks ’ with which these
Corsets arc now fitted are
Warranted Unbreakable.
Every Lady should try
them. Order at once.
AS
Csi
Caution . Do not take a Substitute; Beware
of Worthless Imitations.
Positively the Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS MARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the S':in.
The World-Renowned FT AT> R T T\ TLY FT QQI From whatever
Remedy F\J Fi O Li kJ IMCiOD cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and Moustachios ithas never been equalled. AsaCurcr
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails.
oooooo
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and 6s. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
m
AFTER USB.
AFTER USB.
LEA & PERRINS'
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
O'
Asic for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse Blackwell, London, sc., §G. ;
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY.
B.MOONTCASTLE& SPHs
I fIIRECr IMPORTERS * manufacturers
. 0 f hats & Caps
I*2
'4V\
7"vc s' 1
or mtad
mi
■ 5
MSMK
sfe'i
1§
Tor (OQKSEY& Q>s [eUBRATED IONDON HATS
When"ordering number of hot win be sufficient
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Th cs Brighton of New South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mra. KZIjMXSraTXIR. I»ropri®tPe««.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar IST one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
the prod acti on of the colony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER*FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Joseph son’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man equal to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wmeglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING’ ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
Others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworil testimony from a Well-known
Citizen
Statutory Declaration.
“I, GEorge Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in A little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a Wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before;
Baron Borzilius'-
. Euchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconveniehce of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB-I find these Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening ; a stimulant to the liver, assisting dig(s-
lion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sox or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to bo followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
general depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’S WINE.
It cannot barm yon, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION. —When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW A CO.,
Sydney.
Dear Bulletin, —Canada has but one
rational and possible tendency, commercial and
political; union with the U.S. Goldwin Smith
has been dinning this into the ears of Canadian
Imperialists for twenty years, and has thereby
incurred their unspeakable hatred. The system
of loosely-strung-together provinces called confed-
eration possesses no elements of permanence, and
is a mere temporary political expedient. Nova
Scotia aria New Brunswick have never ceased to
tesent the juggling by which they were hocussed
into the Dominion. Scheming politicians from
these provinces by the sea traded off the interests
bf the people with which they had been entrusted
for the purely personal advantages of Cabinet
positions and titles. Tupper, at one time a strug-
gling medico in Halifax, Nova Scotia, gifted with
strong lungs, unlimited gab, and cheek of brass,
and for ever boasting a slavish adulation
fot his “revered and honoured chief,” Sir
John Macdonald; is now the Right Honour-
able Sir Charles Tupper, High Commissioner for
Canada in London, with a big screw and free
residence. Tilley, formerly a retail chemist in St.
John, New Brunswick, is now Sir Leonard Tilley,
and Governor of that Province, appointed during
the regime of Sir John Macdonald. Elected by
popular vote he never could have been. On the
C pther hand, one of the most popular politicians in
New Brunswick to-day, Bell, editor of the St.
John Globe, elected to the Dominion Parliament
whenever he — chooses to stand, is an outspoken
advocate of annexation to the United States. So
far do the people of these provinces by the
Atlantic regard themselves as “out of it,” that
the stranger travelling down that way is asked if
he intends “ going up to Canada,” referring to the
Western provinces. Between their country and
what was once known as Upper Canada
stretches for hundreds of miles the winter-
haunted, poverty-stricken, priest-ridden province
of Quebec, peopled by a backward, ignorant
and essentially alien race, the French peasantry
of pre-Revolutionary days. These people grow
more anglophobic every year, and while intensely
dissatisfied with existing political conditions
are, as yet, unable to define what they want. To
a man, they tiate, with a fervent and abiding hate,
the very name of Imperial Federation, while
their priests oppose an 1 dread annexation to the
Republic, the accomplishment of which would
simply swamp their vast influence. A small and
enlightened section, resident principally in Mon-
treal, lias broken loose from the Church, and
its members are the freest of freethinkers. The
Jess prudent among them openly favour annexa-
tion, while the wiser heads talk independence,
knowing that the one is but a short step to the
other, and doesn’t sound so dreadful. At a recent
meeting in Montreal, out of a total vote of 3000,
annexation got 902, independence 1614, or, in
reality, 2606 for annexation, the scanty remnant
being divided between the present colonial system
and Imperial Federation. Yet, at this same
meeting, a rabid loyalist declared that annexa-
tionists should be shot down as traitors I
Macdonald, the one man capable of temporarily re-
conciling the antipathetic elements of the Canadian
Confederation, has gone. Clever and wily as was
. the old man the situation Was fast moving beyond
his control. The intense strain of the position
has already broken down Abbott, his immediate
successor, and a man of uncommon mental and
physical strength. Tapper’s brutal dogmatism
makes him impossible as a leader. Thompson, of
Nova Scotia, Minister of-Justice and present stop-
gap as Premier, being the only man available, is a
Roman Catholic, and his elevation to the position
must be bitterly resented by the powerful Orange
and Wesleyan element in Ontario. The end is
already in view. Next election will place in
power the Liberal-party, already committed to a
policy which includes commercial union with the
United States. Immediate consequence : remon-
strance and probable interference from England,
at the instance of her merchants and manu-
facturers. Subsequent result: estrangement and
separation. Then drifting awhile, but in a strong
and steady current, anchoring at last in the
harbour of annexation— Kanuck.


Drapery.
INSIST UPON SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
Dr. Jaeger’s
-GAUZE-
UNDERVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System Co., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
No Kicking'.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Breech-loaders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
407 GEORGE STREET; SYDNEY. Send for List
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE W A RUNG.”
Price, Is.; ...' per Post, Is. 3d.
$
98
Bra\£&
•OT
■AT
'□S3 ATHEi:
Wi
THE AMERICAN STRAW.
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3a. 6d. & 5a Bd.
Vi
3s. 6dL. & ss. 6d.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
O. EC. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘ Price Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. lOd.
in stamps.
Watson's- whisky
0^
w
"S<W
Best on Earth
Solk Agents—
Allt’s Brewing Sc Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, In vour Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 10s. and 20s. per box
post free.
Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From Pitt-street to
Vastlereagli-street),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
I
V
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
]V[anctgBit,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Stewarc
Union Club.
patent
PILLS.
w
tp
%
*
eg
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
rafferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable 1
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to gEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system . If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbbcham’b Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by ttie
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St.' Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lfcd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity). „ . ,
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
E P PS’S
GRATEFUL —00MF0RTIN G
C O CO A
V.O.
CROMARTY
SI
Whisky:
CKcmfisMortm
OIHSC(J*ICKOON »NO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
\
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
POR
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
Quusc
SCO
Whisky.
ZL Es hrisaow.
DRINK
SCOTTII"
WHISEY.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent:
J. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SYDNEY.
‘AGoI
PRICE : TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, eitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and “A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
MelitfiSfiaSkM
Dr. LUTHER B. TYSON’S
VEGETABLE CURE
FOR
n Shinty.
opium HABIT
Drunkenness
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures Guaranteed. The Only Remedy which
can be taken at Home with Certainty of Success.
SANATORIUM TREATMENT
if desired, every comfort and Privacy. No padded
rooms, locked doors or restriction.
PRIVATE TREATMENT.
Our visiting physicians call at patients’ own homes
and give regular treatment. No publicity.
HOME TREATMENT.
For the convenience of patients living at a distance
we furnish Home or Self-Treatment, sent to any
address free from observation.
In all forms of treatment we place no restraint upon,
the patient, he is permitted to keep on using liquor
but the treatment Stops the Alcoholic Crave or
Desire in from 6 to 24 hours.
BOOK giving full particulars and colonial reference*
posted free. Address (Secretary^—
EC. Fran k 11 n,
Scott Chambers, 96 Pitt-street, Sydney .
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermio
Injections Given.
ROSE'S
m
(
\
m
$
LOTIOS
8
mm
Mi
mHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
JL and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
3BC. ROBE
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
IOF - Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—THE—
IMPROVED CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
jA.xxd PE’os-fcer Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by D. M. HADKINS.
■ :y, m
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN.
Showrooms : 84 Bathurst Street. SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
A
-2
2
’S
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 15s. 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S POEBOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for th#
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street —Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sen*
to any Address.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
drugs.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N'thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
nought,”
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
liis
Qnalifioa-
. tions.
Dr.
PERU
M.R.C.S., L.S>A., &c.
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
eluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains orweakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt,, from which the current can he dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesday's and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth- Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN.
W
5!
I \ EUREKA
LECTRICB
\ft
BEL < iV
IV
<vr
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints, The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cuied in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
-N
%
o
6
<
O
**>
ĝ
XT'
<
%
o
«r*
-ft
The bank of new Zealand'
Sydmky Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
,£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United Stdtes of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Btillion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills colleeted on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.


Free Freacriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
\
"VTOTIGE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, to.
Dewar’s Wliislcy.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION.
Sydney Agents; ... ... CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, C.P.O.
Telephone 97%.
W. MAMM ATT & SONS,
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Greeds
—AND —
nTTTT .TIP-T
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
■VTOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST OE SIX; ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EEWEST FAYEITC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
[Established over a Quarter op a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. * ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
sar Terms— ios. 6d. per Day. falter (Sidney (late of Newcastle), “ S ro P”
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
o
o
o
<Rac^aJocK>
TJ^l
O
c>
C
o
o
V
C /
K. A, Hem I}', 1 }', Agent, 144 llareuce-st . Sydney.
//,
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look.at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
J3P“ Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Mill*
kinni os’ B’mnns
PARKE & LACY GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
, ’ AND" ■ "• e
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&0,, ' &o.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, KT.S.W.
And SdAuMT FRANCISCOy CjfLLIFOIt3SriJBL«
Rock Breakers.
Wcstlngbonsc Engine*.
TANGYES “COLONIAL
? ' ,:!) l! Q
| : | ! SJSI
ra
M -
Wood Burning Boilers
SISES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
•Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
Fitted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes.
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street om "-' Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
{SHOW
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
Queen-street, Auckland.
¥66
■m
B? I
