

M
o
ss
AS
m
CADBURY'S
absolutely pure THEREFORE
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS
?“ J “ Y ~ £
mIIBOUBnI CUP,* NOVEMBER (For' houses Onev)
at 5 EACH
20.000 @ 5 Each.
20.000 @ 5 Each.
50.000 @ 5 Bach.
20.000 ® 10 Each.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose-one for Picket and
one lor result. Circulars free on application.
“ GALA
Box
c/o H. Alexander,
171, G.P.0., BRISBANE, QUEEN SLAND.
10 7 Kent Street, Sydney,
. . , , «i Tripiiieers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining E»equisites,
and Contractors ’ IRONMONGERY NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMOiN GBit x.
fg
FRY’S HALTED
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of
COCOA
MALT.
M'Artlu&r’s York Hote
(Late Milthorps’),
Comer York »i king streets, SYDNEY.
Splendid Accommodation. The best Brands of Liquoi
and Cigars.
FIRST-CLASS 1 h
ROBT. M ‘ARTHUR, Proprietor.
t@r Look Our for
“THE LAST OF SlX;’*
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; .... —• per Post, Is. 3d.
n~
o - f„. s
o*
rH£
rati®.
"■""■’wjp
=2
H'P
The Oxford Hotel, Brixxg Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... Proprietor.
'-THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED),
Have pleasure in advising receipt of Invoice for
English f ish & Qame
To arrive by the a.s. OPHIR.
The Shipmentjvill be for SALE on the 20th in at.
The List comprises;
SALMON
SOLES
TURBOT
FRESH HERRINGS
HALIBUT •
COD
SMELTS
BLOATERS
KIPPERS
FIN DON HADDOCKS
PHEASANTS
BLACK GAME
PARTRIDGES.
The quantities being limited, we shall be pleased to
place your orders.
As to prices, we are not yet enabled to fix them, but we
can stive the assurance that they will be in accordance
with the times, and so permit the native-born Australian,
as well as the "old colonist,” to compare the “Home”
Fish and Game with that of our colony.
Address, 25 Harbor Street. \
City Depot, 135 King Street, f
H. PA'fESOJf,
Manager,
•JSLiHJNCdJK.S CUMOOC W ‘UHiSi* J.’VAV.
■si? uaomT ’issihiT s
jfflsor
.533174
Sole
reaatie 1»
C. HOWARD.
. _ w f or Messrs. Clayton, and SJkinttlewortii.
3M o~w Sontn w
THE
HOWAED DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Riding.
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLO.
IMPROVED portable thrashing machine.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
(Simple Cvlinder. Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Ohaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Works
tightness in fraught, Strength#
AND DURABILITY.
• -•- ,v
Kitted _with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for (Id. each.
Convertable to ordinary ploughs if desired.
electric lighting engines,
jr, & o.
WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. JCT
2801
Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Pitt street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol. id,— No. 698.]
[Saturday, July, i, 1893.


Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
eleim nt of success, from any cause whatever, and
Suffer from bashfulnessj want of emr.r.v, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blond, should
Bend for Dr. M. I'KKUY'S Medical Work. It will
deserfne their case most minutely, and point out,
With unerring accuracy, the hist m ans of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
&EUGS.
i-ata House Surgeon, .Great
N’tha. Hospital, Loud.,
Seeraen’s Hospital
Ship 11 Dread-
nought, ’
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation. as to
his
Q.ualiSca-
M.R.C.8., L.8.A., &c
\ Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. F
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Glandular Enlargements
J l ,fl?£ ,s,ve e *Peri9»ce in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
the*ul°inosf eontn/ ' ® trf ‘“ tment of cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
BPEEDY and PE RM AN ENT CURE.
AumousM or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr,
mna V pSl^ Me c k" (! P ar Oculars given as to bow tins
enslaving* habit can be overcome,
BpiPP!'®s 8 pi PP !'® s *. lis P at ‘‘rits with the most per-
h? an v on 'r E J f e< ;V' ,C A PP ,Ia " c ‘ f 8 for pains Or weakness
of , the 150,1 , v - He supplies a Genuine
T,sa wh,oh the ° unent ca “ be »»•
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to i n m daflv
TuesdaysVnrSa\Vrdays a - M -’ a " d fr ° m 7 9
NO CONSULTATION PEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
Or. RIDGE’S
FOOD
rOR INFANTS Alim INVALIDS
‘ T,lis is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
have examined. "—Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. War. Johnstone
Ph.D., i'.O.S., &c., Public Analysts.
OR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
a blessing m every family.
toW A V ; a i’lL ti 3 AND OINT M K NT.
>--y- There, la list- a country in the civilised world where
” ie healing virtues of Mies a g rand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands .of suffsmi. In all the ordinary
tu.mems of humanity their benefloent notion Is at once
fcooirmstd. Fullest dlrcotloj'.a ci - supplied for their use
f f cvy , HV li’FElt, afty THICJI. Mom*
fcotwrcd Only at T 6 Now Ohsto-omst. . London. I’ur-
chnarw should lech to tl.o 5 .aid on the Boxes and Pots,
Jf Uio address is not 6i i OxforU-sUost, London, they are
Bouiious
KS
p
o
R
D
w
T
<C^-:
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’SI”
Hr: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
The bank of new Zealand
TrT Sydney Branches :
64 I ITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada. and can oiler special facilities for dealing
m Bullion Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
•travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application,
G. A. WILSON, Manager,
Scale
of Ad-vosrf isiing-
—lN-
the BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed
per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
2® ii n „
25 „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
for cash in advance.
TALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “ PRICE AVARUXQ.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
£
*
1
lit**
New Guard [to season.ticM holder)
S.T.G, : “Eh! what’s that? ticket?
New Guard
“Tickets, please.”
My face is my ticket.”
Very sorry, sir, but I’ve received strict orders to punch all tickets.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
__ , , (OPPOSITE OCEAN PEACH),
'*• Brighton o± 3NT Wales,
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dininv
Siting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties? specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTE^" 0 ™" ..... Proprietress.
rSSZSa*E*BOE2BHE3C-f
A. and 3. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL CORING TUBES
Russian
Brand.
ƒ
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager fob Australia -1". J . M!ac Willi am, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Wl
AO-
m
am
&
<r
I s Always fhe- Res
N 0 VV IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED
“THE EAST OF SIX:”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
—BY- 9
IS 3>T S 3 S T P ATTEITC.
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robberv TJurlm' AtW'”. « mi , „
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-un known ° f + th ® Austl ? ] Tro P^ e ® will be found the strange
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm™*” half - unknown - regions of tropical Australia, That they
“ The Wr,ter haS “ Brenß - ,l,tinter for the nonce and with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, as. —Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


Modloat -o t .
D« JECKELL VINES
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrios, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany arid Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway'Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous &, Skin
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions ;—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains,in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate oases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. vin&s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to •>
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
trom Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours of Consultation ;
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday— 9.30 a.rn, to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 P.m. to 9 p.m.
to? Address all Communications :
Dr. J ECKELLYINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
I ’LEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly in vestl-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY" YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
cdntentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receiv e
postage
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is SuSioient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
ease. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 eOIibEGH STREET, SYDMiIf,
He sure to mention this paper when writing.
FREE, A LARGE
CONSULTATION Titl’ll
Hotel.
ifrc.
: e
•-
Ss
i
in
aKSßßiaHgaagcrE
T,he Sydney Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domnin. Sydney, Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £i 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, PATHS, &o.
MKSdtimVE,
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking' Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ wa Ik to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the. noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
«JHE GEAND CENTEAL COFFEE PAtACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It v ill also be a gre\t boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
\\ith a little of tl e cup that cheers without inebriating.
rjvHlS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
x cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
V iCTOEiA Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERTS
w
'f ■
SKIN TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s. 6d., or, three bottles together, £ll2s. 6d.
Valuable new Book on “ NATURAL BEAUTY,” sent
free, 4d.
Head Office—B9 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australasia—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- ZELZDIROIIDG-IE & CO.,
DYKES & CLEANERS,
40 YOHK STHWKT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
T
ALES O I' T 118 S Y S T E M.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Shipping,
(ENGLAND VIA AM BRI 0 A
J IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d,
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDR. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be deep; tchid monthly as follows: —
( Dates of Departure.
Steamer iCommander Sydney [Melbourne Adelaide
! i Noon | 1 p.m. ) 1 p.m.
Arm. BEHIO Vimont .. July 27|Jiily 31 Aug. 2
AUSTRALIEN G. D dier ~ Aug. 27jAug. 31 Sept. 2-
V.delaClOTATChevalier ~ Sept. 27 Oct. 1 Oct. 3
I I I I
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc,, and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed fiee of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
CRQMARTI
ato.
Cromarty
"Whislg:
m
i
Greenlees Brothers
OIASCOWIOMON MO
ARC.YLESHIRE
v.o,
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Agents for HENRY HEATH.
l*rice 9s. 6d.
&
‘j^ifejfoucp
g
jsvw ao«a s
Sole Agents for HE\RY HEATH.
Price Os. 6d.
SfOitt tfCKKOr'
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawp Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
o-. XI. SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 163 PALMER STREET,
QH, FOR A MOUS T A C H Ell
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. iFj
Reliable, Sate, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarinc- 10s. (id., l ost Free.
* ISAM; A AITKIN, Sole Agents.
(iSO and 652 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SVDNEY.
SHORTLY TO ME PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening',
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, S/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
df
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
mnm
\
Simpi eST
8-REST
mm
Before purchasing any other
sexd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
&
HOME
*
JMohnsbn^
•*
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
64 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
► 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Hiflh«Class Bedroom Furniture at Prices to Meet the Times*
P 7 - Wr W/y. M \/ \) /y' ■ V'A-Vv;, V
X ,/ .Vv 1 \ iV f 7 ■ V*. ’ A I .-•' /•. v\.\i'V
A V
U)
Mlfltllfff
N-A
V
A'v
v
HI
m
ii.
~ £—
Bedroom Suites in Polished Pine ••• £6 6s. £B, £O, £lO, £l2, £l4, &c-
Bedroom Suites in Ash £lB, £2l, £23 to £3O & upwards
Bedroom Suites in Walnut £2O, £23, £2B, £32, &o-. &o.
— ■ 21—r
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Cleaverb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£6O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF &CO - SYDNEY.
DR REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
the
‘ Plum ’
gdf
THE
‘Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
(Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Pont Free to ary of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, (>BO George Street, SYDNEY.
‘ 6 rn
TA LES OF THE
rn
The OAUGEAPH Writing Machine-
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which w rites
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS;— Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel); Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Lndstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
9£
E
THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
e«0 »V <>H2 George Street, Sydney.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED)*
g
—
tradc mark
£3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
BKOIVCIIIT^
A! ID
INFLUENZA/
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is, and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
\ H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Jity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st,
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers. Limited
e's MaiglbckcheJ
LiljoflheVaW
UsT*vlohsE|
q erum .m-jiiim '" !l "
LOHS E’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OFTHE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TO I LET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'ferfumepi,
GUSTAV LOHSE, BERLIN.
n
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from alt farts 0/ the worUi and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualitiespossessed by Dr. Pierce’s
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Bead the letters:
From Australia.
I Mb. W. H. PiirCE, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul h 00., (Agents for Dr,
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney; Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
Say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
the belt as soon as it is placed on his be dy, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England. .
Mr. Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaksas follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines put
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _ ,
From America.
Mr. J.W. Pohlman, Tacoma, U, S. A., writes—" Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got upas i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled meeversinceuntilltned your belt. Por one year
now I have felt as I used to at 20.'
tCt-Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts
Call, or write for free descriptive Pamphlet. No. 2, and
please mention this paper when you address: W-11. boul & 00.,
ISB Pitt St., Sydney; Elliott Bros., Brisbane; or, the
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co., SaK i rancisco, U. b. A.
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Sis.”
SAYWELL & CO.
DEPOT
fQ»
MARVEL
TO B A C C O
<££fOBCE S r SVD^
T IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gas Bugines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL, ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, eto.
Richards and Darke’s STEAM INDICATORS, Speed Indicators, Counters.
surveyors' s»d Architects' Requisites in stock. m us trated Catalogues post FREE.
H, A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments Jor Families.
These Hotels contain over son A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, iVf., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. , { j
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—1^0.098.
SATURDAY, JULY 1, 1893.
Price, OcL
O’
>*vv
RAT«
(/Wa Sj> > - 9, j)tres
your pew rata pnjj. arj’ tyoy, fclere
wonderin' wbot yell be doin wi lie a
fhadlle. o’ Siller'"
dfg
J/ICK'S .UpLOilp- 'i' al/e.s^lsc^^
—7^°,
THE AUSTRALIAN MARITIME TROUBLE.
[The employer propones to take two-sevenths of Jack’s present pay ; the landlord takes half the balance .]


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
u Australia for ths Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, qnly).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Tiventy
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, ivith whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Easiness Communications
to be addressed to W v,ia.m Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —■
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short 'Tales or Sketches {those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that ive are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.—The Standard and Diggers’
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also :-B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There tvill be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Lannces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from tins office.
VV
J /l)
4je
SATURDAY JULY 1 1893
The Royal Marriage.
In a few days another royal marriage will
eventuate in Britain, wherefore the British
empire will officially rejoice all the way from
Hongkong to the sodden Falklands, and
there will be mirth in the Bight of Benin
and along the frozen shores of Labrador.
The empire itself will probably be more or
less unaware of its own happiness, but it
will be informed of it afterwards by the
loyal daily press, and then it will look back-
wards and realise how deeply it was moved
on the occasion. Either through excess of
happiness, or stupefaction, or some other
cause, the loyal subjects of Victoria seldom
appear conscious of their own bliss. Thus,
up to time of writing, the approaching
momentous event casts no shadow of jubila-
tion before it. Victoria reigns “ bj r the
grace of God,” and, therefore, if the direct
line of the Guelphs should die out, and the
supply of legitimate Anointed should run
short, it must be because the flow of grace
has been disastrously cut off' at the tap.
Sometime next week the Duke of York pro-
poses to make a great effort to avert that
calamity, and yet the nation at large seems
very little interested. It almost looks as if
it didn’t care whether the calamity is averted
or not.
* * #
On the whole, it might be better for
loyalism if Imperial celebrations were alto-
gether abandoned, and the country gave up
any pretence of observing royal birthdays
and marriage days and similar festivities.
When the procession behind the discredited
idol grows thin and shabby, and most of the
remnant is dismally indifferent, and the
whole show becomes tawdry, and the
pageant degenerates into the aspect of a
junk-shop, then it only serves as an exhibi-
tion of the nakedness of the fallen superstp
tion. If the remaining devotees were
content to let their deity moulder peacefully
in his native candle-box, the extent of his
fall might never be realised, but their in-
cessant efforts to create a demonstration over
him only advertise the greatness of his col-
lapse. It is one of the saddest fea-
tures of the case that, on every royal
pageant-day, there is always the same
appeal to the populace to honour the
occasion with fitting splendour. And the
results are ope lonesome arch of mouldering
greenery erected over some suburban public-
house, a few squibs let off in a back-yard by
the inevitable small boy who always succeeds
in blowing somebody’s eye out, half-a-dozen
dingy flags, an unusual amount of intoxica-
tion and sundry free fights, an unwonted
gathering of the “push” down the harbour
or by the Yarra, ending in a promiscuous
conflict with bottles, a material increase in
the tobacco-juice on the pavement, a dis-
charge of artillery from the alleged fortifica-
tions, and a few small race-meetings, football
matches, and similar festivities.
• • •
And, excepting the doddering emblem at
the public-house, the display would be prac-
tically the same if a royalty were being
buried instead of being wedded. It is an
open question, in fact, if the great mass of
the people would not prefer to hear that he
was being buried. This feeling arises, not
out of any inverted idea of loyalism, for there
is no loyalism, inverted or otherwise, existent
in Australia, except the paid variety at so
much per lb. Neither does it arise out of
any republican sentiment, for ninety-five per
cent., or more, of the population has none,
neither has it any other definite political
sentiment of any kind whatsoever. But a
certain morbid characteristic, which is partly
cruelty and mostly unhealthy sensationalism,
pervades man in general, and the Anglo-Saxon
perhaps more than the rest. It makes him
take a loving interest in dog-fights, cock-
fights, prize-fights—especially those which
culminate in skull-fracture and death ; in
men who have fallen off a high roof and
struck a lamp-post in coming down ; in
hangings, floggings, murders, and places
where murders have been committed, rail-
way accidents, melodramas, dead bodies that
are found in the hirbour, penny dreadfuls,
and the like. Also, it causes the female of
his race to congregate in houses where some-
body is dead and talk in subdued whispers
around the corpse, and have much “light
refreshment ” on the occasion, and it leads
her to rush to the window or break her neck
getting down the stairs when a funeral goes
by. It is by reason of this sentiment,
accompanied by no personal ill-feeling what-
ever, that a very large section of the Aus-
tralian people would be glad if the Duke of
York were dead instead of married. At the
same time they would not be very glad,
because they wo # uld be too far away to see
the funeral, and altogether it would be a
faint, attenuated, far-off sensation. But if
the Duke could be induced to visit Sydney,
and there publicly fall off the Post-office
tower, and be afterwards buried in Waver-
ley cemetery, they would be very much
gratified indeed. No element of per-
sonal ill-will to the deceased or his
relatives would mingle with this sentiment ;
the feeling is a purely impersonal one, and
if Queen Victoria, or the Pope, or Premier
Dibb.s, or Zola, or President Diaz, of
Mexico, or the Archbishop of Canterbury
fell off the tower instead, it would do just as
well. Public sentiment has no prejudices
and no sense of incongruity ; supposing the
General of the Jesuits lost his footing on the
roof and fell, with fatal consequences to both
parties, on to the boss of the Orange order, it
would fill the bill as satisfactorily as any-
thing else.
* * *
In the case of the Duke of York or Queen
Victoria, the immediate result of the above-
mentioned catastrophe would be an accession
of loyalty which would postpone the Austra-
lian Republic for the best part of a genera-
tion. The Bulletin is not jesting; it
advances this proposition with cast-iron
seriousness. In days long gone by, royalty
existed for a purpose : the world then lived
in a state of perpetual war, and the
monarch, as the chief security of his country,
was expected to be the best general, the
hardest fighter, and the ablest politician or
the most unscrupulous liar in the community.
Like Saul, who died in his harness on Gilboa,
it was his business to be, in one respect
or another, head and shoulders above his con-
temporaries, and when he ceased to satisfy
this requirement his throne grew unstable.
But the British monarchy of to-day exists
for show purposes only, in which respect it
ranks with the comedian, and the circus-
man, and the two-headed cow, and similar
attractions. And when loyalty gives place
to callous indifference, then it is obvious that
the show is growing wearisome and a change
of programme is necessary. A royal
marriage is dull and commonplace ; half the
human race gets married at one time or
another. A royal death, under ordinary
circumstances, is not sufficiently surprising
to arouse any public sentiment ; all the
human race dies sooner or later, and, except
for the aforesaid yearning to look at the
corpse, accompanied by light refreshments,
there is nothing in it. But if some reason-
ably youthful scion of royalty, whose repu-
tation was not too much damaged, could
arrange to publicly die a horrible death in
Melbourne or Sydney, or any other large
city, between twelve and four in the after-
noon, he would establish a claim on the
nation which would last for many years.
The flagstone that he landed on when he
came down, and the stone that he was
standing on just before he started to come
down, and the railing that he didn’t succeed
in catching hold of when he lost his balance,
would become centres round which loyalism
would rally so long as the last spectator of
the event survived. And, on the other
hand, if the President of any reasonably
prosperous republic died miserably on the
same pavement, it would be a serious blow
to monarchical sentiment, and if a Cardinal
rebounded horribly olf the Post office lamp-
post then the Orange lodges might close up
next day, for their occupation—for the time
at all events—would be gone.
• # •
This is an age when institutions that are
inherently useless can only exist by skilful
advertising, and Just now the British mon-
archy badly needs skilful advertising. The
pathos which was so elaborately built up
around the Lamented Albert has become a
sere and yellow emotion. The famous
attempt on the life of the economical Edin-
burgh is a long-forgotten advertisement,
and it was spoiled in any case by the
ridiculous Treason Felony" Act, and the
hanging of the deranged O’Farrell. Vig-
toria has long ceased to be a picturesque
figure, and her sombre crape and rusty black
bonnet and sour face are fast undermining
the monarchy. The death of the Duke of
Clarence was an event which contained no
element of sensation, and the attempt to
create a halo of romance round the taking
over, by the Duke of York, of his deceased
brother’s fiancde, is a poor, miserable
pathos Avhich is half-brother to the gaudy
romance in the London Journal and next
door neighbour to the distracted female with
the wild, dishevelled hair in the Family
Herald. Therefore, The Bulletin seriously
urges that the British royal family should
engage the services of the Much-Travelled
Smythb (or Madame Antoinette Sterling)
as a measure of self-preservation, for an
institution which lives by advertisement,
and yet doesn’t know how to advertise itself,
is in a bad way.
Still Wanted—a Leader.
A new general election is within measureable
distance in New South Wales, and a leader for
the Democratic-party is still wanting. We pur-
posely use this term instead of that ill-chosen
designation, the “Labour-party,” because
the latter is a misnomer and a tacit misrepresen-
tation. The object of the body so entitled is
to secure equal rights for all classes ; but its
name suggests that it represents the manual
workers alone, and this name, which is one of its
worst disabilities, badly wants to be changed
for another of wider significance. But, much as
the party wants a new title, it wants a leader
still more—a good leader, if possible ;an inferior
one if a good one is not obtainable; a constitu-
tional one, if such a thing can be had ; a despot,
if the other variety is not sufficient for the
occasion ; but, in any case, a leader of some kind.
The present system of running the party on the
basis of a republic without a president may be
democratic in theory, but it is absolutely ruin-
ous in practice. It is steadily frittering away
the grandest opportunity which ever came in
the way of the Australian people. A leaderless
party, trying to hold its own against two
opposing factions, each with a recognised com-
mander, is chaos running its head vainly against
cosmos.
* * *
No country, no nation, no aggregation of
men formed for any purpose whatever, has
ever achieved anything without a chief. And,
in most cases, the successful chief of a democratic
party is an autocrat—a temporary one, it may
be, but an autocrat none the less. The differ-
ence between him and a Czar lies chiefly in
the circumstance that he is created, in the first
place, by his own followers, and that his
authority is not hereditary, but while
he adheres to the principles on which
he was elected, he should be,
as possible, absolute. And, because he is an
elective potentate, he should be all the more
absolute. No political captain in British
history was ever more irresponsible than
Parnell. He was only the chosen head of a
democratic party, yet during his reign he was a
despot, and under his despotism the Irish
Nationalists attained an influence which, in
proportion to their scanty numbers, was amaz-
ing ajid almost incredible. The explanation of
Parnell’s position was sufficiently simple;
while party-government lasts, a party-leader
must be a despot—or else a failure, and the
biggest despot generally wins. Gladstone is
another brilliant example of that kind of
autocracy of which the New South Wales
democrats are so much in need. So, while he
lived, was the versatile Jew, Disraeli— he of
the oily locks and the iron hand; so was
Ballance, who was distinctly a Labour repre-
sentative and the chief of a Labour Cabinet,
and who was more absolute in the Maoriland
Legislature than the loud-mouthed Wilhelm
is over the slavish-seeming deputies at Berlin.
Ballance was the ideal chief—the one that is
supported, not by brute force, but by public
sentiment—who is autocratic while he remains
true to his professions, yet knows that one act
of treachery will crumble away the whole
edifice of power beneath his feet.
# * •
The party which, through internal jealousies
or impatience of control, refuses to have any
system of internal government, is the Polish
Republic of politics. And, like the Polish
Republic (as that anarchical monarchy was
strangely designated), which ended by having
seventy thousand kings, simply because it will
not have one commander it presently drifts
into having a dozen or more. Like Germany,
with its 2000 despots of old, it only obtains a
multiplicity of tyrants. It is the nature of the
great majority of men to follow somebody, and
the Democratic-party of New South Wales,
which will not appoint a chief of its own, has
split up and mostly follows the chiefs of the
other two parties, both of which are more or
less avowedly its enemies* A few of its mem-
bers vote consistently with Parkes ami Reid
under almost every possible circumstance.
Some more vote as consistently with Dibbs. Out
of their yearning for someone to follow and
their inability to stand alone has come the
necessity to obey the most conspicuous of their
opponents. The situation looks anomalous, yet
it is really quite easy of comprehension. If the
Tory party in the British Commons absolutely
refused to select a leader of its own, the weaker
of its members would presently begin uncon-
sciously to follow Gladstone, and yet, in all
probability, they would still call themselves
Tories, and firmly believe themselves to be such.
The Liberals, under like conditions, would
follow Salisbury rather than have no visible
meat fetich to adore* The Orangemen of
Ulster, in a similar situation, would probably
follow the Pope. If Bibbs and Reid and
P arkes were not in existence, it is possible to
imagine a still worse fate for the New South
Wales Democrats ) the weaker section of them
might then follow Jacob, M. L. 0., or “ Jannery ”
Davies of the Three Hats. And, meanwhile,
that section of the party which does not follow
Dibbs or Reid has split unconsciously into half-
a-dozen parties, which mostly consist of two
men, one of whom follows the other. The
troubles of the Democratic party are, first, that
it has no leader, and, second, that it has about
a dozen.
* * *
When the possibilities of the future are con-
sidered, the situation of a political body so
constituted is strangely and horribly grotesque.
It exists, presumably, in the belief that it will
grow in numbers and power as time goes on.
Its existence is otherwise entirely unaccount-
able. Every party lives on such aspirations ;
the adherents of the most desperate cause
always have hope for the future; and the
Democrats, above all other factions and
faiths, have reason to trust in their creed
and their destiny. When their triumph
comes—and with the abolition of the pro-
perty vote it may possibly be nearer than
is supposed —the natural result wall be
that they will command a majority in the
Assembly. Then they must either allow a
minority to construct a Cabinet or form a
Government themselves. In the former case,
there will be a Conservative Ministry with a
Conservative policy, and the Ministry will be
kept in power, and the Conservative policy
enforced by the votes of alleged Democrats ; or
the Democrats must abstain from voting, so as
not to capsize the hostile Cabinet; or else the
Cabinet must be defeated, and another one of
the same order created in its stead. And, in
the latter case, the Democratic Party must do
what it has apparently sworn it will not do-
find a leader, and learn to obey him. Mean-
while, however, it has forgotten how to obey,
and is fast losing all capacity for discipline,
so that if power came into its hands it would
probably wreck its own Government by its in-
subordination and internal dissensions. More-
over, its chaotic policy tends expressly to
prevent the development of any capacity for
leadership. There may be men among its mem-
bers with sufficient ability to manage a Govern-
ment, but the system which makes the party
all rank-and-file has caused them to remain un-
discovered. If a sudden turn of fortune’s wheel
at the next general election gives the Democrats
a majority, either the Viceroy will have to send
for the whole body and make them all Premier,
or else they will have to toss up for the port-
folios, or hold a footrace or a sheep-shearing
contest and let the fastest man lead the
Cabinet. Whatever system is adopted, the best
men may come to the surface—or the worst ;
the chances are about equal either way. In
any case, the w'hole party will be judged by the
calibre of the men who do come to the surface,
no matter how they get there,
* * *
The Democrats, as we have already said,
have more reason to hope for the future than
any other political party, for their cause is the
cause of humanity at large. Yet, in New
South Wales, they constitute the only party
which has started without hope—which has
accepted defeat as a foregone conclusion from
the beginning. Every other political sect, even
if it consists of only two or three obscure politi-
cians gathered together to lead a forlorn hope,
looks forward to the possibility that it may one
day rise to power, and its first concerted act is
to select from among its members the one who
is to be Premier when the day comes. But the
New South Wales Democrats seem to have
tacitly decided from the first that they were
never going to be any greater—that their
case was hopeless, and that they were prac-
tically born dead. They didn’t even think
it worth while to nominate their candidate for
the Premiership, evidently feeling convinced
that his defeat was settled in advance. Even
the four Democrats who maintained an almost
impossible struggle against the Queensland
Coalition never assumed so despondent an atti-
tude as the powerful party which holds or,
lather, which used to hold—the balance of
power in New South Wales.
* • •
Wanted, a Democratic Czar—that is the
legend written in letters of fire which expresses
the situation of theN.S.W. Democracy. The
spirit of disunion has become so hopeless that
the leader who can restore order and cohesion
into the democratic ranks must be a man of
iron—a politician of masterful will and big feet,
who will trample down opposition and suppress
disaffection by sheer force of will. And the
one certainty of the case is that the leader must
now be sought for outside the present party;
its members have become so accustomed to
absolute equality that the attempt to elevate
one of their own number to authority would
only lead to revolt. Such a man as Seddon, of
Maoriland, would best suit the position—or
even that cotnparative failure, Robert Stout,
K.C.M.G., would tower head and shoulders
above the ruck, and his acquisition as a leader
would more than double the fighting strength of
the party.. The idea of importing a chief may
seem novel; but it would be better to bring a
strong man—on a fixed salary, if necessary
from the furthest end of the earth than to
continue the present state of impotent anarchy.
The party which has no head is a rudderless


•ship steering nowhere on a shoreless sea, and
the Labour members of the N.S.W. Assembly
nil the description better than almost any other
political body on record.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Railway Grievances in New South
Wales.
JLhe many grievances of the N.S.W. railway
employes when briefly epitomised are: That
the wages, or rather earnings, of the common
working-man, driver, guard, stoker, cleaner,
shunter, line-repairer, station-hand, porter, &c.,
have been, in almost every case, greatly reduced,
in some cases from 15 to 25 per cent., while the
salaries of the officers have been as largely in-
creased ; that the officers have been also in-
creased in number while the men have been
proportionately lessened in number ; that the
conditions of employment are harder; that
imore hours are worked now than heretofore for
which no pay is allowed—for instance, the paid
time for engine-cleaning is now half-an-hour,
formerly it was twice that time, and, in order
that the efficiency of motor-power be kept up
and the public safety preserved, every minute of
the latter time is absolutely necessary ; that
drivers are now deprived of a “shed-day” in
each week—the vibration of running acts inju-
riously on men constantly employed on engines,
and formerly it was the custom to give them a
chance of recuperation by employing them to
put the engine which they ran and which they
best understood, in order on one day in
each week ; that many drivers have been
reduced to firemen, many firemen to cleaners,
and that, nevertheless, there are not a sufficient
number of cleaners employed to keep the
engines in order; that classification increases
have been stopped —removing an incentive to
high-class performance of duty ; that through
the suspension in many instances of home and
duty “ passes,” men have to pay their fares to
and from work, and while going about their
duties ; That men are at times “signed off'”
duty when miles away from home, and asked to
pay their fares back ; that, in consequence of
■the lapsing of the regulation that eight hours
should be the interval between spells of duty,
the men are often at work when in an unfit
; state ; that some of the men are occasionally
worked for stretches of from 14 to 25, and even
30, hours (as complained of in a memorial, date,
1890); that guards are sometimes sent on
shunting duty while shunters run the trains ;
that the stoves have been taken out of the
break-van (they aie now being replaced) ; that
the system of “ booking-off” is simply an eva-
sion of the obligation to pay for work done.
For instance, a driver takes charge of a train
to a race-mee ing at Rosehill, a three-
qua ter o '-an h ur journey. A quarter of an
ih mr after arrival he is “ booked off” (that is
to say, his pay is siupended), but, as he may
be “booked on ’ at any moment, he is com-
pelled to wait five or six hours without pay,
until the return trains begin to run ; ’that it is
'doubtful if a single engine in Eveleigh shed is
properly pro dded with tools ; that espionage is
irampant in the service ; that individual griev-
ances are not made known because the men fear
dismissal; that the Commissioners have con-
sistently refused to receive petitions and
deputations; and that now', through the dis-
missal of three men, selected by vote to
interview the Commissioners, it is evident that
They wish to silence also all collective remon-
strances and hear no g;: c.l complaints.
The men aver that the latter position
of affairs cannot conduce to good service, and
must endanger public safety. Service cannot be
efficient while men are discontented and at
variance with their chiefs. A grievance heard
is half-redressed; unheard, it is redoubled.
■Now, the men selected to interview the
“ bosses ” are between the devil and the deep
sea. On one side, they are bound to fulfil the
duties delegated to them by their fellows or
run the risk of being looked on as cowardly
crawlers; on the other, they have to face
almost certain dismissal. Such a state of
things can only increase distrust and disaffec-
tion. It looks, they say, as if the Commis-
sioners desired to foster bad blood, and were
industriously working up a railway strike —
which, they point out, would eagerly be availed
of by the syndicates desiring to purchase the
railways. The Commissioners meanwhile deny
that the men, as a whole, have any serious
grievances, and say that the agitation is merely
the work of a few restless spirits. The results
of the disgmscd conflict now going on in the
■railway service are difficult to foresee.
Last Sunday morning, at Miller’s Point,
Sydney, a man named Pert was brutally mur-
dered in open daylight by the “ push.” The
murder, apparently, was the result of an
ancient feud, and for several months past the
victim is alleged to have lived in a state of
siege, after the manner of a Corsican who has
an old-established vendetta in the family.
Now that he is dead and the police are busy
arresting his supposed assassins, and the hang-
■man is soaping the prospective noose, his case
will furnish a valuable moral, and the Right-
Lhinking Person will write to the daily
papers in large quantities pointing out
that lavish flogging by Act of Parliament is the
°nly effective remedy for this alarming
; state of things. In this respect the right-
thinking individual will make an ass of himself
as usual. If the law can fix the crime on
f ert’s assailants it will hang them, but it can’t
very well lend additional terrors to the code by
■hogging them and then hanging them—even the
■most respectable property-holder wouldn’t care
4o put his name to such a proposition. And if
the eight men at present under arrest are the
real criminals, the peculiarity of the case is
that most of them are of “ respectable
origin,” and at least seven out of the
ei ght have never previously been convicted of
anything which would give even the most
energetic magistrate an excuse for flogging them
as a preventive measure. If the Disorderly
'-'Onduct Suppression Rill had become law there
would doubtless have been authority in it to
arrest and flog the “ push ” for previous attacks
on Pert, but the existing law also gives
authority to consign them to long terms of
imprisonment for the same offence, and as no
policeman or magistrate enforced the present
statute, the chances are that the prospective one
would also' have remained a dead letter. Unless
the State is prepared to multiply the police
force, in certain low quarters, about six or
eight fold, and make gaol a hell instead of a
heaven, and unless it can find some new variety
of magistrate who will use the powers en-
trusted to him with reasonable vigour instead
of keeping in the old groove of 40s. fine or seven
days, it doesn’t really matter much whether
the code provides that the larrikin shall be
flogged or thumbscrewed or fried on a gridiron,
or flayed alive and his head afterwards stuck
on a spike on Goat Island. None of these
penalties can be enforced until the law first
catches its larrikin, and it has no effective
machinery for catching him In the present ease
the “ push ” is alleged to have made half-a-dozen
previous attempts to “lay out” its victim, yet
no policeman hove in sight on any one of these
occasions, and if he had, he would either have
been helpless because he was alone or he
would have captured somebody who would have
been fined ss. And the Disorderly Conduct Bill
won’t make him heave in sight with any more
frequency than he does at present—in fact, it
may furnish him with good and sufficient
reason to be a good deal less frequent than he
is just now.
New South Wales Labour-member Bavjster
publishes a list, showing the attendance at divi-
sions, of various members of N.S. W. Assembly
during last session. The most notable feature
of it is that the principal opponents of payment
of members hardly attended at all, while the
principal supporters of that system were in
their places with tolerable regularity. Where-
upon the Tory Star points out that “any
fool can call for a division,” and suggests that
many of the men who attended regularly were
“ obstructionists,” and that those who stayed
away with such consistency probably did more
for their country than the others, after all. The
fact that any fool can stayaway, probably doesn’t
occur to the Stab’s lamented intelligence. Fur-
ther, many of the legislators in question— Wise
and Bruce Smith among the rest—stayed away
so energetically that, had the rest of the House
kept up the same average, there would not have
been a quorum at any single sitting from the
beginning of the session to the end. The pay-
ment of members question resolves itself pretty
much into a conflict of opinion between those
who are willing to attend and do their work to
the best of their ability at a reasonable salary,
and those who are willing to stay away and
leave the work undone gratis. And the
patriotism of the man who is willing not to do
his work without salary is just about as
glorious as that of the person who is prepared
not to forge a cheque and to dispense with the
proceeds of the crime which he didn’t commit.
The effects of the S.M. Herald’s reduction to
a penny are seen in various little political
squirmings of the local Daily Telegraph
last Saturday. Several small things now
visible in the Telegraph simply go to prove
the truth of what The Bulletin has always
believed—that a good Radical daily paper
(not necessarily an eight-page one, either)
would within six months force the whole
existing Australian press right round. Last
Saturday’s 16-page enlargement of the Tele-
graph was by no means a blessing. The thing
savoured of Scraps, and the contributed
articles were dull as ditch - water. The public
doesn’t want bigger papers. But it wants
brighter, terser, straighter papers, and there
is a glorious prospect ahead in Sydney for
a brilliant, daring four-page morning broad-
sheet written with a knife, and sup-
porting Labour often and Democracy always.
The eight-page morning daily will ever be
under the thumb of the big advertisers, who are
the deadliest enemies of the workmen. All the
sparkling and original, political, commercial,
and other matter which can be got from day to
day could easily be placed within the four
corners of such a paper, and so could all the
remunerative advts. likely to come to the new
journal until it had fought its way to a 50,000
circulation —which, under proper auspices, it
would reach by leaps and bounds. The difference
in cost of paper alone between 40,000 or 50,000
daily copies of eight pages and the same number
of big-four-page copies represents a fortune in
the course of a year.
The Bulletin still hopes to see’ es'ablished in
every Australian capital a daily morning paper,
unbuyable and unbribeable, which will say
Republic and mean Republic, and past the
office of which no politician who has ever
sold for a title the National cause will
dare to go without a false beard and a
slouch hat—a Moleskin Paper, never to
“ turn dog,” contributed to in trenchant prose
and stirring verse by every clever Democrat,
whether in purple and fine linen or without
heels to his boots. A paper which every miner
in every mine, and every blacksmith in every
forge, and every shearer in every shed, and
every sailor in every ship will read from the
first line to the last, and cheer on as it starts
to lay broad and deep the foundations of Aus-
tralian Democracy, and hasten the day when
this continent shall be governed in the interests,
not of land-grab and other syndicates, but of
flesh and blood. A paper run by its own staff,
not by other people’s scrip—a paper written by
men utterly destitute of personal political
ambition, who will be content to live and
work in obscurity, and whose only music will
be the ever-loudening thunder of their printing
presses. The crowd are hungering for such a
paper—yet they hardly know it. The Fat Man
has all his fists and all his feet on the carotid
artery of the existing daily press.
Some professional new-comer signing himself
“Herbert Arundel ” probably the same
individual who similarly hoaxed a lot of folks
in the Sydney papers some years ago—writes to
the daily press that “ the wage-fund of any
community is a fixed quantity,” also that the
workers “ spend too much on dress and amuse-
ments,” likewise, that wages have “a normal
level of 4s. a day,” and the sooner they reach
it the sooner the wage-earners will “devote
their leisure to more serious purposes.’’
The wage-fund theory has been long ex-
plode!. The only limit to wages is that
furnished by the totality of national wealth.
As products increase, wages should increase in
direct ratio. Because they don’t, because the
share of the landlord,and the usurer is unduly
great, consumption is limited, and, as a result,
failure, depression, strikes and bank-suspen-
sions ensue. If it be wrong for the worker to
be well dressed— “ Herbert Arundel” would,
of course, prefer to see him after the good, old
English style, in rags and spitting idly in the
gutter—then lot us have a crusade against decent
clothes and all rational amusements for every-
body. When the worker is reduced to the 4s.
of 1 ‘ Herbert Arundel’s ” dreams there is
little doubt that he wall give his leisure to
“ serious purposes ” —the making of dynamite-
bombs. ‘ ‘ Herbert Arundel ” is either as
silly as the hero of Smedley’s trashy book,
whose surname he takes, or else a myth and
a bogey. Probably the latter, but heaps of
people really think the same sort of hogwash.
♦
“Sydney Jephcott” (a mystic poet, by the
way, whose handwriting no man on earth can
read) addressing Melb. Leader in reply to
Don W. Lane’s numerous critics, after
enumerating the alleged advantages of “New
Australia,” winds up wdth this crushing state-
ment : “ Paraguay itself is accessible from
London in a week’s less time than Victoria.”
Mr. Jephcott evidently imagines that this fact
demolishes all opposition. And yet, if the
churches are right, hell is accessible from
London in a fortnight’s less time than
Paraguay, and, despite this fact, the advan-
tages of taking up a selection there aren’t
very apparent, although anybody can
reach hell without paying £6O to any
fund, and can peg out his claim on the
hob at the shortest notice. Greenland can also
be reached from London in less time than
Paraguay, and so can Sierra Leone ; and—
what is quite as much to the point—Col ling-
wood can be reached from Fitzroy in four
minutes, yet it doesn’t seem to boom at present,
notwithstanding this accessibility. Further-
more, George-street, Sydney, can be reached
from the top of the Post-office tower in 18
seconds, as has been proved by the poor devil
who fell over and broke his bones against twm
scaffoldings in his descent, yet vegetables don’t
grow on that stony summit all the same, and
its agricultural value remains nil.
According to present arrangements, the first
batch of Lane’s pilgrims leave Australia for
Paraguay within a fortnight from date. So far
as can be ascertained, none of the emigrants
have ever yet been in the latter country, and the
onlyspecialinformationpossessed by theieader of
the expedition is based on the vague generalities
of a set of interested consuls and on the reports
of the one or two ostensibly impartial people
sent over from here a year or two ago, and who
may or may not have faithfully and compe-
tently performed their duties as spyers-out of
the land. If there is anybody now in Australia
familiar with Paraguay who has a word to say
in favour of that country as against this, he has
yet to be publicly heard from. The tenor of
every outside report is damnatory of this hare-
brained scheme. The Bulletin hears that at
least one or two prominent argonauts are trust-
fully sending their wives and families ahead of
them to the Land of Pi’omise, although they
themselves will be detained by business until
the next ship many months ' hence. After
hospital self-denial week is properly over will
be just about the time to start in Sydney the
nucleus of a fund to pay the return passages to
Australia of the distressed women and children
of a year or two hence.
The Paraguayan Consul in London, replying
to a cabled inquiry from Premier Dibbs, reports
as follows on the “ New Australia ” land :
Fine country for agriculturists and industrious people
with small capital. Prospects of employment very
doubtful. Pew employers with any capital. Wages low.
Do not advise emigration of people without some means.
All this, even if true to the letter, only means
that Paraguay isn’t much worse than Australia
—at present. Yet the New Australians profess
to regard it as a crushing rejoinder to all their
critics —an absolute disproof of everything that
has been said against Paraguay and all con-
nected therewith. There is somethingsimple and
childlike in the idea of applying to an official of
the Paraguayan State, and expecting him to tell
unpleasant truths about the country which pays
his consular salary—yet, for all that, he damns
the country with very faint praise, and when a
man with a salary can say nothing better for it
than the above, the language of a man without
a salary can be. readily guessed at. Let the
Queensland section of the New Australians
compare the feeble eulogy of Paraguay by its
hired General Scadder with the glowing de-
scriptions of Queensland by its agent, Hume
Black, and then look on the wretchedness of
Queensland and estimate from that what the
wretchedness of Paraguay is likely to bo. Also,
let them consider the absolute reliability of
Hume Black in all its aspects before they trust
so joyously in the statements of any Govern-
ment’s stipendiary horn-blower.
Carnegie’s vision about the voluntary abdica-
tion of Queen Victoria and the formation of a
great Anglo-Saxon republic, composed of the
United States and the present British empire,
which will enforce universal peace, is a sample
of drivel that hasn’t even the merit of novelty.
The story of that “English-speaking” federa-
tion wffiich is to compel the whole world to
abjure war, is old and very, very stupid. If
the Federation ever comes off and starts out to
abolish war it will have an awful and blood-
thirsty time of it. The only way to carry out
the programme is for the coming republic,
whenever a war breaks out anywhere, to sail in
and either thrash the combatant which seems to
be at fault, or else to lick ‘both combatants
equally. And as war will keep on breaking out
in the same old way, the peaceful Federation
will have to bang every nation and combination
of nations on earth, and to continue doing it.
One of its earliest contracts, when Russia and
China settle down to a fight for the ownership
of Asia, will be to pound the two of them,
which means pounding a third of the human
race in one act. ' The day the much-vaunted
Federation of peace gets started it will be tima
for the uhwarlike members of the community
to quit.
Answers to Correspondents.
Mo notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Harold G-.P.” (Melb.); Your characters are
too high-toned, and talk over their homicides in too ex-
pensive a club, and are troubled with such a high-priced
melancholy that we really can’t afford to publish
them . “X.Y.Z.”: Don’t quite understand your poem,
but no doubt your intentions are strictly honourable....
“Snuffy Nose”: The Bulletin has said it all before and
keeps on saying it regularly every Thursday morning to
this day.. . “ Ponte ” : When you say “ Send each legis-
lator back to his Creator ” do you mean massacre or Guy
Fawkes, or do you propose to lay poison in the refresh-
ment-room ?....“ Nara ” (Norman River) : Poem too
precipitous. “ Was it Murder? ” a bald statement that
a stockman seduced a girl and was shot. That seems to
end the matter satisfactorily, unless you want him
hot-potted or scraped to death with oyster-shells
“ Native Bear ” (Woollahra): Your letter seems to refer
principally to one Dibbs. Who is Dibhs, anyhow'?
“ F.X.M.” (Sydney): He played with Irving many years
ago, but never, so far as W’e can learn, with Ellen Terry.
“Boree” (Melbourne): William, the good nigger, is
only the Biblical Samaritan painted black and minus
most of his clothes “ The Land of Sighs ” : We know
of no remedy for that kind of poem. Possibly a surgeon
might manage to get it out of your system by an opera-
tion. Anyhow, it’s an awful thing to have in the family.
“W.8.M.” (Sydney): No demand for Bunyanesque
allegory. Also, Truth isn’t a “maid.” Mostly she’s
either married or ought to be “Alick Flax” (Mackay);
Lacks originality “Rosa Dartle”: Not worth the
space. A huge, unwholesome idiot elopes with a dis-
agreeable woman, and then, after a time, he repents and
goes back to his own tall, bony, aggravating wife.
If he had further broken the heart of a lame
girl with a squint the story would be about complete
“E. Rosslyn”: The tale of how you grossly insulted a
lady in a drapery shop is regretfully declined “J.
Carr”: Will use in a condensed form.... “ E.N.C.”
(Williamstown): Scenic verse with sunsets and bowers in
it, and winds gently sighing through the forest, is not
Tub Bulletin’s strong point “Auckland”;’ The
N.S.W. Bank Issue Act is retrospective. Moreover, the
bank-note only “ promises to pay one pound,” and doesn’t
promise to pay it in gold. If you present your note die
bank will pay one pound—it will give you another note
which the law declares to be legally a pound. If you pre-
sent that for payment you’ll get a third note. The law is
with the banks, and it is no use kicking against it....
“ The Curlew ” : The mad old man who potters about on
the farm or the station has been used too often. “Old
Dave ” and “ Old Dan ” and “Old Jim ” are all the same
aged fossil... “ Amos K.” (Canterbury): Yes “A.O ”:
No—“ Brutish ” fair play “Gnnyah”: It w'ould look
malicious to rake the matter up again.... “Tom Collins”:
China is “ off our bate ” “ Gaythorne ” : Haven’t seen
them ..“Beam End”: You have been anticipated
“Bullock Puncher”: We are not going to reprint it;
we are by no means proud of having published it at a 11...
“ B. Allarat ” : (1) Day Dawn has been a fabulously good
mine, and may be so again shortly. (2) Day Dream was
also wonderfully rich, but not likely to be so again. (3)
Read, but unsuitable “Yarrum”: “Scotty the
Wrinkler ” is not an itinerant tea-fiend, so your tea-man
is a fraud, and you can blacken his eye with a light heart.
Also, you can justly assault the local man who
says he is “The Banjo.” He also is an impostor
“Fakir”: The same dreary old swagman’s yarn ...
“C.N.W.”: Many correspondents beside yourself have
pointed out that the two lines —
“ Who backs his rigid Sabbath, so to speak,
Against the wicked week-days of the week,”
for which “G.J.” (A.Y., Vic.) got credit in a late issue,
is from Tom Hood’s ode to Rae Wilson—which w r e
do not happen to have read. However, like the now-
modest Argus, we “donotclaim to be infallible.” When
so constantly assailed by impudent plagiarists we must
at times succumb. Some of them have front enough to
send along the Lord’s Prayer or the Ten Oi mmandments
as an original composition “H.W.8.”: Sorry not
available. Try again with something more direct
“Ullybra”: Not enough in it “Jimmie” (Adelaide,
S.A.); Good “Casmajor”: Hymn is a hideous parody.
“Junius’’(“author of,” &c., &c.): The “author"
who makes the cable flash the news of the Australian
gold-finds in the fifties, was meant for a greasier
vocation “A.G.H.”: In N.S.W. there is nothing to
prevent you calling yourself “doctor” or “pro-
fessor,” or “reverend,” or “carpenter,” or “farmer,” or
anything else you like. You can even call yourself
“ major-general.” Professional or trade titles are simply
matters of fact. You say “ Dr. Jones,” just as you would
say “Hangman Jones.” It is only the artificial titles
which are noxious. “ Primate Barry ”is an unobjection-
able title, but it is objectionable to dub a man Honourable
when, even if he’s not athief, he’s in no waymore honour-
able than other people... “ W.S.” (Nan., Gun.); To
hand “A Beginner” (F.): W.P.B.Henry S.”;
Vide reply to “ C.R.W.” “John Smith”: You area
cowardly rascal “W.E.P.”: To hand “T.F.D.”:
We aren’t likely to print much for anybody who
“ vvrights ” stories .. “ F.R.” (B.): Lost in admiration of
his forceful originality, we overlook his ghastly snobbery.
“Cash”: Either 2or 8.... “Eiffa” : Will now pub
lish . “Rock”: No, he wasn’t hanged. His relatives
were too influential for that. Two of the others, who
were equally guilty according to the evidence, also ‘'had
relatives.” [Many replies held over.]
The Government Statistician's department
issues the first volume of the report of the New
South Wales census for 1891. It is a book on
which an immense amount of labour has obviously
been expended, and it contains, in a small space,
a vast quantity and variety of information. The
preliminary essays on the “ Origin of the Census,”
the old estimates of population, the “Method of
Mustering”—a sketch of the primitive census
devices of the country in days when the convict
and other population was dragged together under
penalties ranging from imprisonment to 500 lashes,
to be counted and otherwise particularised—and
other subjects are excellently written and full
of interest. The report of how the first census
proposals in England were rejected by Parlia-
ment as calculated to call down the fate of
Sodom and Gomorrah upon the land, is a brilliant
specimen of the intelligence of our fathers ; and the
lavish flogging provisions attached to the early
census arrangements in New South Wales —which
arrangements, in fact, seem to consist mostly of
flogging—is a gratifying evidence that, though
reluctant to take a new departure, these same
early fathers, when once they did start, did it
with vigour. Despite all their energy, however,
the early census reports of N.S.W. were somewhat
loose. In 1801, according to the official figures,
there were 5529 white inhabitants in the province,
including, as the official report cheerfully men-
tions, 119 convict women “living with overseers,”
&c. In 1811 the population was only a trifle over
10,000. In 1821 it was put down at 29,662, and in
1833 at 60,794. Things moved pretty slowly in
these early days. In 1851 the population num-
bered over 187,000, rather less than half of whom
could read and write. One curious feature in more
recent times is that several remote electorates
actually show a decreasing population for the
last decade. Argyle has declined by nearly 300,
and Braidwood by about 700. Mudgee, has de-
clined over 2000 in ten years; and Gunnedah also
shows a falling off. This is lamentable informa-
tion for those who want to settle the people on- the
land, and appears to require explanation. There
are many other interesting features in the volume
—most of them are gratifying, a good many are
not. Also, the work is well-printed, and the ‘in-
formation it contains is carefully condensed, and
tabulated in a manner which makes it readily
accessible—in fact, there is hardly anything deal-
ing with local N.S.W. population questions, which
human ingenuity can put into figures, that will
not be'found somewhere between its two covers.


fcptica to ||uit all ||ightd.
r
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5 - per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 6 per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <St ROBERTS,
Jbweli.bry Showrooms,
f3l HUNTER STREET, STD NET,
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
June 28, 1893.
Mt Dear Moorabinda—
An interesting aspectof the Sterling concerts at
Sydney was the extremely ill-assorted audiences
that used to turn up. Blue-ribboned beauties
buttoned up to the ears, with shining, well-soaped
visages, were there looking spiritual daggers at
the society seraphs billowing out of their bodices
and softened with pearl-powder. Of coarse, had
anyone washed the seraphs’ faces there and then,
they would probably have turned out as stone-
coloured as the “sheep”—bat nobody did, and
the contrast seemed to indicate that piety is
shockingly bad for the complexion. There ought
to be more cotton-wool in the straight and narrow
path, if young men are to be lured therein.
Apropos of pearl-powder, it is muttered that
much impetus will be given to the sale of Bloom
of Everlasting Loveliness and First Blush rouge-
tablets in a certain Southern city by the glaring
fresco observable on the visage of a recently-
arrived personage. Not only a little dewy blush
under each eye out the long wash of pink enamel
going from Dan to Beersheba, in a manner of
speaking, while the groundlings even wonder
whether the last sweet smile will “crack.” Bub
the saddest part of it is that aoliromo-btliographic
Block will be the certain result—a Block where
the carmine dieth nut and the rouge is not
quenched.
The Christian “ scientific? ” of a certain well-
advertised lady don’t make things much easier for
her hotel-man—according to a story from one city
where “ the bird” alighted. She arrived like a
modified earthquake, and her masculine voice was
heard all over the place. “ Where was her room ” ?
Not in the front—she couldn’t stand the traffic;
not in the back —she mustn’t smell the kitchen ;
not too high—she couldn’t abide the lift; not too
low—she wouldn’t be near the bar. And then, at
last, when her traps were being hauled upstairs,
the clarion-voice broke out again—“Mind my
trunks. My dresses are very beautiful! ” I
wonder, by-the-way, why she doesn’t wear them ?
If ever Gov. Duff should advertise for a handy
man to act as his proxy by the day, there is at
least one Sydneyite who will fit the place like a
glove. The Governor and he are alike as two
peas twirling of moustache, abrupt head
movement, and, above all, the constant semi circle
described by the vice-regal tongue round the outer
upper-lip, which isn’t at all pretty, giving some-
thing the effect of a blne-tongued lizard catching
flies. But the “ double ” has caught even that.
By the way, I wonder if it will now become the
correct thing to go about with your tongue hang-
ing out like an ant-eater’s? If so the properest
society person will be the one who carries her
tongue at half-mast like a tired tyke. Not that
the Governor, does—but, then, styles always get
improved upon. Perhaps, in the near future,
grave doubts may arise as to whether you really
are in the Government House set unless you can
reach the tin of your nose with your unruly
member.
The Deputy Master of Sydney Mint (Mr. Mac-
donald Cameron) invited a party, including
Madame Antoinette Sterling, to go over his Ooin-
factory the other Wednesday. The air was
thick with technical explanation, but I am afraid
most of the visitors came away as wise as ever. I
know I did. lam always amused at the woman
who is being technically talked at —she assumes
such an owlish expression of solemn misery during
the ordeal, as if her informant were passing
sentence of death.
And another amusing thing was the way
Madame (in a long, hairy burnoose, a black velvet
hat, and her amaranthine tresses waving in the
breeze) clutched at choice illustrations for future
pow-wows to the Blue Ribbon Brigade as to how
gold is tried by fire, and so on. You could see her
storing up similes as some obliging official was
explaining how a sov. had to be boiled all over
again if there was a single excessive speck of alloy
in it, or it didn’t weigh in! In the stamping-room
the object of interest was the new effigy of
Royalty to be issued on Ist prox. Queen Victoria
is represented looking the other way with a towel
in her back-hair, and a double chin like a dew-lap.
Society is ever eager to adorn the debut of any
English public character. A locust-like shower
of the best people inevitably descends upon the
latest funny man from ’Ome, as if an exiled
society were anxious to sun itself in every wander-
ing ray from a brighter and better land. Terry
opened to a smart circle last Saturday. Whether
recent bargain-sales have aught to do with it I
cannot say, but the percentage of silks and satins
is very heavy in dress-circles now, and your
neighbour seldom looks less than many shekels per
yard at par.
The prettiest petticoatsanpportingMr. Terry were
worn by Emma Gwynne—white muslin flowered
in bine forget-me-nots. The plump Watt-Tanner,
in ruby moire, was trimmed to look as if
bursting out of her sleeves, and Henrietta
Watson’s pea-green garment was the colour of an
oasis in the desert, at least. By the way, some-
body .ought to do something to the church warden’s
doormats, for the way they tripped the whole
company up would have ruined a tragedy. Four
little flat weights at the comers keep mats in place
beautifully, I may hint casually for the benefit of
interested persons.
I think Mrs. W. Mitchell was the best-
groomed in the circle, in a rose - pink
brocade with empire bodice and big sleeves
of pink satin and flounces of fawn fine lace,
and a pyrotechnic display of diamonds. Mrs.
(Mayoress) Manning wore white silk and pompa-
dour opera-cloak; B. & B.’s latest imported
soubrette, Miss Noble, wore her dark hair hang-
ing down, and a large feather fan, and looked
just like the right sort of person to fall in (stage)
love with Chichester in the near future; and
another brunette with rose-pink velvet bodice
trimmings wouldn’t have kept her sang-froid. I’ll
wager, if she had known how ghastly a calamity
had happened behind her back.
I want to confess at once that I am not edu-
cated up to Mr. Terry’s scarecrow style of dressing
in “The Churchwarden.” In a violently carjotty
smoking-cap, much to loo’ard, a yellow waistcoat,
a long-skirted coat and a wisp of handkerchief
tied round his gullet, Mr. T. looked more like
music-hall than drawing-room farce, and the con-
trast between his eccentric get-up and the rest of
the company seemed to point the moral that on
this side of the pond people try to be funny with-
out a cap-tassel dangling round their shoulders.
But perhaps Mr. Terry dresses so distinctly
because of the sketchiness of his facial outline?
You can’t see the imported eomique’s profile if
thrown against light cane furniture or dun-mousey
draperies.
I wonder if May’s wedding will alter the fashion
of dressing young brides as if they were their own
grandmothers? The correct wedding materials
are stiff and wiry brocades —heavy satins—the
more ancient the rag the greater its success as a
robe of sacrifice, and the important question of
beeotninguess is of no moment at all. There are
some brides who would look idyllic if you got them
up in moleskin—but all virgins aren’t so gifted,
and I have seen a girl amble to the altar looking a
perfect scare-bridegroom in a relentless brocade,
who would have turned out very soft and inviting
in embroidered chiffon.
If the Duke of York’s fianede gave herself away
in a poetic robe of white illusion, she might in-
augurate a race of meltingly artistic brides —
cnddlesome darlings, not pillars of starch. I, for
one, would like to see the last of the tight-laced
(show me the woman who wasn’t laced in to half-
breathing point on her wedding-day !), buckram-
finished, stiff and starchy virgins, who look more
like the injured ghosts of their grandmothers than
happy maidens starting on their own account.
I saw a rather good picture of Princess May
. and her tna the other day—at least somebody said
it was “speaking.” In it Princess May had a
sheep’s face, the visage of a girl who could be
driven into anything, and she was meekly sitting
down, while tna, awfully fat, wearing satin and
beads, of a bull-dog expression, mounted sentinel
over her. Ma looked capable of bullying a
cavalry regiment into marrying its grandmother,
and the whole picture suggested the girl in the
song who remarked, “Oh, thou hast been the
cause of this anguish, my mother.”
“ Right’s Right,” at Sydney Her Majesty’s, is
a romantic play—but isn’t it rather a reflection on
modern ideas that such an obvious truth should
be dressed in Georgian clothes ? In the last act,
Hilda Spong (who is going to try her luck in
London) looked ingenuous in a white Greenaway
gown, with a cherry-ripe bonnet, and Jennie Lee,
in a green frock of the same era, revived memories
of the grasshopper. Miss Watts-Phillips cut a
neat figure, as the dame, in soft grey trimmed
with black, mob cap, and dainty ruffles ; and I
liked the old English music, which was as true to
the period as the frocking.
The air is full of hops and rumours of hops.
The Boys’ Brigade ball, in Sydney Town Hall, on
4th July, is to have bagpipes “ intilt,” to the joy
and delight—or infinite boredom—of Gov. Duff,
who has taken something to cure his Scotcliness,
it strikes me, and who doesn’t mind one bit if he
isn’t handed a tartan programme. I am glad to
hear that the Boys’ ball will be a success, if the
ticket sale goes for anything, that is. Then the
Sports Union of Sydney ’Varsity holds its
maiden puhlio ball, on August 3rd, in the Town
Hall —the proceeds to help get the rowing and
cricket clubs out of pawn. Mr. D. S. Edwards,
Mr. Garnsey, and Mr. Waldron, are executive
committee, and tickets will be for sale at
the usual book and tnusio shops. Gov. Duff is
a patron, by the way.
Quite a Parisian trick has appeared in Sydney
this season—l mean the little bouquets of violets!*'
which are offered you in the street for a penny or
twopence, but when you buy them you find they
are stale and scentless, though they look fresh
enough. In Paris, selling the florists’ stale wares
at cheap rates is quite an industry—but it is new to
Australia—therefore let the Johnny in quest of a
thrifty buttonholer not be surprised to find that
his rose has been painted or boiled or something,
for the ways of cheap flowers are dark.
The clever “ Magpie ’’amateurs are giving a per
formance at the Royal Standard Theatre on
Friday, 7th July, in aid of the Kilbnrn Sisters.
Front seats, four shillings, and Mr. C. B. Clibborn
to look after things looks like a success.
Talking about self-denial week reminds me of
two Melbourne society girls who went to spend
the result of seven days’ self-abnegation iti the
slums. They hit a deserving case—father out of
work, mother destitute and with a large family,
tapering down to a young baby. After setting
them up in necessaries it transpired that the
mother was too ill to nourish the latest recruit,
but the girls, not to be baulked in the good work,
set out with their maid in search of a foster-
mother and a doctor. They found a little
Buttercup and left the puling infant in her charge,
and tiie girls dispatched a doctor; but guess their
horror when he sent word that the interesting
family had silently stolen away in the interval
and left them with a flabby and mysterious infant
at nurse to be for ever after accounted for by
them. And wHat amount of talk it would take to
satisfactorily explain away that Haiti headed baby
out at grass I am at a loss to conjecture.
The excited and indignant tone of the
newspaper correspondence denouncing the ex-
treme ventilation observable in the upper
garments of the amateur sculler amuses me
—happening, as it does, in a land where the ballet
flourishes like a green bay tree. Some Y.W.C.A.
young man, writing in the Herald, says that the
rent garment* of the doming Beach bring bluahes
to the cheek of the innocent damsel out upon the
water, and lie fears that the fatal aquatic habit of
splitting your guernsey up the side, may lead to
much injury to conscious Virtue as she takes half-
a-crown’s worth of waterman’s wherry. I think
that if a howl against over-revelation is going to
arise, the loudest shriek ought to come from the
other party. What a modest figure your ragged
rowing-man would cut if you set him beside a
society maiden, who had allowed half-a-yard of
tulle and a pink rosebud to cover her from the
waist up. Modesty is admirable. Cant is mental
indecency.
Men are ever so much more modest than women
—for when do you hear of a masculine fashion
that does anything but cover the wearer almost up
to his ears and down to his knuckles ? But, the
women ! why, tiie very latest notion in evening
bodice is said to “appear as if coming off the
shoulders.” Susceptible man is in for a very
lively time tins winter—wondering, hoping, and
fearing if his lovely partner’s upper garment will
continue to hold on till the end of the waltz. By
the way, with this startling sartorial calyx the
human flower ought to wear a lace tucker. But
will she?
The residents of a Sydney railway-suburb were
variously affected recently by the appearance
of a pea-green poster drawing attention to a
charity concert, the proceeds of which were “to
purchase a phaeton and horse for an invalid ”
nearly related, by-the-way, to a fashionable cleric.
The mantle of the greatest virtue must be wide in-
deed if it has to cover the sporting needs of the
neighbourhood. Now if the thing had only gone
the length of a bath-chair !
The electric piano is making fearful melody on
the Sydney Block just now, “I believe a spirit
plays it,” said an awe-struck girl. And a dread-
ful thought occurred to me. This is an age of
piano-pounding. What if the fin-de-siecle ghost
comes back and practises Czerny’s exercises at
midnight instead of rattling its mouldy chain in
the garret ?
“A young barmaid,” it was advertised in the
S.M. Herald, the other day, “requires young
lady as companion ; musical, good home, liberal
allowance. Box 641, G.P.0.” Who wouldn’t be
a “ barmaid ?” or rather, who wouldn’t be a
“young lady?” But I am sure the Herald
people didn’t deliberately allow this advt. to
appear. Ft is emphatically not in their way of
business.
I have lately received two musical compositions
—“The Gem,” waltz, by Herr Peohotseh, and
“Love’s First Whisper,” by Bert Royle and
Diederiehsen. The name of “ The Gem” doesn’t
exactly fit the waltz, and roundaboutly recalls the
rumour that firms abroad keep gorgeously-
lithographed covers, -and composers send
their little efforts across unbaptised to be
called “Smiling Spring,” or a “Storm at
Sea,” according to the frontispiece that tits ’em.
The song, “Love’s First Whisper,” wouldn’t
make a singer's fortune. It’s the sort of thing
that passes for genius only at a girls’ boarding-
school.
Judging by the number of Sydney divorces in
which women are plaintiffs, it really looks as if
matrimony wasn’t the metier of my dear sex, after
all. Or is it, I wonder, that marriage is Hobson’s
choice with most women—take what you can get
—suit, not bo suited ? The fact that women are
in che majority applying for nnmarriage is a proof
that men are better satisfied with their matri-
monial fate than women—and so they ought to be.
Man marries because he wants to—woman because
she must. No wonder my sisters lead the field in
the race for the parsley garland !
It transpired (in re N.S.W. Horticultural
Society’s deputation) that Lady Duff means to
encourage “cottage and window gardening by
artisans”—a flowery idea set going by Lady
Carington, you remember. There is really no
reason why the workman, or any other man,
should not grow his own boutonnieres; and the
idea is pretty enough. A flower on the window-
sill gives an air of rustic innocence even to the most
doubtful street in the city, and the objections of
jaundiced bailiffs, the dog-tax and policemen, who
view elevated flower-pots as elevated missiles,
must be counted out.
But isn’t the advocacy of window gardens
rather a waste of energy in Australia, where the
average artisan can have any amount of flowers
a blowing and a growing round his suburban cot-
he likes to fence the fowls off? It’s quite
an English notion—the last frostbitten geranium
left blooming alone on the sill. Almost every-
body in Australia outside the wharf boilers
runs his own backyard, even in the
thickest neighbourhoods, and edges it off with
kerosene-tins full of floral loveliness if he feels
drawn towards Nature—or with broken beer-
bottles if he doesn’t, and leaves his window-sills
alone in either case. But sill pots certainly are
pretty—until they topple over and lay the return-
ing house-father low on his own lintel.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's " Right’s Right.”
Lyceum ‘‘Sweet Lavender."
'Criterion “ The Amazons.”
Tivoli Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “ Ten Nights in a Bar-
room.”
Centennial Hall Madame Sterling.
Exhibition Building..., Fdiis' Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's. Gaiety Burlesque.
Opera House Variety Show.
On Saturday the much-advertised Edward
Terry made his fir.st Australian appearance at
Sydney Lyceum in “The Churchwarden.” The
result was good, but not nearly so good as might
have been expected, which result was partly the
fault of Mr. Terry and partly the misfortune of
the comedy. “The Churchwarden” is a weak
affair which turns feebly on a very feeble incident;
and, moreover, the audience doesn’t even see the
incident, but only hears of it casually when it is
all over. All it amounts to is that Daniel Chuffy
once entered a somewhat shady restaurant, and
there had two dozen oysters with an unknown but
perfectly respectable lady, and was found having
them by the M.P. for his own district. The lady
is the member’s own niece whom he had lost in
the crush at the door of a theatre, and why he
should instantly rush to a disreputable house to
look for her isn’t explained. Neither is it ex-
plained why the lady should holt at his entrance
and leave the Churchwarden in the lurch. More-
over, his frantic search for the missing girl in flash
oyster-shops seems incompatible with his pro-
found calm some days later—the niece being still
missing. And when she turns up it seems, for all
that is explained fco the contrary, that she has
been pursuing her uncle all over the face of Eng-
land in the interval, therefore the assumption is
that she doesn’t know her way home by
herself, and that ever since she was lost
she has either been living somewhere in an oyster-
shop or else has been sleeping out. The complica-
tions which make up the alleged humour are weak,
and consist chiefly in one man pretending to have
catalepsy and another professing to have hanged
himself by the window-blind ; and the cause of
these complications is entirely unaccountable.
Also, Mr. Terry, who is apparently a man of
affluence, seems unnecessarily in want of a shave
and dressed too much like a bottle-gatherer in low
circumstances. His acting is undoubtedly good,
but—one had expected much, and the public looks
forward to seeing Mr. Terry in other parts. George
Leitch, as Nathaniel Gadden, is deserving of very
high praise, and Miss Polly Emery makes her
humble part as a slavey one of the features of
the comedy. Messrs. Sass and Cathcart are also
in the bill, and deserve better fortune. “Sweet
Lavender ” next Saturday.
* * * *
“Right’s Right,” the new drama at
Sydney Majesty’s, is reported to have been played
for over 3000 nights in England, and The
Bulletin is fully prepared to endorse the state-
ment. If it wasn’t played for 3000 nights it ought
to have been, for it is above the usual run of melo-
drama. Its one drawback is the length of the
orations which the principal good man is required
to utter on various occasions in public-houses and
elsewhere, but otherwise it is well-constructed ; it
is also well staged, and it is admirably
played. And even if all the rest of it
were an unmitigated wreck—which it isn’t—
Miss Jennie Lee alone is worth the money
several times over. Her part is that of a rampant
waif or 15, or thereabouts, in rags and broken
boots, who, having been brought up principally
with the rats and lived mostly on stick and stolen
turnips, at last turns on her adopted father and
other enemies, and keeps up a reign of terror in
the establishment by aiming portables at the head
of everybody. She is partly M'liss in a state of
volcanic eruption, and partly Becky Sharp pos-
sessed of seven devils and armed with ten long
claws and a bedpost. No Sunday-school, young
ladies’ seminary, or Band of Hope should miss
this show on any account. N.B, —Half a column
of poetry concerning Miss Lee is unavoidably
crowded out.
« » tit »
Harry Rickards, at che Tivoli (Sydney),
still prospers to an unlimited extent. Dan Tracey’s
Variety Company has taken possession of the
Opera House, and np to date the experiment pro-
mises to pay a reasonable dividend. The Gaiety,
where a once-promising opera season judiciously
closed up after a brief spell of Emma Wangenheim
—that lady’s Serpolette alone is sufficient to fully
account for the disaster —has also taken to variety
business, chiefly condensed burlesque and abbre-
viated comedy, with the song-and dance man in
between.
2;c
“The Amazons, ” a play that is preceded
by a vast reputation, will be staged on Saturday
at Sydney Criterion. Miss Grace Noble, recently
from England, is in the cast.
* * *
Sydney Royal is doing reasonably good
business with that ancient temperance drama,
“ Ten Nights in a Bar-room.” As a drama this
effort is somewhat incoherent, but its moral if
distinctly solid, and if the abstinence community
does not roll up to support it as one unanimous
teetotaller, then there is no faith or gratitude or
sincerity in it. The human element in the per-
formance consists mainly of Messrs. Leston and
J. H. Rainford —the latter being the prize drunk-
ard of the drama, a suffering wife by Miss Nelly
Raynharr, the dying child from whom no one can
altogether escape even though he flies to the
uttermost ends of the earth, and an assortment of
miscellaneous drunks ; and there is much scenery,
and a huge and picturesque “Robertson’s
Whisky” advertisement on a mirror in the bar-
room. Mr. Rainford suffers from snakes in front
of this mirror, and the back view of him in the
jim-jams is a thing to be remembered.
* * « *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus displays still another
new programme this week, and any number more
new programmes are understood to be in reserve
for future necessities. The new departure is, if
possible, a Httle more vast and comprehensive
than its predecessor. One of the prettiest items
in the present performance is the Roman statuary,
which is believed, on unreliable authority, to bo a
near relation of the legionary who was burnt up
at Pompeii, partly through his own neglect to go
away, and partly, it may be, because, in the rush,
he was knocked down and trodden upon by parties
whose names are not known to the police. The
statuary is not distinctlycirous-business, neither is
it acrobatism, or any other recognised institution,
but it is an attractive exhibition, and, looking
upon it, it seems possible that even a politician
might be beautiful if struck by catalepsy in his
night-shirt while under the limelight. Mr. Jones
continues his great feat of turning a somersault
in the air over the heads of thirty armed supers,
who fire their guns at him while in the course of
his flight. This item is described as “ the out-
post’s leap for life,” Jones being vaguely under-
stood to be a sentry who is surprised by the
enemy, and bounds over their heads in his retreat.
A new clown has been laid on, in addition to the
one who used to run unsuccessfully after his
reptile contemporary with an axe, and as the new
one looks fleet of foot, he will probably overtake
somebody with the axe if he starts.
* * * *
Among Fillls’s artists who will appear
with the circus on July 5 at Sydney Exhibition
Building the stars are the Feeley Family—six
of them—and Mdlle. Pauline, all of whom are
entirely new to Australia. Also the Sisters
Mayol and Zazel, who bring a large-sized reputa-
tion from the Paris Hippodrome, the Ortherdos,
triple bar performers, and a certain Mdlle.
Anetta, who is understood to exclipse and ex-
tinguish every other lady rider upon earth.
* * * *
A Sydney daily says that if Madame
Antoinette Sterling would “sing more and talk
less in public it would be an advantage to all con-
cerned.'’ Mdme. Sterling must, vve suppose, at
one time, have been a good singer—else why should
Sullivan, presumably the most excellent of judges,
have dedicated to her “The Lost Chord ” —or Fitz-
gerald Moll oy have inscribed to her “Love’s Old
Sweet Song?” But all the Sydney people The
Bulletin has talked to don’t want to hear her
sing any more—and they certainly don’t want to
hear her talk any more.
* # •
The loudly-advertised facts that Madame
Sterling “has never worn stays,” and that she
wears her hair prize-entire fashion, a la our own
old friends, the Fat Girls from Ginpsland, and
that she is a prophetess of the Y. VV.C. A., don’t
prevent her from giving herself away in public.
For instance, the great philanthropist (and
show-worn an) stated in Sydney, the ofche*


NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, AND ALL PbOFITS BELONG TO THE ASSURED.
On Ist January, 189 S, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,282,016 5a Id
Sf T SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457.808 ss. Id., being the LARGEST
"Plus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world
onclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia ,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
nßuram T ( E 'iv This . k th ® Com P an y holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
saSauasr 1 ’ s “ plu ’ M >*» •» .»i“>
TheWhiicHorseCdlar.
Edinburgh.
TKe Old Blend
WMsky
Wh ite HORSE
cf tKe
Cellar
day, that ere reaching Adelaide she had never
seen the inside of a gaol. Can it be possible
that her outrageous enthusiasm for the cause
of weak and suffering humanity has only fully
blossomed since she landed in Australia? And
manager lonnny Hudson had better see that in
future her logic (a scarce commodity in the sex) is
properly adzed. Last week she spoke tearfully of
the practice of "keeping men within four walla
for years under restraint,” &0., as being the
height of cruelty.” Two days afterwards, at a
meeting of the fallen-women’s society, or some-
thing of the sort, she broke out with the bitter
cry that, ‘ fallen men—worse than fallen women
were animals, and they should be locked up in
cages like wild beasts.” And this is the sort of
thing, which, carefully padded out in the daily
press, helps to draw crowds.
» « * m
The shattered remnants of Melb. “society”
seem to have thrown off their allegiance to
Lonnen and his warlike Co. Yet, saving the
dress-circle, all parts of the Princess’s are doing
well. Business is brisk, and the farewells will
extend over another week. They have finally
disposed of “Faust” and “Joan of Arc”—at
present they are getting through with “Carmen.”
On Saturday the last instalments of “Miss
Esmeralda ” will commence to fall due, and next
week the Melb. business of the Gaiety Co. must
be wound up for good. Many better companies
have met with much less success, but in its
desperate onslaught upon a weakly-garrisoned
newspaper-office this particular “combine” stands
unrivalled. The moons, as they waxed and
waned, have brought about strange changes in the
Gaiety casts of characters, and time has
dealt roughly with the balance of singing
power. Also, the weather, or something, is
accountable for the loss of Bert Haslem’s pleasant
little bit of voice. Just now Bertie warbles like a
raven in distress—a matter which, combined with
the disappearance of his moustache, makes him
equal to a new man. As a comedian he seems
inor ; humorous in a shaven state. Now he is pro-
bably the brightest man in the show, and nobody
can guess how much funnier he might become if
he were to get his head shaved and bill himself as
the Hairless Haslem. However, Lonnen continues
to figure as the supreme wag. His voice is of the
indestructible kind, and his legs never fail.
The gallery encores everything he does, no
matter how dreadful it happens to be. Last
week Lonnen ventured to sing Chevalier’s latest
song, “My Old Dutch,” when the difference
between “reminiscing” the original performer,
Chevalier, and learning one of his ditties afar off,
was truly striking. In the case of “ My Old
Dutch," Lonnen probably had to draw solely
upon his imagination for an effect. The
elderly costermonger that he drew, and the dirge
that he sang, were truly shocking revelations, but
the gallery honoured him with a recall, all the
same. That sweet shadow, Alice Lethbridge, is
dancing prettily as usual, and Leamar’s joyous
demeanour is more hot and peppery than before.
4k 4k 4k 4k
Two nights last week the Lyric Club gave
“Pirates of Penzance” at the Bijou, to the huge
satisfaction of their fashionable relatives and
friends, A special feature of the season was a
supper on the premises, under the patronage of
Gcwernor Hopetoun and party. This was even a
greater artistic success than the opera perform-
ance itself, although the club made a capital
display of vocal talent, chiefly in the chorus de-
partment. It is rumoured that the Lyric ladies
are fair.y rich in personal attractions, but their
faces, as made up on this occasion, did not bear
out the report. If they had seen themselves as
others saw them they would doubtless have fled
the stage with one great unanimous shriek. Prices
were raised above the normal scale, out of respect
for Lord Hopetoun, therefore this amateur out-
break came not within the pale of rational public
criticism. The principals are herewith spared
further particulars.
4k 4k 4k 4k
The dramatic enterprise at Melb. Royal
died a violent death last week. It had never
shown cause for existing at any time, and the rent
extinguished the last twinkle of its vital spark.
Manager TJtting made out that the rent was being
raised, whereas the landlord, we are assured, was
only asking an extra trifle of £35 a week for light-
ing, in accordance with precedent. £IOO a week
for the use of the old Royal and its lights is a
charge which explains why the theatre is usually
empty nowadays, but Utting wasn’t in a position
to keep the show going much longer on lighter
terms, so the matter is of no consequence. A
time is coining though when Melbourne theatre-
owners will invite the inhabitants of Poverty
Point to take their property for short seasons at
any price, rather than leave swarms of human rats
to devour the furniture. Then will the providen-
tial tenant, able to pay a trifle in excess of the
gas-bill, be esteemed a treasure by the grateful
capitalist who is bloated no more.
4k 4k 4k 4k
The Alhambra has reconstructed its tariff,
and the halls are generally making heroic efforts
to do something. A little new blood would re-
volutionise the fortunes of any variety show at
this crisis, but none comes along. The old blood
circulates languidly, trickling from one house to
another and back again, and there is no health
worth mentioning in any of them. Moreover, a
music-hall must be built on an easy, accessible
system, with many ways of getting in and out
quietly, before it can expect to flourish all the
year round. No right-minded person cares to
leave his cramped seat in the centre of a cramped
auditorium, and take an obtrusive noisy flight
irom the comic song that lie has heard on ten
previous occasions. He sits there and suffers for
ms sense of decency towards the alleged artist on
the stage. Now the British hall is contrived with
particular regard and kindly feeling for the man
who may wish to escape at any minute.
On Saturday (July Ist) the Bijou is to
re-open seriously with a grand and magnificent
Production—m’de advt.—of “Leah, the Forsaken,”
a Play founded upon a grand and magnificent
curse. It appears that Miss Maribel Greenwood
intends to play Leah instead of Juliet, in the
first instance. She will be supported her
sisters and the necessary "strong company" by
which all artists are supported, there being no
case of a weak company on record. But bow
comes it that the Greenwood Family has taken
to tragedy, and left musical comedy to its fate ?
tk $k * Jk
The Steens did big business at Hudson’s
Bijou, Adelaide, but Gourlay, Watson and Shine,
with " The Brook,” took possession again on
Sat., June 17. The " real shower of rain,” how-
ever, didn’t prove much attraction to a drenched
public, which had not seen the sun for three weeks.
Wirth Bros, and their circus have moved on to
W.A.
** * *
“The Mountebanks” reached Adelaide
Royal on Tuesday, June 20. The Opera Co, stay
twenty-four nights, and change their bill twice a
week.
* * 4k *
Cabled that Williamson and Musgrove
have purchased the Australian rights of Mascagni’s
opera, " Cavalleria Rusticana,” and other new
operas, and have engaged Signora Del Torre,
Signora Fiorella, and Madame Giraud, and also
10 dancers, for an Australian tour, to open at
Melbourne in September. Nothing succeeds like
song and legs, and Musgrove is a pretty good
judge of both. The Bulletin sees ahead much
cash for the Firm.
At Poverty Point.
Myra Kemble and Lilla : Wilde go to Melbourne as mem-
bers of Bland Holt’s 00.
Madame Antoinette Sterling visited Sydney Benevolent
Asylum “ and delivered an address on social purity.” The
delicacy and unobtrusive kindness of this act requires no
comment.
Fred Leslie's last joke was probably about his best. His
colleague, Arthur Playfair, was giving imitations of
various popular actors, and, after doing four or five with
fair success, announced that he would next give a faith-
ful copy of “Mr. Fred Leslie.” Then Leslie, disguised
as Playfair, came on and gave an accurate copy of him-
self. Some of the audience “dropped” to the trick, but
a few ardent admirers sniffed scornfully, and went away
remarking that it was passable, but not a patch on the
great original. Perhaps they were right. Possibly a
man can’t imitate himself without looking as if he were
somebody else making a botcli of the job.
Pinero’s “ Magistrate ” was written for Terry, who did
ndt care for it, and Cecil made the success, but Terry
long afterwards took up the part with eclat.
Entrepreneur Tommy Hudson, the presiding genius of
the Antoinette Sterling concerts, is another man who
aspires to take Madame Melba Armstrong through the
Australias.
Apropos the Dunedin Workman episode, a stalling
story is told of an ex-mayor of Adelaide and a Gaiety girl.
_ George Mlln, asked by a verdant Argus reporter at the
time of Booth’s paralytic seizure, three and a half years
ago: “ Who will succeed him it he dies? ’’ replied, in his
usual magnificent manner, “ Well, I expect I should
receive a cable at once.” George, at last advices, was in
London looking for an opening.
The Australian opera, “ Immomeena,” written by H. C.
Evans, of Adelaide, and composed by Maurice Heuzen-
roder, is in active rehearsal, and will be produced at
Adelaide Royal next October with Miss Gull Hack as chief
soprano. The music is said to be bright.
Cabled that Sarah Bernhardt has been robbed of jewels
(300,000 fr.) at Valparaiso.— Advt.
SnazeMe is now compelled to take up the collection
within the theatre at his Melbourne Sunday shows, and
snorts with uncommon violence at the “ common cads ’’
who put buttons in the plate. If Snazzy shares the
church’s privileges, he must, share its pains.
Lucia Harwood, well remembered in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, goes with the Brown-Potter and the beautiful
Bellew to Calcutta to mash the rajahs.
Canny Bentley spends a lot of his spare time writing to
Australian papers, pointing out that the Kate Bishop
with his company is the Kale Bishop and not an imitation.
Good Lohrl
A hunk of gentle Snazellian eloquence, delivered at
Melb. Opera House, re the parsonical attempt to shut up
Sunday entertainmentsls it not better to listen to
the unfolding of the thoughts of great minds—Longfellow,
Tennyson, Pope, Wordsworth, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
Dickens, Byron, Milton, and many others whom the
Almighty sent to teach us, than to listen to the brainless
innulhings of a set of Stigginses, the howlers and gutter-
snipes of Religion, who bark blasphemy up a back alley,
and who, if they had lo get their living on their brains
instead of cadging round with a plate couldn’t earn the
wage of wharf-lumpers.”
Actor Terry’s full name is Edward O’Connor Terry,
which may indicate that Terry is a stage name.
Edward Terry says that his “dear friend, G. V.
Brooke,” spoke highly to him of the Australian public.
Now, Brooke is dead about 28 years, a id Terry says he is
but 49. Ergo, Terry must have been Brooke’s' dear friend
when very young.
A starving ex-pro. waited upon a much-advertised
tragedian when the latter was in management in Sydney,
and got a billet as d.c. usher at 15s. per week. At 7
o’clock he turned up punctually, clean and neatly dressed,
but he was not in evening costume, and was “ sacked ”
imtanter. Fancy evening costume at fifteen bob a week 1
One Ferris Hartmann, a male, is producing a sensation
in America by his “ Evolution of the Dance,” a ludicrous
travesty of the ballet-girl, the skirt-girl, the ta-ra-ra-girl,
and the third-leg-girl—the last a creature who has not yet
reached Australia.
Lonnen, according to London Referee, is under engage-
ment for a term of years to Messrs. H. T. Brickwell and
Co,, “who,” says the writer, “are running him in Aus-
tralia, and who wire me to-night that they have not yet
disposed of him.” Lonnen would be a difficult comedian
to dispose of, one fancies.
“Sundowner” wants the words of a poem which he
thinks is entitled “The Tramp,’’and which he believes
he once heard recited by an actor-man named Gourlay, in
the Brisbane (Q.) Opera House, and the last lines of the
last stanza of which, he fancies, run “ somewhat ” as
follow:
“ I’ll tramp till I meet that villain.
If I tramp to the Judgment Day.”
With the above shadow of the semblance of the reflection
of a clue, can any reader fix and run to earth this “ Wan-
dering Jew ” poem ?
Campanini, the great Italian tenor of two or three
seasons in the early “seventies,” is now earning an occa-
sional £5 by singing at third-rate concerts.
A statuette of Mrs. Brown-Potter, holding somebody by
the hair of the head, is exhibited at a London gallery. It
has been suggested that the fair Cora is represented in
the act of grabbing Kyrle Bellew.
Essie Jenyns Wood has made her curtsey to Queen
Victoria, under the management of Countess Cowper.
George Anson, at recent dates, was doing a music-hall
turn, rather than do nothing.
A Dunedin correspondent to The Bulletin: —“The
Gaiety row was very funny. Iwe it down with the girls
and boys. The girls arrived with little ‘prop.’ canes, two
of which remain in the Workman office, trophies of the
fray. ‘ Pete * Hughes lost his hat, and was bundled out
with a rap on his head. If someone had dabbed the office
stamp on his head and sent him out labelled, it would
have been a good ad. Loiuieu gave Lister, proprietor
of the Workman, £25, and paid £4 lUs. into Court.
Muzzy was very frightened at the prospect of the co. being
detained.”
Paderewski’s American takings were £32,000 in 59
nights.
Brooke’s l ist part, was Richard 111., with Terry as Lord
Mayor, and, we believe, Mr. Terry kept the hill.
Orpheus Atkinson is like Tadema—in being absolutely
expressionless.
The Serpentine is now tackled by the London amateu r
skirtisls.
Miss Fort*'scue (of breach-of-promiso celebrity) is coin-
ing to Australia with her co. She has been 10 years in
star roles. Tie repertoire will be “ Romeo and Juliet,"
“ Hunchback,” and oldish plays which are quite new
again here these times.
Laurence Caul ley is still playing with the Pottcr-Bellew
in the States. Two “lovely” men in one eo. is one too
many.
Geo. Wood runs a farce at Sydney Tivoli which is
simply “The Churchwarden” in petto. Terry's hair
stood straight up when he viewed it from a box one
evening.
Certain Sydney publicans swear vengeance against
George Rignold, because he does not conclude his per-
formances, as a rule, until after eleven. Thus Geo. Rex:
“ I cater for the public and not for the publican.”
At latest dates, Janet Achurch was to appear as Becky
Sharp, in a little play adapted from “Vanity Fair.” The
manner of the fair Janet is much too shrewish for the part
of a woman who seldom, or never, lost her temper. Becky
Sharps are born—not acted.
Eleanor Bufton, a lovely creature in the palmy days of
burlesque at the Strand Theatre, has gone under—aged 53.
Button’s career as a comedy-actress was marred by a
railway accident, which, some fifteen or twenty years ago,
left its mark on her fine figure. After that, however, she
played in a series of matinee performances at the Gaiety,
with the famous star company that included Phelps,
Charles Matthews, Hermann Yezin, J. L. Toole and Lionel
Brough.
By the way, how many people have heard that story of
the note sent round to the stage-manager by a front-stall
Johnnie during the Gaiety Co.’s season at Sydney
Lyceum? What did the note mention that caused Addie
Conyers to so quickly change her costume ?
Ford's theatre at Washington (U.S.), in which Wilkes
Booth assassinated Abraham Lincoln, and which, in
recent years, was used as the offices of the War Depart-
ment, lately collapsed, burying all the clerks beneath the
ruins. At latest advices 25 bodies had been dug out.
In the four years’ run of “ Our Boys " performers forgot
their dialogue, hut Ihe advantage was that they could
remember that of every other performer.
Madame Duse, tragedienne, won’t even travel in the
same steamer as her leading man.
Richmond, the Melb. suburb, has produced many good
show people. The most distinguished is Howard Vernon,
otherwise Dick Lett, whose father was landlord of the
Cricketers’ Anns.
Miss Maud M'Garthy, aged nine, daughter of Dr. C. W.
McCarthy, of Sydney, has, it is cabled, made her debut
as a vinliniste before Mr. Gladstone and members of the
Royal family. Mr. Gladstone presented her with a hand-
somely-hound hook. Little Mias M‘Carthy comes of an
eminently musical family.
J. A. Levey, G.C.’s brother, gave another taste of his
Thespian quality in some Melbourne amateurings, the
Other night. He is not equal to his brother William of
yore, the star in the Histrionic Club, which outshone the
Garrick. Yet he disputes supremacy with that idol
of the women, Inues-Noad. This latter is the next best
to R.vley, and is the observed of all the fashionable
lorgnettes.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The recently-discovered flaw in the Vic. In-
solvency Act, by which compositions can be made by
arrangement, and only a few select ones behind the scenes
beany ihe wiser, has been worked for ail it is worth by
the Victorian legal profession. Animated by the brilliant
example set by the entire family of an extinguished
financial rocket, a round dozen solicitors have success-
fully shunted liabilities, amounting in the aggregate to
£915,000, for from pi. to 6d. in the £, and nine barri-
sters relieved themselves of del its to close on £105.000 at
from Id. to Is. in the £. We understand that the amalga-
mated professions intend testimonialising the legal gentle-
man who was the first to discover, and lake advantage of,
this priceless loophole in the local insolvency law. No
wonder that the Victorian Government are unable to find
a lawyer to draft an amendment to this shamefully defec-
tive Act of Parliament.
* * *
The notes of the reconstructed Commercial
of Sydney and A.J.S. Banks have been declared
legal tender on the same basis as those of the
banks which didn’t reconstruct. Sidney Telegraph
asserts that this move is “essential." The notes
of the City of Sydney, N.S. Wales, Australasia,
and Union banks were declared legal lender so that these
institutions, struggling under certain adverse circum-
stances, could use them, for the time being, to satisfy
their creditors. The A.J.S. and the Commercial of
Sydney aren’t going to satisfy their creditors. They
have eaten them, like the Maori chief whose abdomen
was his title-deeds because he had made pie of
all adverse claimants. The only use they can have
for notes, at present, is to stave otf their new creditors as
they have already staved off their old ones, so that when
the new depositor pays in gold they can stick to it and
give him paper in return. If the Commercial and the
A.J.S., after postponing all their old liabilities, can’t pay
their new ones either in gold or in legal tender notes of
other banks, then they are so utterly and absolutely
insolvent that there is not a cent in either of them.
And, if they can pay, then the decree is that
they are to be allowed to flood the country with more
irredeemable paper for the mere humour of the
thing, and to bluff off their creditors simply by
way of exercise. The Telegraph suggests that, by
including the two lately - whitewashed institutions
in the proclamation, they will be enabled “to
afford more material and immediate benefits Io current-
account holders." But the I O U’s which are to afford
these alleged benefits are redeemable in gold on the
15th of next November, and the banks will then be in the
same whitewashed state as at present. They will accu-
mulate no gold worth speaking of in the interim, for there
is next to none in circulation, and they can only pay the
notes with the hard coin which they have already confis-
cated from former clients. Therefore, Ihe only possible
advantage will lie that during the next four months they
will be in a position to lend out both the notes and the
confiscated coin at 8 or 9 per cent., and make a big profit
thereby. If the banks want to “confer material and im-
mediate benefits” on their creditors, it will be quite
as easy to do it in specie to-day as four months hence.
# * *
Long-dated British depositors in the new Com-
mercial Bank of Australia have, from a common-
sense point of view, as much of a grievance as
ever. The old bank having gone into liquidation,
these far away unfortunates claim that all credi-
tors should be paid equal dividends at the same
times—a claim admitted by the Full Court to have
“great force." Yet the Court has decided that long
date depositors are as well secured as the short-date ditto,
whose money falls due earlier, for the reason that “ the
payment of two-thirds of each creditor’s claim is secured by
ail the capital of the new bank, which includes one-third
(converted into preference shares) of the claims of all the
creditors of the old bank.” This involves the comforting
assumption that Melbourne banks will never by any
chance dissipate their capital in the future as they have
done in the past. Where is the capital of, say, James
Munro’s Real Estate Bank? Apart from the question of
what might happen, there is the question of what has
happened. The Full Court admits “the necessity which
existed for full investigation of the company’s affairs
before the scheme was resolved upon, inasmuch as its
fairness depended entirely upon what was the real
financial position of the bank at the time, and what were
its legitimate prospects." The necessity still exults, but
the Full Court declines to order that full investigation
which creditors should have demanded in the first
instance, or Chief Justice Madden should have insisted
upon before passing the scheme. On the strength of
Justice Madden’s approval, the new bank rushed to begin
business even before the time showed (or appeal bad
elapsed. The bank being open there were “new
interests” immediately created, and for these new
interests the Full Court shows tender consideration.
Having started without an investigation of assets, t'>e
bank can continue without an investigation of assets, and
the people who would like to know something definite
concerning the security for their long deposits may
consider themselves “ bluffed."
® # •
A “ right-thinking ” Brisbane paper thus
apologises for tie Q.N. Bank, 'the apology is a memor-
able piece of reasoning; “The Queensland National
Bank does not propose reconstruction, but sini| ly asks
for time in consideration of obliterating (tie reserve-fund
ef £485,000, £2 per share of paid-up capital, amounting
in all lo £320,000, and calling up of £OOO,OOO from ihe
shareholders. This, on the face of it, appears to be one of
the fair* st proposals yet made by a suspended bank . .
and might be adopted with absolute safely to the
Treasury." A good many people would be inclin'd to
think that the writing off or “obliteration” of £BOO,OOO
of capital and reserve-fund is a solid reason why the
creditors should demand their money instnnier, instead
of granting time. In its past balance-sheets, right up to
the dale of suspension, the bank claimed that it possessed
that £BOO,OOO intact, along with oilier moneys, after pro-
viding for all losses, as a solid security for its creditors.
Now it obliterates the security, which must mean
that it doesn’t exist, and implies, apparently, that
the balance-sheets which said it did exist were—
er—misleading. If this amount has been lost, and
the loss concealed by some mysterious process
of bookkeeping, then there is no visible guarantee that
the rest of the capital and a lot of the deposits haven’t
been lost also, and the disaster covered in the same mys-
terious fashion. And even assuming that the loss has
gone no further, and that £600,000 is called up success-
fully—which it may not be, for calls are strangely barren
nowadays—that does not fill the gap by £200,000, and
therefore the creditors are to wait several years for their
coin in a state of absolute contentment, because they
have £200,000 less security for its ultimate repayment
than was originally promised them. Regarded as a
means of promoting confidence, and creating a restful
spirit among the people who can’t get their deposits, this
scheme doesn’t seem to have much to recommend it.
* * *
A bill is now before the Q. Assembly, authorising
Government to leave its £2,000,000 of public funds in the
Q.N. Bank for a long years. Amotion that the
Auditor-General should first overhaul the hank’s accounts
and report as to its solvency or otherwise, roused much
indignation, and was rejected by a large majority. The
general feeling was that the objecting member was
another “miserable hound.”
* • m
The amending of the Commercial Bank "recon-
struction ” by the Full Court was positively made an
excuse for another trumpet-blast by the press. “ Position
of the bank improved,” puffed tbe Age. The Commercial
Bank is eternally being improved. Everything that hap-
pens to the favoured institution makt s it “ stronger than
ever.” James Service and Gyles Turner should have it
re-christened the “Sampson Bank,” on account of its
prodigious strength.
* # #
The Bank of Victoria and the City of Melbourne
Bank have successfully reconstructed, and are now open
to receive more deposits. “ Both hanks,” says a Melb.
paper, “ were crowded from the moment the doors were
opened.” Whether they were crowded b■ people who
wanted to trust them with more money, or b - old credi-
tors who came to borrow part of their own cash on over-
draft at 8 per cent., or by calm, judicial-minded
individuals who had an idea of hanging the board by the
neck from the gas-fittings, doesn’t appear.
* # #
The Victorian trustees and corporations which
approved so hotly of the original C> mmercial scheme,
inasmuch as it gave them a pull over all other oredilois,
barring the Crown, are now complaining that the decision
of good Chief Justice Madden ought to he final in all
busted hank cases. Collins-street, has a fervid admiration
for Madden.
9 9 9
The City of Melbourne Bank was reconstructed
in the quickest time on record. But The Bulletin
woujdn’t be surprised to hear presently of an appeal from
British depositors. The C. of M. seems to consist chiefly
of creditors across the seas, who can, as yet, have scarcely
digested the fact that their cash lias been confiscated—on
terms.
• * •
Last Monday, the huge limited liability concern
of Goldsbrough, Mort & Co. closed up for the usual
reconstruct ion. The company, in its original form, was
a purely trading concern in Ihe wool and commission
business, but the frenzy for taking in deposits came upon
it, and the usual result followed. Goldsbrough, Mort &
Co. collected a little over two-nnd-a-half millions in
debentures, fixed deposits, and current accounts, and
when they began to fall due the big co. shrivelhd up-
just like a bulk. Also, like a bank, it aniiouncts that
trust accounts will be opened for the convenience of
customers. The reconstruction proposals consist prin-
cipally in postponing half the debentures till the year
1903, and extending- the other half for five years from
date of maturity. Current accounts—which only amount
to the mise.ably small sum of £30,000 in all— to be paid
at one year from dale, and £900,000 to be called up from
shareholders.
9.9 9
There would appear to be some strong influence
behind those responsible for the shocking swindles in
connection with the Imperial (Sidney) Building Society.
• • *
Should Matthew Davies be ultimately acquitted
on the conspiracy count, an effort will be made to prevent
his arraignment on any other charge on the provision in
the Fugitive Offenders’ Act which prevents an accused
being charged for any other offence than that upon
Which he has been extradited, until lie has been restored
or had an opportunity to return to—Colombo—ahem-
the country from which he was extradited.
# * #
The difference between bank reconstruction
and liquidation is that the loss in the latter case would be
divided between shareholders and depositors, in the
former case it is borne solely by the depositors.
9 # #
The Indian Mint has suspended silver coinage ;
the London Exchange is excited; all unsettled orders
have been cancelled, and silver at once fell to 3s. Per-
haps Dibhs will be asked to do something to “improve
confidence.”
* # #
The Equitable Building Society’s lottery of
Brisbane freehold properties is still open. The original
intention was to hold the ballot on 20th May, and for a
while the shares were taken up so rapidly that there was
every reason to believe the list would fill before that date.
But the sudden paralysis caused by the si oppnge of the
thirteen banks made a perceptible slackening in the flow
of applications, and the drawing has, therefore, been post-
poned. No date is now definitely fixed, but it is provided
by the articles of Association that the ballot must take
place before the end of 1893, and probably it may even-
tuate two or three months earlier.
* « •
As The Bulletin predicted, miners’ wages on
Charters Towers are, if the mineowners can manage it, to
be reduced to £2los. per week. The Mosman O.M. 00.,
representing, of course, associated local capital, i« the
first to decrease the pay of its employes —as a preliminary
move to a reduction all over the Held. At Uuldiva (Q.)
the miners have been forced down to £2 weekly, and
labourers to 325.
• • •
Up to June, Mount Morgan always paid its
saxpenny div. on the first of tbe mouth. The time is uow
extended to the 13th. Why 7
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 14-)


cK/VVVV*w'\S
GrO to EOEST ■!«-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Od.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN k CO.,
74 KLIZAIIETTI STPEKT, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. {Jf For external use try Coi.kmanf, and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootumundra, N.S.W
5 c u tsdi-JUt sfitit I i och c |1 ost
Eracheint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis 301.
7a\ haben bei alien Zeitungs-Agenten.
Abonnement XO sh. jahriich dirckt bei der
Foreign Publishing OJjicc, 20 Hunter Sir,, Sydney.
Personal Items.
Millionaire W. T. Clarke’s slice of Vic-
toria is 177,852 acres.
The Age costs in the Speight libel-case
are likely to be at least .£20,000,
Thomas Walker, M.L. A., is considered to
have the best memory in N.S. W. Legislature.
The pompous George Yerdon, erstwhile of
the E.S. & A.O. Bank, is known in Melbourne as
“George V.”
Purves, Q.C., received a cheque for a cool
£lO5O a week ago “on account” of the Speight-
Syme libel action.
The first boy who entered the Scotch
College, at Melbourne, was Manager Law, of the
Bank of Victoria.
N.S.W. ex-Rail way Commissioner Good-
chap is very seriously ill, and with all his pluck
has not succeeded in rallying.
Pilcher, Q.C. (N.S.W.), always secures in
Court what the lawyers call “ the box seat,” that
is, the seat next the jury box.
“Parkes is among the dull men of the
Assembly until he has taken liquor,” said a
N.S.W. ex-Cabinet Minister the other day.
Melbourne Standard always speaks of
Patterson as “the Prime Minister.” Nasty.
When you hear the word “prime” you always
think of beef.
The one ambition of S.A. Chief Justice
Way is to be made a Privy Councillor. Knight-
hood he contemptuously refuses, as too easily
within grasp.
Labour - member Carter (Williamstown,
Vic.) is a consistent Anti-vaccinationist, and
every addition to his family represents a large
expense in fines.
Since Premier Dibbs stood godfather for
J. D. Fitzgerald’s daughter, five N.S.W. M.’sP.
have requisitioned him to fill the same office in
their family circles.
Lady Duff has Ibeen dissuaded from her
intention of adopting a young aborigine. She had
hoped to attach to herself a full-blooded girl of
the decaying race.
“Stockwhip” Kelly is an Australian of
the third generation, his grandfathet having been
born on the Hawkesbury where his father was one
of the first farmers.
Gillott, Croker, and Snowden evidently
believe that the colossal Speight-Syme libel action
will live to a good ripe old age. They have taken
a suite of offices adjoining the courts.
Walter Reynolds, shorthand man in the
Vic. Railway Dept., who has been ten days in
the box in Speight v. Syme, was formerly a
reporter on Melbourne Daily Telegraph.
N.S.W. Chief Justice Darley was plaintiff
in a mortgage-foreclosure suit last week for over
£5OOO. Which goes to show that all the lawyers
had not all their cash locked up in the banks.
Sylvester Browne, the
silver giant, has appar-
ently got hold of a good
thing in gold at Cool-
gaidie (W. A.). Pity that
such a fine figure of a
man should come in as
a capitalist. He ought
really to be digging up
the soil with a colossal
spade.
One of the bogus-
bank convicts, while
awaiting trial in Darling-
hurst, was approached by
a certain prosy parson,
who, with thinly-veiled
sarcasm, said, “I under-
stand that you do not
believe that a person is
sufficiently punished for
his misdeeds on this
earth ?” “Oh ! yes, Ido
now, but I did not until
I heard you preach.”
The well-advertised
individual who signs him-
self “Timothy Fogarty.”
to the Sydney dailies
was, years ago, a clerk in
N.S.W. Treasury. He
made a mistake in a
statement one day and
the then Under Sec.,
Geoffrey Eagar, carpeted
him for an explanation.
Timothy acknowledged
the corn, but said, in
rather an off-hand way,
that “ any man wash able
to a mistake.” Geoffr y
furiously declined to
allow anything of the
sort. No good official
ever made a mistake.
Tim made for the door,
and, standing on the
thresh old, gave the part-
ing shot: “Well, Mr.
Eagar, there is only one
man I know of that would
suit you for a clerk.”
“ And who is that, sir ? ”
asked old Geoff. “Why,
the Pope of Rome, the
only infallib’e man I can
bring to mind.”
Of our recent visitor, Wales’ dutiful toady,
Somers-Vine, says a London paper : “ He has the
courage of his vanity. On 10th May he was made
a C.M.G. ; on 12th he had his photo, published,
displaying his bauble.”
Antoinette Sterling intended to sing to the
prisoners in aN.S.W, gaol. Comptroller-General
Miller intimated in a roundabout way that, with-
out Supreme Court authority, he would increase
no man’s punishment.
A formal proposal was lately made to
N.S.W. ex-Chief Justice Stephen for the notes
taken by him while presiding in criminal trials.
The ex-Judge declined, as he intends using many
of them in the autobiographical work he has in
hand.
Alfred Austin, English society verseman
whose emotional fustian makes Princess May look
the most ridiculous woman in the British isles, is
an intimate of Henniker Heaton’s, and is on the
free-list of the Town and Country Journal.
The good boy trusted by Prof. Deeper,
of Trinity College, Melb., and who got a
long term for deceiving his old preceptor,
has been distinguishing himself in gaol by saving
an overseer from a mob of infuriated convicts.
Guy Boothby, once private secretary to
the Mayor of Adelaide, now figures in London as
an “Australian Explorer”—on the strength of a
thrilling journey by pack-horse, train, and steamer
from Norrnanton (Q.) to North-West Bend (S. A.).
The brother of a Melb. newspaper pro-
prietor is credited with a droll mistake, in his
first effort as a reporter. At a suburban police
station, he fished out the depositions of a murder-
case, six' months old, and startled the public with
them.
Speaker Bent (Vic.), when in India a few
years ago, with Hopkins, M.L. A., arranged to
visit a certain tiger-frequented spot on a certain
day. He afterwards altered his arrangements,
and one or two others who went were eaten up.
What a pity tiiat
Judge Hodges is hearing the big Mel-
bourne railway ease with the same seraphic
twilight of a smile that erstwhile irritated Deem-
ing. The jolly little murderer objected strongly
to Hodges, on the ground that he looked so
impossibly good.
In the course of his arduous career at
N.S.W. Bar, Julian Salomons, Q. 0., has found
time •to acquire a considerable knowledge of
French literature. In languages, as in law, he is
practically self-taught. There are some who say
it is the same with his manners.
Dr. Leibius, Ph.D., who died, the other
day, took office in Sydney Mint soon after that
institution was established. He was a man highly
but specially educated, and most popular in his
own circle, and finding himself in a groove he
never tried to climb over either ridge.
It is related that on one occasion the
recently-deceased Archbishop Reynolds (R. 0.)
was returning by sea from Melbourne to Adelaide
and became too sick to recite his morning prayers.
A Baptist parson thereupon volunteered to read
them to him, and the offer was accepted.
In his “ Catholic History of Australia,”
Cardinal Moran has got access to the notes of
Rev. Jas. Dixon. This priest, for a portion of
his time a convict, took with him, when leaving
Australia, the materials for a complete account of
the early struggles of his co-religionists.
J. S. Greig, for 20 years superintendent
of Melb. Immigrants’ Home (a general benevolent
asylum), died the other day, three years after his
most estimable wife. If true human sympathy
can send a man to Heaven, then is Grieg in
Paradise to-day—with such of the beautifully-
beaevolent old men, associated with him on the
Home committee a few years ago, as happen to
have gone before.
LOOKING FORWARD.
SON: “It’s no use objecting any longer. Now, dad, let me go to
Melbourne and I may become a policeman; how does that
suit you ?”
FATHER ; “ That’s a good idea. After you retire from the force you’ll
keep a pub., of course, and I’ll just go down and live
with you.”
A relic of the old System, Mrs. Busby,
widow of Dr. Geo. Bushy, who was Colonial
Surgeon at Bathurst from 1833 until his death,
has come to reside in Sydney. The old lady, who
is keeping pace with the century, has resided in
the one house on Jordan Creek, in the City of the
Plains, for the last 60 years.
Admiral Tryon has gone to his rest,
refusing, to leave his ship when she was sinking.
Re commanded the Australian Squadron in ’B5,
and when the returning Soudan Contingent was
marched through Sydney in a pitiless rainstorm,
George Tryon alone, among the official crowd,
rode in an open carriage, disdaining the protec-
tion of macintosh or umbrella—the one redeem-
ing feature of the show.
Gov. Kintore’s celebrated overland trip is
considered in England to be one of the wonderful
thing of the century. Young Griffiths, member
forN. Territory in S.A. Assembly, travelled from
Adelaide to Port Darwin, not following the tele-
graph line, and makes no fuss about the trip,
which was by a route hundreds of miles longer
than Kintore’s. Moreover, he did not have three
companions and Government assistance.
Colouna-Close, the barrister, who ever
cherishes political aspirations, was once induced,
chiefly by a couple of “drummers,” to address a
special meeting of electors at the Namoi. An
expectant J.P. presided, and a noted wag pro-
mised to propose the usual vote. When Oolonna
had finished, the wag arose and moved that “ Mr.
Colonial-Close was a fit and proper person to be
thrown into the Namoi,” which was carried
amidst great enthusiasm. To this hour Barrister
Close does not quite know whether it was a joke
or not.
Premier King-
ston’s father was
Speaker of S. A,
Assembly for over 30
years.
Someone lately
said that Australian
journalists put queer
sixpenny advts. in
the papers, and then
write five ■ shilling
paragraphs about
their absurdity. If
so, the spirit of Henry
Kendall is still in the
press-world. Some of
the funniest stories of
old Sydney Punch
days dealt wi th Henry
and his little items.
His investments of
odd coins in the advt.
columns of the dailies
and his attempts to
make 1000 per cent,
out of the transaction
in Punch, during the
editorship of Harold
Stephen, were pathe-
tically droll.
Old Judge Moles-
worth (Vic.) used to
say some broadly
funny things in a
heavy judicial tone.
One day he was
delivering judgment
(written on blue paper
and tied with green
ribbon —he never used
red tape) in a case
from Bendigo, where
a big quartz-reefer
was sued for extend-
ing his drive inio
other people’s ground
and taking their gold.
A number of special
defences wore urged
a t the argument,
which “Old Moloy ”
disposed of in one
sentence: “Oi make
no distinction be-
tween an under-
ground robber and
an over-ground rob-
ber.”
Premier Patterson (Vic.) usually finds
time for luncheon. Gillies, when Premier, often
would reach office at 11 a.m., and take on deputa-
tions right away till four. Whereat a chorus of
reporters : “ Hasn’t he got a stomach ? ”
Mayor Manning, of Sydney, is growing to
be a worthy successor to the immortal Dan
O’Connor at luncheons and such civic festivities.
But he lacks Dan’s meteoric beard. Twice lately
he has spoken in such a style that had he bor-
rowed Dan’s beard he would have supplanted him
as the local “Dimosthines.”
The aged (Melbourne) donor of the Im-
perial Institute bells took care to have her name
recorded in ye anciente fashion. On the shoulder
of each bell is cast: —
“ Elizabeth Millar gave me,
The Loughborough Taylor made me.”
It reminds us of “Great Parkes.”
“There was more than one person
present on the day of the London Imperial
Institute opening who could recall the then young
Queen Victoria, now nearly 40 years ago, at the
same balcony when the Guards marched past her
on their way to the Crimea. The day was one
long remembered by all present, ff or in the excite-
ment of the moment, the Queen was seen to
suddenly stoop down and, drawing her slipper
from off her foot, to hurl it among the brave
fellows beneath. In an instant the well-dis-
qi.plined ranks were broken, and there was a wild
scuffle to secure the treasure, which was thrust by
one of the Guardsmen into his breast, and on the
line advanced. I have never heard what became
of the relic, but one who was by my side last
Wednesday told me the story of the incident of
which he was a witness,” — Hawk.
Chatfield is the name of the editor of the
Samoa Times, who seeks to be famous as an aider-
man of Apia. Here is a chunk from his election
manifesto :
Vote
for
CHATFIELD,
Not for his good sense or ability but because he cannot
run away from Samoa if he would. Why? Because he
has not brains enough to accumulate boodle.
Better a live donkey than a dead lion.
ELECTORS 1
Just for once vote for the
LIVE DONKEY.
As if electors ever voted for anything else !
Old Geo. Thornton, M.L.C. (N.S.W.),
who is still alive and vigorous, tells to the S.M.H.
this story about the first issue of the Herald, on
18th April, 1831 :
“ My father lived just opposite the printing-office, and
on the evening when the proprietors—Messrs. Ward
Stephens, Stokes and M‘Garvie—were going to press with
the first number of their new venture, they suddenly
found that there was not sufficient light in the composing-
room. They sent over to our house to borrow some
candle-sticks, and my father, who was a generous man,
told me to take a few tallow-candles also.” Mr. Thorn-
ton, a little boy, did as he was told, held a candle whilst
the compositors set up the imprint of the first issue of
the Sydney Herald, the precursor of the present Sydney
Morning Herald, and, as he says jocularly, threw a
valuable light on the proceedings.
When Premier Seddon visited Westport
(M.L.) recently, he was interviewed by a little,
grizzled, weatherworn miner, who carried a large,
ancient carpet-bag, anti wanted the Premier “ to
find me a job or put me on a bit of land.” “ What
special claim have you on the country ?” asked
Seddon, curtly. Then the little man opened the
carpet-bag and produced a file of yellow docu-
ments, and carefully blew the dust of ages of?
them. “Well, I’ve done something for my
country,” he said, cheerfully, “and I think it
might do something for me. There’s my
miner’s rights for 28 years, all paid for.” He
dived into the bag and dragged out another file,
and blew the dust off it also. “ Them’s my gold-
receipts for 28 years.” Then he plunged afresh
into the bag and brought out a file of enormous
dimensions. “ Them’s certificates for head-races,
tail-races, dams, and residence areas, for 28 years
past, paid for, every one of ’em. I’ve paid the
Government every cent it asked off me, paid it
honourable.” “I see,” said Seddon, looking at
WHY NOT?
THE WILD-EYED POET'S LANDLADY : “Now, about your board-bill, Mr,
Browning-Poe ?”
THE POET : “I can’t possibly pay you now, Mrs. Hashmore. I am going
to reconstruct, and you’ll have to take a share in bringing
out my new volume."
the gold-receipts, “but you made a lot of money,
too. Where did it go to?” The veteran took a
final header into his carpet-bag, and came up with
a photographic group of 14 children. “There’s
where it went,” he said, “except what went into
the fifteenth baby that didn’t come in time to be
taken with the rest. The money’s all invested
there.” “It looks a good investment,” said
Premier Dick, kindly— and the old man got the
coveted billet.
“ A love of trees is a characteristic of
every noble mind.”
William Robertson, who has just retired
from the clerkship of the Victoria Police Depart-
ment, after 37 years’ service, is a brainy man.
He was originally a miner, then a constable and
finally chief clerk. His forte was diplomacy and
a caustic style of composition which he used with
great skill.
A Curious Calculation.
The great coal-fields of Pennsylvania, according
to Professor Langley, contain enough of the
precious mineral to supply the wants of the
United States for 1000 years. If all that tre-
mendous accumulation of fuel were to be extracted
and burned in one vast conflagration, the total
quantity of heat that would be produced would
no doubt be stupendous; and yet, says this
authority, who has taught us so much about the
sun, all the heat developed by that terrific coal
fire would not be equal to that which the sun pours
forth in the thousandth part of each single second.
When we reflect that this expenditure of heat has
been going on not alone for the centuries during
which the earth has been the abode of man, but
also for those periods which we cannot estimate,
except by saying that they are doubtless millions
of years, during which there has been life on the
globe, then, indeed, we begin to comprehend how
vast must have been the capital of heat with
which the sun started on its career. Every
moment of a man’s life is spent in wearing out the
complex molecules, which go to form the human
organism. Remember, not a finger can be moved,
a thought conceived, a breath inhaled, without
wear and tear of the system. The first signs are
neuralgia, fitful toothache, constipation and head-
ache, and when these symptoms manifest them-
selves, recourse must immediately bo had to a
reliable remedy, as in the case of Mr. W. Johnson,
storekeeper, Adamstown, who writes on Jan.
19th, 1893 : —I have been a sufferer for years from
severe biliousness ; I have tried various remedies,
but they only gave me temporary relief. Hearing
of the wonderful cures performed by Clements
Tonic, I resolved to give it a trial. I have done
so, and am only too happy to certify as to its
curative properties. Before I had finished one
bottle I felt better than I had done for years, in
fact, it had proved a cure as far as I am con-
cerned, where all other remedies failed. I am
only too happy to add my testimony to the others
you have already received. I recommend it on
all occasions and intend doing so.—Yours grate-
fully, William Johnson, storekeeper, J A amstown,
N.S.W.
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills are suited to t'ery age.
They are mild and pleasant in action, thorough
and searching in effect, and, being sugar-coated,
are easy to take. These Pills never fail to give
satisfaction.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Hoyal -A.rcadlo, Sydney
Messrs. Charlemont specially commend their
PLAT I NOT V I'll FORTH A ITS
on account of their being so PERFECTLY
PERMANENT.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad,, p. 1.
FLEMING’ S
Sellable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &o.
££ A Zl Clnreucc-strcel,
SYDNEY. - ’N
gfd
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Stdxet.
g
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Jawbone of the Yic. National Ass—•
Robert Harper.
“Rouse, Ulster, Rouse,” is the title of
the belligerent yelp interdicted by Gladstone.
Rows, Ulster, rows!
Does anyone know of a parson who, at the
present time, isn’t shrieking : “ Village Settle-
ment 1” and “ Get on the Land !”
Snazelle threatens to enter Victorian Par-
liament on the free Sunday racket. A new elec-
tioneering cry : “ A free collection-plate!”
There are lots of men starving up Bourke
way. W. N. Willis, knowing this, has given
=£2s to the Geo. Reconstruction Dibbs Fund.
Last year 694 persons were arrested for
drunkenness in Maoriland, and only 39 of them
were Maorilanders. The imported criminal again.
July 1, was once joyously celebrated in
Victoria as Separation-day. Perhaps, Melbourne
would now be rather glad had it another city to
lean on.
John Downer, Q.C., is one of the very
few men in S.A, Parliament who loses money by
accepting Cabinet office. Premier Kingston,
Q.C., is another.
Some people profess to know, “on the best
authority,” that Matthew Davies said he would
make it warm for other banks if he were brought
to the Criminal Court.
The Queen of Hawaii’s abdication, in
return for a U.S. pension, is a truly royal act.
Let the people go to the devil, so long as the
Sovereign is in clover.
The world moves ! The Argus prints an
interview with Sangster, Victorian Seamen’s
Union secretary, and allows him to knock the
owners’ case into hash.
The Downer policy included a proposal for
making mortgagees pay portion of the land-tax—
a National Ass dodge to complicate the present
simple tax on land values.
The S.A. Labour members place the in-
creased land-tax foremost in their programme in
S.A. Assembly. The Ministry which adopts it
secures eleven reliable votes.
Sleath, Ferguson, Hewitt and Polking-
horne, the imprisoned strike leaders, will, the
A.M.A. has determined, be nominated for seats in
the next N.S.W. Parliament.
A result of the S.A. change of Govern-
ment will be the restitution of the Bill (shelved
by Premier Downer) allowing Corporations to tax
the unimproved value of land.
Capitalism is admittedly in a tight place
just now. But its unnecessarily brutal aggres-
siveness, shown on all hands, will produce a cold
day for it at next general election.
The majority of Australian Supreme
Court Judges are unenthusiastic about Federation.
In the scramble for High Court bench-seats a big
majority of them would be left below.
Henry Lucy, in his London letter to the
S. M. Herald, published June 24th, exposes the
raison d'etre for the Imperial Institute. Just
what The Bulletin has said all along.
The Sydney Labour Electoral Leagues are
fishing with large nets. One of them invites
voters to register at once, as all enrolled voters
will have an equal chance for seats in Parliament.
It always was and will be the inevitable
fate of the fat man, the biter-off of more than he
can chew, to choke himself through his own greed.
Parlianient has usually been the doctor to save
his life.
Minister Slattery still has hopes of working
N.S. Wales into the old Federal Council scheme.
Success in this direction will not alone satisfy his
own ideas of consistency, but will also block
Parkes.
The views of Duncan Gillies as to Mel-
bourne bank prosecutions are earnestly desired by
a good many people. Gillies, for a public man, is
singularly silent on matters of urgent public
importance.
Premier Patterson affected to believe that
the uproarious derision with which he was received
at Ballarat was the result of his retrenchment
scheme. Yes, he went too far when he tried to
economise Justice.
No Crown-Law officer can be honest as
Chief Public Prosecutor who is “in the hands of the
Jews.” No Attorney-General can do the square
thing whose dishonoured paper has for years been
a by-word in the land.
The new Vic. Crown law offices are
elaborately furnished upstairs for the Attorney-
General and Solicitor-General. Each has a bed-
room, a sitting-room, a waiting-room, and a bath-
room. Perhaps they’ll take in lodgers.
The Age sought to smooth over the hostile
reception given Premier Patterson at Ballarat
by quoting a jelly-fish Ballarat Star article on
the subject. But the scathing leader of Ballarat’s
leading paper, the Courier, was not quoted.
The Bank of Rome was compelled to pur*
chase 100 Ms. L. A. at .£lOOO a head ere a paper-
money currency was enacted. The same process
cost the banks nothing in Sydney, because at
least half the Ms.L.A. and nearly all the Coun-
cillors were shareholders.
Parkes smiles grimly when anyone asks
him what ex-Treasurer M'Millan means by asso-
ciating himself with Dibbs and Barton. Two
minutes later on he invariably alludes to the time
when he declined to allow Mr. M'Millan to “pre-
serve the peace ” of Sydney.
“ Mr. W. Shiels ” occasionally figures as
an advocate in the Melbourne law courts. He is
rumoured to be identical with the late Premier
Shiels, but nobody is very positive on the point.
Premier Shiels is so utterly and completely dead
that the other man can’t be more than his ghost,
anyway.
One of the latest movements for “the
amelioration of the condition of the unemployed,”
accepted with enthusiasm by the Fat Man, is
“the placing of the men on old goldfields, and
leaving them to earn a living by fossicking.” At
last Australians are compelled to take the leavings
of the pestiferous Chinee.
“ Bob” Philp, who got in for Townsville
under the aegis of the late Macrossan’s influence,
used to give off periodical gushes about the desire
of N.Q. for Separation. Since his appointment to
office, the “ crying abuses and scandalous wrongs
of the North ” of his election speeches are only
“ very evident disabilities.” Humph !
Premier Dibbs: “For 20 years N.S.
Wales has been building up an unwholesome state
of labour by means of borrowed money.’’
The river wide of cash that ran
From British Jews (for which, sirs, thanks)
But rarely reached the working man—
It was retained between the banks.
Dr. Harman Tarrant’s intimacy with
N.S.W. Attorney-General Barton might possibly
have been endowed with a slight political signific-
ance by Sydney Daily Telegra h had' that
paper remembered that the Doctor is not only
Barton’s_ friend but Parkes’ enemy. Dr. Tarrant
has within the last few years refused Parkes’ hand
in public.
/A/..
A LEAF FROM “HOP.’S” NOVEL.
“The moment had arrived when these two lovers must part. Hours,
perhaps, might elapse ere they should meet again.”
“Ah! Marion,” he sighed, “before I go will you not give me some
little souvenir of this blissful evening—something that I may gaze upon
when far away in the next block, and think of thee. Oh ! give me some
small token—anything, no matter how trifling, so that it has been near to
your own beloved self !”
“ Jane !” she said, imperiously, to the maid who appeared in answer to
her summons —“Jane, go up to my boudoir, and on the escritoire you will
find the porous-plaster that I wore last night! That,” she said, turning
her fond gaze upon the man who adored her, “ has been nearer to me than
anything I know of. Will you take it with you, or shall I send it by
parcels post ?”
(Then the clock struck thirteen. )
Sydney Telegraph reports Wilfred
Laurier, leader of the Canadian Liberal party, as
saying that excessive Protection had, during the
last ten years, driven a million Canadians into the
United States. Considering that there is more
Protection in the United States than in Canada
The Bulletin declines to believe that Laurier,
understood to be a man of brains, said anything
so unspeakably asinine.
The new S.A. Ministry is like Artemus
Ward’s regiment of Brigadier-Generals—King-
ston, Playford, Holder, and Coekburn, have all
held office as Premier; Gordon has twice before
led the Legislative Council, and Gillen is chief of
the R.O. party in polities. Religiously, the new
team is well set up. Kingston is nothing;
Coekburn is everything; Playford is Baptist;
Holder, Weslfeyan : Gordon, Presbyterian ; and
Gillen, R.C.
Will every Labour-party in every Austra*
lasian province paste this fact in its billycock for
future reference: Out of eight self-styled “In-
dependents” returned to the new Queensland
Parliament only one—Leahy—is suspected of
having any favourable leanings towards the cause
of the workers. The other six—Archer, Bell,
Callan, Cribb, Curtis, Harding and Stevens—look
like mere mugwumping buttoners for the capi-
talistic leaders and the politicians who bow down
and worship the Fat Man.
MTlwraith’s friend, Tozer, during his
electoral campaign, declared that there were
“ multitudes of men in the colony whose only
desire was to destroy society and property, and
create revolution. ” In proof of which statement
he read some extracts from a manifesto by a
Chicago anarchist club, and his audience mostly
took it for granted that the document was a local
production, and was impressed accordingly. On
the same principle some one will get up one of
these days and declare that Tozer is a lunatic, and
prove it by reading the story of how Nebuchad-
nezzar went out and lived with the cows.
Mr. Edward Terry, a representative of the
N.S.W. “old families,” contests Central Cumber-
land at next election in the interests of “men of
position fired with the patriotic ambition of love
of country.” If Mr. Terry doesn’t love his
country he ought to. He holds a good hunk of it.
Until lately he owned the office wherein The
Bulletin is printed.
Lawyer patriotism is always being made to
look ridiculous. Isaacs was lately raging for a
proper trial of Matthew Davies and a further
enquiry into the Mercantile-ctm-Commercial
transactions. Now he appears as counsel-in-chief
for the Commercial Bank, and will presumably
“ watch the interests ” of that institution if
Matthew ever be seriously called upon to draw
and defend himself.
Griffith, we see, has been unanimously
elected for nomination to the position of Pro-
vincial Grand Master of the Freemasons, Irish
Constitution, in Queensland. No Judge of any
country should belong to any secret society what-
soever. He is paid handsomely to isolate himself
from all such associations. It is not only neces-
sary for a Judge to be pure. He should appear
pure.—to those who are not Freemasons and who
look with suspicion on all secret societies as sub-
versive of justice. The political history of Sam.
Griffith is such that he drags Freemasonry in the
dirt.
Considering the letters which John Haynes
periodically writes to the Evening News about
the alleged falling off in the natural increase of
population in Victoria owing to the malign in-
fluences of Protection —the “ increase by product
of the loins of the people ” is John’s favourite
phrase; John is addicted to “loins” —it is inter-
esting to note that the population of his own
Mudgee electorate has declined by over 2000 in
the last decade. Evidently the _upas-breath of
John has struck Mudgee amidship, for no other
place in all N.S.W. shows such a disastrous
record.
Possibly Patter-
son will increase the
land-tax in Victoria.
David Syme, seeing
the trend of public
opinion, favours the
idea in a half-hearted
way.
The 27 members
by whose votes King-
ston got the S.A.
Premiership received
35,130 votes at the
general election, and
the 25 politicians who
stuck to the Downer
Ministry represented
21,922 votes.
The first men
whom Downer con-
sulted after that fatal
motion of adjourn-
ment in S.A. Assem-
bly were Chaffey
Baker, J. C. F. John-
son, and Editor Fin-
layson, of the Regis-
ter, a veritable
National Ass trium-
virate. All advised
him to ignore the vote
and refuse to resign
unless a direct no-
confidenoe motion
were brought and
carried.
When the rate of
wages in China sinks
lower than foo d-
supply rate, John
knocks off work, ourls
himself up and goes
to sleep. Every couple
of days he gets up,
works for an hour or
two, eats what he
earns, and goes off
to sleep again. In
this way he brings
his employer to
reason. Until the
Caucasian can thus
hibernate he is with-
out fitting reply to
his employer’s “I’ll
lay up my money.”
While hibernating, an
infinitesimal supply
of food supports life.
All animals possess
the power to hiber-
nate, but in some
species the power
needs developing.
Loyal J. B. Patterson telegraphed, per
Reuter, congratulations to Queen Victoria upon
the “ inauguration of the Imperial Institute as a
symbol of the unity of the Empire.” Patterson
doesn’t consider such little trifles of expense in his
retrenchment policy. By the way, his careless-
ness m allowing Matthew Davies to depart,
whereby poor Victoria was saddled with the cost of
a detective’s trip to Colombo, didn’t suggest a stern
regard for “the main chance ” —unless it was for
Matthew’s main chance. -
Fresh Goldfields
Would be the means of closing one of the avenues
to the feeling of insecurity now universally pre-
valent, for they would carry away the surplus
unemployed, and thus prove the magnet to attract
from Sydney the direct cause of its stagnation,
xhe presence with us of so many men, condemned
to enforced idleness, is a condition that affects the
whole colony—whether the Village Settlement
Bill will prove a panacea for the evil is question-
able. No doubt such a discovery will soon be
made known, for the colony is pregnant with rich
mineral veins. Yet a change from the shelter of
the metropolis to the stern and rough realities of
a camp existence will entail consequences of a
serious, if not fatal character, unless provision be
made for such an alteration of circumstances. On
this point we have read a letter from Mr. Hugh
Driver, an old digger residing in the Port Darwin
district, and addressed to Marshall Bros., the pro-
prietors of “ Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,” in which
he says :
“Forward me by early steamer two dozen bottles of
your " Tonic Nervine,” it is the best preparation (and I
have tried many) to fortify my constitution against the
severe strain imposed by a residence in this clhnate-its
action is to throw up a rampart against the deadly Ur rows
of this insidious atmosphere.”
All who wish to preserve health and accumulate
wealth, should lay in a stock of this invaluable
tonic. It is also an absolute safeguard against
malarial and other fevers from which the members
of the recent expeditions to New Guinea and
other tropical countries have so severely suffered.
The Age : “Take, for instance, the matte r
of trial by jury. Under English law every sub-
ject has this right, but there was nothing in the
Home Rule Bill to prevent the Irish Parliament
abolishing it.” Neither is there anything in the
Bill to prevent the Irish Parliament making
murder legal, and burglary a fine art, and trigamy
compulsory. Also, it is not stipulated that the
Irish under Home Rule must not resort to
cannibalism.
Chagrined at Kingston’s political success,
Ohaffey Baker, autocrat of the local National
Ass, threatens to prosecute the S.A. Premier for
“ using a challenge to fight a duel,” thus reviving
the pistol episode of last Christmas. The S.A.
political issue is now straight—Capitalism v.
Democracy. The South Australian Democratic
party are fortunate in possessing a set of cham-
pions unmatched in Australia as a combination
for culture, ability and vim.
Dear Bulletin, —Your prognostications re
the insidious attempts of a capitalistic clique to
work up a movement in favour of the sale of the
N.S.W. railways are daily being verified by
squeaks from various parties to the conspiracy.
This interesting swindle has now reached the
second stage of evolution, inasmuch as the boodlers
interested—not satisfied, perhaps, at the slow
underground progress that has been made-are
venturing forth into broad daylight and tickling
the ears of the public through the medium of the
daily press, by the veriest balderdash, in the guise
of argument, evivr suckled by type. “ Stimulate
trade ! ” “ Populate the interior ! ” Bah ! Fetter
the producers—grind the workers sweat the
country from end to end —pander to the soulless
horde of avaricious monopolists who, already in
their lust-fevered imagination, are levying tribute
on the whole wealth of the community. Sell the
railways, by all means, and aid in this grand con-
sumation ! —Yours, Y.
Was Jacob Gross a Fool?
“I can’t make one of a party of thirteen,” he
exclaimed ; “ some of us will be sure to die with-
in a week.”
Thus spoke barber Jacob Gross, of Batavia, on
the 12th of November last. The occasion was a
dinner party. When the guests were all seated
Gross noticed that there were thirteen at table.
The others tried to laugh him out of his super-
stition, but he insisted that he would not eat as
one of the company of thirteen. A fourteenth
guest was therefore added to the number.
“Now we’re safe,” said Gross, and the festivities
proceeded.
Gross boarded at a hotel in Batavia. Ten days
later the hotel was burned to the ground. The
next morning the body of a man was found in the
ruins. It was the body of barber Gross.
Now, this is a curious thing to happen, cer-
tainly ; but is it more than that ? Do you believe
there is anything in the common notion that
thirteen is an unlucky number ? or that Friday is
an unlucky day of the week ? As much business
is done on the 13th of the month as on any other
date, and on Friday as. on any other week
day. You wouldn’t refuse to take thirteen
eggs for a dozen if your grocer insisted on it,
neither do you have more bad luck on Friday
than on any other day of the seven. No, no, it’s
all humbug and nonsense. Barber Gross’s super-
stition had nothing under the sun to do with his
death. Besides, he dined as one of fourteen per-
sons, not thirteen. Don’t be silly.
Understand this : Nature indulges in no sense-
less tricks. She kills men without hesitation for
violating the laws of life, but not for assembling in
groups of thirteen at dinner. Here we have a
man who says he was afraid to eat. Why, in
Mercy’s name, was he afraid to eat? Had he,
too, some idle and foolish stuff in his head about
bad luck? Not a bit. He’d have been glad enough to
have eaten in a thirteen party on Friday if the
would only have stayed on his stomach
and digested after he got it down. But it
wouldn’t, and his fear grew out of that.
He says, “I had a fullness and tightness at the
chest after meals, and such a dizziness would
seize me that I could scarcely see. This was in
the spring of 1887. I felt tired, dull, and heavy,
with a sinking sensation at the stomach. My
appetite was variable, and I didn’t know what to
eat. In fact nothing seemed to suit me. There
was a feeling of weight and pain over the eyes
and at the back of my head. I became very weak,
and it was with difficulty that I kept on with my
work. In this way I continued for twelve month.-,
during which time I saw a doctor, and took
various medicines; but none of them did me any
good, and I grew worse. In June, 1888, I read in
the Darlington Times about a person who had
been handled just as I was, and had been cured
by a medicine called Mother Seigel’s Curative
Syrup. On the strength of this I got a bottle
from my brother, William Teasdale, grocer,
Copley Lane, and began taking it. In a short
time all pain left me, and I was able to eat and
digest my food, and have since been well and
strong. I still take the Syrup occasionally and if
I feel any signs of my old complaint, a dose or
two sets me right. I am a collier, and have
worked at Woodland Colliery for qver ten years.
If you think the publication of this letter might
be of use to others, you are at liberty to make
that use of it.
“ Yours truly,
(Signed) “Joseph Teasdale.
“ Copley, Butterknowle, Durham,
“November sth, 1891.”
Now that Mr. Teasdale is cured of his ailment,
indigestion and dyspepsia, he would probably not
refuse an invitation to dine with twelve other nice
people any day. And in such case we stand ready
to guarantee that none of the party Will die with-
in a week, especially if they take a dose of Seigel’s
Syrup immediately on rising from the table.


\ P 'Mr -
I ctri-hi) ia^l P
Studies- .
S,rfi]fnJstyh - "Ai" l ' f pHd,
1 ' a j I ftjitjfj Jfjett (5
Cello, f Trjo-t
Cos f C* Jtfe di*ct> fess.
fifat all
ft 1.
rftffj.
J/4Mi\ fresidept No
NEW
f^USTRALI^
KoyAL TAR A Hiuci;
easy To Ufay ouToJ
§ol dEl '
II I If . i)
Ijl'ijcfoj
jrlj* fo Cure "fl? a c( a I depresses
f' £^oV
ffptfiA ?W
M? ort-' Ls yfy"
jou'MMsCoyt $ 1/1
Q UpdU fyd lyeayifahd''
/ CHoROj of f/ll\0,1tEl» <M'
"lA)e d pi
!
fg
-T7
fg
f
mm
\\\ FoK
m\ oM e
g
■tfj t jYlnjafe's
'frory itjordiij ci(e pasr}oy for ticks' 0 Lord!
'h irff pray llje deliVer % sen&rjfc low).
l\cttjo/e alldwire for 0.9 e/ccejsivx i
Qipteyt' us a simple Ijalf njillioy or jo !
HUMILIATION AND THIN GS.


' — Yll
v , (fro b i ft N
Le ,i»-t«nvB fl s SE M3tY
l(|l. >" 11,1
III II ' '
, i,r / i / I / 1 I 1 • 1 1
mu '' " 1 f ll 1 [ 1
>/(!(///// 1 1 <
II, ni
)(' 1
r -o, v
**<•<:
** <f
Uj &
*
(fv^i
G^>
0
A MERE PRECAUTION.
GILLIRS: “As a supporter of the Government, of course I shan’t require this weapon.”
ISAACS : “Quite so, that’s why I’m helping you to get an edge on it."


“Invest Your Money in Land.”
MORT’S TOWNSHIP.
On Railway Municipality of Hurstville, only 10 miles
from the City of Sydney. Next Public-school.
Gas and City Water.
Title Certificate lodged with Registrar-General as security
for purchasers. Vol., 1060 ; Folio. 170 ; Official Plan, 2921.
Prices range from £.% to £l6 I Os. per Lot.
TERMS-£l CASH; I Os. MONTHLY.
I guarantee no forfeiture if you are sick or out of work.
Clients in the country can rely on faithful selection. No
rocks, gullies, or swamps, or money returned in full.
Deeds sent to any part of the world ; personal attendance
annecessary at Sydney. You can pay as you like. This
is a genuine offer to those who have a few pounds to
spare. • No fencing clause, no land-tax, and Torrens'
Title, which cannot be jumped even if you do not turn up
for ages hence. Deeds made out in names of children or
wives. Free Plans post free from
E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
Licensed Auctioneer, 301 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
A slight cold often proves the forerunner of a
complaint which may bo fatal. Avoid this result
by taking Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, the best remedy
for colds, coughs, and all throat and lung diseases.
Society
“ The Glasgow magistrates have arranged to feed 10,000
f>oor people on the Duke of York’s wedding-day.”—
Cable.
A RELIC.
SMITH : “Why do you
make such a fuss over
that old croaker?
She can’t sing a
note.”
Von GUMBLESTEIN :
“ Kavite right, mein
vrendt. But, mein
Gott, you should
yoost haf heardt her
taventy years ago.”
Extracts from drivel published in the
Australasian purporting to be a letter from one
of the Rupertsjvood swashbucklers now in
England ;
I heard the Duke of Connaught say, “Your Majesty.”
I was tingling all over with excitement, but could not
even turn my eyes to t ie end of the room, because there
were some dukes, &o. (dukes, &c., is good), right in front
of me. Slowly the Queen walked down the hall, the
Duke of Connaught by her side. She stopped straight in
front of me, and the Duke presented the major to her.
He had quite a little conversation with the Queen, so I
made the most of my time, and had a regular feast of
looking at her! (Steward !—ooh !—wh—oo—op !—Ed.
Bulletin.) She is very small and stout, but has an awfully
kind face (no woman can look really kind if her mouth-
corners turn down. —Ed. B), and has the funniest of funny
bows. She took a great interest in us, and asked many
questions, and finally requested a photo, of us. So we were
wu r -?^. e<^u* e garden, and had our photo, taken.
Vyhilst that was being done the Queen was driving
about in the garden in a wee little pony-trap with a fine
big Scotchman leading the pony and another [Scotchman
or pony ?] walking behind. Yesterday we formed part of
the escort for the Queen at the opening of the Imperial
w k°l e way the crowd were yelling “ Good
°!j >” .and cheering like mad. I felt so proud of dear
old Victoria that once or twice when they cheered us I
nearly cried. . . To-day the Prince of Wales sent for
us to go Marlborough House for him to see us (sic). The
Prince shook hands with the major and lieutenant, and
had a good look at us. We think nothing of dukes and
lords now. By Jovel I don’t wonder at the English
people loving the Queen ; somehow you can’t help it. . .
I wear a high hat now. I feel ever so much bigger and
not a bit shy in calling.
Ain’t it sickenin’ ? And the writer is not, as
might be thought, a 12-year-old cadet, but a full-
grown “ educated ” officer. English composition
is evidently not a compulsory subject at Victorian
military exams.
* # »
The latest in the daily press in memoriavn
poetry. From Sydney E. News :
Dearest father, you were soon forgotten
By those who pretended to love you so dear;
But you are not forgotten by your children,
Who loved and mourned you most sincere.
If this new departure “takes hold” there is a
distinct danger of extinguishment to the 6d.
personal ad. in favour of the more dignified In
Memoriam “jar.” Fcr instance :
Dearest mother, you have gone to
Where there is no grief nor pain,
AH the Wilkins’s and the Jones’s
Can never slander you again.
Inserted by her loving daughter, Mary Anne Wilkins, who
can never forget her mother for ten husbands like Peter
John Wilkins.
Or again, the following :
Farewell, father, you have left us
For a better land above,
Where no cruel, bad women, with bine eyes
And yellow hair, can get in to
Rust and corrupt thee, and where you
Will join our sainted mother, dear love.
Inserted by his six lonely daughters, who viewed with
grief and disgust his second marriage to a fat woman who
drinks brandy-and-soda in the ladies’-room at the theatre.
* # *
A Sydney daily warns young women not
to be induced to go to Noumea as barmaids. The
same warning has appeared over and over again.
Such warning is superfluous. No girl with even
the vestige of a dubious respectability would go
there, and the agents of the people in Noumea,
who come to Australia to engage young women
for barmaids, don’t usually mince matters, but
state plainly their reasons for offering wages that
never could be obtained here for the actual duties
of a barmaid. And the women who do accept
the terms and go there, are those who can well be
spared from Australian cities, where it is almost
impossible for a man to walk two hundred yards
in the streets at night without being accosted by
one or more of them, with hollow voices and
breaths like a raging typhoon blowing across an
ocean of rum.
* • *
Another private still discovered in Sydney.
It would seem safe to wager that there are, at
present, in the city of the Beautiful Harbour, as
many private stills as there are baths. By the
way, that big Sydney grocer had better suspend
grog-making operations. The police are begin-
ning to sniff out his old-established and profitable
private still.
There are 1400 in-
mates in the George-
street and Macquarie
Asylums at Parramatta,
and of these 22 are Free-
masons. One day re-
cently the 22 “free”
and accepted were enter-
tained at dinner by the
local Masons, each guest
being presented with a
plug of tobacco, a pipe,
and a box of matches —
rather suggestive of
gaol, by the way.
Amongst the 22 honour-
ed guests was an old
and at one time distin-
guished actor, driven by
dire adversity to accept
State relief. Not that
that is any disgrace.
When in our friendless
and penniless old age,
or at any other time,
we find ourselves unable
longer to get work, we
shall enter the State
Destitute Asylum with
a feeling of perfect inde-
pendence, A share in
the Asylum will be ours.
We are paying for it day
by day.
# # •
One now never has
to wait for a shave at a
Melbourne barber’s.
Elder Dolling, a Mormonmissionary, was
a passenger from Auckland to ’Frisco on the
Monowai’s last trip. He travelled steerage, and
got small sympathy from the unregenerate. But
one day* baited and badgered, he turned on his
tormentors: “At all events, Mormon polygamy
is better than Australian immorality. Let that
man among you who can say that he has never
been unfaithful to his wife hold up the right
hand ! ” Not one hand went up. The crowd re-
membered other engagements and separated in
solemn silence. The Mormon scored.
• » •
The Mormons are trying to make converts
in Samoa, to the great disgust of the regular sky-,
pilots. But thev don’t make much headway. As
a Samoan put it to a Bulletin correspondent :
“Samoan girl no like one man two wife. Want
one man one wife. So me. I one man—want one
wife, mind house, cook, mind children. When
got tired of wife, no get another wife—got another
woman. Two wife no good, one wife plenty,
women plenty good.” Thus doth the wild, un-
tutored savage show unconscious sympathy with
his tamed and civilised fellow-sinner.
* * #
Tho Australian Star narrates how (ho
wife of a distressed man, for whom a job had been
got up-country, came to N.S.W. Labour Bureau
and called tho officials a “cruel lot of brutes”
because her husband had been separated from her
per medium of tho Bureau. Finally she declared
that she would go and throw herself under a
tram; whereupon it was “ hinted to her that she
should choose a pretty heavy tram, and do it
gently.” If this be truelhen there is at least one
cruel brute at the Bureau. Perhaps some M.P.
will kindly find out for the public the name of
the brilliant humourist who thus airs his sarcasm
at the expense of some half-demented and perhaps
half-starving poor devil of a woman.
• • •
There are now incarcerated in Darling-
hurst prison, at the taxpayers’ expense, between
50 and 60 men held for maintenance at the suit of
their wives. These men are shaven, closely
cropped, and dressed in prison garb, just the same
as thieves; while in the debtors’ side, from time to
time, are men who have kept their wives in luxury
at the expense of their creditors. These latter
confinees have a prison servant to wait upon them,
are allowed to get their meals from outside, can
read what they like, and smoke all day. Liberty
only are they denied.
Good old Dr. Neild
has been complaining
again of the incivility of
the ladies who dispense
stamps at Melbourne
post - offices. But the
Dr., to tell the truth,
has a constitutionally
“starchy” way with
him, and probably asks
for stamps as though he
were ordering a patient
to put her tongue out.
Anyway he should have
made an exception in
favour of the G.P.0.,
where business-like
women sit at pigeon-holes
and dole out stamps with
truly Christian meek-
ness. They even put
up fairly well with the
female purchaser, who
asks fifteen questions be-
fore parting with her
twopence, and then de-
mands an assurance that
the letter will be safely
delivered. After which
she grabs hold of an in-
offensive man and com-
pels him to show her the
right box. And when he
drops it in the right box
for her, she hangs around,
with suspicion in her eye,
enquiring of everybody
until she finds a China-
man, who thinks she
posted it in the wrong
box. As a rule, she
finishes up by remember-
ing that she made a
mistake in the address,
and getting the tall police-
man to dry her tears.
However, there is a good
deal in Dr. Neild’s com-
ments upon the airs
and oafishness of the
public service.
George Page, sentenced to death in Ade-
laide the other day for killing his fourteen-year-old
niece, whom he proposed to marry and of whom
he was madly jealous, was convicted by his own
words used soon after the tragedy. The girl was
flighty, and flirted with a fellow-workman of
Page’s, whereupon thelatter (it is presumed inten-
tionally) put a bullet through the girl’s head when
her back was turned. Page walked direct to the
nearest police-station and gave himself up. King-
ston’s defence was that the affair was an accident,
and there is certainly some evidence in support of
that contention. Since the trial, Page’s counsel
has become Premier, and is thereby placed in a
somewhat delicate position.
# * #
The sooner the question of capital punish-
ment is settled in S.A. the better. The fate of a
condemned murderer now depends upon whether
a Conservative or a Democratic Ministry is in
office. The Downer crowd were expected to hang
murderer Page, but that seems out of the
question with the new Kingston Ministry.
Kingston, , Holder, Cockburn, Playford, and
Gordon, are all opposed to capital punishment.
Lowenthal, in 1891, and Carter, in 1892, were con-
victed and subsequently reprieved by Ministries
of which Cockburn and Holder were respectively
Premiers. There has not been an execution in
S.A. since 1883, and the culprit then was “only a
Chinaman.”
* # *
Archer, though his execution is fixed for
July 11, at Sydney, thinks that he will not be
hanged for the violation and murder of Miss
Harrison. Which goes to show that capital
punishment doesn’t deter. On one side you have
the murderer who (if he considers the matter at
all) thinks he is clever enough to effect his end
without detection ; on the other, you have the
man who murders for revenge, and who, in his
fury, laughs at consequences (this latter murderer
generally commits suicide, by the way, and is, at
least, temporarily insane). But even when the
former is caught he very often believes, like
Archer, up to the very springing of the trap, that
he won’t pay the death-penalty.
# * #
The N.S.W. ladies who back up sericul-
turist Brady, propose to present Prince George
with a pair of silk socks made out of the first silk
they spin. George’s pa wore, years ago, socks
made out of Corowa silk by a N.S.W. lady.
# * #
The British warship Lizard is lying quietly
in the Derwent at Hobart. She would now pro-
bably be at Sydney but for that “ back-draught ”
which lately caused the horrible deaths of two
men. The affair will “ blow over ” the sooner for
a tew quiet weeks at Hobart. The surviving fire-
man is now convalescent.
# # •
Some lady members of Hobart society
call themselves the “ Women’s Sanitary and Im-
provement Association,” and make house-to-house
visits on the look out for dirty back yards, and so
on. A select few in Hobart have lately derived
much amusement from the adventures of one of
these amateur detectives —a “society leader”
with the harridan keeper of a certain house,
during which the errand of the lady was (pur-
posely) misunderstood, and vice eventually stood
triumphant, while blushing virtue fled homeward
to faint.
# # # »
The Speight v. Symo libel case is a dreary
desert dotted with oases of excitement. The
casual visitor stands a chance of lighting upon an
oasis, but it’s ten to one that he finds desert and
falls asleep. Even Speight looks tired at times.
There is a big demand, just now, for
Darwin’s “ Origin of Species ” by the friends of an
Australian gentleman who has recently returned
from the South Seas with his Australian wife.
Woolly-headed twins, black as your hat, are stimu-
lating the literary research.
* # *
Dr. Fischer, of Sydney, has died, at
Chicago, from gangrene. He was a courtly old
German gentleman, who, being very popular with
the women, made a fortune as a physician in
Sydney, and appears to have been about the first
doctor to there make extensive use of hypnotism.
* * *
Since the depression set in so severely in
Melbourne the Public Library has had a record
attendance daily—“ Standing-room only” from
opening to closing time. The great majority of
the students, poor wretches, are characterised by
the profusion of their hair and the nodding of their
heads.
Mr. EDWARD TERRY (Comedian, now at Sydney Lyceum.)
A squadron was lately dispatched to Siam
(Siam has since apologised) to avenge the massacre
of an officer and 14 men by the Siamese. No one
denies Gallic pluck, but, judging by the appear-
ance of the French soldiers one sees in Sydney
streets occasionally, any single Siamese, not a
hopeless cripple, could wipe out a whole company
by means of a stone in a stocking. The other day,
seven of these undersized warriors were observed
walking up Lower George-street, Of this number
two hadn’t shaved for a week, one wore blue
glasses, another had his face tied up in a dirty
rag (severe cold, perhaps); another had a badly-
mended rent in the seat of his pants—which were
too short; and the whole seven looked as if
they were Sydney musicians out of a job, and had
slept in the Domain for a month,
# • *
The other day in N.S.W. a man, sentenced
by Judge Murray to seven years for housebreak-
ing, said that he fully expected it, as his Honor
had been the first man who passed sentence upon
him—for an offence of which he was innocent.
Which recalls that a man, charged before a Vie.
Supreme Court, pleaded for mercy, on the ground
that it was the Judge’s father who had passed the
first sentence upon him. “Oh,” replied his Honor,
calmly, “my father passed the first sentence on
you, did he? Well, I’ll pass the last. Fourteen
years’ penal servitude.”
* # #
Editor Bulletin, —How can you expect
R.O. clergymen to be total abstainers when the
I’ope confers the Order of St. Gregory upon
wealthy brewers and spirit-merchants simply
because they arc rich and have “ parted ?”■ —P.J.
When a prince is wed
Multitudes are fed—
Beef and mutton—burst a button
With a “loyal spread.”
Bless the Dook o’ York !
’Nother slice of pork—
He’s a good ’un—tarts and puddin’—
Never mind a fork.
When a prince is wed !
Pass along the bread ;
Halleluyer ! Bite and chew yer
Vittles while the nobs review yer.
Beaming on the scene ;
Grandson of the Queen !
Day auspicious, fat delicious
Mingled with the lean.
When a prince is wed,
Hunemployed are led
Into foolish, royal-rulish
Bowing of the head.
Hark, the ringing cheer!
Welcome British beer;
Banish dryness when His Highness,
Smiling at her maiden shyness,
Takes his little dear,
Hip hooray ! for beer.
What a state of things !
Emperors and kings
Kept a-going by the “ blowing-
Out ” a marriage brings.
When a prince is wed
Many tears are shed
By the wiser sympathiser
With the deraocraticiser,
Flaunting ribbon red
He should rather smile.
Keeping down his bile ;
Education shows a nation
Fighting for self-preservation,
Monarchies are vile,
Tricks of Tory guile.
Why lick-spittle? Wait a little,
Spectres old are growing brittle,
Wait a little while !
Wait a little while !
PORT AT LAST.
The death of an aged miner—Jim, as usual—is reported
from Gaffney’s Creek (Vio.). “ When found a tumbler
containing port wine was clutched in one of his hands
Not a drop of its contents had been spilt.”
Take the glass from the fist of the miner,
And heave a soft sigh for old Jim,
Who has gone where the weather is finer
And daylight can never grow dim.
A deep parting draught ere he drifted
The hero intended to take;
But he died—and the hand he had lifted
Didn’t shake.
Never trembled, nor moved in a muscle,
As firm as a rock to the last;
Old Jimmy, though game for a tussle,
Confess’t himself properly grass’t.
The wine —there were mates who might swill it :
And whilst his brain spun like a top,
He made up his mind not to spill it—
Not a drop.
With his breath growing fainter and quicker.
And death-damp befilming his eyes,
One optic he kept on the liquor—
The other looked up to the skies.
The last debt of nature then paying,
He put on a jocular wink,
And his white lips appeared to be saying,
“ ’Ave a drink ?”
Plump saints prattle sweetly of saving
Their souls, till ’tis time to peg-out,
When, nervously restless, and raving,
They mostly decease with a doubt.
Now, Jim wasn’t piously spoken,
And not of the psalm-singing sort;
But we guess he got safe (by his token)
Into port.


Carter & Co?
uu u iimlM u i ii illußfii ii, u. aiuftfci
j3uau Table
NQN REVERSIBLE
lngeniously Constructed 1(1 I 8.3 ISt l> lll\IV(i-
TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraotion, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—2S to ;{7V£ (hnncas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne Factory, University-St.
TOURNALISTIC. Experienced Journalist*
editor, sub., or reporter, desires engagement.
Address —“ Sobibb,” Bulletin office.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—Mo. 4.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who oan
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon— which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
aecom parried by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within three weeks from Saturday, June 17,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
As no one succeeded in naming the missing-
word in No 3 Competition, the whole of the cash
received (,£49 45.) will be added to this Com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province ; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 4.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, err 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received hy Saturday, Sth July,
1893.
Ihe Burra Burra (N.S.W.) rush has been
pronounced a duffer. Hundreds of men who rushed
there because of the sensational newspaper descrip-
tions, had to bey their way back. Pitiable stories
of hardships bordering on starvation are told, arid
some newspapers have been roundly cursed for
their It is one of
the easiest things in the world to start a gold rush
when there are thousands of half-starved men in
the country.
Name
Address
Missing Woi'd
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received —no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received,
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL and LECH LETTER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS,
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
A queer thing is the attitude of the R.O
church in Australia towards publicans. In the
pulpit the clergy always preach temperance, and
one of the largest abstaining bodies in Australia
is the R.C. “ League of the Crossyet, whenever
there is a church collection the publicans are
always the first to be struck, and always respond.
* * m
The S. M. Herald mentions as subscribers
■to the Dailey window in St Mary’s Cathedral,
Sydney, “Lord” Carington, “Sir” Frederick
Darley, “Sir” Joseph Abbott, “Sir” Patrick
Jennings, “Sir” John Robertson, “Sir” John
Hay, and “Sir” William Macleay, and no one
else. No common person who may have sub-
scribed is indicated.
* * *
Julian Ashton’s full-length portrait of
Parkes, which hung in the N.S.W. Art Gallery,
Fas been sent for exhibition to Chicago. By
•whose authority ?
* * *
A York-street (Sydney) warehousemen
spent a couple of days last week canvassing for
subscriptions to set the street ablaze for Princess
Mary’s bridal night. The association of ideas in
his loyal mind consisted in coupling a York of a
century ago with the current George.
* * - *
The Police Magistrate and a recently-made
J.P. were on the Bench in a N.S.W. country
town. “Unregistered dogs” were most of the
charges, and the fines ranged from 10s. to £1 and
costs. By-and-bye, the name of the P.M.’s son-
in-law was called as a defendant. The paid beak
retired from the bench, and then the J.P.
straightened himself up to the occasion : “Prisoner
at the bar, me and your father-in-law has been
talking about your case, and found «ou not guilty;
how do you plead?” “Not guilty, your Wor-
ship.” “Then, I dismiss you without a stain
upon your character.” The crowd rolled over
each other to get into the street to laugh.
* * #
The biggest thing Australia has ever seen
in the way of municipal missions was the famous
water-deputation which, something over 60 strong,
last year travelled all the way to Sydney to ask
Government to supply Broken Hill with water
from the Darling. The train left a track of bottle-
glass from the Hill to Sydney, and might have
been recognised miles off by the whooping of the
deputationists and the dead marines flying from
the carriage windows. After preferring their
modest request, the crowd started for home, and
were arriving, principally under the seats of the
carriages, at the rate of several a week for months
afterwards. In fact, it is extremely doubtful
whether some of them got back at all.
• * *
A Melbourne journalist declares that the local larrikin
is extinct. Depression has settled him. Deprived of the
means to keep bis boots and trousers up to the necessary
standard he “chucked up the push” and became a I Ling o £
the past.
An English girl has made a new departure
by bringing an action for breach of promise against
the executors of her dead lover —an old hunks of
63 years. The experiment was a failure, and the
plaintiff, after a withering admonition from the
judge, has to pay all costs.
# * *
“ Vesuvius warms no domestic hearth.”
• • •
A notice in Mackay (Q.) Mercury re-
quests officers and members of the Caledonian
lodge to attend the funeral of “our diseased
brother, T. 0. Aitkin. Brethren of sister lodges
cordially invited to attend.”
* # #
The grand jury in the Davies and Milledge
case sat in a room in the dome of Melbourne
Law Courts, where juries that are looked up all
night sleep. One evening, Sergt. Milea, who has
charge of the courts, was accidentally locked-up
all night in this remote apartment, and, having
bawled himself hoarse in vain, only got out next
morning by running up the holiday-flag on the
pole.
* * *
A Sydney suburban labourer pledged his
horse and cart about a year ago. Since then he
has paid back, in instalments, .£lO more than he
received, or the full amount plus 30 per cent,
interest. The usurer, however, had still .£5
against him, and sallying out one day last week
he took possession of horse and cart and set them
up to auction. They fetched .£9, which, when
charges of one kind and another were added, still
left the victim £2 in debt. “ Couldn’t you fix up
some kind of a law to stop this cruelty ?” asked
the labourer of the local M.L.A. The latter
mused awhile: “Yes, yes, there should be some-
thing done. But first we must get rid of Dibbs
and federate all Australia, Then will be your
time.”
A Civil servant bought up all last week’s
edition of a Melbourne gutter journal, whereupon
a second edition was promptly issued, which was
not bought up.
* « «
A Sydney Civil servant who left his office
last week ostensibly for the public service of
humiliation and prayer, passed the time in getting
married in a suburban chapel.
* * #
“ In honour preferring one another ” —like
the Canons squabbling for the preferment of All
Saints, St. Kilda.
* * «
The S.M. Herald, now in its first penny
week, has existed for over 62 years. It began as
a weekly, changed to bi-weekly, then tri-weekly,
and, over 50 years ago, to a daily.
* # *
“ How do you plead ?” asked Sydney
Bench. Wilson, petty larcenist, replied : “ Well,
I’m a French - polisher when in work, but
I’m out of work now, so I’ll plead guilty.”
Twenty-one days. Question : Was Wilson’s plea
a stroke of policy to get under a roof? Even a
gaol-roof shelters.
• # #
The poetry and eloquence of the Scripture
often get lost or badly mangled when the British
and Foreign Bible Society translates that sacred
volume into the scraggy and limited vocabulary of
the heathen. For instance, the New Review
tells how the words “Where the wild asses quench
their thirst,” being translated into the best lan-
guage which some Melanesian dialects can afford,
comes out: “ Where the man-eating pigs drink to
stop the hiccups.” They never heard of asses on
the islands, and, the place being well watered,
nobody ever is seriously thirsty, and there are no
“ wild ” animals—only men who occasionally get
wild and eat other men. Therefore, the above was
as near as they could get to it.
* * #
A certain exalted Victorian official couldn’t
even keep his name out of the Tobias divorce-
ease. He and “a lady companion” made a
furtive appearance in 'the evidence, which, for-
tunately, was too nasty to be fully reported.
* # •
Ten thousand pounds a year is a monstrous
salary for Lord Hopetoun in these times of Mel.
THE CHAMPION LIAR OF N.S WALES.-A GLIMPSE OF THE IMMEDIATE
FUTURE.
ONE OF THEM : “ There goes the fellow who said he saw half-a-sovereign in Sydney six
weeks ago!”
CHORES OF RESIDENTS : “ What a liar he must be !”
bourne retrenchment. There is no society, no
anything. All he does is to draw his money
quarterly and count the days as they fly until his
terra of “ colonial experience ” shall expire. The
vice-regal figurehead becomes a ghastly joke when
the “loyal” fraternity are occupied in com-
pounding with their creditors and calculating
their chances of keeping out of gaol.
* * m
Melbourne paper : “The occasion of the
56th anniversary of Her Majesty’s accession to the
throne was fittingly marked by a full military
choral service at St. John’s Church,” Quite
fitting: Religious mummery, militarism and
monarchy.
* * #
Sydney Socialists invite Dr. Grace Robin-
son, the rejected of the Glebe Hospital’s high-
toned ladies’ committee, to address them.
# # *
The servant-girl question crops up again.
A gentleman residing in a Sydney suburb employs
a girl, who is about sft. Sin. high and muscular,
also she is unmanageable, has a tendency to drop
dishes all over the place, and is given to
picturesque inaccuracy in her statements. The
girl’s mother is nearly 6ft. high, and does wash-
ing, and her other leading characteristic is that
she looks upon the daughter’s sweetheart with
profound disfavour. Recently this youth jilted
the daughter, and she endeavoured to touch his
callous heart with a letter in which she stated
that, owing to his conduct, she had been at death’s
door in the hospital. Thereupon the recreant
lover sent this letter to the mother who
takes in washing, and the mother decided
that strong measures were necessary to cure
her daughter of her evil tendency to romance.
With this object in view, she called round the
other evening about eight o’clock, and finding the
girl alone, she decoyed her into her employer’s
hen-house, and there assaulted her in a most
violent fashion. The young lady resisted as long
as she was able, and in the course of the struggle
nearly every prize fowl on the premises was more
or less damaged. Next day the immense pro-
genitor called round in a diffuse fashion to explain
matters at great length to the girl’s mistress, and
promised, if that bony maiden further raiscon-
ducted herself, to drop in and put things right*
but the mistress had a vision of the two scuffling
all over the kitchen and reducing it to ruins, and
declined the offer. At latest advices, the fowl-
house was being repaired, and the girl goes out
with another lover.
* * #
The latest idea in S.A. for saving money
Make Chief Justice “Sammy” Way Governor,
and appoint his dog Chief Justice without salary.
# * *
The police whom the Yic. Premier sent
out to hunt up people sleeping in Melbourne, one
night recently, discovered only 41 persons. These
were policemen, we presume.
“ His family tree was the gallows.”—N.S.
Wales Biography.
The largest newspaper ever issued was the
New York World of May 7th, which consisted of
100 pages, the first and last being a wrapper
printed in colours.
That grim monopoly, the Australian
(Sydney) Gaslight Co,, has, for once in a way, re-
ceived a knock. The Co. having got judgment
against one Jones for =£ll7s., put a bailiff on the
premises. Jones, however, had sold his business
to one Roberts, who entertained the burn for four
days, meanwhile entering an action against the
Co., from whom he is to get .£125 damages.
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —By reporting of
me as a septuagenarian you risk invalidating
my life policy, and also render me liable to a
fine or prosecution for making a false return in
last census. See that now ! You have put me
down ever so much older than I am. Time does
us injury enough, and no need for misreports to
add to it. If the next census were not so far off,
as some seven years yet to run, I would wait for
that to correct the error. lam not a lady, to be
delicate about age questions, and so, for above
stated reasons only, I must beg of you to relieve
my apprehensions of trouble to come in your next
issue.—The Australian Abroad. St. Kilda,
Melb., June 20, 1893.
A mustering party was sitting round the
campfire on Mount M‘Connell run (N.Q.). Fat
local butcher, with Yankee proclivities, telling the
crowd of the “ foinest soight the world iver wit-
nessed —Blondin walkin’ acrast Niagra Falls on a
tight-rope interrupted by a stuttering yourt'*
jackeroo—“W-what the d-dev-devil are you b-b-
-blowing about, S ? W-why, any d—Aus-
tralian w-would w-walk across Hell w-with a
b-b-barrel of powder slung across his back for the
money Blondin got!”
Dear Bulletin, —You have resurrected a
hoary chestnut—that yarn about the toasts of
“ the two Nicks ” and “ the two Jacks.” You tell
the story as of a Queensland dinner-party, but I
first heard it in Nebraska over 20 years ago. The
circumstances were these. When the Union
Pacific Railroad opened, the official staff gave a
valedictory dinner to two road-engineers, Nick
Dennett and Jack Wallace. At the dinner, Jack
Wallace gave the toast of “The Two Nicks—
Nick Dennett and Old Nick,” to which Nick
Dennett responded by giving, “The Two Jacks—
Jack Wallace and .Jack Ass.” —Yours, Trotter
Bethune, Moonee Ponds, Yic., June 19, 1893.
[Thanks. We know both Tooth and Annear.
They were a pair of commonplace, dunder-headed,
political humbugs when we were in Queensland,
and they are evidently even worse and more
dunder-headed humbugs now. Neither of them
ever manifested the possession of even enough
intellect to justify anyone in crediting him with
the evolution of the small witticism quoted.—
Ed. B.j
Writes the “National”: “Magazine-news-.
papers are the best to advertise in. An advertisement
which is not read does no good, and most daily papers are
only half read before they make way for their successors.
The paper that is read from end to end,” like Tin? Bulle-
tin, ‘‘is the sheet-anchor of profitable advertising.” A
good, original weekly, not a hideous jumble of reprinted
stale news spiced with observations about horse-colic and
turnip-diseases, is the best medium. Every man knows
that he skims over a daily, at breakfast or on a tram-car.
He never reads it through. But his favourite weekly is
mentally laid aside for an hour of leisure, and then he
reads it, and reads it right through. Tub Bulletin cir-
culates everywhere in Australasia, and even sells 300
copies weekly in South Africa. Let the businessman
personally observe, or ask his traveller or his travelling
friend to keep his eyes open arid say which paper is the
most widely-circulated in this continent. There can be
but one answer— Tub Bulletin.
The Argus asserts that tigers are very
frightened of rats and mice. Not the only trait
tigers have in common with women, says the
cynic.
■— Princess May—probably on account of the
“buried heart” incident—has had a book, pub-
lished by Ward, Lock and Bowden, dedicated to
her. It is entitled, “ Bonnes Bouches and Relish-
able Dishes.”
Dear Bulletin, —You err re the ancient
Darling Point magnate, addressed at “ Cockle
Point.” The old boy used to have a little wharf
and store down by Cockle Bay (now called DarP
ing Harbour), and it must have been to that
odoriferous locality his letter was addressed. He
could not aspire to the aristocratic shades of
Darling Point in those days.—T.R.
That the modern warship is a huge delu-
sion is every now and then being proved to demon-
stration. At Lissa, the Italian ironclads were
knocked into a cocked bat by an Austrian
squadron, mostly wooden ships. British ironclads
can’t be kept from falling aboard each other, or
running aground. In fact, the modern warship
seems safe only when she is moored in dock with
nobody on board. At sea she is dangerous to her
consorts, and her own crew, but perfectly harm-
less to the enemy.
Where is the larrikin, pale and lean,
Chewing terbakker with nut-brown teeth ?
Visible nowhere —not to be seen,
Stoning the Chow on his native heath.
Gaze on the city : observe a gap—
A vacant place none else may fill !
The larrikin lean was a rorty chap,
His bakker-jnice stains the pavement still—
Gloomy young larrikin,
Rheumy and barrackin’,
Where is he trying his time to kill ?
Down in the dumps, the larrikin now
Sadly bewails his altered lot;
Anxiety sits on his fair young brow—
Bell-bottomed pants gone all to pot.
My oath ! for the times of easy toil,
And mashing “ tarts ” with a Sunday smirk J
They talk of a-shovin’ him on the soil—
Finding a job that a bloke can’t shirk.
Gloomy young larrikin,
Rheumy and barrackin’,
Dodging the day that will dawn on work.


“The Bulletin’s” Missing*
Word Competition.
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦<
Attention is called to the fact that The
Bulletin’s 4th Missing Word Contest will
close cm Bth July. Although the competition
was announced as of a three weeks’ currency,
the closing date was inadvertently given as
July 1.
fg
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
AND
en
ueen
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Henry Gyles Turner’s favourite text: “Ye
must be born again."
• » #
Now that the S. M. Herald is down to one
penny, its bantling, the Echo, ought to come down to a
half-penny. If it did, what a (hitter there’d he in other
quarters! By the way, now that the Herald people are
catering for the general public, it would not he a h id idea
for them to drop the Echo altogether, if it can’t be re-
formed. The Echo is politically a poisonous little rag,
full of malice against all things democratic. The Fair-
faxes surely canuotany longer afford to have that sort of
thing issue from their premises, as it tremendously dis-
counts the sincerity of their big organ.
» • •
It has leaked out in Melbourne that a certain
reconstructed hank endeavoured to induce the Victorian
country press to distort the effect of a judgment given in
the Supreme Court in respect of that hank’s reconstruc-
tion scheme. The pitiful smallness of the remuneration
offered the papers by ill ■ press agency that the bank em-
ployed, gave the whole thing away.
* * #
The Savings Bank of S. A. is now prepared to
invest £120,000 in Government stocks, at the rate of
£lO,OOO a month. A very large amount of its money is
now on loan to the B.N.S.W.
* * #
Sydney brick-ring has badly overreached
itself. The big Sydney Market buildings contract has
fallen into the hands of a Melbourne firm, which will ship
the bricks from Victoria.
* * tt
The Premier Permanent Building Society has
now been liquidating about three years, at enormous
expense, and there is no dividend or hint of a dividend to
this day. Isn’t it about time a raffle or something were
held, and these 150 or so gaudy suburban cottages at
Elsternwick, built chiefly of sand and broken brickbats,
disposed of as prizes? A lot of the Premier’s assets consist
of shoddy cottages, and while it is liquidating they are all
disintegrating into waste bricks. #
# # #
Says the Australian Trading World “ We
cannotcall to mind a case in which the reconstruction of
a bank that had once closed its doors has been successful.
For a bank that has once failed, reconstruction seems to
us to be as impracticable as to reconstruct an egg that has
once fallen to the ground."
• # •
The two professors who came out from England
to introduce the “mallet trick” to the mugs have
“given it best,” and gone on to ’Change as outside
brokers.
« * *
One northern man’s overdraft is said to be
£400,000, and one politician’s close on £1,000,000.
# „ # «
Though the Muldiva (N.Q.)Silver Mining Co.’s
last monthly balance-sheet gives figures that sj eak of a
paying concern, all work was, we are told, stopped at the
mine on 20th May, credit-notes for wages bring issued,
for which credit-notes rations only (without change) were
obtainable —an arrangement that admirably suited the
storekeepers. An official notice was circulated to the
effect that “ the Brisbane office ” had promised to remit
“ in a fortnight or three weeks ” money sufficient to
meet all “ wages, &c., now due.” Another circular
blandly stated that the directors “ regret that, at the
present rate of wages, they will be unable to resume
operations," and aske l for the names of volunteers will-
ing to accept reduc d wages—“ engine-drivers
miners 10d., tappers and fetd rs 9id., slag-wheelers S|d.,
labourers Bd. per hour; wages of all other employes to
be reduced by one-third." This change of policy fol-
lowed closely on the return of Labour-man Rawlings for
Woothakata, the district in which the Muldiva mine is
situated.
• • •
The investigation now proceeding in the Mel-
bourne Insolvency Court, as to the affairs of insolvent
E. L. Yencken, is expected to decide whether or not it is
legal for an embarrassed trader to get rid of his liabilities
by going insolvent, and at the same time preserve his
business by having previously converted it into a limited
liability company. If it is found to be illegal to do so,
several of the biggest traders in Melbourne who have put
their businesses into limited companies may have to pay
20s. instead of the farthings and pennies in the £ they
have gracefully “ gone through ’’ upon.
# # #
The affairs of the Melbourne Anglo-Australian
“ Bank ” grow more dismal with each succeeding revela-
tion. At latest the position is something like this;
A call of £4 per share has been made on the Victorian
contributories. It ought to have realised £153,964, and,
as a matter of fact, it panned out for just £614, by
which it would seem that the shareholders are good for
about Id. in the £. A sanguine liquidator thinks he may
possibly scrape up another £2OOO from the same source,
but no one else appears to share his belief. The assets
realised up to date are £4475 ; expenses of liquidation,
£2500; balance available for the hank’s creditors, rather
less than £2OOO ; total liabilities, £437,428 ! A first and
final dividend of J per cent, seems looming in the dis-
tance, unless the liquidator absorbs the other £2OOO, as
well as the rest.
# # «
Editor Wilson surpasses himself in the Inves-
tors’ Review for May, in the savage force of his attack
on the Commercial Bank of Australia. The article should
be read by everyone who can get it.
* * *
Editor Bulletin, —Does not that little typical
episode of the director at a stormy meeting of his build-
ing society instantly drawing a cheque for an irate
“depositor ” who “will he satisfied with (say) fourteen
shillings in the pound,” savor of the “ monte man" and
his “buttoner?”—H.P.
# * *
Baker’s Creek shares have a decided upward
tendency—for no other known reason than a cable that
the Financial News anticipates big dividends from this
good mine shortly. If this is the reason, then share-
holders who have bought on such authority should he
kicked for their credulity, and those who haven’t taken
the chance to sell at, say, 30s. will probably have a much
better reason for kicking themselves.
* # #
The tonnage of Bayley’s reward claim (W.A.)
for Sylvester Brown’s 35000z5. is unstated. It seems to
be a patch or nothing in the new El Dorado, and curious
stories are told of the persistent exaggeration of the size
of the cakes, which grow in transit. One man told the
writer that he left one of the fields with 20ozs. gold, and
ere he reached the coast it had grown to 500ozs.
# # #
*The Broken Hill Proprietary people have before
them a patent process by which, it is claimed, the whole
of the zinc which is now wasted can be economically ex-
tracted from the ore. B ised on the output of the last
quarter the Proprietary, by adopting the method, will
save £116,000 per annum.
# # *
The test of Mount Wills tin-ore by the Hun-
garian Govett’s patent process is to come off about July 1,
and is anxiously (and as the owner of the process pays all
expenses—hopefully) looked forward to by people who
bought shares at 155., and have since paid 19 calls.
# # #
Business —the forged N.S.W. banknote business
—is looking up.
* # #
The New Hargreaves mine has shut right down
—temporarily, of course, and a correspondent says it is
intended to float H in England—the usual wheeze. The
present odds that the London market will take it are a
m i lion to one.
# # *
A true bill —That charge of conspiracy.
« # •
Should the prospecting work go on in a freehold
estate close to the town of Orange, the continuation of
tiie Lucknow rich run of diorite and serpentine country,
that district will probably, be the centre of a gold-boom.
Hitherto the miles of'country between Orange and
Lucknow has remained unprospected, principally because
of the comparative absence of alluvial gold.^
More men are employed on the English proprie-
tary mine at Lucknow, N.S.W., than on any other gold
mine in the province. Fortunately, too, (or the State, it
is a freehold, consequently it pays 2s. an oz. on all gold
raised instead of £1 an acre. Some thousands of pounds
have already been paid in royalty, although present
mining operations only occupy a very small part of the
estate. Because former Governments have neglected to
enforce the 2s. royalty (!) the English company was uu-
blushingly asked recently to make up the deficiency.
They unhlushingly refused.
* # *
The sj ndioate, herein lately referred to, which
undertook to treat 2000 tons Junction North (8.H.) ore,
over which the Metals Extraction Co. came to grief, will,
it is reported, make a good thing out of the venture.
Which means that the co., by doing likewise on a large
scale, might achieve modest dividends almost imme-
diately. The ore, of which the mine possesses practically
unlimited reserves, is a hard, argentiferous garnet sand-
stone, which, on being exposed to the air, disintegrates
rapidly and is then easily pulverised. It is first chloro-
dised by roasting with common salt, after which the
silver contents are leached out and precipitated. The ore
also yields small quantities of copper and lead, and assays
have occasionally detected traces of gold.
# # #
The discovery of a large body of water in a
silver mine mostly implies a lode, and an anticipatory
rise in shares, while the period which elapses before the
pumps overcome the flow gives ample time for those “ in
the know ” to load up or unload according to circs. The
s ares of Block 10, and those of the adjacent Central, are
just now quoted at all sorts of prices,
# # •
The manager of the Pinnacles Amalgamated
furnishes a jubilant report to Ins directors on the result
of recent experiments on the Co.’s low-grade tailings, by
th ; hyposulphite process of leaching, by which he claims
to have made a profit on 11 oz. ore. The co. avers it has
on the surface 10,000 tuns of 11 oz. to 15 oz. tailings, and
a few thousand tons of various grades up to 26 Oz., while
60,000 tons of 25 oz. ore is in sight in the mine. The co.,
however, carries an old man of the sea in the parent
Pinnacle Group co. which has hitherto swallowed all the
profits of the mine in the shape of royalty,
#• #
Block 5, now liquidating, once had a market-
value of over £150.000, and was one of the most fancied
of the smaller properties on Broken Hill., Yet the ni ne
never produced a ton v ( payable ore, and, though is
adjoined the South mine, two of that co.’s 40-acre leases,
then untried, and since proved practically worthless, were
between 9 and the nearest payable ore! Which is
evidence of how much was taken for granted in boom-
time. The co. having spent all the money raised by a
second issue of shares, only decided to go into liquidation
on being refused a grant from the N.S.W. prospecting
vote.
* * *
A big Sydney firm of providers has reduced
the pay of its unmarried hands 10 per cent, and taken
7£ per cent, off the Benedicts. Another firm gives each
man in his turn a week’s holiday without pay, and so
saves the wages of ten men weekly—thus making the
best of a bad time.
m m m
The N.S.W. Civil Service Co-operative Society
shares, £1 paid, are selling at 30s. Last year a div. of ss.
per share was paid. Which somehow reminds one of the
old gibe that the defunct Sydney Reform Club drank
itself out of debt.
* * •
Small, spasmodic crushings of ounce rock from
Swamp Oak field continue. Finding it impossible to
boom the fields thereabout, owners, on the “root hog or
die ” principle, have settled down to work themselves.
While none have made a foitune, many are making wages.
• • #
The Pambula Gold Mining Company, Falkner’s
and Mt. Lewison are “all waiting the cyanide process."
Thereby it is suggested that cyanide works are going up,
whereas the writer happens to know that no agreement
has yet been made.
• * *
Had Shiels remained in power a week longer a
prosecution in (he Imperial Bank case would have been
ordered. O’Loghlen ordered prosecutions against two
friendless clerks, and even then certain evidence which
would have made various fat men uncomfortable hap-
pened to he carefully suppressed—to the disgust of judge
and jury.
* # #
J. M. Davies (Matthew’s brother) assured
Mirams that if he had been a member of the Jure, on
the Premier Building Society case, he would have found
him “ not guilty.” What a pity that little James couldn't
pick his jury 1
The bonus certificates of the A.M.P.
Society for the year 1892 were issued to the mem-
bers on Friday last from the Head Office in
Sydney, and from the various branch and district
offices all over Australia., Maoriland, and Tas-
mania. The work of this bonus distribution has
been completed with the usual despatch, and the
members are placed in possession of their
certificates with the same promptitude as
in former years. On the present occasion
the certificates issued number about 114,000,
and although, as members are aware, they
are very small —only about the size of a bank-
note—they would, if laid alongside each other,
form a continuous line 14 miles long, while the
total weight of matter posted exceeded 1J tons.
The total sum, in cash, distributed among the
members exceeds half a million sterling, produc-
ing reversionary additions to policies of over
<£1,000,000. The usual complete arrangements
have been made for the payment daily of the cash
values to such members as desire to receive their
bonuses in that form.
In exceedingly cold regions where the
idea of excessive heat is a thing beyond human
imagination, the popular conception of Gehenna
is that it is a region of eternal frost and twilight,
with ponderous ice-floes weltering slowly over a
leaden sea, and the ice-blink shining for ever and
ever against the leaden sky. Therefore, it is to
be hoped that the lost will buy David Jones and
Co.’s “Orient Clothing” as the only possible
alleviation of their melancholy state. This
clothing has now been reduced to so low
a price as to be within everybody’s reach,
and, as a consequence, almost everybody wears
it. If the perpetrators of the Miller’s Point
murder are ever brought to justice the chances are
that they will be hanged in “ Orient Clothing”—
not because it is a more suitable thing to be
hanged in than any other variety, but simply
because they won’t have anything else to be
banged in. And the Cabinet which decides that
“ the law shall take its course,” will probably con-
sist of nine politicians in “ Orient Clothing,”
and an odd one in a misfit suit which he got on
credit.


JJOW TO GET STRONG.
Muscles of Arms, Back, Abdomen, Legs, and every part
of the body can be made Big and Strong by using PRO-
FESSOR F. LOOSE S PHYSICAL EXERCISE CHART
(copyrighted.) Result of 25 years’ experience as Physical
Director. Special exercises for deepening and widening
the Chest, and making the Shoulders broad. Invaluable
to all persons, young or old, who wish to be strong and
vigorous and keep so. Specially adapted for athletes, or
would be athletes. Most complete work up to date.
Charts ss. each, by post, 4d. extra. Address, F. Loose,
Box 673, G.P.0., Sydney.
g I R GEORGE D I B B S’
TESTIMONIAL FUND.
SUBSCRIPTIONS to the above will be received
by the COMMITTEE : Hons. W. J. Trickett, A.
J. Riley, John Toohey, J, Watson, Ms.L.C., F.
A. Wright, J. Hayes, James P. Garvan, Ms.L. A.,
Messrs. A. W. Meeks, T. Littlejohn, J. Houri-
gan, J. M‘Elhone, M. C. Cowlishaw, F. B. Lark,
John Woods, AV.Henderson, Captain Broom-
field, O. C. Beale, J. Burns, L, Lloyd, P. Mao-
Mahon, R. Binnie, John Meeks, R.. Pendergast,
and at the TOWN HALL DAILY.
\V. P. MANNING V
R. J. BLACK I
Hony. Treasurers.
F. A. WRIGHT \
A, J. RILEY /
Hony. Secretaries.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Amusements.
JjpiLLXS’S CIRCUS.
* Exhibition Building *
(PRINCE ALFRED PARK.)
Wednesday Night, July 5
And Every E/ening until Further Notice.
Return to Sydney, after a phenomenally successful tour,
comprising Eleven Weeks in Melbourne, Four Weeks in
Adelaide, and the principal cities of New Zealand, of
PILLIS’S
§reat <§ircus and (Menagerie
—OF —
Performing Wild Animals.
Acknowledged by the entire Press of Australasia to be
ihe “ Most Successful as well as the Most Complete
Organisation that ever visited the Southern Hemisphere.
ENTIRELY NEW COMPANY.
First Appearance in Australia of the World - renowned
FEBLEY FAMILY.
Two Ladies and Four Gentlemen.
Mr. DAN FEELEY
In his Sensational Slide for
Life from the Dome of the
Exhibition Building to Terra
Firma, on a Single Cord.
TONY FEELEY,
WILLIE FEELEY,
Acrobatic Clowns and
Vaulters.
Miss KATE FEELEY,
The Graceful and Accom-
plished Lady Acrobatic
Gymnast.
Last but by no means least
DICKY and AMALIA
FEELEY.
The Wonders of the
Gymnastic Profession.
First Appearance in the Colonies of
Mdlle. PAULINE.
SO EDUCATED HORSES SO
O NEW ZEALAND STALLIONS 6
8 BRONCO HORSES S
In the early part of the Season, the Management
will have the honour to introduce to the public of Aus
tralia, the celebrated
4 SISTERS MAYOL 4
AND
Z A Z B L!
(Direct from the Paris Hippodrome) the Graceful and
Daring Lady Gymnasts.
BROTHERS OTHERDO,
The greatest Triple Bar Performers in the World.
MDLLE. ANETTA.
The Charming Parisian Lady Rider.
MATINEES,
WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS,
At 8 p.m.
ADMISSION— 4s, 3s, 2s, Is. Children half-price,
Electric Light Throughout.
STRING ORCHESTRA OF 25 PERFORMERS.
Sole Proprietor .. Mr. F. E. FILLIS.
Business Manager .. Signor Agrati.
Advance Representative, Allan Hamilton.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Hi gno Id.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of
Miss Jennie Lee
In an Entirely New Sensational Drama, entitled,
“RIGHT’S RIGHT.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-streefc, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS!
of
THE CHURCHWARDEN.
Satorday, July 1, —“SWEET LAVENDER."
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman
Tivoli theatre
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Soli? Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
| Mr. lIARKY KICK AU 1> S |
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN 0. LEETE.
qriterion theatre.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucioault.
SATURDAY, JULY 1,
“THE A. AJA-ZOISrS.”
A Farcical Romance in 3 acts, by
A. W. PINERO.
Acting Manager and Treasurer, W. H. Wallace.
IMPERIAL OPERA MOU6E.
Lessee .... Dan Tracey.
Unprecedehted Success ! Unprecedented Success!
“The Entertainment on Saturday Night went with a
swing from start to finish.”— Fide Daily Papers.
Rocnds or Applause. Our 3 Star Artists, not a
One Man Show.
Every Evening, at 8 o’clock, the following sterling
artists will appear Florence Sehuhr, Nina Nimmo.
Ethel Clifford, Sisters Abbott, Leopolds, Sylvo and Provo,
Bent, Carlton and Sutton, Evans, Carle Toussard, Sadler,
Wad lev Whitworth, Rocklev, and others.
BILLY WARNER. BILLY WARNER.
Grand Sacred and Classical Concert every Sunday. C.
Wyndham Business Manager. Matinee every Saturday
Afternoon, commencing July 1.
Theatre royal
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. 11. RAINFORD.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“Ten Nights in a Bar Boom.”
Watch for the
TICKET -OF - LEAVE MAN.”
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is.;
Family Circle, 6d. ___ „ IT , T ,«rn
Bus. Manager, I RED. GUNTHER.
When the Sun Shines the Smaller Lights are Lost to Yiew.
The Mainspring of Enterprise is Wound Up by the Key of Public Appreciation.
THE
Orient
m
Clothing
AT
G-EXTTJXXTE COST PRICE
Materials Specially Selected. Double Shrunk. All Wool. Choice Patterns. Fashionable
Shapes. English and Scotch Tweeds and Bannockburns.
UNEQUALLED YALUE !
Appearance & Finish of Clothing Made to Order.
For Business, Office, Evening Wear, Walking, Riding, Travelling-—for all purposes.
CALL and INSPECT tire STOCK!
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
Orient Clothiers,
Opposite the General Post Office, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Commissioner Renwick writes, re the
N.S.W. exhibits at Chicago Exhibition, that as
no market can be obtained for Australian fruit in
America, it is not worth while to send it, except
as a curiosity. A case of apples as a curiosity !
The single girls among the Australian
argonauts to Paraguay, says Sydney E. News,
“ are, perhaps, unaware that they are making for
a land where marriage has gone so out of fashion
that only about three per cent of the children are
born in wedlock. The element of romance is thus
not wanting in Paraguay.”
J. B. Patterson was “ the only Premier
in the hempire who had the forethought to wore
congratulations to Albert Edward on the opening
of the Hinstitute.” Patterson’s claim to this
proud distinction is vouched for by that mercurial
groveller, L. L. Smith, who has written over to
say that the message was commented on by many
as “ a marked act of courtesy.” If Patterson has
charge of poor Victoria’s petty cash for another
year, he will cable himself into a baronetcy at
least.
The Sydney press howls with the impotent
fury of a damned soul because the Labour-party,
aided by Alfred Allen, successfully blocked the
second reading of the N.S.W. Council's Flogging
Bill. It is a most peculiar thing that journals
owned by church-goers, edited by ex-parsons, and
filled whenever opportunities offer with dreary
accounts of long-winded “Christian conferences,”
should so continuously oppose the efforts of the
atheists, agnostics, deists, Quakers, theosophists
and spiritualists, to impart into legislation the
humanitarianism of the founder of the alleged
national faith.
After “ sacking ” Commissioner Speight
the sanguine Shiels Government estimated an
increase of =£200,000 in Via railway returns for
the ensuing year. Freights and fares were raised
to the extent of the aforesaid increase—on paper.
The department had merely to scoop in the extra
cash and expose the fallacy of Speight’s argument
that a raised tariff would make very little differ-
ence. Minister Wheeler’s speeches of a year ago
are nauseous reading now that the railway returns
are proved to have diminished by a further
£190,000, the actual revenue for 1892-93 being
.£590,000 under the estimate.
The Family Herald celebrated its Jubilee
the other week. For 50 years the haughty earl
with the very hollow back and the abnormally
long aristocratic legs, has been laying his heart
and fortune at the feet of Lady Dulcibella. For
the same period of time Dulcibella has arched her
proud white neck, and told her suitor, in a low
silvery voice, that what he wished could never be.
Good old Family Herald ! Some of its stock
story writers have made considerable incomes by
ministering to the wants of romantic Sarah Jane,
and many a harmless baker has Sarah Jane re-
jected because her imagination was pampered on
pictures of Ferdinand in this week’s number.
The Strongest Arguments.
From an issue of the Wolverhampton Chronicle
we extract the following :—“ We have for a long
time heard various reports of the wonderful effects
produced by the use of St. Jacobs oil in chronic
cases which had been given up as incurable, but
had always supposed these were enlarged upon
for advertising purposes, like all other patent or
proprietary medicines, but the reports from all
our leading chemists must be considered one of
the strongest arguments which can be advanced
respecting the value of any leading article of trade
in their line. The uniformity of these reports will
be noted at once. All speak in the highest terms
of the value of St. Jacobs oil as an outward appli-
cation for pain. The oil is only advertised to cure
rheumatism, neuralgia, gout sciatica, and those
bodily pains where an outward application is used.
The proprietors of this popular remedy never
advertise the oil to cure those diseases which it
will not actually cure. By so doing they have
gained the confidence of the people. We see by
the Liverpool papers that St. Jacobs oil is used
largely on board of nearly every steamship that
sails from that port. Many companies, including
the Cunard, White Star, and some of the South
American lines, do not even consider their ships
ready for sea unless a sufficient supply of this
popular remedy is on board to last the voyage.
Latterly, we are informed that all H.M. troop-
ships leaving Portsmouth take a large supply of
the oil on board. The oil in yellow wrappers for
veterinary purposes is being used with equally
good results by the leading omnibus and cab com-
panies of London and provincial cities for use on
horses for sprains, sore shoulders, and general
ailments where an embrocation is required.”
A leading article in an issue of the Chemist
and Druggist stated that St. Jacobs oil had the
largest sale of any medicine in the world, and
when an article possesses the actual merit which
St. Jacobs oil undoubtedly does possess, the pro-
prietors are entitled to receive the benefit of the
enormous sale which this popular remedy has.
IF you want a watch to SWEAR BY,
Buy a Waterbury; but
IF you want a watch to SWEAR AT, then one
of those numerous dear-at-any-price, Swiss rattle-
trap imitations can lie warranted to give you
every satisfaction.


fd
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR AN D SKiIL
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., .New York.
gf
Reuter’s Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &e. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
. ~ ~ ~ , enough for the strongest, do notafter -
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profos-
■non. The smallest and easiest to take, - Forty in a phial.
MACKs
D O U B L E -
g
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS ■ The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
Perfect Food.
HORLICK’S
|^«>s
4*4
MALTED
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
MILK.
For INFANTS.
For the aged.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK IS made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
ill no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK IS the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
— Lancet , April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents: —
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HlLl, London, E.G.
Tales of the convict system
Price —One Shilling.
1
CLOTHED WITH AIR
I'elliilar t'iolls
D ress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab'e.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Tost, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
3RAHAM & MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SYDNEY.
FOR COLDS,
COUGHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-rcady remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. c. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
Is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
ft
s
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the new list of
fg
INTO THE COLONIES.
W. H. BROOME, 15, Holborn, Eor.don, Eng.
<r,<?
\<P
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
v FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer,
PttOg
V
Beioare of imitations.
TRADE MARK'.- MUSK CCER.
HMC A. 3VE &S. OTH
MUTUAL INVESTMENT
PROPERTY DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS IN THE
& BUILDING SOCIETY, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
Proposed Issue of 05,500 Shares at £l.
Committee of Management ;J. W. SUTTON, Esq. (Me s rs. J. W. Sutton and Co.); EDWARD TAYLOR, Esq. (Messrs Prosser, Taylor and Co.); WT. CLARK, Esq., M.E.T., M.S.A. Solicitors; Messrs. THYNNE (M.L.C.) and
MACARTNEY. Bankers: UNION BANK OF AUSTRALIA (Limited).
The Committee of Management, having purchased the undermentioned Properties, have decided to distribute the same by ballot amongst the m°tubers of the Societ}', as provided by the Society s mles, P*o\ic mg*
2*701 PHIZES valued from £5 to <£20,000. All being in terms of allotment as per Schedule to be seen at the Society’s Office.
No. I.— Those magnificent Chambers, situate corner CREEK and ELIZABETH STREETS, BRISBANE, close to the G.P.O. and the Q.N. Bank, and lately occupied by the Royal Bank of Queensland (Ltd.), at a rental of £lOOO per annum.
First Prize £20,000. Fo-urtbi Prize,
1 Prize £20,000
1 , £6,500
1 „ £6,000
1 „ £5,000
1 „ £2,500
1 „ £2,200
1 „ £2,000
1 „ £1,300
6 Prizes £700
Total Value of
Prizes,
£85,500.
' rc39\d \ m
n\\ n
\'-.y
■-
Total Value of
Prizes,
£85,500.
THE BALLOT will positively take place not later than November, 1893.
THE MODE OF DRAWING will be by numbered marbles, placed in a revolving barrel, from
which will be first drawn the numbers securing the 380 .£5 prizes. The marbles drawn will then be
replaced, and the numbers will be drawn securing the 790 £lO prizes, and so on for the several classes
of nrizes’successively, until finally the drawing for the chief prize is effected.
Thus EVERY SHAREHOLDER is entitled to draw for each of the several classes of prizes (18
in all provided the share-list is filled), so that every share has a chance of 18 SEPARATE PRIZES,
with a total value of .£48,153, making it possible for £1 to secure £48,153 worth.
The Schedule, which has been carefully prepared, clearly specifies the properties for allotment, and
can be seen at the office of the Society by any Shareholder
TRANSFERS will be handed to successful Shareholders immediately after the ballot, free of all
rates, taxes, or mortgage, and free of any deduction whatsoever.
INTENDING SUBSCRIBERS should apply on accompanying form, and alsoonclosetwoaddressed
stamped envelopes, one of which will be used to return Share Certificate, and the other to send the
rtHU FOR and all particulars apply to Secretary of Society, 186 Queen-street, Brisbane, or T.
A. BOND, Broker, Queen-street, Brisbane ; or care of J. H. WISE, 335« Georgc-street, Sydney
Payment of the sum of .£1 will secure the Allotment
of ONE SHARE in the Society ; the member to
whom any Share is allotted cannot be made liable
to make any further payment on it.
mum
nfsfS
I::;:;:::::::;:::
BALLOT, according to Rules, to be held on
NOVEMBER 2, 1893, in BRISBANE, under
the Supervision of a Committee of Representative
Citizens.
Each SHAREHOLDER, for every Share held by him, will have 18 SEPARATE CHANCES, viz.,
a chance of 18 SEPARATE PRIZES with a total value of <£48,153, so that the Investor of
XI may Secure X 48,153 Worth.
THE MUTUAL INVESTMENT AND BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
gi rs> _piease allot me Shares in the above Society, in terms of attached Circular. I enclose
for payment £ byf also 2{ Stamped Addressed Envelopes for your acknowledgement of
above and advice of result of ballot.
Dated this day of 1893.
Name in full
Address in full
Occupation
t Speeifv here if payment is made by 1’.0.0. or what. Please do not enclose Slamps in payment for
Shares. N.U. P. 0.0. preferred. If Cheque sent, exchange must be added.
J When enclosing stamps for reply postage, if stamps be other than Queensland, do not attach them to
envelope. Amount of stimps may be added 10 P. 0.0. or Cheque, &c.
Register your Letter, and, until acknowledged, hold Post Office receipt.
When Thompson Moore, ex-M.L.A. (Vic.),
had stores at Bendigo and Maldon, 40 years ago,
a Yankee digger'(an ex-“lag” from Tasmania)
asked Moore to put away a bag of gold in his safe
for him. A couple of days later the Murkan
gentleman called and borrowed ,£25 from T.M.,
saying lie wanted to go to Maldon in a hurry.
Moore promptly handed him 25 sovs., but imme-
diately the digger was gone he thought he’d have
a look at the gold. He opened the bag and found
it contained pieces of lead. Moore mounted his
nag quickly and rode off to Maldon. “ Have you
had any visitors lately?” said he to his partner.
“Only Jim Wilson, the Yankee,” was the reply.
“Did he borrow anything?” “Forty pounds.”
“Then you’re struck!” “No fear,” said the
partner, “I’ve got his gold !” “Let’s see it,”
said Moore. The partner produced another bag
of lead, which Tasmanian Jim had previously
placed in his care. Even now Moore Bros, would
be glad to hear of Mr. James Wilson.
As will be seen in our advertising columns,
“ Gala,” the well-known and popular sweep pro-
moter, draws the attention of subscribers to the
fact of his address being changed to “ Gala,” care
of H. Alexander, Box 171, G.P.0., Brisbane,
Queensland, which is rendered necessary by the
provisions of the new Postal Act, which is in-
tended to stop letters coming through the post
addressed to any sweep promoters in N.S.W., but
which cannot affect any letters addressed to
another province.
About a year ago a West Coast (M.L.)
town used to be haunted by a hard-looking digger
who came in at short intervals to indulge in a
drunk that was simply awful in its intensity. It
was notoriously a poor, hungry region for the
solitary digger; almost the only gold obtained
there was by sundry big sluicing companies, and
the lonesome pick-and-shovel artist seldom made
enough to have two respectable orgies per annum.
Yet this particular “hatter” used to have a tear
about once a fortnight; he paid for it in gold, too,
but wherehis reef was located noone could discover.
H e was reticent when sober, and acast-iron sphinx
when drunk. But he had one friend—the editor
of the local paper—and one day, to the astonish-
ment of that impecunious pressman, he came to
his office with a proposition. He had found a
rich reef which, he asserted, was both large
and apparently permanent, and if the paper
man could get up a company to buy it at a
big figure he could have half the profits. The
editor closed the bargain there and then, and, in
addition, he fell on the neck of that hard case and
wept tears of joy. Then it was agreed that as
soon as the miner had finished his present orgy
they should go out together and see the find. It
was 10.30 a.m. when the bargain was struck, and
at 3.45 p.m. the same day the digger deliberately
blew his head a distance of 60 yards with a plug of
dynamite, and took his golden secret with him to
another and a brighter world. No one has ever
found the reef since. The editor toils on in his
dingy office, and thinks dismally of his lost for-
tune, and now and then, on moonlight nights, he
goes out to the cemetery, with a faint hope that
the unquiet ghost of his partner may rise from the
dead and tell him where the plant is located. But
no ghost ever rises.
A blight example of perseverance and
business enterprise is now doing a long term in a
Maoriland gaol. A year or two ago he was a
prosperous storekeeper in a town on the West
Coast. On the other side of the street was a big
warehouse, and somehow the storekeeper began
to hunger after the contents of it. So he sank a
shaft in a room behind his shop and spent his
nights patiently and laboriously tunnelling acros s
the road, and humping buckets of earth away
through his back gate. He carried most of the
earth about half a mile before he found a place
where he could plant it without arousing suspicion.
It was a gigantic piece of work and its value, at
ordinary miners’ wages, would almost have bought
the whole warehouse. When he got underneath
the coveted Naboth’s vineyard he cut through the
floor in a dark corner and fitted a trap-door so
that he could get in and out unobserved, and then
he took to coming in at night and making away
with all manner of things which he couldn’t sell,
and which were of no earthly use to him. He
took anything which came to hand—baby-linen,
clothes-pegs, pickaxes, ladies’ boots, bonnets ; he
was about the most omnivorous kleptomaniac on
record. But, at last, one night, as he opened
his trap-door, he overset a detective who hap-
pened to be standing just alongside, and the
detective fell upon his head, and they both fell
back into the tunnel, and there the midnight
visitant was captured. Any ordinary jury would
have resolved that it was a case of one-half klepto-
mania and one-half plain lunacy, but he chanced
to fall into the hands of twelve solid old property-
holders, and they lagged him in cold blood for
seven years.
The Columbian Land Distribution adver-
tised on another page finally closes on 30th June,
that is to say any letters posted in any part of the
Australasian provinces up to or On that date, will
participate in the drawing which will take place
in July, and the result will be advertised in the
papers. Our readers should not miss such a
golden opportunity but apply for a share at once.
Solomon was badly wanted the other day
in the Marylebone (London) Police-court. A lady,
in affluent circumstances, was summoned for fail-
ing to support her mother, that old lady being
penniless and an inmate of the workhouse. For
the defence, the daughter proved that her means
consisted entirely of an annuity left her by a dis-
tant relative. This relative had proposed to the
mother many years before, and, being rejected, he
had preserved an undying animosity towards her
for ever afterwards. When he died he got level
with his enemy by leaving his fortune in the hands
of trustees, the interest to be paid to his ancient
love’s daughter on the one cast-iron condition
that she did not permit the hated old woman to
live with her, and that she gave her neither
money, clothes, nor any other assistance what-
ever. If she even sent an ounce of tea to the aged
crone in the workhouse, the annuity would
straightway become forfeit. Therefore, as she
seriously pointed out to the bench, if she was
compelled to contribute to her mother’s support,
with the very first contribution she would lose her
own sole means of support, and would have to go
into the workhouse herself for the rest of her life.
The magistrate scratched his head desperately,
and then, seeing no way out of it, adjourned
the case sine die. If he had been the Solomon that
such a case required he might have ordered that
the defendant should slander the old lady periodi-
cally, and then be required to pay her damages by
prearrangement. Or he might have given his
verdict that she should send her money anony-
mously, in profound secresy, and unknown to
anybody except herself, and that the recipient
shouldn’t know where it came from. Or, again,
he might have directed that the old lady should
get married to a paralytic male pauper, and that
the daughter, while absolutely disowning her
mother, should allow him, say, 20s. a week, and
then he could have made an order against the
paralytic to pay 15s. weekly to his aged wife,
leaving him the balance with which to drown his
misery. There are several other possible solutions
of the problem, but apparently the Marylebone
beak was unequal to any of them.


□
B2SK
, T /. 8 well-known to the public of Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), of 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
prepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
AX.FALIIE VITALITY TILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate-
ful cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint.
The ALFALIHIa VITALITY FILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of
Memory, Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and all other Affec-
tions of the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended to all sufferers
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
Preserve this Valuable Page : Wh@ Mmanac for the remainder of the CJeiatiiry.
,
R. ADASVIS ES€|., the well-known and
popular representative of the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose tes-
timony carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rassmussen
Dear Sir, —I think it my duty to inform you that a course
of your Alfaliue Vitality Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence, I have recommended them to
many friends who have all been cured by their use.
Very truly yours, R. ADAMS LUCKHAM.
HERR RASSIUSSEN’S
Head Office
547
GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
fd
o
o'
O
PRESENTEOToQ
Testiimoxiiai,!
Herr Rassmossen, Parliament House, Sydney.
Dear Sir, —I can truthfully assert that since using your Eucalyptus
Oil. and Rheumatic Pills, I have experienced an immunity from my attack
of Sciatica. I have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a
number of my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I have the
honor to remain, yours truly, E w O’SULLIVAN, M.L.A.
HERR RASSMDSSEH’B
Head Office
547
GEORGE ST.
SYDNEY
•o
ty*,
W.
>°«S5
/
o/^>
syyyy
mm.
<9k v^/
3>t
wsit/iv
IMS,
/j/j&S,.
yy
WM3
m
V
»
«•
Via
7', J ?.Sn£°i
?J0
/o
/®i
%&&
®/IS/50,27.
r* ® g, J |OT
7h'y V f
m
mfi.
«
w
w
(24/si
j?/6as
Kll
013
©?i«
So/..'
a 9i
[23jSO
Ml
3(1017:24l'.
ijtewS
f bm- 2
4|11;18
111826
4111825.’.'
5121926
(512192
61320
132027
T 6152027L’.'
J |7)uby..
7114j21
Ml d
81622
i1520'27f.!
5181522
91623 30
y lu 23
1017124
6121926
81320 VT
7 uaM J
7114
si 1 sUWao
2 91©23i30
T I Tii'i aril
vtf W B\ls 3
/] ■ \2 91623301 «sq
14.* Iq 101724 31
W SSS
9102330
¥ telOillK 81
Ig 141111325^
¥B««
,41111825
T . 4 Li A'i ‘"
,g If. 1219,26 ••
1 * 1320271-■
,111825
1219126
SsSSSI
132027’;-
219
s *W9r\p
fiw
:■ lu ll •
s $1421128’
>ii s
SV^II
,512229
,77
a\l4
•j 23
&
mm
m
im
m
A AS
<HSp
lOW„!
y»
rtSP
v«& 9
yi
&
V 3
3Sg
\3>.<vVy
sa«
yy
mm
/ \\Aj’AA\
XAA'qJ
4«
/c&x«&
TAW
iw
A
Hi
m
m
m
ft W BASSMUS^
&
fr
&
JUNE
HHHi
mi
s<f>
(t'CC CS
C 2
•®p r ®'®3
c^os
'i,' to *S S'-S'SO
co^H^
HP*
jcniebia^
(f
05^
£<*
SS
Ag?
sn
s#,
« .■s
v^;
*• .
gH&HPmo
'-tpHb
IcoS
i&a>
>• .-•■
9s&
&t
o
«rt=^>
»
<6 C- CO 05
!&'<s
>-4 03 C0^&
n&
«Sl*£
ilfe
at
XX
‘Xfc' iV V’.\C
C*»
</4>
' as
\ < 5wS>,W
! 3
sr*
S2S
&
t»/yj
w
\<V.
»
® C 3
■&3S
$4-
anPfi
fogi' CO«E<fec J »,'.
V"
COS
■Z-V&Jj.
■>v
41INE. JULY.
&a»
PSSO
AUn
joir
’5-' t C
>5:
!>A
I "
**
m
;
fV£
■$K
feNJI
-XV’
S£g
V* \\X'v’,#. , X
*x®>> -
OX*
THE CELEBRATED
DANISH HERBALIST
DISCOVERER and
sole; PROPRIETOR of the
REGISTERED & PURELY HERBAL
ALFALINE REMEDIES
CURED OYER 100,000 SUFFERERS ™
BLOOD and NERVES
IVQ3IAI QIOD
Wl
w.
w
sw/
£7
s
apaiaaa
it?
&
Nvismvd
PARISIAN
GOLD MEDAL
Awarded the HIGHEST PRIZE and GOLD MEDAL of the ICADEMIE PARISIENHE DES IKVERTEURS, FRANCE
LIST OF THE REGISTERED ALFALINE HERBAL REMEDIES
HOW TO
CURE THE NERVES
TAKE A COURSE OF
—£} ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS {f-
Guaranteed to Cure
nervousness, weakness,
DESPONDENCY, DEBILITY,
NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA, LOSS 0F MEMORY,
WEAK BRAIN AND NERVES.
Boxes- 6s*. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
AlfaJine Complexion Beautifier. A
guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for eradicating
‘Pimples and Freckles, and wonderful” for Beautifying
the Complexion. Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfialinc Eucalyptus Pastillas.— Excellent
for Colds, Coughs, Asthma, Bronchitis and Consump-
tion. Pleasant to take. Boxes, is.; posted, is. 6d.
Alfaline Ointment. —A certain remedyfor all
kinds of Sores, Burns, Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers
and all Affections of the Skin. Boxes, is. and as.;
posted, is. 6d. and as. 6d.
Porous Plasters. — These Plasters are espe-
cially powerful, and will relieve pain almost instantly,
is. each; posted, is. 6d.
“ The Natural Doctor.”— A valuable Medi-
cal Work by Herr Rassmussen, which contairfs much
valuable advice and many useful hints on all com-
plaints. Price, is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior to any
other. Posted, is. 6d. per bottle.
Aifaline Liver and Kidney Pills.— Excel-
lent for Indigestion and Costiveness. Boxes, is.;
posted, is. 6d.
Aifaline Rheumatic Pills. —Guaranteed to
cure Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica and Lumbago.
Boxes, posted 35., 65., 125., and 235. 6d.
Aifaline Asthma and Cough Pills.—A
Wonderful Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Consumption,
Bronchitis and Influenza. Boxes, posted, 35., 65.,
12s. and 235. 6d.
Aifaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
—A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turn-
ing grey and falling off, and wonderful for producing
rapidly luxuriant beards and moustaches. Posted,
3S. and 6s.
Aifaline Universal Pills.— A wonderful Re-
medy, which acts on the whole system. Boxes,
posted, is. 6d., 35., 65., 125., 235. 6d., and 435. 6d.
FREE PAMPHLET.
Send for Herr RasSmttssen’s Free Pamphlet, which
contains much valuable advice and many useful hints.
HOW TO
CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
lock pillsk-
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFEEGTIONS,
SOKES, BOILS AND PIMPLES,
ECZEMA, SALT KITE CM,
OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES,
AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes-6s. and 125., posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
SPECIAL POWERFUL COURSE, 435. 6d.
HERR RASSKSEN’S HEAD CFFICE i 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
CHIEF BRANCHES:
150 BOURKE STREET
MELBOURNE
160 QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE
154 RUNDLE STREET
ADELAIDE
91 LAMBTON QUAY
WELLINGTON, N.Z*


ESTABLISHED 1849.
AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established In Australasia, and the only one which
itar~ DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT. M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT.
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., P.F.A.
Annual Income* Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYmSTBY,
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
PLEMINGTON, JULY 15, 1898.
5 0,000 at 10 50,000
i ONLY ADDRESS:
“ TAT I KISSAM.”
C/oGeo, Ai)a.ms(Owner), Tatter-
sail’s 11 otel & Old Club Premises,
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W.
ADAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extenoive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to tbo
JL above old-established and popular Hotel being now
arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
C ’tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
FitHnns Furnishings and Surrounding* of a superior
qi a’it’y. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’HAte DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fitting*. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
y»ltt street, Sydney.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-CLYGOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
That goods art free from Animal Germs and http good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
iiniiineßuiuiuO
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One <• “THE CRESCENT,” situated Klj
3EORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
;he “POST OFFICE,” situated 60 KINO STREET,
ind near the General Post Office.
Proprietor
CEO. W. CUTS.
M.&J. MOLONEY,
13ta PITT STREET (near King Street*,
(opposite Otmsler*s)
S Y ID U E Y.
tW Commissions Executed on following i
MOOREFIELD, NEXT SATURDAY.
TRAMWAY and MOO HKPIELD,
170 TO 1.
Straight-Out o» Each Etwct.
FLEMINGTON, 15th Alt© 18th JULY.
V.R.C. Grand National Hnrdlo and Steeple,
200 TO 1.
V-R O* Derby and Melbourne Chip,
200 TO 1-
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE,
IW~ THREE CHANCES.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Work",
Sydney, June 27,1898.
Tenders for public works and
supplies.
For Condition*, m« Qotbknmewt Oaxetts.
TENDERS for the Works, *•., specified below
rill be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
~tn. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY IS.
Reconstruction of Timber Footbridge at Candelo
Bridge, West Maitland (Long Bridge
Bridge, Stoney Creek, road Bega to Bod alia—
time extended
Bridge, Dry Creek, road Bega to Bodalla—Mme
extended
Supply of Cables for Tramway, King-street to
Ocean-street
WEDNESDAY, JULY Vi.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
SPECIAL FINAL NOTICE.
i'-Y
SETTLEMENT OF THE PEOPLE ON THE LAND!
Columbian Land Distribution * 1893
SUB-DIVISION OP THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
NAMBROK & MELTON PARK.
250,000 SUBSCRIBERS of £1 EACH.
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments.
£1 may return £53,324= worth.
-
pill
I
.
g—ii
mmm
:
• - v-AI
mmm.
NAMBROK HOUSE.
£1 may return £58,324 wcrth.
The following gentlemen. In conjunction with 10 Shareholders and representatives of the Press, will be present at
the ballot, to take place about June 30(IMMEDIATELY APPLICATIONS POSTED ON JUNE 30 COME TO HAND):
—P. P. LABERTOUCHE, Esq., Melbourne; MAJOR C. M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq.,
Adelaide ; Captain J. WHITNEY Auckland, N.Z
Clear Titles will be transferred to winners of properties free of all cost.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.— Any shareholder winning property No. 1 who shall have applied for a share or
shares on any dale after May 10, 1893, will, in addition, receive a cash bonus of £l5OO (for stocking purposes, &o.).
Properties 2 and 3 will benefit to the extent of £375 and £ll2 10s. respectively on the same condition. Should the
full complement of subscribers not be obtained, prizes will be allotted pro rata, prize No. 1 to be included.
Applications for shares should be made by registered letter to E. J. Dk BOMFORD, care J. H. Astrop, Marl-
borough Chambers, O’Connell-street, Sydney, N S. W. State amount forwarded. Prospectus showing sub-divided
plans, with sent on receipt of addressed and etamped envelope.
First Prize .. .. £30,000
Second Prize ... ~> 12,000
Third Prize M - 7,000
Fourth Prize .. 3,000
Fifth Prize .. .. £2,000
Sixth Prize .. .. 1,600
113 Prizes .. each £1,050
9 Prizes
120 Prizes ..
3 Prizes
100 Prizes ..
.. £560 to £990
.. each £550
.. £B4O to £540
.. each £24
TOTAL ESTIMATED VALUE, £250,000.
Each Share haa a chance of winning- 11 separate properties, that is to say, each series of properties are drawn
for separately.
NAMBROK is on the Latrobe River, Qippsland, close to the Rosedale Railway Station; rich land, suitable for
agricultural, fattening, and dairy purposes.
MELTON PARK, 2} miles from the Railway Station and 2t milce from Melbourne, in the famous agricultural
district of Bacchus Marsh.
Coltuxxl3la.n. I«axidL Distribution.
PIE AS* ALLOT ma.
Address.
Name
... Shares.
IM.
To E. ,7. m ef» J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O'Connell-st., Sydney.
Please make remittance by Postal Note or P. 0.0. It by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed
envelope with stamp for reply. Do not attach stamp if other than N.S.W. (Cost of stamp may be added to
P. 0.0.) Register your letter. <
Special Notice !
APPLICATIONS must be POSTED not Later than JUNE 30.
ADAM BEDE’S
Oonaultations.
All th« Tear Round on Principal Events.
(htr Printed Circulart Posted to any Address,
CAUTION.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to b«
careful of a PERSON SENDING out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY
■TO
A.d.am Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
5. EACH.
Kg
5. EACH
gdf
g
dfg
<W TTTB
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE.
July 15, 1893.
Flr*t 1900 Second, 500 ; Third, 2SO ; S. (d.), COO ; NS.
(d v 400 ; «0 at, 20, 400 ; 60 at 10, 500 ; 100 at 5, 600; 176
Consolation Prizfl at 2 each, 350.
Important Notice.— ln consequence of tjta new
Postal Aot coming in force July Ist, wc have been coni,
polled to change our address as below. Remittances by
Cheque, P. 0.0., Postal Notes. Stamps, or Cash inpay-
ment for tickets as before.
ADDRESS-" GALA,'' o/o. H. Alext
O.PO. Brisbane. Q
Alexander, Box 171,
£49,460 worth for £l.
MONSTER FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST SHAREHOLDER IN THE
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—los,ooo Shakes at £l,
Anyone Can Apply !!
No Liability !!!
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Committee ;
Hon. B. B. MORETON, Hon. JOHN DON-
ALDSON, J. .1. KINGSBURY, Esq., M.A.,
M.L.A., JAMES HIP WOOD, Esq., J.P.,
AITCHESON OVEREND, Esq., C.E.
Solicitor Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.O.
2403 PRIZES Valued as Under :
No. 1. —Magnificent Offices and Banking
Chambers, corner of Albert and Adolaide-streots,
at cost ; rental value, .£l5OO a year.’
Noe. 3to 2403. —Residences, Shops, &•,, and
Picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
J of £lO, WO
luf 5,000
4of 2,600
sof 1,000
5 of £5OO
10 of 250
50 of 100
100 of 50
100 of £25
125 of 20
1000 of 10
1000 of 5
Total, J 0105,000. No deduction ! Clear Title*!
Apply to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORHiE & CO., Queen street, BRISBANE.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
Stamped Addressed Envelopes. Register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of IS
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49,460 worth.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Blazes, the galloway, entered in the Caulfield
and Melbourne Cups, was backed for (he Galloway
Handicap, at Canterbury, last week, but was unable to
run nearer than third. If his running was true, he could
not win either of the big handicaps with a postage-stamp
on his back.
• # *
That newly-made American citizen, Maorilander
Fitzsimmons, up to time of writing, refuses to meet
Choynski. The only man over middleweight whom
he will meet is Corbett, as he reckons it is worth having
a go at the big gun, and a defeat would not jeopardize
his middleweight title.
« tt «
Strange that Geo. Giffen’s two big scores were
probably the cause of the Australians not scoring a win,
as in both matches the Englishmen just managed to play
out time, while, if Giffen had scored 100 less in each inn-
ings, time w'ould have been allowed to get the Biitishers
out. In the real test matches, George has scored consis-
tently low.
• * •
The Re-Handicap is the latest fad. The winners
of Metropolitans and Caulfield Cups, it is proposed, shall
be re-handicapped for Melbourne Cups. But Metropolitan
and Caulfield Cup winners rarely or ever win Melbourne
Cups.
• • *
Capt. Webb, owned by the Gollan crowd, which
was heavily backed in doubles vvith everything for the
Nationals, has dropped out. So far it has happened that
almost whenever the public back Qollnn’s horses Stern-
chaser, Kimberley, and Capt. Webb, for instance —they'go
down.
* • •
Joy and gladness amongst certain tipsters. A
bran-new “mug,” said to lie the son and heir, of a
deceased London legal luminary, has burst upon the
sporting flrmanent. Cables per Reuter promptly yi< Id
him telegraphic remittances of from £5OO to £lOOO. One
nigger-sharp had over £6OO from him last week to put on
horses whose names were such dead stable secrets as not
to be revealed until after the races had been decided.
Every one of the nig’g selections on behalf of the “ Jay ”
has run second so far. Isn’t it hard luck ?
# • •
Before leaving Melbourne each member of the
Australian Eleven signed an agreement to the effect that
if incapacitated hv his own act from taking part in any
match he should' forfeit £5O of his share of the prize
money. At Colombo a t eam was picked, hut one member
thereof found the wiles of the native barmaid too strong,
and was lost to the sight of his companions for a day and
a half. In the Mediterranean he also “ performed ” at
the bar in great style.
* • *
“The friends of the Australians treated them
too kindly before the match with Lord Sheffield’s team
Night after night they were teted. No wonder they were
caught out, bowled out—dined out.” —Excuse.
• * *
One of the remarkably few “ straight ” trotting
Owners says trotting is dead in Sydney, and will remain
so as far as he is concerned, for he wall never put a horse
of his on the track again.
# • •
Some of. the Adelaide nags will be well worth
watching in the Melbourne Cup. The S.A. cattle are a
really promising lot, particularly Crorier’s string.
• • •
Lyons, before he left Adelaide, prophesied to
the writer that he would make some big scores at Lords.
So far he has redeemed his pledge, witness 149 against
M.C.C. and Ground, and 83 against the same club on
June 8. Jack says they come down in thousands to see
him "put’em on the pavilion roof.” By the way, the
finest innings Lyons ever played in England was his 99
against All England at Lords in 1890.
• * •
Sydney was horrified when Gov. Duff made his
first official visit to Randwick in a cab.
• # *
When Mirabean, a little fellow of lib. Sin.,
esrries over 12st. to victory, it is ridiculous having big
handicaps at the present weights.
# • •
THE AUSTRALIAN ELEVEN IN ENGLAND,
Match aoaixst Middle Britain.
(From an Evening Neictpaper point of view.)
London, July 35.
This morning the Australian team commenced a match
against eleven ol Middle Britain. The weather was fine
and the wicket bard. The Australians winning the toss,
eleoted-to bat.
Lyons had the 111-fortune to be bowled by the first ball,
a calamity which overtook Bannerman in the succeeding
over. ,
Trott and Giffen, however, fairly collared the English
bowling, and the score had been raised to 26 before Giffen
accidently played one on, and retired with 14 to his credit,
the resultof dashing cricket.
Bannerman continued to maintain a splendid defence,
but several of his companions were unluckily caught or
bowled without adding materially to the score. Graham
played a fine, free innings for 11,
1 p.ra.
The Australian innings has closed for 69. This com-
paratively poor total may he attributed to the lameness of
several batsmen who would otherwise hav* scored heavily.
The others were severely handicapped by not feeling well.
jMemo.—However, £. £. Smith is in England, fortu-
-2.30 p.m.
The Englishmen have Just opened their inning* under
peculiarly favourable circumstances. The wicket, as it
now transpires, was soft and treacherous whilst the Aus-
tralians were in, but has since worked itself into splendid
condition. Brown and Jones are batting steadily, and the
score now stands at 102. The Australian fielding is gener-
ally admired.
\ 4 p.m.
A magnificent catch at the wicket disposed of Brown
when he had obtained 156 by flukey play. The Australian
eaplain evidently made a mistake in not sending the Eng-
lishmen to the wicket first, as they would have been all
out for 0. At present the score stands at 236 for the loss
of one wicket, a great misfortune for the Australians.
Without their Griffo t! ■ Sydney Rocks push
has become unbearable. It seems that he provided
it with a safety-valve.
# • •
The growing importance of pony-racing can be
Judged from the fact that many good jockeys have for it
lately abandoned the other game.
* # *
When a drunk reaches the station with a broken
collarbone, the policeman his, perhaps, been practising
the “ hammerlock.” This kind of thing was prevalent in
Melbourne a few years ago, when Prof. Miller was in-
structing the 1 ' foorce ”in wrestling.


ESIAIUSHEB )876.
ASTHMA
CURE
I WRITS *OR
/ D«
/ HAIR’S
1 TREATISE
«»
ASTHMA
f
gf
ompsit
SYDNEY: EillOltBfP?
AN E
IS
7,Sharlana&-(
ft (? , Sirs,
. l»m|-
'mHaeem/Testimi
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. AND S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board of N.S/W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
— at—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
ODB DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
SUEGERT.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s,
- Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVIGORATE
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOVS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ I think them such very
good stays, and those yon sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “If, is'the Queen
of Corsets. They arc delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.R.C.P., Edin , says lie be-
lieves it, is the best invention of the bind for
improving tbe carriage and appearance of tbe
figure without the injurious effects of tbe ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 1?,
Oluremout, Hastings, England,
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
* Bo X»
g
THE CELEBRATED CH.LDREN’S SWEET
C<?iuf £ r / (c/ic..
i Lancet, a
IjL „ o'aa'a 'Tories, Loudon, W.C,
a
WHAT CURES PIMPLES
Tlie only really successful prevent*
ive and cure of pimples, blotches,
blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin,
and most complexional disfigurations,
is that greatest of all Skin Purifiers
and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuti-
CURA Soap. For irritating and scaly
humors of the scalp, with dry or fall-
ing hair, red, rough hands, chaps,
painful finger ends with shapeless
nails, and simple humors of the skin
and scalp of infancy and childhood, it
is simply infallible.
CUTICURA SOAP
A marvellous beautifier of world-wide celebrity, Cuticura Soap is simply incom-
parable as a Skin-Purifying Soap, unequalled for the Toilet, and without a rival for
the Nursery. Absolutely pure, delicately medicated, exquisitely perfumed, it produces
the whitest, clearest skin, and softest hands, and prevents inflammation and clogging
of the pores, the cause of pimples, blotches, blackheads, red and oily skin, and most
complexional disfigurations; It derives its remarkable medicinal properties from
Cuticura, the great skin cure, but so delicately are they blended with the purest of
toilet and nursery Soap stocks that the result is a medicated toilet soap incomparably
superior to all other skin and Complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and sur-
passing in purity the most noted and expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. For the
prevention of facial blemishes, for giving a brilliancy and freshness to the com-
plexion, and for cleansing the scalp and invigorating the hair, it is without a peer.
Bale greater than the combined sales of all other skin soaps. Sold everywhere. 25c.
with Itching and Burning Eczemas, and other itching,
scaly, and blotchy skin and scalp, diseases, arc relieved
by a single application, and speedily, permanently, and
economically cured by G Uti GU TSI R@tD6CiICS, the greatest Skin Cures, Blood Purifiers, and
Humor Remedies of modern times. Price: Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, 50 cents; Cuticura
Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, $l.OO. Prepared by Potter Drug
and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. A. All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and
Hair,” 64 Pages, 300 Diseases, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. '
Skins on Fire
N ESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
. AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Eever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Pro fessor Sidney Ringer , of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended. ” —Prof. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—VoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner. ”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO'S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
( Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
fi
jLUfJ
V, ;!•"
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Nou> ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To lie had only of
M'bn. PANZA, Box 913
0.1’.0., Sydney'.
V
%
n
=3?
L\
I*\
\
ISs
“GRATEFUL RESULTS*’
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennyslvania, U. S. A.
A Life of Suffering and Misery, without
Sleep, without Appetite, with Bowels al-
ways Out of Order.
Restored to Health hy the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Spring. I was grievously afflicted
with Biliousness and Liver Complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every morn-
ing, my tongue thickly coated, my breath was
offensive ; food distrt ssed me, I suffered much
from headache, my skin was sallow, and my
bowels were always out of order. Sleep did
not refresh me, nor did the many remedies,
recommended do me any good. At last I com-
menced using Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and my im-
provement began almost from the first dose. It
relieved the distress about my liver, regulated
my bowels, caused food to pet well on my stomach,
cured mv headache, improved my complexion,
and restored my appetite. These unlocked for,
but grateful, results were accomplished by only
two and a half bottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.”—
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, Altoona, Pa., U. S. A,
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
fg
f
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA. &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CUES JESS COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Unities Is. 1 id. 2s. 9d.,
4s. Od., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAYMAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
An ENTS. —Elliott 8r05.,.8. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
6 6 mALES of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
“PRICE W A RUNG.”
PRICE Is. ... ... by Post Is. 3d.
Another of Mitchell's Plans for the
Future.
(F OR THE BULLETIN.)
“I’ll get down among the cookies along the
Lachlan or some of them rivers,” said Mitchell,
throwing down his swag beneath a big tree. “A.
man stands a better show down there. It’s a
mistake to come out back. I knocked around a
good deal down there among the farms. Could
always get plenty of tucker, and a job if I wanted
it. One cocky I worked for wanted me to stay
with him for good. Sorry I didn’t. I’d have been
better off now. I was treated more like one of
the family, and there was a couple of good-looking
daughters. One of ’em was clean gone on me;
There’s some grand girls down that way. I always
got on well with girls, because I could play the
fiddle and sing a bit. They’ll be glad to see me
when I get back there agen, I know. I’ll be all
right—no more bother about tucker. I’ll just let
things slide as soon as I spot the house. I’ll bet
my boots the kettle will be boiling, and every-
thing in the house will be on the table before I’m
there twenty minutes. And the girls will be
runnin’ to meet the old cocky when he comes
riding home at night, and they’ll let down the
slip-rails, and ask him to guess ‘ who’s up at out
place?’ Yes, I’ll find a job with some old cocky,
with a good-looking daughter or two. I’ll get on
ploughin’ if I can ; that’s the sort of work I like;
best graft about a farm.
“By-and-bye the cooky’ll have a few sheep he
wants shore, and one day he’ll say to me, ‘Jack,
if you hear of a shearer knockin’ round let me
know—l’ve got a few sheep I want shore,*
“ ‘ How many have yer got ?’ I’ll say.
“ ‘Oh, about fifteen hundred.’
“ ‘ And what d’yer think of givin’ ?’
“‘Well, about twenty-five bob a hundred, but
if a shearer sticks out for thirty, send him up to
talk with me. I want to get ’em shorn as soon as
possible.’
1 ‘ ‘ It’s all right,’ I’ll say, ‘ you needn’t bother;
I’ll shear your sheep.’
“ ‘ Why, ’ he’ll say, ‘ can you shear ?’
“‘Shear? Of course I can ! I shore before
you was born.’ (It won’t matter if he’s twice as
old as me.)
“ So I’ll shear his sheep and make a few pounds,
and he’ll be glad and all the more eager to keep
me on, so’s to always have someone to shear his
sheep. But by-and-bye I’ll get tired of stopping
in the one place and want to be on the move, so
I’ll tell him I’m going to leave.
“ ‘ Why, what do you want to go for?’ he’ll say,
surprised, ‘ ain’t you satisfied ?’
“ ‘ Oh, yes, I’m satisfied, but I want a change.’
“ ‘Oh, don’t go,’ he’ll say ; ‘stop on and we’ll
call it twenty-five bob a week.’
“But I’ll tell him I’m off—wouldn’t stay for a
hundred when I’d made up my mind; so, when
he sees he can’t persuade me he’ll get a bit stiff
and say :
“ ‘ Well, but what about that there girl? Are
you goin’ to go away and leave her like that ?’
“‘Why! What d’yer mean?’l’ll say, ‘Leave
her like what ?’ (I won’t pretend to know what
he’s driving at).
“ ‘ Oh !’ he’ll say, ‘ You know very well what I
mean. The question is : Are you going to marry
the girl or not ?’
“ I’ll see that things are gettin’ a little Warm
and that I’m in a corner, so I’ll say :
“‘Why, I never thought about it. This is
pretty sudden and out of the common, ain’t it ? I
don’t mind marrying the girl if she’ll have me.
Why ! I ain’t asked her yet!’
“‘Well, look here,’ he’ll say, ‘lf you agree to
marry the girl—and I’ll make you marry her, any
road—l’ll give you that farm over there and a
couple of hundred to start on.’
“So, I’ll marry her and settle-down and be a
cocky meself: and if you ever happen to be
knockin’ round there hard-up, you needn’t go short
of tucker a week or two; but don’t come knockin’
round the house when I’m not at home.’’
HENRY LAWSON.
Sydney iXT*. declares that the Broken
Hill strike-leaders and the busted-bank artists are
in prison “for branches of the same offence.”
Wanted, a democratic daily paper.
A good-looking and young person, in-
directly concerned in the recent N.S.W. “ long
firm ” case has caused, it is said, much mental and
bodily anguish to certain official and legal digni-
taries.
Maoriland’s dependency, Rarotonga—one
of the Hervey Group—has a resident named Moss,
who, ever since his appointment, has sustained
the fierce wrath of the local sky-pilots for per-
mitting, under certain restrictions, the sale of
liquor to natives. The missionaries petitioned to
have the island removed from the jurisdic-
tion of the Maoriland to that of the Imperial
Government. This, if successful, would mean
that Moss would have to “git,” and some hungry
English place-hunter be appointed to act in his
stead —under the thumb of the missionaries. For
a wonder, the English authorities couldn’t see it.
“ Likely to give offence to Maoriland,” was the
polite reply. Rarotonga, by the way, is the scene
of “Martyr” Williams’ earliest triumph. This
mad enthusiast converted some fiveor six thousand
natives in as many years. Then whole ship loads
of heavy black garments and coal-scuttle bonnets
were sent out from England, and every quondam
heathen “went about clothed and in his right
mind.” Consequence—in a few years, some two
thousand of them died from pulmonary complaints
engendered by the fatal change. Then Williams,
in his “Missionary Labours,” wept over it, and
said that the “ hand of the Lord has indeed been
heavy on his people. ”


Drin/C
gf
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
THEREFORE THE BEST.
ff f )) IfCvp-
W\)vL
■m
!..-i3
YM
'//.■
WA
msm£
m
A
ryy. ''(V//i•V'''''
mkm
m
Hhi,
V'-,
m
mm
B Ufa If jiii
• • /a v//JF\ IP •. v
c\;
W.
v-i
i
CncO^
V#,
%
*y.
r
a
miit-
The Man from Monte Carlo.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Several journalists were talking in the
bar-room of a Melbourne hotel; also drinking.
Amongst them was a man with dead-pale face,
and dull, dark eyes. He looked curiously like
that eminent short-card player, Tarbou, who some
years ago carried away with him to other climes
a large amount of Australian floating capital.
The talk, after many meanderings, turned upon
gambling, and the pale-faced man at once took the
floor. His eyes lit up as though the electric-light
had been suddenly turned on behind them. His
face became almost phosphorescent. His long
white hands made strange, involuntary motions
which suggested the shaking of a dice-box, strokes
with a billiard cue, nervous clutching at stakes
piled upon a green table, sorting of cards. He
was transformed—demonised into a personification
of the Genius of Gambling.
M‘Ginnis had been telling a story about a game
of euchre which he said he had once played in the
Islands with Bully Hayes, using the glistening,
bronze back of a Samoan girl as a table. The
girl, he said, was the stake.
It was an excellent and edifying story, as
M‘Ginnis told it, and we all thought that he had
never lied better in his life. But the pale-faced
man wanted to know what the other stake was.
“My life,” replied M'Ginnis quietly, lifting
his nose out of his pewter.
“Ah,” said the other, stroking his black mous-
tache, “and what did you do with the girl?”
“I ate her,” answered M'Ginnis, who hated
being cross-examined over any of his yarns.
The pale-faced man expressed no surprise.
Lighting a cigar and leaning his arm on the
marble mantelpiece of the bar-room, with his face
turned sidewise, so that a Mephistopheles seemed
to be looking askance at the company out of the
gilt-edged mirror, he remarked, “Yes, it would
have been a pity to have wasted her—as I wasted
Marie,” he added after a pause, during which he
finished his beer.
“ Who was Marie?” we all enquired in a breath.
# • •
“ Marie,” said the pale-faced man, wafting a
little cloud of smoke away on the surface of a
sigh, “ Marie was the idolised only daughter of a
French Duke ”
“ Chiffonier, you mean,” sneered little Topley,
of the evening press, shrugging his small shoulders.
We allowed Topley to shrug his shoulders on the
strength of his claim to be a French scholar.
“ She loved me,” continued the other, ignoring
the interrupt'on, “ me and champagne and rouge-
et-noir —but chiefly champagne and rouge-et-noir.
She came to my arras out of a convent —by a rope-
ladder—and we fled to Monte Carlo. Her father,
the duke ’
“ The chiffonier,” corrected Topley.
“Hired s veral noted duellists to fight me. I
fought and defeated them all.”
“ Hurt ’em much ? ” enquired M'Ginnis with an
affectation of tragic interest.
“ Only one,” answered the pale-faced man.
“ He made himself ill afterwards with coffee, for
which I paid.”
“ But about Mane ?,”
“ Marie and I, if you will allow me to tell the
story ” —M’Ginms promptly extinguished Topley
with his own hat—“ took rooms at a swell hotel in
Monte Carlo. I had some coin, and she had her
jewels. Besides, I had money at my banker’s in
London to fall back upon if luck went against us.”
We all smiled, but nobody said anything.
* * *
“ I had a system, of course.” He spoke of
it as though it were the Solar System. “Marie
also had a system. It ruined us. Mine was a
mature mathematical method, calmly and logically
thought out; hers was a feminine combination of
superstition and caprice. The result was that she
lost as fast as I won—faster, in fact. But we had
a glorious time, while it lasted. During the day
we drove about in an open carriage filled with
flowers—the beautiful, expensive flowers of Monte
Carlo. We had champagne for breakfast, and
luncheon, and dinner; also, for supper. I never
drank so much champagne in my life. But at
length a day came when I staked my last five-
franc piece, and lost it. Marie’s jewels had gone,
and we owed money at the hotel where we
were staying. I didn’t know whether the pro-
prietor would stand it or not, but I told her to
dress for dinner, as usual. She did, and we got
through safely. That evening I telegraphed to
London, and next morning I asked the manager
of the gambling shop to lend me some money to
carry on with in the meantime. I had only in-
tended to ask him for a hundred francs, but he
offered me two hundred and fifty, and I took them
without a blush. Of course, I had to show him
my letters before he ‘parted.’ I went back to the
hotel and threw the money into Marie’s lap. She
immediately suggested champagne, and a carriage,
and flowers, and a round of shopping. I was
agreeable, and we returned in the evening without
a franc. Neither of us had thought about paying
the hotel-bill.”
“Trust you for that,” remarked little Topley,
emerging from his hat.
£
* # ' •
“ I had received no reply to my telegram,
and I was afraid to ask the manager of the gamb-
ling shop for another loan. But we were in such
a desperate fix that something had to be done.
So I ordered another bottle of champagne, and
owed for it. Then I went to the tables to kill
time by looking at the play. The manager
frowned at me, and the croupiers regarded me
coldly. I wandered around from the rouge-et-noir
to the roulette tables like a ghost. At one of
them was a young German Jew, with a pile of
gold in front of him. I could have cheerfully
assassinated him. I would have sold myself,
body and soul, for five-and - twenty francs.
My system never seemed surer to me than it
did then. I was as certain as that I was alive
that if I had enough to start with I could break
the bank. It was simply maddening to think
that I had to walk about and look at others
winning money which, by right, should be mine.
I could stand it no longer, and, taking my courage
in both hands, went to the manager and asked
him for a further loan. He scowled at me savagely
—and the next moment his face became radiant
with amiability. A telegraph-messenger had
thrust an envelope into my hand. I tore it open
with ferocious eagerness, and then, with a smile
of disdain, passed it to the manager. He glanced
at it, laughed gently, told me that he had never
doubted my word for an instant, and said that if
lie had looked black at me, it was only a way that
he had at times. The sum wired to me was five
thousand francs—all the money I bad in the
world. I divided it with Marie, and wo agreed to
have a final flutter that night and then leave
Monte Carlo. We did have a final flutter, with a
vengeance.” ;
The pale-faced man paused in his narra-
tive, and meditatively emptied Topley’s pewter.
“ What happened then ? ” we asked.
‘‘Red.” he replied, wiping his moustache.
Marie lost her lofc, and I lost mine —every sou of
it! Less than an hour afterwards I found her
making preparations to elope with the young
German Jew, who had won a fortune.”
“ What did you do? ” enquired one of the com-
pany.
“ Shot her,” was the brief reply.
“And what became of you, then?” said
M'Ginnis.
“I committed suicide,” calmly answered the
Man from Monte Carlo.
CREEVE ROE.
Editor Bulletin, —The Reasonable Rent
League, formed at the Queen’s Statue, Sydney,
one wet day last week, lays itself out to get even
with landlords. If Parliament were not a lame
and impotent institution of gabblers, there would
not now be more reason for a league against land-
lords than for leagues against other members of
the community with goods or conveniences to sell.
The landlord, by exercising special powers, invites
a special assault. The league proposes to induce
tenants to pay landlords only pro rata with the
butcher, the baker, and the other tradesmen; and
if the landlord insists, as he does at present,
on being paid in full, though everybody
else go without, then the league says “ Pay
him nothing.” The landlord will then send
m his bailiff, and thereupon begins trouble.
The league will depute half-a-dozen men who will
keep the law but spoil the sale. These men will,
after the sale, provide the tenant with necessaries
to maintain continued occupancy. Not even an
ejectment summons will end the business. And
when one tenant is ejected another will go in to
repeat the same performance. Sydney landlords
would have done better by accepting the Bill
offered to Parliament in the last couple of sessions
than by insisting on the exercise of a prerogative
which their class acquired when property was
everything and men’s lives nothing.— Jason.
Dear Bulletin, —You say that “ Natural-
ist Bray, of Sydney, has settled in the affirmative
the long-disputed question of the cannibalism of
snakes.” This is a mistake. Bray has “settled”
nothing of the kind. Fifteen years ago I knew
and proved that Australian snakes killed and ate
each other, and no later than three years ago, at
Oootamundra, I caught a ringed snake (VermireHa
annulata) which had swallowed, and immediately
after being placed in a large bottle, disgorged a
half-grown specimen of Typhlops reupelli. A full
report of this discovery was, at the time, published
by S.M. Hekald above my signature. Now we
find Bray, who (bad language here struck out. —
Ed. B.) knows no more about Australian snakes
than—(more bad language omitted.— Ed. B.)
and contradicts himself every time he puts a pen
to paper, laying claim to this discovery, and yelp-
ing out his own praise in the Sydney papers.
Bray has no (much bad language excised); he is
simply (more bad language here cut out). He
never in his life made (bad language deleted)* and
is never likely to (pen run through abusive expres-
sions) ; but he has more than once had the brazen-
faced, jackal-like effrontery to lay claim to
zoological discoveries which, fortunately, the
scientific world knows are mine and mine only,—
Your« ofee., H. J. McCooey, Burragorang, May
20, 18£3. J
The Failure of the Love Bank : A Short
Love Story of the Present.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Boolabin Station is on the Boolabin Creek, an
ana-branch of the Billabong, and the men there
are stickers. They don’t take the sack, they stay.
If you are told to shift, do nothing of the kind ;
just go on witli your work as usual and grin and
bear the vituperation of the boss, but do not let
him see the grin, if he (the boss) is over twelve-
seven. Such is Boolabin, and all the men have
banking accounts.
I never saw the inside of the pass-books except
on one occasion, the climax of this tale of love and
perfidy.
Alfred Brimmer, the horse-driver, had his bank-
book and his billet. I had the river-bank, and no
billet until I was appointed “Jimmy Ducks.” I
soon saw there was Love’s young dream between
Alf. and Susie, the nurse. Susie also had her
account—Government Savings Bank, Bandanna,
I fancy Susie’s amounted to three figures, which,
with Alf. ’s supposed couple of hundreds, would
make a nest-egg for a farm or a bush pub. Mr,
Brimmer banked with the Financial Banking Co,
of Sydney, at the Nightshade branch.
When the smashes began, I noticed the terror
on the young man’s face at each new report of
disaster. He was subject to fits, and always had
one at each downfall. We thought them sham,
and used to rig up a failure for each mail-dav, till
at last the genuine burst-up of the Financial'Bank
of Australasia took place. Now, this is a different
institution from the Financial Banking Co., of
Sydney, although they are indiscriminately called
the “Financial.”
We showed Alfred the heading in the Day and
down he went like a shot possum.
Susie happened to be in the kitchen at the time
and perceived Alf.’s pass-book on the floor. To
snatch and open it was her first thought, but as
we knew they were “ keeping company” we said
nothing and left her to take care of it. Which
she did. Susie gave notice to leave that after-
noon, and I saw her off on the coach. At the
Boolabin pub. I shouted for her, and this was
the last I heard her say : “ No, no, Mr. Scott.
Fair play’s bonny play. I don’t match a hundred
and fifty pounds with four pun ten to play keeps.”
Alf. lives and toils and accumulates untold gold
at the Nightshade Post-office Savings Bank. He
distrusts the Financial.
As I said, the men at Boolabin are stickers.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Dr. Wollaston, Secretary of Customs,
Melb., who was born in WestraJia, relates that lie
once saw a convict attempting to drive a bullock-
team in the bush. One of the leaders stopped,
and wouldn’t budge for oath or punch. The
driver, thereupon, deliberately knelt down—young
Wollaston thought to curse the bullock or ask
pardon for his language—but, no ! it was to bite
a chunk out of the bullock’s face, which was
handier than its heart. The boy went home and
told his pa, a J.P., who deprived the bullock-
puncher of fresh beef for a period.
ToThe Deaf. — A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


Hotel.
I, - *
•*» IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(I'l'om ritt-street to
Cast I ercagli -street),
Between King & Market Sti,
SVDVEV.
I
m
m
m*
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS Se ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding' Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
JVfanagEi!,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
0
PATENT
PILLS.
m
&
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizzmess, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
Itiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
iufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all a pres these Pills are invaluable''
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust j
health. This has been proved by thousands who have |
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by J
Iheir use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac- j
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical |
energy of thehuman frame. These are “FACTS” testified |
continually by members of all classes of society : and i
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated 1
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive time
patient of rest. Let any person give Bebcijam’s Gouon
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Beeeham’s Magic Cough
Pills.
MANH O OX>.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND ITGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by (he use of
gf
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a, century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr BicordB Essence of Life vision's Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debPitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the hum an frame;
In cases of Vis, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope , ,
Agents for AvHt alasia—Perry f Co,, 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy. MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S.'Wales—W. 11. Soul &00., Pitt-st., Sydney.
NOW IN THE PI?ESS.
“ The Last of Six.”
Medical.
ROSE’S
01
$
s.
mmwm
m
©V?
LOTI
IS 50v
w,
rPHIS valuable Lotion, is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
J and SANDV BLIGHT, INFLAMED EVES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficia! and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
DEC. j£* L. 3RLC3SIEOU
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Kata hlished 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
®3P“ Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
EIRVOUS 11EEJ.
,v
\ I \ EUREKA \ !
37
i&V/ELECTRIC BELT...'
V I
V
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwaids. Tins famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improve rants over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what *e represent them to be. Those belts are
made fur the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current Of elect ricliy through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently duel in three months.
It is more co ivenient to wiar than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent peoj 1- throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address;- VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
THEtfNLYI
gf
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, etc.
rr 3xr i .a.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
ows
g
fg
m
lIMI
EPPS’S
(xB ATEFUL—OOMFORTTN G-
COCOA
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—-Try—
‘ I*riee Warung,’
From The Bulletin* are now published and
may be bad of any bookseller? or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. .‘ld. in stamps.
Business Announcements
WATSo®
it
WHISKY
msm
Lwm
wm
mi.
wM&Mh
w
\ »
•*wrs**%
« i
'“Site
Brst on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt s Brewing & Wine & Spirit Co., Limited,
/7,
■/,
I t
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sorer Partt ; "Why did n ’ t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
tW" Coupon with Every Case.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE HOSE
Delicately fragrant as the Eose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAXJ DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, audits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. A 1 KINt ON
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTiON l~ On y genuine with sliield-
ahane blue and yellow label and usual
Trade .nark—a “ W hire nose
and address in lull.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
E STAY at Bruton’s,
jManginog
‘W.A.CrGhjk..
flire 3ES. ISTauglitoia.
{AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
GRANT) lr o .
mmmm
||EW»
fcUCLBOURNH.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 Bs. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Rouble ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. K. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
THE GROSVENOR HOTEL,
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Booms from 6s. Double Rooms from 6s,
Inclusive Tariff 10s. (id., 12s. (id. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL,
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
Os. per DAY. TERMS : 80s. per WEEK,
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
Sydney
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nouparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier A udralian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance;
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti*
cally-oondensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
ana nas become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on tire Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established A us-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it w;is the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nations,
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now aifiicts British humanity.
Against the olanns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aeainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed. *
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and bust, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
WILLIAM Maclkod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances ars payable. Editorial commnni-
ations to be addressed to A. F. Archibald i


Box 103*, G.r.O.
Telephone 9J‘l,
w.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and dectro-plated deeds
—AND—
CTJTLEB'T
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD
Slxow Rooms ;
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK/’
Collins Street, MELBOUENE.
•VTOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
Tales of iJic Austral Tropics,
by
PAVENG,
trice, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Prrr Street, Sydney.
I IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard Square, STcT!OI3SrEI'S?‘.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. M ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—l»s. «<i. per Way, Walter Sidney < late ° f Newcastle), Prop . ’ ’
Look out for “ The Last of Six.’ 7
A
mp 4 ■
o A-
|^p||P||
- >
* A
o c
II
’ S/
U
It. A. Hvrvcy, Agent, US J'Ut-St , Sydney.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A oopy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
silESßfesi
Frue Yanner or Cre concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Macninery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors' and Mining Eequisites.
Proprietor of the “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Worlsa,
PYFvMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
al£ INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
if””
f
irSb-
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LI
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a t rip—rumlise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one's health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house, and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
he—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc, —for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duff’s or Bibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. . I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Fov. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Nay ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Nbab HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
KY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL AND UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents: CURCIEB, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED,
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Short and Pithy Australian Tales by the Adven-
turous Queensland Explorer and well-known
Writer,
Preface Contributed by “ Rolf BoldreWOOd.
