

o
rt*.
AS
XIX
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
9
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS « 5 EACH.
GRANT) NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE. 15th JULY
CAULFIELD CTT, OCTOBER
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (For Horses Only)
20.000 ® 5 Each.
30.000 (<3 5 Each.
50.000 ® 5 Each.
30.000 @ 10 Each.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose—one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
GAI*A,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171. G.P.0., BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
R. Q. WATKIItfS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—pon—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Twining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
u
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
Agents for
lH*ric6
HENRY HEATH.
9s. 6d.
£tfoo&
({EmHMrnfil
v TRADE M«?«
fcune Agents for HEMllf HIGAT.H,
Price &*s. Od.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Traveling ; the Studio and Atelier,
They fall into two or three n6srlig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, (this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet,
gk h. <sz sonxr,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Look Out fob
“THE LAST OF SIX;"
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
ft B P
IFW
rHi
toJLS
rHJ
IP
The Oxford. Hotel, King <g|taro«s , t;, Sydney,
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Phopmetob.
'—THE-,
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
.11 ILK
CREAM ..
ICE
BUTTER -
FISH
KAMI)
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac. ..
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Hegd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony,
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
®SILK, ICE, BUTTER,?
FISH, GAME.
Poultry, Pastry, eto.
11. PATESOY,
Ist July, 1893. Manager.
WALKER’S WHISK!. ALLSIPP’S ALE.
JOHN J303XT13 STIEtHESJEST, S~Se-JZ>3KT Ml'Sr.
J. SC. C. HOWARD.
Sole A.gent3 in SSTo'W - South ■W'alea fo** UwSlesgsx-s. Clayton aauMLcl SSixua. sfc'loworth.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
M
vtteiiiHnmn;::::
WITH HANDLES,
0 H DIN ARY ST EEH AGE,
■ J and governor steerage,
Also in Riding.
-
m
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
m
. . .
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.VV.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Si mi-Poriable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Hndertyp^JSngiiies: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chuff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters,
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
gigh'ness in graught , Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
luted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. eacftT
wl»
Convertahle to ordirarv ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC lighting
J. &
ENGINIS, WINDING ENG INES, TRACTION ENGINES. *r Full Catalogue of Engines. Agricultural Implement* and I
C. Howara, Pitt Street, S:
sry on application.
The Bulletin
Voi .1.8 iNu. 700. j
[Saturday, July 15, LB9B.


Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Voting Men, who have lost their most essential
dement of success, from any cause whatever, and
Suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
Send for Dr. M. PERKY'S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the lust means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mkrcurv or other i'oisonous
DRUGS.
Late Home Surgeon, Great
Vthn. Hospital, Lend.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship ‘‘Dread-
nought,'’
Greenwich y
Invites every investi-
gation as to
his
Qualifica-
tions,
Dp.
. PERRY,
M.R.C.8., L.8.A., &0.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free,
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
'Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake t ie treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat'd of in Dr.
Perry's pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving’ habit can be overcome, '
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
feet modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
mcrLT felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address;
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. fudge: s
FOOD
for INFANTS and INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOT)
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Pies.se,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Pa.D., F.C.S., <tc.. Public Analysts.
DB. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
B*T A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
H°J!i L0 WAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of the* grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease, IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Maim-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxfobd-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
eourious.
P O W DER
m
K
She; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S!*’
He; “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?*’
He; “Ah! Dem that make me love."
rpHE BANK OF NEW ZEALAND
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Lialalitjr ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can otfer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
u
TALES of ms CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “ PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Gabby :
gf.
o %
JL
N
£
ft
/
fe
m
yu
Ive got two drunks aboard. One of ’etna’s your husband, mum ; come and pick
'im out.”
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
V (OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of IKTes-w South Wales.
A most Comfortable IfisJi-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting aud Bed rounds, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Pishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
—o ■
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
WKXXj3MCX3XTS*X~JbajtrKi \ 3E***ojp**iotaro*»»
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES,
Russian
Brand.
ù
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager toe AramtiA-T. J. J3kEa.cXVIXIia.RXX, 297 GI
* •
Vft
Ail
sfof
tHaK
isaQ s[
f
NOW OBTAINABLE FROM NEWSAGENTS.
“THE LAST OF SIX ”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
—BY—
EENEST 3T 1 T 7" JE2 IfcT C.
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That thqy
are not .less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“The writer has turned scene-painter lor the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address. Is. 3d.


Medical.
D“ JECKELL VINES
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology* Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “ Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to tire Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints /
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail co send for a
copy for tlie invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Peel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. Thi *
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
1 CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Oepend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; lie will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.rn. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.in. to 5 p.m.
Saturday— 9.30 a.rn. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
S3‘ Address all Communications :
Dr . J EC KELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
please quote this paper when writing.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE; STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
wmm
□
Hiking
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the loading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which th’oy may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. Ilia practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send fid. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case', send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
if his success. All communications should bo
addressed :
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SVDvHY.
lie sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION THEE.
Hotel.
m.
w\
(it
a
“ 'The (Sydney (Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Hoiralii, Sydney, S.S.W., Australia.
J, A. QUIN, Proprietor.
T A 1C IFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s eacli per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
I’oove BATHS, <feo.
DESiItII’TIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
wadies’ Tea Rooms.
■T*.
ipHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive <s ablishment
one of the hi st-appointed Ladies’Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It vi 1 also he a great boon to Business
Men in t he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
INTO Cur e, IN* o UPety.
belt
rpHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERTS
m
a
liraii
MA
r \lTT\
SKIN TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots. Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to the most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, P2s. 6d., or, three bottles together, ft l‘2s. 6d.
Valuable new Book on “NATURAL BEAUTY,” sent
free, 4d.
Head Office-89 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOLE Agency for Australas a—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
w. C- ELIDiaiIDGE & GO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YOIIK BTUKKT, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
rp ALES
PRICE
OF THE SYSTEM.
~ ONE SHILLING.
E
Shipping.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points' cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON ' £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE ... .T £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company ? s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JXCKSON, Manager,
MESS AGERIES_MAR I TIMES.
svYvXEV ’to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
five French Government, calling fat MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follow s
Dates of Departure.
Steamer Copnnapder Sydney jMelbourne Adelaide
~ r ) ; Noon I 1 p.m. ( 1 p.m.
Avm.‘4Bßi<?' iVimont ..July 27July 31 Aug. 2
AUSTRALIEN G.O d'er .. Augv'27 Aug % 31 Sept. 9
Y.dclaClOTATChevalier .. Sept. 27,0 ct. 1 Oct. 3
1 ) I I
Passengers booked to BOMBAY r , REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or. 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
tlie ’passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their Ingcage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and. Calais.
N.B. —Passengers’ luggage conveyed fiec of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent,
Miscellaneous.
CROMARTY
Whisky
Cbeenlees Brothers
OHSCOWIOHDON *NO
AR&YLESHIRE
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRA LIA
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
qh, FOR A MOUSTACH EU
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine —los. 6d., Post Free.
4IMIG A AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
kk
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR,
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light locking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents;
CRAIG <3c AITKEiV,
NEW SOUT,H WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
080 .V 08‘i George Street, Sydney.
fc5T” NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Eider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
u
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SIDNEY. N.S.W.
ù
ù
u
HOME
-'fr
Km
JMohnston&o.
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
' 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEWTON & LAMB.
BEDSTEADS
In BLACK and BRASS, and NICKEL, with LATEST
IMPROVEMENTS. In ALL SIZES, at LOWEST
PRICES.
CHILDREN’S COTS
1 n ALL USUAL SIZES. Some SPECIAL DESIGNS
are now being offered.
Bedding,
MATTRA SSES, BOLSTERS,
and PILLOWS, in all the
Usual materials, special care
being taken to ensure the most
perfect cleanliness.
Wove-wire Mattrasses
CHAIR BEDSTEADS,
FOLDING COTS. STRETCHERS,
&c., in great variety.
ti
V)— l ■ i ii ■■ I
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Cleaverb
Javenia Soap
Marvellous Effect I !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£6O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and'directed Envelope for particulars to
FBLDHEIM, GOTTHELF &CO .. .. SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, rii.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
TtlK
4 Plum ’
ZOj p i
THE
‘Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to .anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steeh and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price-* ng ’ u in strong leather case, KM. Od. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
I .Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
n
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM."
3KT.B.—To. GjaFeso-t tlae realisation of JSteLxijjk and
-t=STU*.iXca.iM pj Societic s’ effeots< resa.d!erecl otlaer-
■wiae miconvertablo "fc>y . tli© com-
merclal depression,
THE
MUTUAL FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION SOCIETY Of SYDNEY,
ISSUE OF
145,000 SHARES at XI EACH. 145,000
With no further Liability.
3441 PHIZES!
£3 HE* SEES CJ X Xj T T J 3 3XT T X C 3 IKT
Is drawn to the fact that these are
ALL CITY or SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
In a large number of cases Rent-producing, and all readily saleable. NOT unimproved back-
blocks, or inaccessible or unworkable Station property. Mr Investors will do well to bear
this in mind.
ù
First Pri^e.
Value, £35,000. —Those Magnificent Offices and Bank*
ing Chambers, PARK and OASTLEREAGH
STREETS, now in the occupation of the City Bank
(Castlereagh Street Branch), and the Mercantile Build-
ing Land and Investment Co., Limited, having a rental
value of £1750 per annum.
1 PRIZE of £15,000
•i PRIZES of 10,000
» PRIZES of 5.000
5 PRIZES of ‘>,500
10 PRIZES of 1,000
0 PRIZES of 500
10 PRIZES of £250
•50 PRIZES of too
100 PRIZES of 50
100 PHIZES of ‘>s
150 PRIZES of ‘>o
l«00 PRIZES of 10
5f,000 PRIZES of £5.
3-4 Chances for sEI.
£1 May Return 460.
Bankers : CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
... Th ® 0E ™ E BALLOT (which will be supervised by a committee of representative
citizens) will be positively announced on 1 w
I* - * 31st JULY.
EARLY APPLICATION FOR SHARES IS ADVISABLE TO SECURE ALLOTMENT
Tor SHARES, Prospectuses and full particulars, apply to
Tile
C/o R. HOPE ATKINSON, J.P.,
25 IMPERIAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
NOTE TO INTENDING INVESTORS.—If money is forwarded by cheque, add exchange
and in all oases send two Stamped envelopes for reply. um o e,
H. r. GREGORYTM;
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
Engines,
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Engines, Boilers, G-as
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars' of.
1 nces quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay!
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
ú
A merican Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments jor Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums Parks, Colonial
Institute, &•€., are easy of access.
_ .. Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
bouth Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director,.
u
TESTIMONIALS
■Li ke the following are constantly arriving
from all pans of the world and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Dr.Pierco's
-Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
'BELT. Head the letters:
From Australia.
Mu. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul h Co., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisementsare very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
thebeltassoon as it is placed on bis bedy. for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England.
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St., Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since! have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. 1 have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” _
From America.
Mr. J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes—“Yohr No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of Sciatic Rheuniatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall intod
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my back*
tip’s hold some ten years ago. X fell 18 feet on my back*
_.jd although I got upas i fnothinghad happened, the back
troubled meeversinceuntil I tried yoUr belt* Foroneyear
I have felt as I used to at so."
ill m
.UllH 'iM
JSHOIMIS
»|6»w s.a
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHEN
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
ar |th® most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'perfumers,
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
rjlAfiES or thr CONVICT SVSTKM.''
Br
“KKM C E \V Al* rxd,”
PRICK I*. by Post Is, 3d.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—No.^OO.
SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1898.
Price, 6d.
h f
ù
TWEEDLEDUM AND TWEEDLEDEE, OR THE MOVING ON OF EVANGELIST FIELD.
Observation by Tweedledum in the back ground: "I say, Pluggy, but fur the Grace o' God an' the perlice there goes you or me!"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
" Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sendiny direct to Tup, Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
tn the hands of our carriers, with whom tee do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in th
‘ Correspondence ’’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches {those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps arc enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
alter the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Ai so in thi; Transvaal:- The Standard and Diggers
.V ws Co., limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also; B. I. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, SOutli Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
iin Interprovincial Newspapers, tl/e annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will he sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
-*
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, JULY 15, 1893.
The Federal Spectre.
The recent attempt to form a Federation
League in Sydney has, so far, resulted in
nothing in particular, save a melancholy
revelation of the weakness of the Federal
sentiment among New South Wales poli-
ticians. Their attitude is only on a par
with that of other politicians throughout
Australia. So far as mere theory is con-
cerned, there is no subject on which the
public men of this continent are so unani-
mous as the necessity for a union of the
scattered and feeble provinces of Australia,
but in practice they are, with perhaps a dozen
exceptions, utterly and callously indifferent.
The fact that Federation is a national and
not a party consideration is the difficulty
which has so far proved insuperable. Party
Government has so eaten into the vitals and
corroded the soul of the Legislatures that
it outweighs every other consideration ;
whatever is supported by only one party is
possible; whatever is supported by all parties
is practically impossible. The business of
each faction is to do what the opposing
faction objects to, and to denounce what it
approves of, to contradict whatever it asserts,
and to assert whatever it denies, to be a
stumbling-block, an incarnate objection, and
an accusing voice like the voice of the first
murderer in “Macbeth, 1 ' and when it cannot
fulfil these functions its interest languishes.
The thing of which all parties approve is
never done —unless it is a personal swindle
which promises to pay an individual divi-
dend, or a matter concerning which the
nation will take no denial.
At present, the desire of each party is to
scare the other party off and secure Federa-
tion as its own particular war-whoop. The
necessity for some novel “ism,” some fresh
rallying-cry with which to secure votes for
the party, some new banner to unfurl, some
unsatisfied want to supply, is an exigency
which turns up at every election so long as
Government by Contradiction endures. A
very few years ago Parkes, then the leader
of the Foreign-traders in New South Wales,
finding him-self in a tight place politically,
stumped the country in an access of frenzy
to point out that Federation was the first
and greatest article in his party’s faith, that
it was essentially a part of the Foreign-trade
gospel and of no one else’s gospel, and that
the Foreign-trade party was prepared to live
or die in the cause of Australian unity. But
the Protectionists also accepted the gospel of
unity, and straightway the old man’s fervour
froze. If the other party could have been
induced to oppose it, then the uprising of a
great Federal sentiment would have meant
thousands of votes for the Foreign-trade can-
didates, and a huge majority in the Assembly,
and a long lease of power for the Calico
Jimmy interest. But when Barton, and
others of his belief, stumped the country
with equal enthusiasm, then it might mean
either a Protectionist triumph or a victory
for Calico-Jimmyism—the chances were
practically equal. The monopoly was broken
up. Federation, instead of being a great
party question and a means of solidifying the
Foreign-trade ranks, became a mere matter
of general interest, and it dropped there and'
then.
• « #
The fact that Attorney-General Barton i s
now the leader of the Federal movement
has disgusted the Foreign-trade party with
the very name of Federation. Its late
leader, Parkes, the wildest-haired enthusiast
who ever preached the gospel of union
through the length and breadth of the land,
and its present leader, Reid, the latest and
most ardent convert to the faith, have alike
petrified. And, as for the rank-and-file of
the party, who, almost to the last man, wanted
to die, if need, be for the coming Common-
wealth, there is not among them all one
apostle left. Last week they were invited to
join the new Federation League, and the
decision of the Freetrade caucus was ;
That, in view of the approaching general election, har-
monious action between the Government and the 0| ] op-
tion on the subject of Federation was impractk i.bl'.
But, at the same time it was decided not to interfere with
the liberty of any freetrader who might desire to assist
the new league, which it was recognised was essential/.;/ a
freetrade and liberal movement.
It was “essentially a freetrade move-
ment,” yet the self-styled Freetraders would
have none of their own movement* because
the Protectionists were moving in the same
direction. It was the greatest question
of the day, but it was of no use “ in view of
the approaching general election.” It was a
matter of national concern, but unless they
helped the Foreign - traders into power,
matters of national concern might find a
congenial resting-place in Tophet. It was
their own policy, but a policy is only a
thing to damn the other party with, and
when it ceases to damn the other party it is
of no further value. This is the political
axiom which the Foreign-trade party laid
down. It was naked, and they wore not
ashamed of it. Nobody made the slightest
pretence of honesty or patriotism, or made
the slightest attempt to conceal his own and
his party’s falsehood and selfishness and
utter corruption. The members of the
caucus were prepared to support Federation
if their opponents were hostile to it, or to
ignore it if their opponents supported it, and,
in like manner, they were prepared to sup-
porter oppose anything or everythingelse that
was necessary to keep the two parties distinct
and maintain intact the great principle of
Government by Contradiction. But for the
Federal principle, or any other principle,
hardly anyone cared a straw, and whoever
said he cared for it lied in saying so, for
Party Government allows no one to seriously
care for anything except Party Government
itself.
• « •
Yet the position assumed by the Foreign-
trade party was the same position which
almost every other party would have assumed
under the like circumstances. The one prin-
ciple of Party Government consists in always
saying that the other‘party, is a liar, or—if
unforeseen circumstances make it impossible
to say so openly—in declaring that the other
party has borrowed its opponents’ poUcy.
Sometimes, as in the present instance, an
attempt is made to support both assertions
at once. It is the country’s misfortune that
Federation, as the most promising war-cry
in a season of political barrenness, has been
rushed by both factions, and now as neither
can secure the copyright of the Federal idea,
both regard it with indifference. It has
been attended by mishap from first to last.
The present crusade was commenced by
Parkes, that man of unfinished inspirations
and enthusiasms which wither up unaccount-
ably and lead to nothing, and this, in itself,
was a disaster and a guarantee of failure. It
was vigorously supported by Barton and
others, and the inevitable result followed :
the Freetraders grew cold because their
most influential opponents supported them,
and the rank-and-file of the Protectionists
never grew really warm because the leading
Freetraders didn’t oppose them ; and neither
party cared for anything which did not
embody the great principle that the other
side of the House was, and always had been,
and always would be, a perverter of the
truth by instinct. And now the ashes of the
dead enthusiasm are almost past re-kindling,
for the sufficient reason that neither faction
dares to openly denounce the Federal policy,
and unless one faction denounces it there is
no joy in it for the other faction. The one
novel feature of the situation is the ghastly
folly of the Freetrade members in offering a
reason for the apathy that- is in them. The
spectacle of a party refusing to support its
own policy because the other party also en-
dorses it is sufficiently common ; but the
party which openly declares that it can’t
advocate its own creed because a general
election is at hand is a new departure into
hitherto untrodden regions of foolishness.
Parses, that wily old campaigner whose
path is paved with dead principles and
Kiama Ghosts, would never have perpetrated
such a blunder.
So long as New South Wales was the one
avowedly Freetrade province in Australia,
and professed to demand that her five neigh-
bours should accept her creed as the first
condition of unity, Federation was nearly
impossible. Now that she has, nominally at
least, fallen in line with the other Australias,
this obstacle has been removed, but so far as
the visible evidence* goes, Federation is
hardly any nearer. No one can get
an office and a salary by advocating
it unless someone else is trying to get
an office and a salary by denouncing
it, therefore, among politicians at all
events, the subject has become comatose.
It is ruined by too much unanimity.
Everybody professes to maintain a feeble
interest in it, just as he does in the
Ten Commandments or in abstract mora-
lity, because if he abandons it his
opponent will take it up with renewed
energy ; but hardly anyone takes any real
interest in it simply because the other man
won't drop it altogether. Therefore, it is
not quite dead enough to die-, nor has it
vitality enough to remain alive. Its hope
lies principally in the prospective conflict
between those who advocate “ Federation
under the Crown ” and those who advocate
Federation without any “ Crown.” If the
quarrel over this point becomes of sufficient
intensity it is possible that Australia may get
some kind of Federation. If the quarrel
does not assume a sufficiently aggravated
form, the subject will remain comatose as
heretofore, until it is so much forgotten that
one party or the other can present it as a
new gospel, and get into office on the
strength of it.
The Royal Marriage and its
Consequences.
A royal marriage happened last week in Eng-
land, and as a sign of the joy which was
alleged to fill the souls of the Australian people
the New South Wales Government commuted
the sentences of Richard Sleath and his
fellow strike-leaders of Broken Hill. The
exact connection between the two events is
difficult to trace, but it seems to be assumed
that there is a connection of some kind OT
other. Sleath and the others were imprisoned
because a carefully-selected jury—so carefully-
selected that some people called it “ packed ”
decided that they had broken the law, and they
are released—consider the ignominy of it !
because the Duke of York, scion of the ignoble
dynasty of Guelph, has got married. And the
Duke of York got married because Princess
May, of an impoverished German family, has
dug up her “buried heart” and is no longer
going “to wear the mockery of widowhood about
her maiden hair.” She buried her heart, or was
alleged to have done so, because the Duke of
Clarence was dead, therefore Sleath is released
indirectly because of the death of the said Duke
of Clarence. But this is a remote aspect of the
case. The central fact is that Sleath and his
colleagues were originally confined for uphold-
ing what they believed to be a great and vital
principle, and they are now' set free because a
far-off nonentity has committed a cold-blooded
matrimony, not, apparently, out of sentiment,
but merely with the purpose of perpetuating a
dismally uninteresting race of kings, and pre-
venting the business, along with sundry valuable
palacesand reigningimplements, from passingout
of a hopelessly commonplace family. There is
no more visible romance about this than about
the grocer’s son who marries in order that there
may be an heir to the profitable sanded-sugar-
and-tinned-fish connection, and to keep the
unduly-damp.plug tobacco business from falling
into strange hands.
# # #
Many other aspects of the case are equally
perplexing. When the Broken Hill miners’
leaders were sentenced to long terms of im-
prisonment it was alleged to be done because it
would be a national calamity to leave such men
at large. And the very same Government
which upheld this view of the case most
strongly now brings this same calamity on the
nation as a special sign of rejoicing. The
nation didn’t know it was rejoicing, by the
way, but as the New South Wales Government
of knights and prospective knights says it is
doing so, it is probably rejoicing in a state of
unconsciousness, and assuming this to be the
case the release of such a man as Sleath
was lately declared to be is incongruous ;
the event would be more appropriate at a
time of profound mourning. Either there was
much hard lying in the daily press a few
months ago, or else the Dibbs Cabinet might as
reasonably have turned half-a-dozen lions and
a mad dog out in George-street, Sydney, and
scattered boa-constrictors about Potts Point, as
rejoiced in such a fashion. If Sleath, Fer-
guson, and the rest are the sort of men whose
liberation will grace an alleged day of festivity,
then they ought never to have been imprisoned;
if they are not, then they should not be
liberated even though all the heavy-jowled
Guklphs committed bigamy several times over
in one day.
* # *
If the release of the Barrier unionists is not a
bid for the democratic vote, or a thin device
whereby the title-hunting Dibbs Government
scrambles out of a difficult position and partially
redresses a wrong which it lacks the manliness
to acknowledge, or does a wrong which it has
not the courage to leave undone—then the only
tenable assumption is that the four prisoners
ought to be in gaol, provided the Duke of York
is single, and should not be in gaol if he is
married. Yet, for some occult reason, Abigail
isn’t released—and Abigail was “ loyal,” which
Sleath certainly is not — and nothing was said
about leaving murderer Archer unhanged, and
Herod Makin —if his appeal misses fire—is to
bob serenely at the end of a rope just the same.
And if the Duke of York’s alleged marriage
with the mysterious “girl in Malta” had
proved real, The Bulletin might lay odds
that Sleath and his friends would still be
in gaol with no prospect of a vice-regal
“ pardon ”on the furthest horizon. Also, even
granting that the Broken Hill leaders were men
whose release was fitted to adorn a day of
rejoicing, it is just possible that the occasion is
one which would have been more fittingly
marked by increasing sentences all round and
holding a general massacre, not as a mark of
disrespect, but as a symbol of the uncertainty
of all earthly happiness. There is not neces-
sarily any special joy in being married, as
the divorce records (and the filthy history of
Prince George’s great-grandfathers and various
other relatives) show ; nor, so far as a
prospective heir is concerned,* is there any
special joy in being born. And if, by any
chance, the latest royal match should prove a
life-long misery, there is no law under which
Sleath and the others can be sent back to gaol
to serve out the balance of their sentences,
Possibly, for that matter, they would rather
. have served out their full sentences in any case
than have owed their liberty to the fact that
the heir-apparent of the Georges had taken a
wife. But they had simply to accept the
ignominy as it came. There is no statute
whereby a prisoner can remain in gaol when he
is told to go oUt.
• # «
Apart from all other considerations, however,
the occasion was ill-chosen. When a royalty
marries, the whole community is understood tc
be filled with joy ; when a royally dies, it is
understood to be bathed in Unutterable woe.
Therefore, in the present cUs'e, it is to be
assumed that Sleath and his comrades were
gambolling wildly in their cells ahd turning
somersaults in the stone-breaking department,
and any further access of joy at such a time was
merely pouring water into the clip that was
already overflowing. The hardship of their
case lay in the fact that they Were originally
imprisoned at a time when they Were already
broken and bowed with grief over the recent
death of the vacant-faced Duke of Clarence.
If the practice of “ loyalty ” squared with its
theory, the Judge, instead of passing sentence,
would simply have told them, in a broken
voice, that the fact of the Duke Of Clarence
being dead Was sufficient punishment for any
man, and that their offfeilcb had probably arisen
through mental disorder brought about by
excessive woe,
* * *
The royal wedding threatens to bring other
equally illogical consequences. The unreliable
cableman promises Mayor Manning, of Sydney,
a knighthood, on the recommendation of Lord
Jersey. The Mayor is not believed to have
had any personal connection with the royal
marriage, and is known principally as a
generally respected citizen With a pair of
London Journal legs—the sort of legs which
are always attached to the peer with the hollow
back and the unnaturally elongated pedigree.
Otherwise, he is notorious for a fulsome and
historical valedictory grovel to Lord Jersey
aforesaid —which is possibly one of the causes
of his prospective advancement. But there is
ho suggestion of any knighthood for Sydney’s
ex-Mayor, John Young, who celebrated Vic-
toria’s jubilee a year ahead of time (rather,
it would seem, than let the celebration
fall in his successor’s term of office), and
blew the dust of ages off old precedents
concerning the jubilee of Henry 111. to
prove that Jubilees ought always to be cele-
brated a year before they took place. Neither
is there anything in view for ex-Mayor Alban
Riley, who held another Jubilee a year later,
whereby Victoria had two Jubilees in Sydney.
And there is nothing promised for ex-Mayor
Roberts, who swamped the loyal community
in champagne and other costly liquor on many
an Imperial anniversary. Even Sydney Bur-
dekin, who went to England, it was alleged, to
look for a baronetcy or something on the
Colonial Office door-step, is apparently left out
in the cold.
* * *
Still, Australia comes off reasonably well on
the great occasion. For, in addition to the
release of Sleath and his friends, and Man-
ning’s alleged knighthood, and Saul Samuel’s
invitation to a Marlborough House wedding
festivity (the other Agents-General were ig-
nored, probably because their provinces sent
out no Soudan Contingent), and Governor
Duff’s celebration in Sydney, held com-
memorate the fact that the British Crown
is fast sliding away from the Duff clan
for evermore, and the omission of John
Young, and the disregard of Roberts— in
addition to all this, two Australian officers have
been, it is specially cabled, summoned to visit
Queen Victoria, and have been forw r arded in a
royal carriage to view the defunct Prince Con-
sort’s tomb. It reads like a cold, damp and
ghostly festivity, this despatching of the royal
guests on a lonesome expedition to a sepulchre, «
but it was doubtless meant in kindness. And
on their return Victoria, so it is cabled, bowed
to them from a distance, and they departed.
She bowed to them! Therefore the Duke of
York’s marriage will help greatly to “cement
the bonds.”
Certainly Not
New South Wales Works-Minister Lyne has
stated to Sydney Daily Telegraph “ that one
good effect of the retrenchment efforts of the
Government, will be to stimulate private enter-
prise.” A number of public works, he says, will
have to be carried on in that way, and employment
found for those who are now being dispensed with
through Government retrenchment. He adds
that he has already been waited upon by certain
gentlemen who propose to construct a tramway.
We haven’t tho slightest doubt about it. The
Bulletin pointed out not long ago that just such
a thing would happen. The financial extremity


into which Hottentot-brained government has
driven New South Wales provides an opportunity
for plausibly looting its people which waiting and
watching Boodledom will not let slip if it can get
in its talons. And it will get them in if the people
are not quickly brought to understand what is in
contemplation, and to regard certain gentlemen
who propose to construct tramlines and become
benefactors of the unemployed as public enemies,
who must be promptly squashed under the public
boot-heel.
# * *
“ A good effect ’’—for whom ? A “ good thing,”
possibly, for expectant harpies in the background,
if it comes off, but the worst effect for the public
of all the maladministration of their affairs that
has taken place. And there have been many bad
effects. That there should be indebtedness almost
to the verge of insolvency on the part of some pro-
vinces, heavy taxation, with still heavier in pros-
pect, and shivering, starving unemployed in
almost all, are intrinsically bad enough. But,
beside Mr. Lyne’s good effect, these well-deserved
and chastening miseries would seem beatitudes.
The wholesale robbery of the people by various
modes of scheming expenditure that has taken
place already is borne witness to by the wretched
condition in which most of the few people in a
rich and immense territory find themselves. But
the harm done by political muddlers and political
thieves, working through the machinery that has
hitherto existed, would be trivial to that which
would befall the people if once “private enter-
prise,” in the form of monopolistic corporations,
became fastened upon them. The difference to
nine-tenths of the people would be that between
having their pockets picked with and without
garotting.
# * *
A few weeks since The Bulletin commented
upon the monstrous and pernicious extent to
which just such private enterprises as Mr. Lyne
wants sot loose here have grown in the United
States. Instances were quoted to show that the
railway corporations and other tribute-levying
bodies had attained such strength as to set laws
and agreements at defiance, and by their growth
had drawn the life sustenance away from indus-
tries of every kind. The dictatorship of these
privileged corporations has long ago become a
national scandal in its corruption of public
morals and its control of the law courts; a national
curse in its blighting influence on real private
industries. And in some daily papers there
appeared the other day a letter from Miss 0. H.
Spence on the same subject, which to the crowd
of expectant railway sharpers, who are waiting
until the country is starved into helplessness
before they attack it, must have tasted of aloes
and wormwood. Miss Spence, who is now going
through the United States, has eyes and brains, a
feeling heart, and a honesty of purpose that her
constant labours for social reform prove to be
established on a rook. She writes from San Fran-
cisco, and much of what she has to tell relates to
California, a State which, by the way, has not
fallen among the thieves of “ private enterprise ”
so completely as other parts of the Union.
* * *
Of the city Miss Spence says the tram-service
is bad and extortionate because companies control
it ; water, also in the hands of supplying com-
panies, is scarce and dear. The “ Corporations,”
as these companies are called, are all-poworful.
All the telegraphs and telephone-lines belong to
corporations which pool their monopolies with the
larger ones held by the railroad companies, and
thus form a huge conspiracy against the people.
The favourite argument here in support of pri-
vately-conducted railways and other large branches
of service is that, by competing with each other,
they would enable the public to obtain the best
value for their money. Monopolies do not com-
pete—they combine. “ The telegraph stocks have
been watered and re-watered,” Miss Spence says,
“so that if the United States Government sought
to purchase them from the telegraph company or
companies, they would probably have to pay four
times the cost of construction, while if the U.S.
started a postal telegraph of its own, like that of/
Australia, there would be a howl from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, and from the Great Lakes to the
Gulf of Mexico, from the owners, as robbed and
plundered in the name of the law.”
* * #
Great as is the evil influence of the railway
monopoly, it is not worse than that of the tele-
graphs. " By working together these two privi-
leges sustain each other, and delay the time when
enlightenment will make the people of California
overthrow them, even if revolution is needed to do
it. No daily newspaper—no newspaper of any
importance can live whose existence is not ap-
proved of by the combined syndicates, because the
telegraphs are closed to any other. The telegraph
service rendered, Miss Spence shows by compari-
son of rates charged, to be much more costly than
in any part of Australia. The same is true of the
railways, the employes of both having longer
hours and harder conditions than those of Govern-
ment. Immense fortunes have been made over
and over again by the first robbers of railway and
telegraph concessions, who go ahead of settlement
and, under the pretence of clearing the way,
make its path harder. It is not wealth earned by
rendering service that these buzzards are after,
but privilege endowments which enable them to
shred flesh off the bones of their bound-and-
gagged human prey.
* * »
Every member of Parliament who is going to
fight against the villainy of private railway, tram-
way, gas, water, electric - lighting, and other
similar enterprises, which will be attempted here
soon, should read Miss Spence’s letter. It should
be broad-casted through the land if need arises as
an answer to the Ministerial and press champions
of private enterprise in big things. Such private
enterprise has throttled and robbed the bulk of
citizens in many American States, and has
demoralised administration in a hundred ways.
This picture of San Francisco is a picture which
only needs enlarging to represent the United
States. “The police are proverbial for making
large fortunes on moderate pay, building palatial
mansions on the blackmail they extort from
Chinese gambling-houses and fallen women. It is
said that there is not an outside party, let it be
populist, single-tax, socialist, or prohibitionist,
into which agents of the corporations do not
enter, to be apparent followers, but secret spies.”
Put the railway, telegraph, water-right, and tram-
way kings in the place of Chinese and gamblers;
put Judges and Congressmen in the place of the
Police, and you have it. The lobbyists of private
enterprise at Washington are commonly called
The Third House of Parliament, and credited
■vitli power over the other two.
# * *
It is not as a general statement of all this, but
as a particularisation that Miss Spence's letter
has most value. She has not declared that the
American people look longingly to some day
having Slated-owned railways and telegraphs like
ours, without giving explicit reasons in the form of
facts and comparisons, which show what a terrible
mistalf the people of Australia will make
if they let the system become acclimatised here.
That there is a burning desire on the part of many
strong wire-pullers in the political side-wings to
play the private enterprise game is plain. The
blind ferocity with which Mr. Lyne and some of
his Ministerial colleagues fought for granting a
freehold right to the Menindie Irrigation Com-
pany, even when that corporation didn’t want it,
shows something more or less than patriotism. It
has been generally interpreted as a desperate
stand against the admission of a principle fair to
the public and fair to private enterprise, but inimi-
cal and deadly to their endeavour to hold the door
open to corporations of the American sorb. They
mustn’t come in here. It was the Labour mem-
bers chiefly who overthrew the Minister for Works
then. They must keep him and his particular
allies carefully shadowed. Symptoms of a coming
move of the same kind should bring them together
like a trumpet-call to block it.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
On Strikes.
The Australian seamen’s strike, and the news-
paper and other comments thereon, supply yet
another instance of the one-sidedness of the
public comprehension, and the sheep-like fashion
in which the community accepts almost any idea
that is placed before it with sufficient persis-
tence. In the present case, the one certainty
seems to be that the seamen have gone on strike.
There are many different views as to the
morality of the proceeding—the present writer
lately heard an adipose person in a cab de-
claring that the men in general “ought to be
taken out and shot ’’—but the original fact is
assumed to be beyond dispute. The term
«‘ striker,” in the vocabulary of the fat man, is an
infamy ; in that of moderately corpulent men, a
term of reproach; and, in the language of the rest
of the community, the expression of an unavoid-
able evil. But it is used by all in connection with
the worker only, and no one dreams of applying
it to anyone else. Yet, in the present instance,
as in most others, it is not the workers, but the
employers, that are on strike. By the contract
which existed between the two parties, the sea-
men agreed to exchange a certain amount of
labour for a certain amount of coin, which,
when expressed the other way about, means
that the companies undertook to exchange so
much coin for so much labour. Then the com-
panies went on strike at their end of the agree-
ment. Therefore, the title that looms up in
big, fat letters in the morning paper is
distinctly a falsehood and a wilful decep-
tion ; the seamen are not on strike, but
are resisting the strike of the
If the term “ striker ” is an ignominy, then the
ignominy belongs to the bosses, and if it is
necessary to keep order among the strikers,
then a policeman should stalk behind each ship-
owner with a baton, in readiness to bowl him
over the instant he shows a tendency to break
out into riot. The workman who stops because
he wants more wages, and the employer who
does the same because he wants more labour, and
the landlord who does likewise because he wants
more rent, all stand on the same level. The
New South Wales Government lately went on
strike against the entire Civil Service of the
province ; it intimated to the other parties to
the contract that they must take less value for
their labour or else go, just as the workman on
strike intimates to his employer that he must
take less value for his money or else he
will have to go. Almost all the banks
have lately been on strike : and three-
fourths or more of employers in all branches
of trade are in the same attitude at the
present moment, and want twice as much
work for the same shilling as heretofore.
Yet, somehow this proceeding is never des-
cribed as a strike, though when the employe
wants an extra shilling for the same work
that term of opprobrium always comes in.
Between the workers who announce that they
will leave their employers unless they get in-
creased wages, and the employers who intimate
that they will leave their employes unless they
get more hard work, and the landlord who will
leave his tenant unless he gets more rent, and
the bank which will leave everybody unless it
gets time—or eternity—to pay up, it is difficult
to see where the difference comes in. And
when the organ of Property denounces
strikes, and the same day goes on strike itself
against its advertisers with a view to getting
higher wages for the .same amount of whisky
advertisement on the front page, the amount of
light which it does hot throw on the compli-
cated subject is something tremendous.
Some of the long-range identifications of
Archer, hanged at Sydney on Tuesday last
(Archer’s case was not pressed home on
“identification” alone, although that was
largely a feature of suspicious circumstantiali-
ties)—have provoked the following :
Dear Bulletin, — Many a verdict based upon “identifi-
cation ” is based on a legal quicksand. I was defending a
prisoner for larceny. He was tall, and had a red
moustache and fair hair. I am not (all, my moustache
was then fair and my hair brown. The prisoner and I
were seated beside each other in court, the dock being
empty. A female witness (utterly unknown to me) was
called by the prosecution, and asked to look around and
see if she could discover anyone whom she had seen in
the prosecutor’s company. (I didn’t know the prosecutor
from Jim Crow.) She unhesitatingly and emphatically
identified me ! Yes, she was sure, she was positive, that
I was the man ! However, when she heard that I was the
prisoner’s lawyer, she, in the most handsome manner,
exonerated me from all resemblance to the “ party,” and
then as cheerfully, as emphatically, and as deadsurcly
“identified” the prisoner! Now, ought not witness-box
identifiers be compelled to give an approximately accurate
description of the “wanted,” before being allowed to
even see him or her? —Yours, Ciiittv.
Which reminds The Bulletin of a similar
court scene, with a variant. The “floor” of
the court was rather overcrowded, and the
puzzled witness-lynx was wandering over it
with her eyes. “ John Smith, come out here
and he identified,” cried a zealous policeman.
A reporter jumped up in front of the moving
prisoner, and he —the reporter ! —was identified
so effectually that the prisoner was acquitted.
Editor Bulletin, —I forward with this an
extract from a letter I have just received from
an old friend in the Argentine. It speaks for
itself. I had previously sent to my friends
there a copy of “ New Australia.” Although a
stranger to Paraguay, I have had considerable
experience of Spanish-American countries, and
1 know nq good of them. If these hot-headed
enthusiasts must go, let the pioneers he single
men, so that they will not drag women down to
misery with them. —Yours, Elsdon Best,
Thorndou Quay, Wellington, M.L., 26/6/’93
The paper New Australia is a most interesting one, in
its utter and most childish ignorance of what they are
talking about. It would be quite amusing to read of their
co-operative enthusiasm if it were not so pathetic. To
think of their dreadful awaking to realise when they are
here and understand the sort of country it is. To think
of leaving Australia, where they can earn, I suppose,
ss. a day, and living is cheap, to come here where
2 dels, a day (about 2s. now) and keep yourself is
the usual wage. This is no country for an English
working-man, he cannot compete with the industrious
Italian who works fiom sun to sun for 40 dollars a month
and his board (and such fare!), and is content to be
housed like a pig. Then the small farmer who starts on
one of these private colonies—the chances of climate are
dreadfully against him. If he is lucky he may get 20
bushels to the acre and pay his instalments, &c., hut if he
gets one or two or three bad years (as often is the case)
see what a debt is piled up ! He cannot hope to pay it
off, and so he has to clear out, in many cases leaving the
little money he took there.
This has been a fairly good year for wheat, but the price
is so low that the farmers generally have not done well.
I hear that the New Australia delegates are said to have
got laud in Paraguay. The only colonies started till now
have been dismal failures, most of the children dying,
and all of the colonists leaving as soon as they could get
away. It is a place chiefly suitable for sub tropical pro-
ducts—tea, coffee, sugar, oranges, &c., and the climate is
trying to Europeans. All this seems pessimistic, does it
not? Well, really, I have seen so many of these dis-
appointed ones from different colonies, that the story is
no new one to me. It is a hard country to make a living
in, and a very good one to lose money in.
N.B.—Note that the 40 dola. p. month would be, on
account of the great depreciation in value of Argentine
currency, about equal to ,£2 sterling.
*
Dear Bulletin, —Some remarks on the Berry
Land Tax of 1877, which became law on the
28th August of that year. At that time,
45 per cent, of all freehold lands in Victoria
belonged to the squatting fraternity, which
lauds have ever since been assessed on the land-
tax registry. This large area of country, com-
prising 7,129,000 acres, is held by only 871
persons, and the average size of the stations
is 10 square miles each. The Berry Land-Tax
provision is made for taxing lands according to
their sheep-carrying capacity, from 9Jd. to 2ld.
per acre, and although framed allegedly in the
interests of small holders, and to deter the
concentration of big estates, there has been,
since 1877, an increase on the acreage of these
amounting to 234,000 acres. A prompt remedy
is at hand which will not only squelch land
monopoly, but swell the depleted Treasury
receipts contemporaneously, and that without
in the least augmenting the costs of collec-
tion, as the machinery for effecting this is at
hand already. In the first place, what
necessity is there for the exemption from
taxation of all estates up to the value
of £2500? By this, £27,436 are lost
every year to the revenue ! In the second
place, why should not the land-tax be
levied on the values shown by the municipal
assessments, instead of by the artificial scale
fixed by the Act of 1877, under which the
average tax of 4Jd. per acre brings in over
£124,000 per annum ? The practice of adhering
to the old valuation of the capital value of
lands made 16 years ago, regardless of their
yearly increasing unearned increments which
the municipal councils annually determine,
must be abandoned. A tax based on the fore-
going principle would return to the State not
£124,000 per annum, but £1,000,000, and for
the reasons just mentioned let us have that
million as soon as possible.—Yours, &c.,
Charles Junor.
It seems that L. L. Smith, the nervous-debility
apothecary now representing Victoria in Eng-
land, made an object of himself at the Imperial
Institute by gracing a morning reception with
his new Windsor uniform “all on.” The other
live thousand persons present, better educated
in fiddlededee, were attired in ordinary garb,
consequently L.L, represented the antithesis of
an American Minister at an English State
function, where the man from Washington is
conspicuous for his black evening-dress amidst
a mob of gaudy courtiers.- Poor Smith knew
no better, but it wouldn’t take him long to
learn how to dress himself on these melancholy
Imperial occasions—no longer than it would
take an intelligent bottle-gatherer to pick up
the etiquette of a duke’s dining-table. No
lordling is too brainless to learn the “ correct
thing,” so the sneers of the Argus at L. L.’s
absurd error (mainly the result of his rabid
reverence for the Argus’s Gracious Queen)
don’t go for very much. However, The Bul-
letin has more sympathy for the Victorian
official who once erred in the oilier extreme by
wearing a pot hat at Princess Louise’s garden-
party. His consistency was as marked as that
of Smith, and much more respectable.
The S.M. Herald, arguing all round the moral
aspect of the recent disastrous naval collision,
recognises that if Rear-Admiral Markham had
declined to follow Tryon’s signal, he might
have averted the calamity, but would probably
have been court-martiafled and convicted of
mutinous disobedience. This is just the curse
which overshadows the life of every man who*
swears unlimited obedience to another or any
number of others. The Herald hopes the time
is near when men in such circumstances will be
allowed to disobey, and, if they show reasonable
ground afterwards, will be acquitted of offence.
The time is as near as is the abolition of
fleets and standing armies. If a man be per-
mitted to judge when he may disobey he is
placed under obligation to pass judgment on
every order ; and if the permission be accorded
to a Rear-Admiral it must be given to his sub-
ordinates, down to the youth who oils the
engines. He who takes an oath regarding
future events, without safeguarding las con-
science and individual freedom, becomes, and
should be looked at as, a piece of eyeless,
soulless, heartless mechanism, as much as is the
rifle he carries or the sword he swings, and no
amount of moral yearning can put heart, soul,
or eyes in the thing.
The Sydney police, who have just been armed
with revolvers at the instance of the Hires.
Government, have never requisitioned for such
weapons, the Inspector-General does not favour
their use, and the detectives who have done the
hardest work in the lowest quarters of the
city say they would feel safer without them.
There is nothing surer than that if the police
carry revolvers, burglars and so on will follow"
suit. Hitherto cuts and bruises only have been
the outcome of a melee ; in future, worse con-
sequences may be looked for. The influence
which has thrust revolvers into the hands of
the officers, and thus empowered and en-
couraged mere policemen to pass and execute
sentence of death, is almost wholly of the
hysterical layman order, the chief argument
being that larrikins are curs and will avoid
powder and shot. On the first day or night a
policeman uses his revolver will begin a new
era of street ruffianism, and for one good result
achieved many bad ones wall be produced.
The larrikin had to be somewhat brave to
assail his enemy with fists, or sticks, or stones ;
now he will operate from a distance, and can
count upon putting evidence of identification
rapidly out of the way. Had a vote of the
police been taken on this question The Bul-
letin is confident it would be found opposed to
the use of firearms. Dibbs is, always has beep,
and ever will be, a hopeless panic-monger.
The Voice of the Country.
’Tis the Voice of the Country, we hear it at eve,
When the meeting is paok’t with a view to deceive
Or the board for the banquet is festively spread,
Whose feeders are packed (at a guinea a head);
When “ the present occasion is almost unique,”
And Fat Man arises in splendour to speak.
’Tis then we remark, with a sniff of disdain —
The Voice of the Country is at it again !
The Voice of the Country tells tombstoncy lies,
As deep as the ocean and broad as the skies ;
Jt prattles away to the complaisant throng,
Condemning the right and defending the wrong.
It talks by the yard to the glory of wealth,
Proposing a motion, or somebody’s health.
“The Queen—Heaven bless her! and Ion,;- nny
she reign !”
Says Voice of the Country when at it again.
The Voice of the Country is groggy at times,
Like the Post Office clock with a cold in its
chimes ;
But let it be sober, or hicooughy “ tight,”
Whatever it says is remarkably right,
Which nobody present would offer to doubt.
Under pain of dismissal (by throwing him out).
“ The credit of banks we are bound to maintain,”
Says Voice of the Country when at it again.
The Voice of the Country, it “whispers” the
Press
If any great personage gets in a mess ;
It pleads, with a suppliant turn of the tongue,
For silence concerning a friend who is “bung.”
But bravely it shouts to the meeting at eve,
Or at banquets, arranged with a view to deceive —
“Three cheers for the chairman !” “ Here, waiter!
champagne !”
The Voice of the Country is at it again.
That Voice of the Country—we’ve studied its
tones,
So bitter to workers, so sweet to the drones ;
We hear it irt print, with our morning repast—
’Tis reported at length, and we listen aghast.
We fling down the journal and glare at our cup -
The tea growing cold as our anger boils up.
“ What’s the matter, my dear; are yon ill, or
insane ?”
“ Pah ! Voice of the Country is at it again,”
Blind!
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
" The Queen has a superstitious belief that anything
made by the blind brings luck to her. The cradle of the
young Princess of Battenberg, for instance, was made
and richly furnished throughout by blind persons.”—
Exchange.
Why charge the Queen with being superstitious
And clinging fast to a delusion old
Because she thinks that blindness is propitious
To Royalty ? The knave is overbold
Who dares to write and circulate such treason
As that the wise and gracious Queen prefers
To judge by moss-grown Faith instead of Reason
That human blindness favours her and hers.
V
Why superstitious ? What is superstition
But faith in things of which no proof is shown 5
What lack of proof is there that lack of vision
Afflicts the meek upholders of each throne?
What lesson is conveyed by all the story
Of dowered rulership and titled might,
Save this, that royal pride and wealth and glory
And power lean on those devoid of sight ?
What eyes had they to see who went to slaughter
In droves through all the English past, and bled
To swinish death because a son or daughter
Of some dead tyrant bade the land grow red ?
The Queen may see that all the saddest pages
Of history are writ in blind men’s blood,
Who in their darkness picked up battle-gages
By cowards flung who cowards’ claims withstood
What wage did they demand for what was given.
Who desecrated gifts that should have made
Their lives a joy to them, and earth a heaven,
So kings and queens might rule and be obeyed 1
Who won with toil of driven brutes all treasure
Of gold and silk and wine and gems to yield
For sating of gross lusts and Royal pleasure ?
Blind Samsons of the mine and loom and field !
Who does it still ? O blind and sorely stricken
With pain of life that sobs in utter woe,
While strong hearts break and noble spirits
sicken.
Is God blind ? Must it be for ever so?
Must ghostly women bend with tear-wet faces,
To tasks they faint at —must wan children moan
That full-fed Idleness may hold high places.
And flaunt in stolon splendours round a throne?
Alas, the blind ! From fetid sty and hovel,
Where bestial life to bestial death is led.
They creep in mindless-multitudes to grovel
Before new-wedded robbers of their broad '
The driven millions, from whom loving-kindness
Has almost perished, cheer instead'of curse !
Well may the Queen believe that human blindnect
Brings all good-luck with it for her and hers !


Fitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Heat PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5 - per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 (I per Pair.
DOCTORS' PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX «Sc ROBERTS,
.Tkwellkrt Showrooms,
93 IHJNTKK STKKET, SYDNEY.
FROSSARD’S
j£K. Grood.
and.
Clieai
SWISS.
Cigar.
HIGHEST AWAIJD ;
Melbourne
1888.
ù
Manufactured by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
PAVBRNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25 —they cost you less, and you know you gob the genuine
article, by seeing ur Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
84G Maequarie-street North, Sydney,
July 12, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
I am told that Gov. Duff differs very much
from Lord Jersey in his style of receiving a
deputation. “George” was affability itself, and
made quite a hit with the agreeable I-promise-
you-nothiugness of his deputation manner. He
even escorted his tormentors to the d'»or, sometimes
chatting as he went—but Gov. Duff is different.
When a pack of aggrieved citizens files up His
drawing-room, spoiling for a long, wordy warfare,
which will get into the papers next day, his
Ex. looks about as mueh at home as a bird on a
limed bush, and bows ’em out almost before the
spokesman has got to secondly !
Sydney Liedertafel serenaded vioeroyalty one
nipping night last week. Why those gentlemen
boxed up their melody until a moonless night
when the thermometer was crawling into its boots,
is quite a riddle. Bareheaded and overcoatless in
V-shaped evening vests, the serenaders chattered
their frozen lay while goose-flesh preyed upon
them. It was claimed for Miss Jennings by her
father that she had now had the honour of pinning
the society’s decoration on to no less than four
Governors of N.S.W.
The most cheerful thing about the proceedings
must have been the vice-regal speech. In thank-
ing them for having made a noise in his garden,
Sir Robert said (in effect) that ere coming out he
had been advised to bring a set of pipers with
him —but ho was glad to find the Liedertafel
singers a perfect substitute for the bag-pipes of
his native land. How flattered—l will not say
flattened—Conductor Delaney must have been.
Melba (which we knew her as Mrs. Armstrong),
interviewed by the World and widely reported,
reads something like a fairy story. But it amuses
you, too, when you are told that in her green,
gold, and flesh-coloured, Frenchily-furnished salon
(where there seems to have hardly been room
enough to swing a cat for the pressure of offerings
at her shrine) the interviewer “failed to discover
any little reminders of the singer’s student days in
Melbourne and Sydney ’’ —although you must own
she admitted at least one “colonial” souvenir in
the shape of the “ brother of the English baronet ”
whom she married “ when a girl” (there wore no
Royal dukes in this horrid country), and who tried
to divorce her when a woman, by the way. Some-
how we all thought she wouldn’t forget to tell
about the baronet’s brother.
Some people have been wondering in print why
the navy sends its invalids to Sydney St. Vincent’s
Hospital instead of to the local “Alfred,”
although the latter was christened after “the
sailor Prince.” But, as a matter of fact, the
invalided naval officers all go to the private wards
of the “ Alfred,” and make life very lovely for the
nurses, who must pray for an epidemic on the
quarter-deck when the supply of flirtable patients
gives out. The crews go to St Vincent’s chiefly
because it is a very old hospital, and they have
always gone there, and feelings of delicacy would
prevent the naval authorities making any change.
The resignation by the wifeof the N.S, W, Chief
Justice of her position as president of Sydney
Fresh Air League, is the result of a little infor-
mality on somebody’s part a couple of months ago.
It is only fair to the lady who had most to do with
the bother to say that she offered to retire instead,
but the committee refused to accept her resigna-
tion ; consequently, Mrs. Darley withdrew her
countenance from the league. It was quite a
pretty difference while it lasted.
I must confess to deriving some amusement
from the self-denial lists of the daily papers.
Where does the self-denial come in when you pin
your visiting-card on to your offering and get its
full value in gratification out of the newspapers?
Advertised charity is like advertised virtue. The
idea of printed lists is got from the churches,
where the names of donors and donations are read
out from the pulpit while the heroes squirm with
pride, and the other sort want the earth to open
and swallow them up.
But if the world must have its charitable
emotions catalogued, I think the self-denial-week
has a better raison d'etre than most such compi-
lations. Lists that print a penny as large as a
pound certainly do encourage, all sorts of people
to contribute. At the same time Ido think the
lists might be more coherently strung together.
The other day I read “ Omnibus, 3d. ; John, Is.—
Is. 3d.” In arithmetic a dash means minus. It
looted as if John had actually been clever enough
to deduct la. 3d. from a “ bob.”
The Boys’ Brigade Ball in the Town Hall last
week was not the most numerically successful
public hop of the season. Society stopped away
in large numbers, for some reason or other, altho’
Govt. House thronged the dais. But I have often
remarked that the presence of vice-regalities isn’t
an infallible recipe for skimming the social milk.
Their presence vouches for the respectability of a
show, but not for its fashion by many chalks. At
the Boys’ Ball the arrangements were admirable
(1 am tired of calling attention to the shabby and
inadequate mirror invariably placed in the ladies’
room—the kindest bit of glass in the world fora
woman who wants the light behind her lint which
doesn’t do at all for the girl who is anxious about
the powder on her nose). The hall was extensively
garlanded, and everybody praised the cakes and
ail, and though the music was a little rooky now
and then, the Boys’ Bali was put on very well, as
the theatre-people say.
But I must confess that my hair sort of bristled
at most of the dressing. Not at Lady Duff’s
poetic toilet—a leaf-brovVn brocade made with a
dbmi-train and fekirtal frill edged with pink ; the
bodice of lapels of pink and edgings of fine cream
lace; diamond ornaments and a committee
bouquet to finish off. Mrs. Bowden-Smith looked
rather funereal in black silk, the bodice trimmed
with Venetian point, complimentary mourning for
Admiral Tryon. Mrs. F. M. Dailey wore black
with green velvet sleeves," and carried a committee
bouquet. Mrs. (Major-General) Hutton, in ash-
coloured brocade very aesthetically trimmed with
pale sage-green and silver, and sporting magnifi-
cent diamonds, was the best-dressed woman there,
I thought.
Miss Duff wore a black silk gown, and Miss
Heather Duff cream silk. Miss Norman, daughter
of the Queensland Governor, sported a very
strange garment; the skirt was pink satin veiled
in black lace, the bodice of pink brocade cut a la
postillion and fastened over with black velvet
buttons, sleeves and facings of black velvet.
Miss Darlejr wore cream and yellow ; Miss
M'Donagh, ivory Bengaliue trimmed with tine
lace, diamond ornaments; Mrs. Kirkcaldie (one
of the secretaries) wore a very artistic and un-
common costume of yellow tulle over silk trimmed
with black lace and black silk lappels ; Dr. Dick’s
gown was ivory Bengaline with yellowf velvet
lappels ; Miss Joaephson wore black brocade with
bands of grey silk and a corsage bouquet of Parma
violets. Mrs. Louis Haigh’a white Bengaliue was
quaintly trimmed with black silk and passemen-
terie, diamond ornaments. But, if it comes to
diamonds, the order-decorated Captain Sachs, of
the Saida, who kindly brought all his gilt-edged
officers, beginning with the elongated, silent, and
rather good-looking Prince Lichtenstein, could
have given most of the women points in the
matter of glittering carbon.
But I couldn’t admire a stout lady in black,
peppered with white discs, like a shower of pepper-
mint-drops in a coal-hole; nor a girl all in red,
with a ruffle of red parrot feathers and red legs
like a seagull. Then a scared-looking committee
lady, in mauve silk and black lace dinner-costume
(I never blame a high-necked matron at a ball,
for I hear some husbands play up so at the
merest glimmer of a collar-bone), sprinted about
as if the success of the ball depended upon her
breaking the record round the ballroom ; and I
am told that an Austrian officer was greatly in-
terested in seeing an Australian maiden drink off
“a long beer” behind the shadow of her fan. And,
talking about shadows, the incident of the Boys’
Ball was when, through one of the closed glass
doors in the gallery, the buggery of a very smitten
couple was plainly seen from the ballroom —the
door having a light behind it, you know. It was
like boudoir-shadows done in colours, and half the
ball stood gazing open-mouthed while she put her
little head confidingly on his manly shoulder (lie
is the tame Johnny, by the way, of a married
lady), and he (yum-yum !) made the very most of
the position, you bet. And so, to be just, did
she. But their public confusion ought to be a
warning to future Juliets against curling Romeo’s
mnstivey near a sheet of glass with a light
behind it. You can’t improve upon the good, old
top-stair, after all.
It struck me that the wrong flight of “Mag-
pie” amateurs were let loose at Sydney Standard,
the other evening, when “ Breaking the Ice ” and
“ War to the Knife ” were put on for the benefit
of the Kilburn Sisters, who seem to have caught
on in fashionable circles. In the first farce (for
two) the lady was a grievous frost, who seemed to
have been billed solely because she possessed a
f>air of hunting boots and a Derby hat, but some-
mw, I never expect much genius from a woman
with two hyphens to her name. Mr. Rolleston,
who vainly tried to alleviate her pokerishness,
did nobly indeed, considering how he was
handicapped. In the second piece, I ap-
proved most of Mr. George Ulibborn who
put much real comedy into Mr. Nubbly.
The long lady of the curtain-raiser shed her de-
pressing influence through the afterpiece, and was
gamely struggled with by Mrs. Delacour (Mrs.
Hotham), whose brisk acting only deepened the
melancholy of her accomplice. The jeune-pre-
mier-ish Mr. Harvey had too little to do as Mr.
Harcourt. Mr. W. Rolleston, as the villain,
couldn’t have been improved upon so far as inky
moustachios went, and Captain St. Clair, as John
Blunt, looked like it, anyhow. Oddly enough, it
was the women who spoilt flutter. As
a rule, the amateur actress leaves her male com-
panion in grease-paint nowhere.
Lady Duff wore a black gown flowered in helio-
trope, and made with heliotrope silk sleeVes and
bands of ribbon, necklace and coronet of black jet;
black opera-cloak with yellow silk crepe cape
covered with black lace. Miss Duff wore cream
crepon with big sleeves and belt of white satin ;
Miss H. Duff, pink silk and spotted net; the other
lady in the Y.R. party wore a black silk dinner
dress with pink sleeves—for . all the world like a
jockey’s jacket. The Governor’s pearl studs were
enviable. The Admicaless wore red veiled in
black lace; the Lieutenant-Governoress black and
pink; but the prettiest dress, in a rather dressy
audience, was a black silk trimmed with pale
violet velvet bands on the skirt, with a bunch of
violets here and there; the bodice made with pale
violet velvet sleeves and a cluster of violets—the
same flowers nicely worn in the hair. The
opera-cloak was pale violet too. Besides which,
the wearer was distinctly pretty.
Governor Duff’s dinner-party and Lady Duff’s
more-official-than-society “at home,” in honour
of the royal marriage, seem to have passed over
in grace. I ;un told that a feature of the “at
home ” was a long-locked artist-man who seemed
to be drawing everything, even to the chim.bley-
ornaments, and of whom somebody took a clever,
snap-shot. Lady Duff wore the gown she sported
at Ternpe ball, and the Duff girls wore pink, white,
and blue respectively. People talked to amuse
themselves.,
By-the-by,, Lady Duff seems to have jumped to
the pinnacle of Australian jiopularity in one act —
somebody has named a racing mare after her. It
was only affer two weary years of office that a
long, yellowish hrute, with a hammer-head and a
dubious reputation, was christened “Lady
Carington” by its smitten owner, who, no doubt,
intended to be complimentary, poor man !
There was much pomp and circumstance in Syd-
ney Centennial Park at the long-postponed-for-
pecimiary-reasons military review. The Governor
rode a bright-bay gee very easily, and wore a
glittering star in his coat (he lost the middle out
of that bauble at Nowra, but the inevitable small
buy found it again), and had Major-General
Hutton on the off-side to explain the goose-step to
him. The brilliancy of the General’s get-up made
everybody else look drab. Gaping at ids red-and-
white plumes and his gold mountings (he was,
perhaps, a trifle short in the waist, if I must pick
a fault), one couldn’t help thinking that the. chipf
duty of a hero now-a-days must be to keep chummy
with his dressriiaker.
The lonely death, at Adelaide, of poor, Mr.
Antoinette Sterling, while Madame was voci-
felating in Maoriland, is just what generally
happens, somehow, to the pale, worried husband
of the large woman with a mission, I don’t think,
you know, that any man willingly marries a
woman' who is filled with frantic zeal for the
spread of corn plasters among the Hottentots—fie
probably has the pleasureof seeing her grow faddy
under his very eyes just, when he begins to criti-
cise his bargain. By the way, the newspapers put
the intelligence of Mr. Sterling’s death rather
ambiguously. “He had been in a low state of
health for some time, and his death was not un-
expected. . . He used to play his wife’s accom-
paniments !” Ido hope Mr. Tommy Hudson will
take great care of the health of May Habgood.
Those orthodox Hobartians who make such a
fuss in the local papers because the town band
plays on the seventh day, should riot.forget that
their objections are a reflection upon Queen
Victoria, Head of the Church by Law estab-
lished, for one reads that H.M. actually com-
mands a military band to tootle beneath her
window, at Windsor Castle, on Sunday afternoon.
It isn’t as if the band came along like a gang of
brazen infidels and insisted on tooting—they are
expressly ordered to toot —which affords a
“ social ” license for every English-speaking band
to go and do likewise on the Sabbath-day.
Have you heard of those cruel men who filled
the Sydney Strand with “ matrimonial ” damsels
the other day for hours at a stretch ? Tempting
advts. were inserted, the rendezvous was the
Strand and the damsels were to know their prey
by a sunflower or something in his coat,
Then the jokers went up incognito to see how
the thing werit off. The girls were all therein
fascinating clothing hovering about for the hus-
band who never came. But the best of it was
when one or two intrepid 1 but flowerless youths
tried to make friends with these damsels on
the connubial war-path. They were blighted
with scorn and withered, on the spot! The
matrimonial advt. girl is miles above that —for
who knows whether “ he ’’ riiight be looking to see
how she carries on ?
With the reign of the manicure lam not sur-
prised to hear that gloves ate waning fitfully at,
’Ome for women’s wear. Society, which has been
diligently at work on its nails for a long time, now
wants to twinkle its pink and pearly finger-tips in
the public eye, and not .conceal the works of art
in finger-bags when there are people about to see.
But in Australia it will only nominally be the
manicure who ‘will strip the kid from society’s
hands. The woman with diamond rings will clear
tiie road for bare fingers in this bedizened land,
if the road is cleared at all. By-the-bye, I wonder
just where the discarding movement will stop?
Boudoir rumours say that all twenty nails of tpe
properly-manicured individual receive equal at-
tention, 4 Will next mail tell us that Lady Snooks
came gracefully into the ball-room with her boots
on her atm ?
Sydney University Sports Union ball is de-
finitely fixed for Aug. 3rd, in the Town Hall,
under the patronage of Sir Robert and Lady Duff.
Tickets are 12s. 6d. The Fresh Air League ball
will be on August 10; and St Vincept’s annual
ball engagements are now under consideration.
By tiie way, I wonder if the invariable success of
St Vincent’s ball is in any way due tp the fact
that it is a man-managed festivity?
Doesn’t it amuse you, in a cynical way, when
the “right-thinking” newspapers “deprecate”
the nasty things that some democratic M.P. has
said about Sir Somebody iri public? The nasty
things in question are, of course, repeated with a
shocked expression—as if the editor was writing
with hair on end—but still they are repeated. It
always reminds me of the woirian who says that
she really considers it malicious of Miss Blank, to
say that Mrs. Dash’s complexion comes out with
gilt stoppers at a guinea a bottle,
Says a gushing Sydney “ society ” writer, prais-
ing the local nobility for “ nobly ” attending an
ultra-fashionable charity-dance, for which tickets
were fiercely sought after at double the first
charge: “ And some in their own homes have
faced the hard times so bravely that we rejoice to
see in them the noble and brave nature we are
proud of having inherited from our forefathers.”
Blood does tell, of course. The exceedingly rocky
times the average Australian fore-fathers had to
face ought to lead to something very enduring in
the way of posterity, don’t you think ?
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s 4 .... “ The Crimes of Paris.”
IffCEUM “Liberty Hall.”
Criterion “ The Amazons.”
Tivoli Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal. .. “ .Jess.”
Exhibition Building. Fill is! Circus.
Red fern Railway Station... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
PRINCESS'S “ A Million of Money.”
** IJOU .... Muihel Greenwood Co*
Opera House Variety Show.
Mr. Dumpier, who has lately been away ini
Melbourne filing an honourable schedule and pay-
ing something in the re-opened at Sydney
Royal on Monday in Pettiit’s “House on the
Cliff,” His re-appearance is about the most-
fortunate thing which has happened to the Royal'
this year, fur that theatre was steadily going to 1
seed-in his absence. The Bulletin endeavoured!
to partially smother its feelings over this state of
things, as it had no desire to make unkind re-
marks about any show when the star was away
filing his schedule— the said schedule being one
consequence of the many years during which 1
Dampier has laid up treasure in Heaven and has-
been a friend to everybody who was hungry and
stone-bruke cm earth. The “ House on the Giiff ” is*
a drama with many good points, and it is well-
mounted and played with a vim. There are 15-
characters in it and four of them are Dam pier. The-
audience wouldn’t object-, for that matter, if eight
of them were Dampier. It reveals, among other
tilings, how Mr. H. Piimrner throws Mr. Harford!
at, night over a monstrous cliff into a restless,
dark-green sea, and Mr. Rolfe is convicted of the
crime on. the perjury of Mr. Lestou —the evidence
of Mr. Dampier, as a, drunken schoolmaster who
had. been.sleeping in the cucumber frame, being
disregarded by the jury. It further shows how-
Mr, Dampier, as a tragedian who never plays-
Hamlet, twice in the same town, gets a
clue some years later, and how an aged French-
whp is also Mr. Dampier, follows it'
up with the pertinacity of a tiger. And at last Mr.,
Plimmer,. is run down by a bearded ruffian withi
two left legs and no right one, a twisted back, and!
various other dislocations, who proves to be Dam-
pier. also. That gentleman is a great success in alb
these characters—especially the first; as a friendly,
drunk, who is overflowing with maudlin good;
intentions towards all the human race and would'
gladly embrace everybody, Alfred Dampier has
no rival in Australia. Mr. Leston, hitherto-
known only as a comedian, lakes a new line as the-
principal villain, and shapes particularly well, and
the rest of the company is satisfactory—except'-
that Mr. Plimmer looks altogether too. villainous-
in the first act, and that Miss Rose Dampier is
too nervous to assert herself. Possibly when she-
is fully aware how nice she looks in her white
frock and her long, damp hair —when she has just’
been dragged out of the river—this affliction will
wear off. Rider Haggard’s, “Jess.” follows oni
Saturday.
* rtf * »
To-day (Thursday) a benefit performance'
takes place at Sydney Lyceum, in aid of the Aus-
tralian Dramatic and Musical Association. This *
association exists for the benefit of actors and
others w,ho have fallen, on, evil days, and now it=-
has fallen on evil days itself and urgently requires-
assistance. Its funds,ar,e almost entirely invested!
in bank securities, and the great collapse has not’
only abolished- its income but burdened it with-
liabilities in the shape of calls to help on !i
the Fat, Man’s, reconstruction projects. Un-
less the Lyceum benefit pays " a hand-”
some dividend, _ therefore, the probabilities are
that the charity will finally go to pieces,
and nothing will remain but the bitter curse of '
the profession on banks and bankers in general.-
Governor Duff and other social powers have
promised tu be present on the occasion. The pro-
Sramme includes, the comic sketch “Good fon
[pthing by the Lyceum Co., a duet from *
“ Genevieve de Brabant.” by Madame Soidene ■
and Miss, Josephine Donkin; “Darby and JOani”
by Edward Terry and Miss Watson, one act each
of “l]he.Amazons,” “Right’s Right,” and “Tern
Nights in a Bar-room,” and contributions by -
Dampier,. Leitch, Sass, Rickards, the two -
circus companies, and others.
*» * *
“ Sweet Lavender ” will run till Friday*
at Sydney Lyceum, Mr, Terry!s Dick Phenyl
having proved an eminently profitable speculation.-
“Liberty Hall,” a comedy never - before seen in <
Australia, is announced for Saturday. At the
Criterion, Brough and Boucicault announce the
last five weeks of their show, and “The
Amazons ” are still on board. The Bulletin’s'
inward fear that Mrs, Brough would sooner or later
niakeafatal mistake in the Indian club exercise, andi
break her own shapely head with both clubs, has.
not yet been realised.
#» » #
“ The Crimes of Paris,” with George Rig-
nold and Miss Kate Bishop in the cast, is
announced for next Saturday at Her Majesty’s
(Sydney). The present drama with the lamentable
title will die much regretted, and Jennie Lee, as
the young lady who kicks a justice of fir- peace
with both feet at the same moment, will leave a
great void behind her. Also, the villain with the
broken head, who leers through the broken door
at the girl who is shut up among the rats, will do
likewise.
** * *
The two circuses continue to crush the
public for a satisfactory yield per ton. The Fitz-
geralds’ new programmes follow each other in
ceaseless variety, and Captain Humphries, the
“ lion-tamer and elephant-subjugator,” will—pro-
vided he isn’t prematurely eaten—shortly supply
a new thrill. Fillis’s strongest point at present is
a gentleman who falls from the roof and arrives
unhurt in the centre of the ring. The funeral of
this individual is daily expected, but he has done
the same horror over 1000 times, and his grave is
not yet dug, neither is his tombstone ordered.
** # *
Harry Richards’ latest idea is a Gaiety
burlesque spectacle, in which a number of ladies
and other females call on an editor and mop up
the premises with him, on account of some objec-
tionable statements in his paper. The item takes
well, and is a brilliant advertisement for the un-
reasonableness of women in general. Just here
The Bulletin wishes to remark that if, some day
or other, it is raided by a quantity of aggressive
burlesque females, who have a grievance, it pro-
poses to deal with the invasion on an entirely new
plan, which, it trusts, will give universal sHti-Jac- |
tion. There will be no seiious violence, but if the ;
scheme works smoothly, a large number of ladies i
will probably have aggravated hysterics in the
street shortly afterwards.
* « -If -M
Sydney Gaiety lias gone the way of all
theatrical flesh, and has drifted into the. minstrel


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1593, its accumulated funds amounted f0& 28,292,016 ,Pf‘ A
and Us SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457,808 Sm. ±cL., being the LARGEST
Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
TOQTATT HOWELL General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
v . ~ hniHinrr an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
i snranec DepaO m enh # M Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
Re State by the Insurance Superintendent.
The Old Blend
WlxisKy
«**•-* Horse
Cellar
WBI'
DIRECT WOM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW.
*L"" NUTUUt SCOTCH M AIT
Edinbu^h
show industry. There are some good features
about the show, but, like hen’s teeth, there are not
many of them. Sylvo and Provo are two very
satisfactory jugglers, and Miss Florence Schuler
has a voice that is worth listening to —and that is
about all. The black men’s jokes are too dreadful
to be further m mtioned, and the eternal song-and-
dance man is a weariness, and even Miss Ada
Juueen in male clothes is not an unduly exciting
circumstance.
*• * * *
There is a young man in Melbourne con-
sumed by a melancholy passion for interviewing
Mr. E J. Lonneu on behalf of the Aruus or
Austral astan. Whether he is a journalist
glorifying Lonnen at so much per column, or a
crazy amateur accomplishing the fell deed for
love, does not appear in the published reports.
Enough that he gets there. At intervals far too
brief this abject historian sidles into Lonnen’s
dressing-room —one feels sure that he sidles —with
a plaintive request for information as to why the
mummer aforesaid is so extravagantly funny.
To which Lonnen, “ comfortably disposed in a
stuffed arm-chair, and puffing unconcerned at
his cigarette,” replies that his humour is an
inspired thing addicted to descending upon him
like a dove.iu the middle of the night. He goes
into details concerning dreary “ bits of business,”
whilst the Argus representative listens enchanted,
and jots down the nauseous narrative in a book.
The origins of those dull, mechanical jokes that
have harrowed our intelligence for the past 12
months, are explained at full length to the quiver-
ing reporter, who in due course lets the public into
the gruesome secrets with an evident sense
of importance. The poor fellow has a settled
conviction that Lonnen is riotously comic,
and that it is his own particular proud
mission in life to lay the homage of
Australia at the mummer’s feet. A more
pathetic exhibition of leaden journalism, kow-
towing to a clay idol the world has never known.
Here, for instance, is a “ bit ” that brings a tear
to The Bulletin’s eye :—“ ‘And now,’ says
Claude Frollo, sinking once more into his chair,
and folding his monk’s sable modesty round his
le<Ls, ‘now, we have just time for a little chat. Of
course you know that I am being managed by a
syndicate. Igo home by the Orizaba on the 26th
and that is my last connection with the Gaiety
Company. But one thing is certain—in two years
lam coming back to Australia.’ ” And again ;
“In a second the tail of Claude Frollo’s robe
whisks out of the door. A moment later came
a few catchy bars of music suddenly ended
in a roar of applause. . . Mr. Lonnen is on.”
The tail of the Argus man also whisks out of the
•door, and quick as thought he rushes up to the
back of the dress-circle in order to gloat upon his
god. How inexpressibly sad is all this! Mr.
Lonnen is on !! He is pulling the same old faces,
reiterating the oft-told “gags,” repeating himself
for the two-hundredth time in the old lack-lustre
style. The faithful interviewer feels laughter
bubbling up within him as he commits his drivel
to paper. But on the 28th iust. Mr. Lonnen will
be off. Gloom go with him, and stay with him in
Hingland for ever and ever, Amen.
Bland Holt, and his large loose-jointed
play from Drury Lane, were received in a pro-
mising manner at Melbourne Princess’s, on Satur-
day. The performers might have been more
worthy of the stage management, but as they
probably improved on their first night's work,
after resting on the Sabbath, it is not worth while
to go deeply into this matter. “ A Million of
Money” must stand or fall by its incoherent
magnificence, in any case. No human feature of
the show possesses a grain of interest for anybody
except the scene-shifters, who are called upon to
erect a fresh “set” as soon as the princi-
pals have left off talking to the one in
hand, Alderman Harris and his faithful Pettitt
took the ordinary melodrama characters, and
boiled all the strength out of them. The hero is a
sickly ass before he comes into his money, and a
champion idiot afterwards. His wife hasn’t even
an injured woman’s curse to recommend her, and
the wicked people are not half wicked enough. A
decayed drinker, who dies in the third act, is the
beat of the lot. His consistent shriek is much
missed after his untimely decease, and Bland Holt
would do well to keep this shocking example alive
to the finish. Myra Kemble, Lilia Wilde, Charle 8
Brown, and Walter Howe (vice Sass) play parts
that they didn’t take in Sydney, and these
changes in the oast were not a success on Satur-
day.
#* * *
There is a little going on at other theatres,
but it is a very little, and it doesn’t go with touch
vigour. Nothing new has happened at the
Alhambra, beyond an announcement that ladies
visiting the dress-circle need not remove their hats
or bonnets—a generous concession by the pro-
prietors of a high-toned shovv'to %heir “ two bob”
patrons. At the Bijou, the ill-fated Greenwoods
are believed to be delighting Melbourne with their
production of “Leah.” Or, it was to be “Leah”
until to-night (Thursday), when “My Sweet-
heart” will (D.V.) reintroduce Miss Maribel
to notice in her singing capacity. From Leah to
Miss Fleeter, with musical accompaniment, is a
long way for a verdant young actress to travel in
one week, but Maribel Greenwood is equal to the
task. Maribel’s ambition, combined With some-
body else’s talent, might accomplish great things.
«* * »
Thp Alexandra “row” performance 6f a
play adapted from Mark Twain’s “ Prince and
Pauper” will be repeated, under decent condi-
tions, at an early date —perhaps on Saturday.
“ A King of Shadows and Dreams ” is at least a
play with something in it, and the cleverness of
W. G. Carey’s little daughter, who doubled the
parts of Prince and Pauper, aroused a good deal
of interest at times when the University students
were too tired to keep on howling. As regards
the students—well, some of them have publicly
apologised for the others in a style so modest and
handsome as to explode the theory that the entire
University deserves a good kicking.
** * *
Williamson and Musgrove always coin
money in Adelaide. For instance, every dress-
circle seat was booked twenty minutes after the
plan was opened for “La Cigale,” on July 1.
Some recent theatrical productions in
Melbourne cried aloud for a distinction to be
established between the journalist who writes and
the pressman who slings ink. A journalist, we
take it, is one selling his “stuff” rather than his
time (or his soul and body) to a publisher through
an editor, and who legitimately helps to create the
want which he supplies. The Victorian Journal-
ists’ Institute has assumed a false title. It is
mainly a society of dull and daily pressmen,
bitterly antagonistic to men of any literary quali-
fications, especially those whose humour has been
recognised as such by the reading public. And
this is, perhaps, attributable to the growing
tendency of pressmen to conspire together for the
purpose of considering themselves funny. Even
as a tragedian regards light comedy as a depart-
ment he could shine in if so disposed, the heavy
newspaper man affects to be a W. S. Gilbert, who
keeps his humour carefully chained up. This de-
lusion would bo pardonable enough if he didn’t
occasionally let his light airy fancy run free, and
rejoice in its dreadful gambols.
“A Million of Money,” in vulgar vernacular,
“ Collars the bun ” as a drama spectacular;
Starts in a garden attached to a deanery—
Wanders through wonderful changes of scenery.
Misunderstandings, and courtships, and marriages
(Trifles, compared with the horses and carriages),
Bob up at times in the course of the history,
Just for the sake of increasing the mystery.
White-headed father, habiliments clerical —
Daughter, with cold on her chest, and hysterical—
Husband, who acts all along very boobily,
Closely related to Juggins, of Jubilee—
Majah, inured to the gallery’s censuring—
Charming adventuress, fond of adventuring—
Party called Bounder, assisting the majah in
Plucking the bird, and preposterous wagerin’—
Chirpy Bland Holt, very droll, but irrelevant,
Ready to strengthen his cast with an elephant—
Mrs. B.H. looking happy and frolicsome
Banishing pain when the trouble is colicsome —
Tragical boozer —three ladies extraneous —
Careful assortment of supes. miscellaneous.
Make altogether a drama bewildering
Fathers and mothers, as well as the childering.
Race for the Derby, six fliers, or so, in it:
Troops marching off, and the drummer-boys going
it:
Nocturnal fete, coloured night-lights a-gleaming
on—
Mirage of shipwreck that somebody’s dreaming
on :
Out on a reef, with no tucker attainable,
Hero is saved in a way inexplainable.
Then in a “Share Boom’’this incident vivid ends —
Reef, being struck, pays remarkable dividends.
Things become bright, after showing the bluey
side,
Though nobody dies of a murder or suicide.
And the villain, in spite of his plots against
Dunstable,
Doesn’t fall into the arms of a constable.
At Poverty Point.
The most depressing jihe ever thrown at “Teddy
Lonnen came, the otlier night, from one of the Melbourne
gods : I say, wiiy didn’t yer sing to that editor?”
A certain Australian actor—whose wife lately.divorced
him tor cruelty—was another of the many husbands who
were kind and considerate when drunk. It was only when
he was sober that he banged the lady’s head against the
wail and rushed her around by the hair. In their early
married life he kept reasonably drunk, and they were
happy, but lately he was led away by had companions,
and gave way to outbursts of sobriety. Practically, he was
divorced for habitual temperance.
Lonnen’s black eye was a good “ad.” for the Gaiety
Co., and was generally applauded when it appeared on the
stage. So the comedian painted it black for about two
weeks after it had recovered, just to keep up the sen-
sation.
The Sydney Lyceum Theatre will, it is stated, be
shortly put up for auction. The building cost a trifle
under £40,000, and the ground-lease has 29 years to run.
David Christie Murray thus sizes up his old enemy,
Harry St. Maur (who had him arrested at Geelong), an
actor who wore more jewellery and put on a clean shirt
oftener and had more frill on the shirt than any other
known to Australia:—“He was an elderly young gentle-
man whose speciality had for years been that sort of high-
flying rattling comedy of which Charles Mathews was
the chief exponent in my youth. He had the most
suasive, genial, and gentlemanly comedy manner con-
ceivable, and was never for a minute away from the foot-
lights. At breakfast, at luncheon, at dinner, he played to
the public of the hotel coffee-room. In the street he
plaved to his fellow-promenaders. He played, and played
har'd, in the simplest private conversation. The world to
him was literally a stage, and all the men and women
merely players. Old age will teach him no sadness. He
will play at being old. Death will have none of its com-
mon terrors for him. He will play at dying. When last
I heard of him I was told that he was very, very poor ;
but lam sure he suffers little. He is playing at making
a fortune or playing at having lost one: pluming himself
on some visionary splendour, or commiserating i some
picturesquely broken nobleman in his own person.”
At a Kew (Vie.) amateur show the scenery caught fire,
and, though it was at once extinguished, the audience
could not be induced to return to their seats. The
audience at an amateur performance rarely gets a chance
like that.
Madame Kangaroo Charley Melba’s portrait occupies
the front page of a recent Sketch. She is made to
appear as beautiful as the Maichioness of Londonderry,
and as for diamonds and pearls, with which she is covered,
they might well he the Orleans family jewels.
Snazzy, at his Melb. Rational Sunday Evening, was
reading “ Enoch Arden ” with the aid of a lantern. “ All
hope was lost”—when the lantern fell down and went
out. The house laughed, but Snazzy, after fumbling
things to rights, came forward and said gravely: I don’t
see anything very funny about it.” Talk about a charac-
teristic story 1
Travelling combinations have struck a dead frost at
Tamworth (N.S.W.), and the local storekeepers wait with
knuckledusters for the next crowd. A nine-childrened
bill-poster with a 275. bill, tackled one about-to-quit
manager who had bluffed off everyone else. “Good
O l nine children ! poor devil! Here!” Down went
one of the pro.’s hands into a pocket—two florins and two
sixpences. “ Here ! —No, I can't spare the tanners; I
wan’t 'em for drinks.'* touch of nature, &c.
They went and “ had ’em.”
Terry says that “only three actors have been convicted
of theft.” “ Just so,” says an exchange, “ the actor who
Strikes a country town and clears out without paying the
printer or the publican generally does escape.”
Rickards has taken a hint dropped hy (lie N.B.W,
powers that he, and, last Sabbath, 83’dney Tivoli pro*
gramme contained two really sacred items. '
Larrikinism reached its zenith, apex, and apogee, In the
University display at Finn’s Melh. benefit. Whatever
sort of a democratic country is Victoria, with the privi-
leges of such junkers? The taxpayer creates them, with
their bullock horns, old trombones, skulls and marrow-
bones, tin whistles, and devilry of mischief. It is not as
if these miserable, unoriginal wooden-heads insulted a
parcel of incompetent amateurs, but their cruelty pitches
upon a cast of worthy and able professional people, sorely
pressed by the hardships of to-day.
Thus a correspondent: “Pat Finn's benefit, at Melb.
Aleck, was much disordered by the occupants of the
gallery, and no wonder. In the first place, it is quite
evident, from the eight signatures to the Argus letter of
apology, that, though Pat advertised it as a “ ’Varsity
Night,” he had no right to do so. A proper ’Varsity Night,
or rather “Students’ N ; ght,” is one organised hy the
committees of all the student societies acting in concert,
and is only given as a special mark of appreciation to
artists of high rank, or to charities having a special
clairii on the University'— e.'i., Genevieve Ward or the
Women’s Hospital. Pat’s night was not so organised ;
but had its origin ill Pat’s cupidity or the vanity of
a few would-he leaders of the student world. Further,
when an “official Students’ Night” has been decided on,
the gallery' Is bought right out fora lump sum, special
tickets are printed, and sold only to those intimately
connected with the University. This was not done for
Pat’s benefit, for he and his agents sold gallery tickets.
Again, what did Pat mean by advertising that seven
hundred students, would honour his benefit? Why', if
every blessed student had gone down, including the
Christian Alliance and the Princess Ida Club, the number
would not have been more than 500 and a score. To con-
clude, it may safely be said (1) that not more than half of
those present ever had anything to do with the Univer-
sity ; (21 that no leading students had anything to do with
the affair: (3) that it served Pat Finn jolly well right.
“Professor Richard” is dragging hts electric-healing
show through Maoriland to poor business. Nearly every
local paper has jumped on the little man ; some of his
“cured patients” seem to have gone back on him : also
the oily healer excitedly offered to bet £lOOO to £lOO
that no one could prove there was any stain on his
character. Whereupon Christchurch Truth promptly
put up the required £lOO with the Inspector of Police,
but at latest it was still calling in vain for the Prof, to
plank his coin.
Max O’Rell, With “the Much-Travelled, Jr.” at the helm,
claims to have put up a record at the Cape. They finish
in July, and contemplate doing Russia and India next
season.
Anson at the music-halls ! Most melancholy'!
Lucy' Chambers took a birthday celebration in her quiet
house in Alhert-st., Melb., last week. The last time
Madame Chambers sang in public was in ’74, when she
appeared at a press entertainment, in Melb. Athenaeum,
for the benefit of Kyrle Bellew, who had just recovered
from typhoid fever. AVhile Madame Chambers was sing-
ing, Kyrle received a cablegram announcing the death of
hrs father, the preacher and author.
A funny story' is around about a ballet-girl who spent
the night at a Sydney' coffee-palace dancing “ Broom-de-
do-dum,” or some other hysterical frenzy. Why she
went to the coffee-palace is another pair of sleeves.
“ Eleonora Duse is the most absorbingly interesting
actress I ever saw.”— Critic Archer.,
“A Million of Money” has no murder, and the next
reform will be a melodrama sans “ Ha ! You here! ”
E'litor Bulletin, —Brooke acted in two Melbourne
theatres, of which there are remains—the Queen’s and
Coppin’s Olympic, the Iron Pot. The shell of the Queen’s
is intact, t hough ii has been a coach-wan house these 34
years. The Olympic has been a Turkish Bath and furni-
ture-warehouse, but underwent a fire. Brooke acted
likewise at the old Royal, of which there is no remainder,
in the theatrical portion, thanks to the fire of 1872. —P.
Many old Australian friends are at present in South
Africa: Captain de Burgh and Julia Sydney' at Natal
waiting for something to turn up ; Albert Marsh and
Emma Chambers in Capetown • doing well: Leonora
Braham and her Duncan Young warbling Gilbert and
Sullivan to the Afrikanders ; Verdi and his Emelie Mel-
ville keeping a little pub. in Johannesburg and play-
ing in light comedy.
Young Skarratfc (from Sydney), late of Cambridge
University, who is really a good actor, has joined the
noble hand of “Strolling Players,” of which another
Australian, a son of the late Mr. Alfred Lamb, is a dis-
tinguished ornament as a good comedian. The players
are the crack English amateur body of actors.
Bank smashes have dissipated the income of the Aus-
tralasian Dramatic and Musical Association. Hence the
ben. at Sydney Lyceum this Thursday afternoon.
Miss Katharine Foote, the young giantess with the
Buffalo Bill hat, whose elephantine legs formed the main
support of the Gaiety Go. during the first Melb. and
Svdney seasons of the Lonnen-Hood crowd, has been spin-
ning fairy tales to a ’Ome paper about her doings in Aus-
tralia. Among other things Miss Foote says that she was a
great success in all the parts she played “in the colo-
nies,” and that “the best society ” received her with open
arms and made much of her.
Aira6e Reid, who is rapidly singing her way Into the
public heart at a Melbourne hall, is daughter of the late
Curtis Reid, sometime sporting editor of the deceased
Federal Australian.
Luscorabe Searelle, F. 8.0.5., is not yet a millionaire,
but runs a music-hall, &c., in Johannesburg, and is fast
accumulating cash.
Jennie Lee has been twenty years looking for some-
thing like Mark Twain’s “ Prince and Pauper.” Finn’s
clumsy play shows that there is fine dramatic material ia
it.
“Miss Tempest thinks she has got hold of the world by
the slack of its trousers.” U.S. newspaper critique on a
cheeky prima donna.
Terriss is definitely engaged, by Musgrove, for Aus-
tralia. His manly style will take well, and he ia as good
as ever, the Rignold of an hour. And Jessie Millwaid,
who comes with him—she is a fetching woman.
The English Comic Opera Company has continuously
filled Adelaide Royal during its season.
Joseph Jefferson is reported dying in America of old
age and glandular abscess.
Sarah Bernhardt is alleged to be ageing rapidly.
Modern Society evidently thinks it is time to prance on
the falling idol, and it says that her recent performances
were “awful,” also that her voice is cracked, and that
she snuffles dismally through her nose in tragic passages.
Extract from a new “comic opera,” the “Magic
Ring”:—
Ducky-darling, sweety-meety, kissy-missy me,
Nioey-pioey, periwinkle, tiokle-iokle-ee,
Lovey-dovey, rosy-posy, oh kernoodle do,
Popsy-wopsy, kic’ksy-wicksy, winky-pinky poo.
May Robson, of New York, the three-legged skirt-
dancer, is suing Ruth Ward, the four-legged skirt-dancer,
for damages. The third leg, it seems, was patented, and
the four-legged one has infringed the patent.
There is said to be only one juggler on earth—Cinque-
valli, the Pole—who cm balance two billiard-balls on the
end of a cue, and then balance the cue on his head. €le is
now studying how to balance three balls on the cue.
The Lyric Club’s “Pirates of Penzance,” says a Melb.
correspondent, is the talk of local fashionable circles, and
is, indeed, the best amateur performance ever known in
the city- The t.wo Cunninghams, as the Pirate King and
Frederick, especially the tenor, were worthy of William-
son. Miss Haydon, if announced at the Princess’ as Kffie
Clements, from England, would have taken the town by
storm. Then the General’s twenty-five daughters ! What
fresh virginity 1
“Pygmalion and Galatea” is the most profitable author’s
piece ever known— £40,000.
“My art, whose professors and followers should be of
the very highest culture, is the mere makeshift of every
speculator and boor who can hire a theatre, and get hold
of some sensational rubbish, to gull the public."—Edwin
Booth.
A son of the late N.S.W. Judge Meymott has taken to
the stage.
J. J. Uttlng is negotiating with George Rignold for an
Utting season, long or short, at Sydney Majesty’s.
An aborigine taken to a Q. show watched, with interest,
two bobbies stealthily creeping—one, two, three, sh !-oa
the villain in the play. The hold, bad man, however, is
alert in time and hides. After a search around, bobbies
depart. Up rose the excited Blackboy: “Hi 1 you mully
gully fools 1 That pfeller hide longa cubbard all the
time!”
Social Gimlet Vale, in the Vic. Assembly: " I hare never
been inside a theatre and 1 hope 1 never shall.’
Two freckled, awkward, straight-haired girls waited
t’other day on the stage-manager of Sydnc y Royal. “Ws
hear you want a couple of ' angels' for your next pleoe.
We. have been angels before.”
“ When actors talk of study, it is like Freemasons talk-
ing of building.”—Goetuk.
The Bijou, Melb., may as well have its exits looked to.
The place is all upstairs, and the gallery ascent is as
interminable as going up the Raadenongs, at Fern Tree
Gully.
“In Miss Leamar, the extremes of taste meet, and are
comforted.”—Aob. Mind those juniors.
The authorities of a Sydney Sunday paper
have been pushing themselves forward personally
as denouncers of larrikinisrn. Just conceive the
transcendental gall of the gutter-hawkers who ran
the filthiest weekly paper that ever festered 'in
Australia, who laid themselves out specially to
cater for the ferocious prize-fights of the “ Rocks ”
and other “pushes,” who wallowed in the slang
of the bruiser, and strung obscenity into neck-
laces, having the altitudinous hypocrisy to pose in
public as the suppressors of larrikinisrn !
The cableman on the Royal wedding :
He (George) was flashed but looked the picture of
health and walked to the altar with a firm step.
Which sounds like a procession to the gallows.
The Princess May seemed to be completely unnerved,
and her responses at the altar were hardly audible.
But she got there all the same.
The Victorian Horse Artillery, whose resolute bearing
was much admired,'attracted special attention, the pre-
sence of the men heing a touching incident and striking a
chord of sympathy.
A chord of sausages ! Great assafeetida !
Sydney Telegraph now calls the Broken
Hill strike-leaders “Mister” Sleath and “Mister”
Ferguson. And (its reptile contemporary being
also a penny now) its stomach thus alliteratively
aches over its own democratic pathos :—“ It
tells a story of dark despair, the humble heroism
of women who have not yet given in, and the mute
misery of hundreds whose days are spent in per-
petual want.” This from the zealous barracker of
the Fat Man. Yes, the general election is a
sizeable fact, and it is necessary to start wheedling
the voters right away.
The present political situation in Queens-
land out-burlesques any farcicality that even
the clownish jumbledon of party government has
ever evolved. With a two-thirds majority of
general supporters, Premier MTlwraith only saved
the second reading of his Border Railway Tax
Bill by the casting vote of the Speaker. In chok-
ing wrathfulness, he announced that the Ministry
would consult the Governor, and, in oracular sen-
tences, he threatened theresignationof the Cabinet.
Governor Norman being absent from the province,
time was afforded for Ministers to dance a demon-
ballet. For purely theatrical display, MTlwraith
is hard to beat. The “Kitts’s Boots ” episode of
a few years back, which is mystically understood
to have helped in bringing down the poor old
Governor’s grey hairs with sorrow to the grave,
had a substantial inner-circle reason behind it—the
power of Executive pardon to the immured
“ Hopeful ” prisoners—though that secret reason
was officially kept dark. The present situation
has notiiing in it but the desire to exhibit the
“iron hand.” The charm works. Next parliamen-
tary night, member after member rose, some to
apologise for having differed from the Govt., to
affirm that no other Government was possible in
the present state of parties, to swear that what
the Government held to be a party question was
not a party question, and to promise to bo good
in future if only the executioner’s axe did not fall
at present. Only the Labour-members looked
cheerfully at the prospect of “ resignation.” The
rest of the House was melancholy and helpless, and
MTlwraith must have grinned grimly within him-
self, as ho beheld them squirming. MTlwraith
won’t resign. Governor Norman is a simple-
minded, blunt old soldier, not likely to take
“constitutional ” responsibility on his easy-going
shoulders. Moreover, MTlwraith will carry his
Border Railway Tax Bill, and will lash the
political underlings into line, until the Adulla-
mites “screw their courage to the sticking-point ”
and plot fresh combinations.
On Tuesday, at Darlinghurst prison, Syd-
ney, George Archer was hanged for the alleged
violation and murder of Emma Harrison. Owing
to the clumsiness of the Government man-butcher,
the proceedings eventuated in a hideous slaughter,
long-drawn-out; the convict would have died as
quickly had he been broken on the wheel. Archer,
who walked on to the scaffold holding the hand of
attorney Meagher, who had conducted his defence,
protested his innocence to the last. “You are
taking not only my life,” he said, “ but the life of
my wife ” —the poor, wretched little woman who,
with her ten-months-old baby in her arms, had
during weeks previously, gone to the prison every
day and sat down outside the grating of the con-
demned cell whereat a warder kept the death-
watch. Finally he added, after a pause : “Gentle-
men, I don’t think I need say any more.” Either
the noseless hangman with the ape-like arms and
knuckly fingers had a fine dramatic instinct,
unusual in persons of his brutal profession, or
else he is addicted to attending political meetings,
and had heard this remark before; anyhow, lie
jerked the bolt at that instant, and the convict
took a header down below in a curious, huddled-
up heap. On reaching the end of the rope, he
hung motionless for a few seconds. Then it
became evident that he hadn’t been killed by the
drop—the noose had failed to “ bite.” He kicked
frantically and horribly, his hands clutched con-
vulsively, and from beneath the white cap came a
succession of wheezy roars, shrieks, and groans.
But no one drew a pistol and finished him.
He was left alone, and kicked himself to
death in a trifle over seven minutes. “He
didn’t feel it,” the doctor said. Thus closed
the Burton-street tragedy for good. If the right
man is hanged the matter is ended ; if the wrong
man is hanged, it is ended just the same. When
once the law has hanged anybody for a crime,
nothing short of dynamite would draw its atten-
tion to the matter again. Nobody on earth is
safer from the law than the murderer for whoso
crime another man has been executed. The police,
whom Archer denounced on the scaffold as having
made evidence, are sure they got the right man.
Perhaps they did, but we are all liable to err. It
is by the force of circumstantial evidence, irresist-
ible at the time, that we lose our fortunes in fair-
seeming speculations, and part with the woman
or the man we should have married, and make all
the great mistakes of our lives.


*333
O-o to BCELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell I lie Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
d. a. virnir & co„
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
NtftW;... ......
Gold Medal Artificial Tbktii, full sets £5. Warranter!
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Ke
modelled. Painless Extractions \\i h Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations fiee. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)
To The Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years'
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
cutiy c |Josf
Erscheint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis 3d.
Zu haben bei alien Zeitang's-Agenten.
Abonnement 10 sh. Jahrlich direkt bei dcr
Foreign Publishing Office, 20 Hunter Str., Sydney.
Personal Items.
The public verdict re Admiral Tryon is
justifiable suicide.
Ex-Tasmanian Governor Robert Hamilton
has become a London stock-broker.
The smallest man in N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly made, in last session, the largest number
of speeches.
Review of Reviews for May insultingly
indexes the late Premier Ballancc(M.L.) as “Sir”
John Ballauce.
Premier Kingston (S.A.), is a non-smoker
and almost a total abstainer, “except a sip at
banquets out of etiquette,”
The “ Ellerton Gay” who contributes
short stories to London Sketch is the wife of J.
W. Grimes, a late Toowoomba (Q.) auctioneer.
New photos of Melba, taken at Milan this
year, are on view at Allan’s, Collins-street block.
For the first time, she looks really beautiful. Such
is Art.
“ We make no distinction of persons here,”
said Pantou, P.M., in Melbourne police-court last
week. Our oath, no. Lord Beerthirst and
Matthew Davies were treated with equal im-
partiality.
Madame Antoinette Sterling—blue-rib-
bonite, social purity lady—startled the Adelaide
syndicatewhichbroughtherto Australiaby sending
in a bill for £55, for a fortnight’s hotel expenses
in Sydney.
Harry Vogel, son of the historic Julius, is
said to bo a likely candidate for Wellington at
next Maoriland election. Probably he will find
that the Maorilanders are full up of everything
bearing the name of Vogel.
Parkes has received a letter from ex-Gov.
Hercules Robinson, in which the latter announces
himself a Home Ruler. This is as it should be.
V idle in Australia, Hercules was very much
under petticoat government.
F. W. Holder, S.A. Commissioner of
Works, is the thinnest man in Australasia, wears
a frock-coat which nearly reaches his boots, is
very pious, and has a face which, were it in-
fectious, would cause an epidemic of melancholia.
Mat. Davies has been represented since
the smash as a piteous ruin, physically and
financially. How many of the Mercantile’s cus-
tomers could afford to spend a recruiting picnic
extending over several weeks at a costly Colombo
hotel ?
The assault case, Tasmanian Chief Secre-
tary Ad ye Douglas v. Cameron, has been com-
promised by defendant paying £lO to a charity
and costs. Those who know the bruiser best aver
that the payment of so, much will be a terrible
shock to him.
A number of admirers of Gordon met at
his grave in Brighton, Vic., cemetery on the
anniversary of his suicide, and agreed amongst
themselves to form a society for the study of Aus-
tralian poetry. The society should start on the
poems of Parkes.
Three Sydney men, any two of whom, and
the three of whom, never met during the last five,
years without exchanging sentiments of the bitter-
est hatred of one another, are how, for offences in
no way related, confined in, contiguous cells in
D.irlinghurst prison.
Ernest Joseph Polkinghorne, the Broken
Hill striker liberated the other day, is he on
whose behalf the two ladies, wives of M.’sL. A.,
pleaded three months ago before N.S. W. Minister
for Justice, asserting that he was “a young gentle-
man who had received a classical education.”
Old Octavus Weld, the ancient medico of
Mount Barker, S.A., lost an eye when a lad.
When he went to have his qualifications regis-
tered, the clerk wrote his name Octavius. “ Not
Octavius, but Octavus,” corrected the doctor,
whereat the facetious clerk, with a merry grin :
“Oh, yes, Octavius with the ‘i ’ out.” Thedesigna-
tion still sticks.
Madame Antoinette Sterling is alleged to.
have Red Indian blood in her veins. This accounts
for a lot of things. Probably her singing voice is a
relic of the old paternal war-whoop that used to
go up by the Gila and the Colorado, and she took
to the concert platform for the same reasons which
made her remote grandfather yell at his captive
before he put fire under the soles of his feet.
“Bro. Thomas Walker, M.P.” (N.S.W.),
is reported at length in various temperance papers
as having lectured on—“ Why am I a total
abstainer ?” This conundrum’s too easy :
The difference between Dunstan Bede and
the S.M. Herald, as to who was the first autho-
rised R.C. priest in Australia, is of comparatively
little historical moment. Both mean by “ autho-
rised ” sent out to perform his duties by the
church authorities of “ home.” The first priest who
“said mass” for the convicts, and was authorised
to do so by the Governor of the day, was Rev.
James Dixon, himself a convict, but afterwards
emancipated. Father Dixon performed all the
duties of his office among the convicts nearly 20
years before Therry arrived, and three or four
years before Ullathorne was born.
Both Goldabrough and Mort landed in
Australia hard-up—and there the resemblance
ended. They reached the possession of fortunes
by absolutely opposite means. Goldsbrough loved
a joke—the “bluer” the joke the more beloved
it; he smoked Dibbsian <>irars; he bent his
elbow with anybody who would bend with him.
Au eontraire, Mort Was reserved and religions.
He frowned at all jokes, which, to tell the truth,
he did not understand ; he was as solemn as a
Cromwellian sergeant And these - two men,
representing the opposite poles of human-nature,
died of precisely the same cause —anxiety.
It must be difficult for the coats-of-arms-
makers to hitch a long line of ancestors to certain
family names. Coldham, for instance. But per-
haps Coeur de Lion found one of his favourite
and best-bred knights lying on the plains of
Ascalon, and loosening the armour of the pro-
strate warrior, cried in anguish, “Alas ! he is dead
—ho has cold hams ! Let him be buried as Baron
Coldhams.” And possibly the fifth descendant
was deprived of Ills barony when the King ordered
his “s” to be chopped off, wherefore the name
became plain Coldham. This sounds feasible.
Anyway, it is bettor than assuming that the family
sprang from a sandwich.
Parkes once had a lot to learn. Here’s
an example. When Queen Victoria’s son Alfred
was staying at Government House, Sydney,
Parkes imagined that the mounted guard on duty
there was treating him (P.) with studied (probably
Fenian-like) disrespect, and reported them to the
officer commanding. He complained that although
he was quite sure that he was personally known
to all or most of the mounted guard they not only
refused to salute him as he passed, “ but on the
contrary cast upon him impertinent side-long
glances,” and made “insolent significant gestures
to each other with their thumbs.” The men,
however, emerged triumphantly from the scrape.
They were using double-reined bridles, and the
“impertinent side-long glances ” and the “inso-
lent significant gestures ” with their thumbs were
part and parcel of the authorised military salute,
and—Parkes went under. No mounted military
man is supposed to raise his hand to his cap when
saluting. Mr. “Jimmy ” Martin, who did know
something about things military, initiated Parkes
into tiio hidden mysteries of mounted military
and his attempted genial smile and clumsy
recognition of the self-same salute which he re-
ceived from the mounted “ guards ” when he came
to Government House next morning are matters
of history.
At Bridgewater (Eng.) an aged labourer
was lately sentenced to a month in gaol because
he applied for relief to the parish authorities, he
having fonrpenoe in his possession at the time !
It’s unlucky to become a lecturer to Q.
Pharmacy College. Lecturer Linden fell down
an abandoned shaft; his successor, Dr. Griffin,
got a death-fall the other day in the hunting field.
The puzzle in the Wesleyan denomination
is how Rev. Fitchett has avoided the itinerancy
BETWEEN THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP SEA.
THE SEAMAN (at £5 a month): “If I plunge it’s starvation; if i don’t it’s gaol!”
imposed by rule upon all the other clergy. Truly
he is a wonderful pluralist. The Akgus, Herald,
and Southern Cross, besides the Review of
Reviews, could not exist, they say, without Mr.
Fitchett, who is also pastor and Principal of the
Vic. Wesleyan Ladies’ College.
In opposition to all the poets and volup-
tuaries who have sung the praises of Japan and
the Japanese, Clement Scott, of London D.T.,
just returned from the East, writes fervidly in a
S.F. newspaper, not only denying the delicate
and sentimental charms of the land and the
women, but drawing a picture of them that is
revolting in the extreme. Thejxlmond-eyed fairies,
that so won the heart of Sir'Edwin Arnold and
other susceptibles, have, he says, “ fat pudding
cheeks, sunken, small and beady eyes, a square,
formless shape, a bent back, a shuffling gait and
intensely black, coarse hair, done up in irritating
shape and smeared with evil-smelling oil, poma-
tum or fat.” The romantic tea-house! Bah!
It is a den where evil, vicious women ply their
customers with gin and whisky and wheedle
money out of them. Money is the god of Japan,
and foreigners are tolerated cnly for their gold.
In Tokio streets painted, oil-besmeared girls are
sold by their parents to the highest bidder, and
immorality assumes the most brutal and repulsive
form known to modern times. Mr. Scott is
astonished that contemporary writers should be
engaged in advertising Japanese beauties and
allurements that do not exist, and thus working
on the imaginations of youth and tempting the
fanciesof jaded sensualists. Sir Edwin Arnold, who,
by the way, is the editor of the London paper of
which Scott is dramatic critic, published in that
newspaper, not long ago, a series of letters from
Japan that was calculated to depopulate England
of all its bards, artists and rakes, and send them
over the seas to the new land of love and languor.
The Bulletin asks a certain popular Sydney Q.C.
to deliver judgment on this question.
A Wellington (M.L.) jury, which was re-
cently locked up all night to consider its verdict,
makes a bitter complaint about ill-usage and frost-
bite in the feet. It was a cold night, and the twelve
good men and true had to sleep on the bare oil-cloth
witli an icy wind whistling at them from under-
neath the door. A kindly attendant rushed round
and borrowed eleven blankets, so that eleven of
the jurymen had the oil-cloth below and a solitary
covering above, while the odd man had nothing
but the floor. No pillows could be found so they
mostly slept in their hats. In the morning each
man had to fetch his own bucket of water to wash
with, but as there were no towels he had either to
evaporate or dry himself with his collar. Judge
Richmond consoled the twelve shivering gentle
men by pointing out that in days gone by things
were a lot worse. According to British lawof a long
time ago, the jurymen who couldn’t agree were
locked up without food, light, bedding, or a clean
shirt until the close of the assizes, and were then
removed in a cart to the outskirts of the town and
solemnly overturned into a ditch. Sometimes
they broke a leg in the capsize, and at other times
they only got their ears full of mud and tadpoles.
A wholesome antidote to the “Rouse ye,
Ulster ” business. From London Figaro s
The champions of Protestant domination in Ulster have
not yet iatlised that “a prosperous iniquity is the most
unprofitable condition in the world.” A day may come
when the Orangemen will fain admit that the Romanist
has rights, but one need not be a Solon to grasp the fact
that tliis millennium will never arrive so long as what is
cantingiy termed Protestant Ulster is able to stave off its
approach. The “loyal minority” has, however, ceased
to be an effective war-cry on this side of St. George’s
Channel. Ulster is being rapidly found out. The average
Englishman has no love for Rome, or for the doctrines of
Romanism ; hence the facility with which the popular
mind was inflamed a few years" back by the fanciful pic-
ture of the Inquisition in full swing among the
citizens of Belfast. This fond delusion has been dispelled
from our minds by the performances of the pillars
of Unionism and their henchmen. While the former
have been hurling their rhetorical thunderbolts, the
latter, with that practical instinct which characterises
the Ulster exponents of patriotic Protestantism have em-
ployed their time in launching iron “nuts’’and other
bric-a-brac at the heads of the vile Papist, and in sacking
the dwellings of the Romanist foe. But it would be
manifestly unfair to compare the leaders of the great
Unionist party with the raucous-throated ruffians who
openly violate the law in the streets of Belfast. The
statesmen run no risk; the rioters render themselves
liable to be charged by the police and soldiery, and after-
wards to be hauled before the magistrate, and consigned
to durance vile. Slowwitted though John Bull may be,
he has grasped this palpable distinction. No more
striking proof could be adduced ot the failure of the
ravings of the Orange faction to convince Englishmen of
the loyalty of the section of Ulster they represent than
Lord Salisbury's speeches during the present week. Mr.
Arthur Balfour did not mince his words when he addressed
the bigots of Northern Ireland. The events which fol-
lowed his speeches had a sobering effect on the Tory
party, and, dense as they are, they can see that the game
is up. Englishmen no longer confuse ruffianism and
greed with loyalty, or sectarian bigotry with religious
devotion. Hence Lord Salisbury’s orations in Ulster have
been of the mildest order, to the great disgust, no doubt
of the apostles of sedition. Protestant Ulster has been
loyal because loyalty has paid, because Ipyalty has.meant
the ability to exclude Roman Catholics from offices of,
emolument and trust. In Derry, where the Catholics are
in the majority, the municipal franchise is so high
and the wards so arranged that there.is.only one Catholic
in the Corporation, while outside the ranks of the
street scavengers there is not a single Catholic drawing a
salary from any public department. It was fitting, then
Lord Salisbury should remind the citizens of the Maiden
City that the future rulers of Ireland would “force their
will on a minority without any regard,to their rights and
liberties.” The Ulster gang are fighting hard, but not
for their liberties. It is tlieir monopolies that are at
stake, and so long as any hope exists of saving these
unjust privileges the Orange drum will beat, and the
Orange orator rant and rave. When, however, the doom
of the ascendancy is pronounced, the Orangemen will
“ take it lying down.” At the time the Bill for the Dis-
establishment of the Irish Church was before the country,
there were not enough ditches in Ireland to accommodate
the patriots who declared their, intention of expiring in
those unsavoury refuges in defence of their religion.
Many of them have since died in their feather beds, while
those who have survived are, loudest in their war-cries
over the “desertion of Protestant Ulster.” But Protes-
tant Ulster is being found out.
“For a man to be in company with a
woman a quarter of an hour without making love
is an insult.” — French (of course) v
There are ghastly inner-circle rumours
that much of Parnell’s money—he died poor—was
squandered in , trying to ascertain the manner of
Pigott s death. That, infamous perjurer was
reported to have suicided at Madrid ; it is now
said that he was assassinated. Certainly, the
Salisbury Government—which should have been
deeply interested in his movements—did not send
far him for days, an interval which allowed
another bloody mystery to be skied into the past
—and this probably saved the Salisbury Govern-
ment for the time being. Pigott alive was its
sword of Damocles ; his happy despatch was a
stroke of luck.
For removing dandruff, Ayer’s Hair Vigor has
no equal. It restores faded and gray hair to its,
original colour, stimulates the growth of the hair,
and gives it a beautiful, glossy, and silkjfUV
appearance."
The so-called One-lunged Army of Denver,
the invalids’ paradise, numbers 20,000.
It is a noteworthy fact that most curly-
haired men (curly-haired men are the most un-
trustworthy in money-matters, and, being no
good, are, of course, much admired by the fair sex)
are also men of independent means. Very few
working men are of the curly order—which is
sufficiently accounted for by the fact that they
haven’t time to put their hair in papers every
night. Let anybody pick out the most curly-
haired man he knows and shout “Fire” outside
his door at 2 a.m., and unless he is a person of
extraordinary coolness and presence of mind there
will be a revelation.
The {Solomon Island niggers are bad
enough, but all the hideous stories told about
them in the Australian dailies needn’t be taken as
true. The keen business opposition of Sydney
firms doing business there is the factor of many an
utterly foundationless horror. Such tales have
their effect in keeping away new comers who want
to get a show in the group. And the Sydney and
Maoriland firms who possess trading interests in
any part of Melanesia or Polynesia absolutely pro-
hibit their captains and other employes from
giving information to the press. What is told to
the daily papers can do them no harm. Full de-
tails of much of the island trading business would
mean public obloquy, and an interview with the
Higli Commissioner for the Western Pacific—-in
his judicial capacity.
It is no simple matter to state in terms at all
precise what forces are directly connected with
the production of hale and happy old age. More
certainly is involved in the process than mere
strength of constitution. Healthy surroundings,
contentment, and active, temperate and regular'
habits- are most valuable aids. Hard work, so
long at least as it is not carried beyond the limit
necessary to permit of the timely repair of worn-
tissues, is not only harmless, but a conducive
circumstance. It is, in fact, by living as far as
possible a life in accordance with natural law
that we may expect to reap the appropriate result
in, its prolongation.. (Treat care should be taken
to protect the system against the changes which'
disease makes therein. Coming misery casts its
shadows before it, and intimates its approach by
various signs, as a feeling of general weakness,,
neuralgic pains, nervous headaches and rising of
sour wind from the stomach, backache and lum-
bago, failure of virility, and gradual diminution of
mental power, and similar symptoms. These all
tend to show that general debility is increasing in'
the patient’s system. Such persons should take'
notice of the experience of Mr. H. McDonald,,
salesman, Crown Street, Wollongong, N.S.W.,
who writes on March 28th, 1893 ;—About Severn
or eight years ago I was thrown from a horse, and*
was laid up for some time afterwards, although I
was told that it was only a strain, I believed that-
my spine was injured to. a certain extent. The'
symptoms following the accident were intense-
pain extending along the spinal cord. I had the-
advice of some of the leading doctors in the
colony, but never derived any benefit from their
remedies. The symptoms were acute pains in the-
small of my back, at times hardly able to-
straighten myself after arising from bed. I was
advised to try Clements Tonic. Not having any
faith in it at first I took it with reluctance, as I
had known so many failures in advertised'
remedies. By the time I had used three bottles
I found that I had received more benefit than'
from all the medicines I had taken hitherto. I
paid to one doctor alone ,£l7, and never received'
the slightest benefit for my money. lam only too'
happy to say that I derived more benefit from'
three bottles of Clements Tonic than all the
medicines I had taken hitherto. If the foregoing
will be of any use to you, you are at liberty to use-
it as you think fit. Trusting that other sufferers-
may know of the good qualities of Clements Tonic,
and may derive the same benefit that I have done.
■—l remain, yours truly, H. McDonald; salesman)
Crown-street, Wollongong, N.S. W.
ON-S’ PICTURE.
A picture this of the Great—
Behold his hairy, hoary pate !
Just as the painter much has made
Of the silver locks ye see pourtrayed,
So sages magnify the hair
To shoiv the insect hiding there.
P. LUFTIG.
Why are you a parson, Thomas?
Why have you departed from us ?
’Cos you shot a parson pale,
’Cos you cannoned off the gaol,
’Cos you make a “ do” therefrom—
That’s why you’re a parson, Tom.
DIPSO.
Sunday in Camp.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Get up !” O Lord ! —and I’ve scarcely slept—
I’d give the world for another nap ;
“ Growling again ?” H’m—you might have kept
That boot of yours to yourself, old chap !
Oh, you’re all right! You are up and dress’d
And fresh for toil; you can laugh, old buck ;
Eh ? What d’ye say? Well, I’m fairly bless’d !
It's Sunday ? What? So it is ! Good luck I
Sunday, and raining ! Well, this is prime !
A fair chuck-in for this child, you bet!
I’ll sleep again. “Do I know the time ?”
Eh ? “ Nearly ten !” Well, it’s early yet.
The day is young, and—what’s that you say ?
“The tea is made, and the eggs are boiled !”
All right, old son, make a start, I pray ;
The fault is yours if the grub is spoiled.
You eat my share. I shall save a meal.
I’d only shame you if I should start;
To tell the truth, Jack, I scarcely feel
In trim just now to sustain the part.
Great Scott! My head ! I’ll suffer to-day.
I broke the record last night, I think ;
You moderate fellows never pay
For a good night’s fun like us who drink ,
I wish ’twas beer in that billy, Jack !
Ay, snort away—but I’ll bet a pound
If ’twas, my friend, you could do your whack,
You’re not so slow when there’s “swank”
around,
“ Somebody’s coming ? ” No doubt it’s Paul—
I promised, worse luck, I’d cut his hair—
No rest for the wicked 1 After all,
I guess I’ll have to vacate my lair.
Hang the “ Saw bath !” It means some work
Saving one’s soul in this blessed place,
Since Sheehan’s hut is the only kirk—
Two-up and euchre, our means of grace.
“It gives us plenty of time to pray?”
Ay ! Pray, or sleep, which you like the best;
I know my choice ! “Not prayer,” you say,
Right! Give me sleep, and I'll chance the rest.
Vic.
TOBY TWIST.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal ikrcad.e, Sydney.
Messrs. Cltarlemont specially commend their
PI. ATI NOTY I*K PORTRA ITS
on account of their being so PERFECTLY
PERMANENT.
£8 K AC II £8
Dailey Estate, Manly Beach.
Allotments, £8 Each.
10 Deposit. 5/- Monthly. No Interest.
FREE DEEDS (free of all costs) to Purchasers who pay
up in One Year from day of sale.
Messrs. STEPHEN & ICKERSON, Solicitors,
S(i Pitt Street, Sydney.
it®’Five pir cent. DISCOUNT for CASH.
A Good Spec, for Surplus Savings.
Deeds can be made out in names of Wife or Children.
Postage Stamps taken for Deposits and Instalments. No
forfeiture if buyers are unable to keep up payments
thron'd) sickness or want of empl yvinent.
Plans from K. V. UKOIIUIITON, 301 Pitt Street,
Sydney. Free Plans sent to any address.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
milling
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE Emm,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARIUAGES & BUGGlES-
tgilham Fleming,
22 & 24 Clarknck Street,
SYI»\KV.
u
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing 1 Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, ol' drive pipe sup-
plied to ' suit the vanousy
strata. — 'WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydsey.
: XI
I L*k
POLITICAL
POINTS
There is no extradition treaty with Para-
The limit of the liar is the height of his
ambition.
The Kingston Ministry is the forty-second
S.A. Cabinet since 1S56.
The Kingston (S.A.) Woman Suffrage Bill
debars the sex from sitting in Parliament.
Times change, O’ConiieU’s motion for the
Repeal of the Union, in ’33, was rejected by o-0
votes to 28. _
The depression in Victoria will be chrome
until the country throws olf the yoke of its
representative “rotters.’
Sir George Grey made what, it is feared,
will be his last big speech on June Kith. It was
marked by a strong appeal for elective goyeinois.
The British Tories now fiercely denounce
the cloture as an “ unwarrantable interference
with the liberty of discussion in Parliament.
Curses do come home to roost!
“N.S.W, legislators give One-tnan-one-
vote Maoriland legislators give one family one
farm. Queensland legislators propose to give one
syndicate one province. Worker.
It is no\v generally averred that A. Brown,
M L.O., was the “ patriotic gentleman’’ who paid
the “Dibbs thou.” into the N.S.W. treasury,
after a “tarpaulin muster” among several cronies.
The Age came out one day (June 2(5) in
favour of a land-values tax, but has since left the
subject severely alone, notwithstanding a perfect
deluge of approving letters, some of which were
* “ From gaol to Parliament, says a Melb.
paper, commenting on the movement for putting
the Broken Hill “conspirators” into the N.b.W,
House. Yes, it is an inversion of the usual ordqr
of procedure.
The S.A. Government has a liability to tfie
squatters for improvements, Qp to 1903, of
e£l 923 689 7s. 4d. The pastoralists have long
leases of some of the finest agricultural country in
Australia at nominal rents.
? So well does the tariff of the hew A ic.
Railway Commissioners work that at least 40 per
cent, of the heavy goods freightos between Mary-
borough and Bendigo and Melbourne are now
taken by carriers’ waggons. .
Kingston’s (S.A.) additional M; .ini the L
land-tax will reach but about 700 out of 40,000
i land-owners, as it only commences to operate on
values over ±5000. It may bring m ±25,000—
>vith absentee extras of <£5000, <£30,000.
44 Deuiocracies run to lawlessness easily,
prates the Argus in condemnation of Pattersop
and Co. re Mat Davies and Co. Conservative
gall! The Castlemaine slaughterman and his tat
friends are as undemocratic as they make em.
No wonder the N.S.W. Freetrader 8
“buck” at Barton as federal leader, federation
under Protectionist auspices would kill the local
Preetrade-party ; but federation under Freetrade
auspices Would nob kill the Protectionist-par y.
The plot thickens for a land-grant railway
frpm Port Augusta (S.A.) to Eucla. The support
in S.A. Assembly is numerically weaker in the new
House, but there is a majority in the U pper
House, where the strings are being cleverly pulled.
The order for arming the Sydney police
(against larrikins), given by Premier Dibte on the
day the maritime strike was declared,
coincides with the order ex-Treasurer M Mi Han
wished Parkes to give when the last maritime
strike was on.
The Laneists say that every Australian is
in pawn to the British capitalist, and that ey
■repudiate their share of liability by clearing to
Paraguay; Paraguay is also m pawn, and they
get a new liability there instead. All the world
is up the spout.
■ Caldwell, M.P., the once-feryent advocate
■of women’s suffrage in S.A., now thinks only
“females” with property should have a vote, a
sow with a ring in her snout, a cow with a bell
round her neck, or a mare with a halter on, would
come under this designation.
Frank Stuart, sent from Victoria to Sydney
as a representative Federalist, struck the corn-
stalks as a political magpie, possessed of a tongue
that nothing could humble, and a lob more cheek
than brains. He was consigned to Barton, and
must have made Barton very tired.
This year’s deficiency in the N.S.W.
revenue will probably be between a million and
a million-and-a-half. The deficiency for June was
±182 000. Civil servants are now being dismissed
by the hundred, to swell the ever-growing anc
desperate army of the unemployed.
N.S.W. Minister Suttor is understood to
have’ exerted his strongest influence against the
application to boys and youths of the clauses o
the Criminal Law which allow two magistrates to
order flogging. Minister O’Connor, on the other
hand, worked might and main for it.
Victorian Attorney-General O’Loghlen,
defending himself in the matter of that nolle
prosequi, always falls back upon his . . j A
record of integrity. Weak, very. A man about
to be hanged might point proudly to the fact that
ne had never occupied that position before.
The educative value of the present mari-
time strike on the side of employers is that it will
show them that, doomed though men be to defeat,
they yet will fight against reductions of drastic
severity. Without this lesson employers would be
tempted to cut from 23s. to 20s., and from 20s. to
15s. - .
Overend electioneering-case (Brisbane, Q.)•
Counsel (to Overend): “Did you not receive in-
structions from plaintiff as to how you were to
conduct yourself when addressing the electors .
“No.” “Don’t you remember him telling^ you
not to hold your stomach in your hands and ”
(Laughter.)
The fossilised Sammy Tomkinson, of S.A.
Legislative Council, has already started on his
electoral campaign, although the actual contest is
not till next April. Ilia money will be welcome
to the constituency, but he has as much chance of
success as Dibbs lias of becoming iirst president of
the Republic.
Lord Jersey has said, after getting safely
out of this beastly country, that “ payment of
members is a bait to needy adventurers.” It is at
least equally true, although Jersey doesn t say so,
that paid Governorships are also a bait to needy
adventurers —such as .English “noblemen’ who
find themselves in pawn to the Jews,
The Separation tocsin rings through all the
Northern camps of labour. The Southern Go-
vernment re-introduced the Kanaka and is now
crowding in the Jap. “ for the sake of Northern
industries.” And the North showed its gratitude
by voting straight for White Australia. Lest the
South should confer more like benefits, the North
works towards the cutting of the painter.
A communistic settlement scheme, on
similar lines (barring the goosechase and the
senoritas) to .those of “New Australia,” has been
projected by a number of workers resident at the
Albion, a suburb of Brisbane, Q. Land is to be
procured in Queensland, and the work set agoing.
Preliminaries are well advanced. It should be
baptised “ New Paraguay,”
The Argus affects
to believe that a land-
values tax would take
more from the farmer
than anyon e else,
though it has been
repeatedly shown on
Hayter’s authority
that the value of
1 a n d in Y i c. is
£120,000,000, and of
that but £18,000,000
is in possession of the
A democratic Par-
liament, ,in‘which the
selection of officials is
not governed by
“class” considerations
may be fairly known
by its Speaker. He
is freely chosen as
the man whom all
delight fp honour.
The moral advance-
ment of the Victorian
Assembly was shown
in the removal of
Peter Lalor, to make
way for Matthew
Davies. When Davies
resigned the House
voted, by a large
majority, for Thomas
Bent.
Premier M‘I1-
wraith (Q.), under
whose auspices 500
cheap Jap. labourers
were shot out at N.Q.
ports for the sugar-
planters, a few days
ago, fat - throated ly
declares that he “will
not countenance any
'Scheme” for the un-
employed “that would
bring paupers into
competition ” with
settlers on the land.
He need not have
explained. His little
game is to “bring
paupers into competi-
tion” with men “off ’
the land. No matter.
Every Belshazzar
one day meets his Cyrus.
To traol I went, in cause of Labour’s dawning ;
And deemed I rose, when Fat Men thought me
Released, because of need of royal spawning,
Mv “ freedom’s” odious—I feel a skunk .
When I’ve the chance to undo this dishonour,
I’ll spit his “ mercy ” back at Dick O Connor^
“Premier Patterson intends consulting
the banks with a view to inducing them to agree
to the abolition of the 1st of July hohday-Separa-
tion Day. If they agree, a clause to that effect
will be included in the proposed new Banking
Bill ” If they agree ! The publicans were not
consulted when the Govt, proposed closing then-
places of business on Sunday. Neither were
burglars asked to approve of any of the criminal
laws. . . ,,
Melbourne councillors declare it is the
duty of the Council to get its work done in the
cheapest manner possible London County Connu
enforces union rates. Advance' Australia!
Southern unions have awakened to the necessity
of liberalising town and county councils. I he
people can expect nothing from the guttural, ted-
Faced, beef-fed, bull-necked gargantuan whose
mental horizon is bounded by bacon and C.M. .
ships.
The real meaning of the present Australian
maritime strike—when the men themselves must
know that there isn’t-the ghost of a show of even
the fraction of a victory—is that the case is one of
don’t-care desperation. 'ltd stnke, i 11 starve
quickly ; if I work, I’ll starve gradually. I may
as well play and starve as work and starve.
When a large body of workers sinks into tins atti-
tude, something very unpleasantis writ large
on the tablets of immediate destiny.
Amoim the small items of gubernatorial
expense that crop up in N.S.W. Estimates : Clerk
to private secretary, .£450; messengers £L0,
office cleaner, £55; aide-de-camp, £J)S ;
orderly. £193;, orderly, £147 | orderlies (2), £271,
forage, aide-de-camp, £14(>; lodging, -> .
forage, orderlies, £120 ; remounts, orderlies, £00 ;
forage (Governor ?), £78 Os. Jd. ; cab hue, &c..
£50. Total, £2273 0s. ‘Jd. How honest the Loyal
dvisers are to put down that 9d.
When Detective Whitney arrived at Ade-
laide with Matthew Davies, he found instruc-
tions awaiting him from the Vic. Government
that when Davies went ashore he was not to be
“shadowed ” or interfered with m any_ way.
From this, it is to be presumed that Patterson
relieved the police of all responsibility for Mat-
thew’s custody. Pity that Matthew didn’t march
off for thenwould there have been sure and
certain political death for Patterson and Co.
In view of recent revolts at Pentndge,
that strong butcher, Premier
toria, thinks of retixmg the law so that m&«bor
dinate prisoners can be flogged without public
trial—-which practically means that they can be
floa-ired on the ex parte statements ot warders an«
gaol* officials, bolt'ed whole by a brother cmUer-
vant sitting in secret. Supposing that, m view ot
the multitudinous bank swindles it Wfca'e_propose
that managers and directors might, in future be
sent to penal servitude without public trial. How
would that read? ,
It is vaguely estimated that this years
N g.W. deficit, added to several other old deficits
which are still standing, will make a total shoiC
a „ e tJ f 114,000,000. No one ever hears anything
definite about these old deficits rM,^ £lc j f/ve
how. Some of them have been standing tor ye
or six years, but nobody seems to know where they
are kept or what is going to be done with them.
They are mysteriously “faked ’’with trustfunds an
treasury-bills and similar dodges, but no Govern-
ment ever pays them, or seemingly hopes to pay
them.
The N.S.W. Railway Commissioners are
no more legally constrained to go to arbitration
with their employes than is the Works-Minister
were he so invited by the officers and men of Ins
department. Actually no employer m the Pro-
vince is legally constrained in that respect. i>ut
if the Government, and Corporations acting on
State behalf, declare it antagonistic to their feel-
ings or interests to go to arbitration with their
employes, do they not thereby constitute them
selves Tin example for other employers to follow
and thus lead the way to destroying the effect 0,
an existing Act of Parliament ?
~r. p /vj
fiprzK JJ.
THE VALUE OF FIRST IMPRESSIONS.-A SKETCH
OUT BACK.
OLD JIM: “That’s the manager of the station, Bill. Pull up your slacks—
we might get a job out of him.”
The official Healy and his fellow-conspira-
tors. convicted of robbing N.S.W. Govt. Savings
Bank, were last week sentenced to long terms of
imprisonment. Yet how many “ representative ”
men owe their present solid positions to the very
thing for which these men are now in prison—
“ fictitious and invented cross-entries ?” The only
difference is that the citizen in the brougham
and his fellow-conspirators were their own audi-
tors, and robbed the public from an unreachable
standpoint, while the felon in the dock had to
forge his entries sufficiently well to pass the
scrutiny of others not in the swim.
Fat Man burst out again with his in-
valuable “Shame!” in the Vic, Assembly last
week. Touching upon a certain readied-up ban-
quet at Caulfield, where Davies and Millidge were
referred to as “ two unfortunates,” Issacs wanted
to know whether the real unfortunates were the
su l judice gentlemen, or the persons “ bereft of all
their money through them.” “Shame!” cried
political Fat Man. But the cry was only a ghost
of its old self. Twelve months ago Fat Man
hurled it off his chest with magnificent effrontery.
To-day he droops his bald head and says “Shame!
in the most unobtrusive manner possible, hoping
that the man next to him will be suspected of the
crime. 1 1 <
Sydney Evening News publishes a list of
the horrors which have fallen on N.S.W. through
the existence of the Dibbs Ministry—at least, it
distinctly implies that they arose through the
existence of that Ministry. It is a wonderful and
drunken document. Among other things, i t charges
the Government with the bank smashes, the
building society frauds, including the great fraud
perpetrated by Parkes’ old colleague, Abigail, the
land company collapses, the Broken Hill strike,
the Makin baby-farming cases, the resumption ol
the Queensland Kanaka trade, the fall in seamen f.
wages, the Paraguayan exodus—which is mainly a
Queensland movement, the fall in N.S.W. securi-
ties, illicit distillation, an alleged “ heavy increase
in crime—burglaries, assaults, infanticides, sui-
cides and violent deaths,” and several dozen other
calamities. And the only thing it forgets to
charge to the Dibbs Cabinet is the Brisbane floods
and the bursting of the silver boom. Why they
are omitted Heaven only knows. And why isn t
Dibbs responsible for the Homestead strike, and
the German Army Bill trouble, and the murders
committed by Neill Cream? They all occurred
during his reign-
Great hunk of abasement by cablegram
London, July 3.
Major F. G. Hughes, in command of the Yictoriar
■Horse Artillery team, together with Lieut. C. G. Ryan, a
member of the team, visited \V indsor Castle on Saturday
by Royal command. Later.
Her Majesty directed Sir John O. Cowel, Deputy
Governor of Windsor Castle, to show Major Hughes and
Lieutenant Ryan over the public and private apartments
of the palace ; and the Victorian officers also took a drive
in one of the Queen’s carriages to Frogmore to inspect
the mausoleum of the Prince Consort. It was Her
’Majesty's intention to bid farewell to the officers, but the
sudden arrival of the Czarewitch of Russia, who has come
-to England to attend the marriage of the Duke of York,
prevented the officers from taking personal leave of Her
Majesty*-who bowed to her visitors as they left.
The second item which arrived “later" seems to
suggest that the cable correspondent was waiting
anxiously iri the kitchen for further particulars,
and sending them along as they transpired, the
incident probably adds two more reliable and
bigoted “ loyalists ” to the Australian population.
There must be, somehow or other, a great want of
backbone about the itinerant Australian. Up to
date, The BuliEtin can’t remember one who has
gone to England and been shown a royal tomb-
stone on any other relic, who has not straightway
resolved to be an abject Tory for the rest of his
life. The only one who returns m a reasonably
sound, condition is the failure who went to look
for a title and was disappointed, and even he often
catches a glimpse of Wales at a foundation-stone
function, and is perverted thereby. Judgmg from
i past experiences the case of Hughes and liyan is
now just about hopeless.
FREED!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Freed ! What! shall Democrats be freed
To s.erve Imperial grovel’s need !
Shall Toil receive menu Mercy’s meed,
Doled out to mark when princes breed t
Fling back the insult base,
Back in the brazen face
Of him who offers !
Shall Broken Hill be thus condoned,
To honour Guelpha on Greed enthroned :
That Broken Hill which travail groaned;
With child of Liberty disowned ?
Scorn him who freedom flaunts
To feed the craven taunts
Of servile scoffers J
Freed 1 What, shall despots’ spawn proclaim
Their mercy, and proud Labour maim
With Charity in Grovel’s name.
While Justice cried for, never came ? ♦
Fling back the favour. Right
Demand with Labour’s might
From him who proffers i
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
The Loss of the Victoria.
Once more has the indomitable pluck, bravery,
and heroism of the British seaman called forth
the admiration of the world ; at the same time its
tears are freely shed for the loss of the gallant
tars, who, because someone had blundered, went
down in the waters of the blue Mediterranean.
When shall their glory fade? As long as time lasts,
their memory will remain bright as the stars on
high—and so it should do ! Such unflinching dis-
cipline, such manliness and intrepidity has never
before been excelled, and seldom equalled. As in
the case of the Light Brigade at Balaclava, so
with these men, these heroes of undying and
inextinguishable renown —
“ Theirs not to make reply.
Theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die
Though someone had blundered.’
And so, shoulder to shoulder, in the grim, deathly
silence of an inevitable doom, they sank for ever.
The lesson brought home to our minds by the
details of the disaster is, that even in the moment
of death, strong nervous organisations feel no tear
or aught that is akin to it ! The path of duty is
still the chosen one, though it leads to the grave.
Safe on land we cannot experience the peril? ot
the sea; but we should prepare ourselves to with-
stand the onslaught of the unexpected deadly
surprises to which we are liable, and no smer
remedy and no more vitalising and reliable safe-
guard can be obtained to aid us in combating
and overcoming the arrows of disease than Mar
shall’s Tonic Nervine. It acts as a charm, elim-
inates the seeds of death, builds up the constitu-
tion, and causes the ruddy glow of healthy blood
to testify to its wonderful efficacy.
If yon have a cold, cough, bronchitis, or any
form of throat or lung disease, do not neglect it.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, if promptly taken, will
speedily relieve and cure all ailments of this
character.


iWs ~,
1
<af
I©<^K
J=A „ i> 1 c
RELEASE OF THE BROKEN HILL STRIKERS.
THE STRIKERS : “Look here, Mr. O' Connor, we're glad enough to get out, but we aren’t hunting for titles and we don’t care a rap about this royal wedding !“
O'CONNOR : “No more do I, only, you see, it helps us all out of a very awkward position especially me!”


Victorian Section, Imperial Institute,
London, b,W,, May 30, 1893.
To J. E. Sherrard, Esa., Secretary to the Vic-
torian Committee Imperial Institute.
Dear Sir,— Please convey my best wishes to.'
my fellow trustees, and State that I. aipa just,,
. out of bed) ”
thTS
—V-hepressed . by tßKattack got up ]
TT from a fie invehtetfTieie a i ’l’Ke Argus , cabled
il- put to Victoria, and the remarks founded on
the lie and bristling with other lies. I need
Pot saythat I ought to know better than to
pay* attention to the vile personalities or ,
The Argus, 1 ' ’ arid meeting this at
" every comer, I, who could, stand abuse, was
iripti strong enough to resist this last blow.
—many beartrendings 1 helped to dissipate >
/by a Rind and hopeful word> when suddenly
Shoals’ of thesd scurrilous paper articles say-
ing they hoped I would keep in the back-
ground and do the colony a gendqo by hiding
toy self, &c.,;
ou r ,.
ckimney'-fiv* 1"
jnsTont^
This is still more
senoupTbfthe colony, for, humble as I may
mbe in my own colony. J tried to sustain the
• -jdjgnity of the col >ny which had honoured,
tne.'
Va Vuv Vo'"'
VJ
■— that article saying I was
aniothere *
nifiylng 1’ was in pawiQ
it y
I. LSmith_ i OUn/ ;
clo n* t - you- eA w el I ?
•■ n Anri old Victorians ;ame to.me 1 for advice.
rna'The large map ot the
CanSTs"cTeparttneht, showing how they can
select land ati'l per acre, find have 20 years
to pay it in, is sowing good seed, and I have
explained—stick in hand to point out the
places—how a torliTßey-nr,. at least, an inde-
pendence, can he made lor a man with a
lamily and amtUhape^Just.
««4>r
p
veai preßumt; my ora'n ia a little oit sottand j
w®>
u
Mr hard 'audcptlidt woods
Even , now jfudjjea stop and admire the
** grain,” an<J..loudly and favourably con>-
H»eat updaws
sm*H
SuP&b/e -for
'keif
ctjohtx. >■ e n~t~
T?UTTfc*
rTroW*
Vl
w* K
lII' J
_ tor-
warded our Victoria!? fresh ffmf’tb various
people of importance; camqifigat others toj
H.K.H. the Prince of Wales, Lord Kipon,
Secretary for the Colonies,' Lbfd iiospbery.
Lord Carrington, the Lord Chamberlain,'and
<» host of others. The butters, which I
feared would not keep much longer, I have
forwarded a case to Guy’s, jSt. .George’s, tbp
Consumptive, and to four ortfiVe other public
charities, »
7 IAnU if feihe- ]v<>oh.
'The fish,
aav's r I feared
n 4e^parS^
.^giveJMv^e^opiP .9? >*•
~ Milts Company., Showing
■;arom the cot rabbit akin to the excellent hat,
tcanses them to pause.'and as I wear a hat
,Jhey gave me, and keep taking it off my head
,;f° ?how,, the durable yet flexible material,.
;*t has ~ an excellent, ■advertisement.
? 7 1 muse now conclude, and I think von win
/said that for a sick man T yOU
~7> , •—Believe me, yont truly,
Louis L. Smite.
L. L. SMITH’S LETTER FROM ’OME.


WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA' of
Prof. ROOT. HERMANN;.
the great French Specialist. No medicines. His treatise
on “Woman’s Salvation” sent PRRIR, in close envelope',,
upon application by letter to 350 COLLINS STREET.
MELBOURNE.
FOR SALE (Cheap).—O.nad-Demy Two-feeder
WHAHFEDALE PRINTING PRESS, by
Dawson and Sons. In good order. Apply
Manager, this office; or to John Close, Engineer,.
303 Kent-street, Sydney.
Society
Lady Duff, with other local ladyships and
ladies, &0., vhited, the other day, the Sydney Mag-
dalen establishment. Says the S.M. Herald :
On Lady Duff reaching the ironing-room the penitents
Sang the hymn, “ Nearer, my God to Thee !”
Evidently her ladyship was regarded as part of
the immediate retinue of the Almighty ! Other-
wise, why not, “Nearer, my Lady, to thee ” ? Or,
“Nearer, your Ladyship, to us ” ?
• « »
Only 90 guests to meet Governor Duff at
Sydney Union Club’s dinner of welcome. Gov.
Duff, you see, is a Home Ruler, whereas the
Union Club, representing the very purest bullock-
punching and bush-boniface blood, loyally sup-
ports the “ Unity of the Empire.”
# * *
Lady Duff, it is complained, visited an
Australian circus before attending an Australian
church.
• * #
That story about the Australian military
officer placed under arrest for saying “ Thank you,
sir,” in a sneering manner to a superior officer who
had given him a wigging, recalls the would-be
smart sergeant who charged a man with “showing
signs of silent contempt.”
# * #
Major-General Hutton, the newly-imported
N.S.W. Commandant, has entered with alacrity
upon the work of making his officers “sit up.”
He candidly assured some of them, at last Satur-
day’s review, that if there was any subject about
which they knew a little it wasn’t training men
for the Imperial Service. One officer, under the
public tongue - lashing of the choleric Major-
General, ventured to make some remark, and was
promptly met with, “Damn you, sir, learn your
duty—go to the rear!” or words to that effect.
The new Commandant has apparently no hesita-
tion in trampling on the corns of the higher
militarism. Hitherto, New South Wales officers
have been without fear of reproach from those in
command, because they are nearly all somebody’s
cousins, and any attempt to cast blame on them
has been resented by the Bench, the Bar, the
Church, Parliament, the Ministry, and everybody
else who is anybody. Hutton says they are
mostly incapable jays, and declares that he will
have to work like a horse for the next three years
to bring the cavalry and infantry into line with
Her Majesty’s requirements. “Suppose the
Imperial authorities wanted troops to help Eng-
land in her hour of need,” he told the Mounted
Rifles, “it is men of your stamp that would be
required.” All through his peppery talk the
Commandant seemed under the ghastly delusion
that he was here to train Australian men for the
Imperial service. But Australians will never
again play the Soudan goat.
• * *
Funny stories are
told of conversations
between counsel and
Melbourne new s-
paper reporters con-
cerning the “ proper
way ” of treating the
Matthew Davies pro-
secution. There were
strange differences of
opinion as to the in-
terests of the country
and the duty of the
press. One of these
days something may
come out which will
make every body’s
heart stand still, like
that of M’Donald,
J.P.
* • #
Beath, Schiess,
and Co., the big Melb.
“ slop ” makers, have
ordered their unfor-
tunate female hands
to cut all connection
with the Trades Hall,
or go. The firm
objects totradeunion-
ism on principle,
seemingly, and it is
a stickler for prin-
ciple at all times.
In the palmy days,
before the boom
burst, the employes
of B.S. and Co. used
to have occasional
gatherings of a semi-
religious character,
and a special feature
of the evening’s enter-
tainment would be
the presentation of a
Bible to Mr. David
Beath, high priest of
the Y.M.O.A. “O !
to think of it makes
ns larf.”
The wedding presents for the Duke of York and Princess
May were delivered in 21 van-loads.
There is a maintenance case now pending
in the Sydney courts in which, after 25 years’
cohabitation, defendant pleads an irregularity in
the marriage ceremony !
* # #
It is a painful fact to the possessors of a
historical conscience that the public official on
whom, by virtue of his office, devolved the duty of
removing the Apostolic barristers and other
Christian preach rs from Sydney kerbstones was
the local “ inspector of nuisances,”
« * *
That pedantic and frigid Conservative, Sir
Arthur Hamilton Gordon, ex-Governor of Maori-
land and Fiji, has, it is cabled, been made a peer.
He transmogrified Fiji into a stamping-ground
for Scotchmen, his personal entourage embracing
representatives from every clan, from the Shet-
lands to the Grampians. Every available billet
went to a Sandy, till the land was full of the
strange utterances of the M'Tavishes, MVPhairsons
and ither folk —many of them typical Hieland
myalls, penniless, red-headed, and bibulous only
at other people’s expense. Gordon is at bottom a
kindly-hearted Scot; he gave 2s. 6d, once, at
Levuka, to a distressed seaman who said his
“mitherwasa Kilmarnock body.” When faced
with native troubles, he was as helpless as usually
is the imported official devoid of local knowledge
and aboriginal intuition ; and, but for Thurston’s
restraining influence, Gordon would probably
have skedaddled, and let the fighting Tongan
faction (Maafu’s) crush out Thakomban. Of
Maafu himself, Gordon was in terror, and he was
careful to keep always in touch with the Commodore
of the Australian squadron for overawing pur-
poses. It was a disputed point whether Gordon
feared personal violence, or dreaded to lose a
broken family claymore—which was said to have
been wielded at Flodden by one lan Dhu Glas, or
some such cateran, and which Gordon valued at
“ fafty poon.” A State function was an undiluted
joy to Gordon’s hide-bound official mind —then
would he welter in all the glories of man-millinery,
surrounded (especially at kava-chewing cere-
monies) by the aforesaid elans, hungrily awaiting
presents of mats, tappa, or baked pork; after
which Gordon would make silly speeches on the
personal affection of Queen Yietoria for every evil-
smelling native present. His departure from Fiji
(like that of Judge Gorrie, the would-be local
Jeffreys) was a spontaneous spout of unanimous
joy.
« * «
The “’Varsity” hobbledehoys lost a
human thigh-bone during their hideous night
out at Melbourne Alexandra. The bone, like-
wise a toy skeleton of a miniature baby, were
dangled by a rope from the gallery, until a young
man in the dress-circle cut the rope and secured
the trophies. Threats of “ waiting outside ’’ for
this hero were shrieked by the valiant mob aloft.
However, he left with his anatomical specimen
after the third act, and the students saw him no
more. Three empty bottles attached to another
rope were cut down in the same way. It looked,
at one time, as though the bottles would have to
be used by a party of specially badgered indi-
viduals in the circle, for cutting down a rowdy
boy or two. The privileged young ruffians didn’t
dream of the glass rising in this manner, but a
beer-vessel fair on the “boko ” would have given
Melb. University a lesson more useful than any-
thing ever uttered in a lecture-hall. Many a
crammed head is destitute of wisdom until some-
body applies a brick to it.
• # •
Whilst the Melb. University larrikins
were venting their educated blackguardism in the
Alexandra Theatre, some policemen trembled on
the pavement outside the house afraid to comply
HE SENT IT TO THE HOSPITAL.
FUSSY OLD LADY (at street collection-table): “Won’t you give up some-
thing during self-denial week, sir?”
MR. BITOFADOG : “I have already done so, madame!”
F. O. L.: “And what, may I ask, have you given up?”
Mr. B. : “I have given up swearing!”
with the manager’s request for the tumult to be
squelched.
Last week another N.S.W. military officer
was taken to the lunatic asylum. This makes-the
third within a year !
Bathurst (N.S. W.) Hospital has its scandal,
resulting in a report from the House Committee
censuring a gentleman of the third sex. The usual
elements of a good local fat-blaze have been made
the most of —a female patient, a screen, a parson,
an indignant and insulted matron, a Dean as
counsel for the defence, so to speak ; and all, so
far as the evidence goes, about nothing at all.
* # *
Dear Bulletin, —Albert
Edward’s socks were not
made of silk grown at
Gorowa; the cocoons used
were produced at Melb.
Botanical Gardens by the
Victorian Sericultural Co.
Mrs. Bladen Neill, of Gorowa,
was a large shareholder and
ran a private worm factory—
hence, probably, the mis-
take.— Mulberry Farm.
• » #
The maidens and mothers
(and males, too, for that
matter) who look Paraguay-
wards will be interested in
an article on “Blue-Bottle
Flies,” in the May number
of Hardwicke’s Science
Gossip. They are going to
the haunt of the “ Man-
Eating Blue-Bottle” (Calli-
phora anthropophaga), a lark-
ish, greeny-blue insect that
loves to deposit its young in
the nostrils of human beings
—apparently, lovely young
girls for choice. The grubs
multiply by hundreds, and
are fine maggots (one-fifth of
an inch) with good, service-
able mandibles that pincer
their way hilariously through
the nasal fosse and frontal
sinus, inducing shriekful tor-
tures, till their entry into
the brain yields the most
uplifted madness. Some-
times they are scoured out
by hundreds with medicated
injections, while the patient
yells to be left to die or to
be put to death. The article
in Science Gossip details
the cases of two Spanish
girls, sisters, thus taken —
one died; the highbred
beauty of the younger maiden
was wrecked for life, a worse
fate for some girls than death
itself. Future toast; “To
sweethearts and bluebottles
in Paraguay.”
* * *
The world moves. The
S.M’ Herald has consulted
the convenience of its
readers by putting side-
headings to its “general
news ” pars.
The Glebe (Sydney) Council in objecting
'to the establishment, at the local children’s
hospital, of a well-isolated diphtheria ward are
manifesting an ignorant and uncivilised dear.
Diphtheria is not infectious:; it is only contagious.
# • *
Hard times ! One Sydney firm is now-
advertising widely that it is selling cheap_ scrap-
leather to enable the public to mend their own
boots. And at almost every Sydney tobacconist s
you now see ox posed for sale leaf-tobacco which
people buy at a shilling a pound and “ manufac-
ture ” for themselves.
# •
Apropos the arming (against larrikins) of
the Sydney police, the local Echo: “That
equalises matters. A man with a good revolver is
equal to a number of fellows armed with road
metal.” Wrong. It is not the “man with the
good revolver,” but the “ good man with the
revolver.” Nine men out of ten couldn’t hit yon
with a revolver at twelve paces. If the police
don’t get special pistol-lessons the road-metal will
win every time.
" * * *
The S.A. Railway Commissioners have
introduced regulations under which a carpenter
'travelling with a basket of tools, or a newspaper-
runner carrying a bundle of papers, is charged
extra, while the person taking along a big trunk
is let through without having to pay for it.
* * *
According to a Brisbane paper, the ladies
•bfithe local Children’s Hospital have dismissed a
five-years-nurse for having acted as a bridesmaid
—in her own time, off duty—without first asking
their leave!
• * *
Another N.S.W. Permanent Artilleryman
baa come to an untimely end by “ an overdose of
opium.” As the magistrate said at the inquest,
the force seems to have got an epidemic of
•suicidal mania. There is only one thing the matter
with the Permanent Artillerymen—Grog.
* * *
The last outward German steamer took
away from Australia about 140 German workers,
and passages were refused to scores of others.
The steamers to South Africa are being fairly
crushed.
• * *
In response to an advt. in a Sydney morn-
w paper, “Found near G.P.O. four sovereigns
wrapped in paper,” it is said that no less than
stvwjii persons alleged they had dropped the coins;
anl the ad. was only a “gag,” after all.
9 * *
There arc still in Sydney and suburbs
* (plenty of workshops where women suffer from
" close quarters and bad sanitation. In many cases,
the improvements effected under the searchlight
of a couple of years ago have disappeared, and
new rooms have been opened, inadequate as to
size and unprovided with civilised requisites.
There should b§a standing committee of ladies to
take this matter permanently under review.
* * *
Nearly all the leading firms of solicitors in
Sydney are reducing their clerks’ salaries, in con-
sequence of, as they allege, the “ bad times.”
Now, “bad times” for other people are generally
good times for lawyers.
* * *
A young woman at Narandera is reported
to have been asleep for over four weeks. This is
supposed to be remarkable, but it is far more
difficult to remain awake at Narandera.
# * *
The young man who stole a minister’s
gown and cassock from the Presbyterian Church
at Seymour (Vic.), was arrested before he could
secure a pulpit.
# # #
Salmon, M.L.A. for Port Melbourne,
lately went to London and lost no time in express-
ing his contempt for that little village. “ Give me
Melbourne —your city does not impress me at all,”
said Salmon to the reporter he had sent for to in-
THE LARRIKIN HOP.
(In a drill-room.)
FIRST COMMITTEEMAN : “Say, Bill, I’m blanky sorry we held our
hop in this blanky old gun-shed.”
SECOND DITTO : “So am I—you can't put on a blanky bit of
style in this here bloomin’ place.”
terview him. Nothing 1 in Europe, Asia, Africa
or America seems worth a rap to blatant creatures
of the Salmon type, who—justifying the sneer of
Frofessor (Tucker— travel round the globe saying,
“I have seen no street equal to iCollins-street. ’
,The Salmons are.several degrees more exasperat-
ing than* the snobs of the sqqattocracy >vho return
from a trip “ home” with a superior contempt for
the land ©f their birth, for,,while the latter only
make fools of themselves,, the former are passing
i for representatives of national narrow-mindedness,
ilf we are to continue, poking borak at the British
new-chum we must place an embargo on the Salmon
tribe. The newchum, as a rule, has youth to
excuse him, like the squattah addicted to Picca-
dilly drawl. There is time for his mind to
expand in the natural way. But the middle-aged
local politician who has blown out his alleged
mind to its utmost limits with windy conceit,
will never escape from the delusion that the only
great city in the world is the city where he filled
his eigliteenpenny bellows. This paragraph ia
written by a Cockney, impressed by the fact that
London is too old for him to have had anything tc
do with its size and influence. Here the writer
feels his superiority to the purely “colonial”
Cockney of Melbourne, whose city is so young
that he always refers to himself as a man who
has helped to make the vamped-up place “ what
it is,”
» * *
Dear Bulletin, —The Englishman blows
about what England has done, and the Australian
blows about what he is doing himself. What is
he doing ? In a general way, he is looking out for
a chance to rob a bank. —Yours, Weary.
* * *
A Melbourne man left an umbrella in a
local banking chamber for two hours, and found
it lying in the same spot on his return. The
directors were absent at a board meeting during
the time,
m • •
Soul-mate was the word for ladies and
gentlemen collaborating at Worthington’s Christ-
church Agapemone. But not sole mate., Piety
and polygamy are after all, mere synonyms.
* * *
At Texas (Q.) police-court a man, who was
convicted of throwing his sister-in-law out of a
house upon her head, and hammering his own
brother into a jelly, besides kicking out a bunch
of his teeth, was fined 17s. 6d. —a sum which was
immediately paid by a local J.P. Quoth the Ash-
ford (N.S.W) trooper to the Texas (Q.) trooper
“VANITY OF VANITIES.”
Saith the Preacher.
Twenty-one van-loads of offerings costly
Laid at the feet of a Prince and Princess !
Tribute from sycophant snobbery mostly,
Theme of delight, for a sycophant press;
Item of news that makes sorrowful reading
For democrat Smith, as the paper he scans,
Thousands can starve, whilst the bread they are
needing
Goes to a palace in twenty-one vans.
Picture the face of the pretty bride glowing;
The tears to her eyes all this “sympathy”
brings.
How fond the good people must be of bestowing
Their marks of affection on princes and kings !
Fond is the word—it admits no denying ;
There’s joy in society’s various clans.
The poor at her gates are, unluckily, dying—
But fancy ! the presents tilled twenty-one vans !
UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.
Is it here where Learning abides?
Are these with her pure spirit filled,
These cnltureless cubs ?
Say rather that their vulgar hides
Are swelled with “ Colonial” swilled'
At neighbouring pubs.
P.M.
HIS MASTERPIECE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Never before was daughter of Eve endow’d with a face so
fair,
There be none of God’s holy angels with a beauty half so
rare
As thine, nor dreamer has ever dreamed the loveliness you
wear.
There’s a gleam in your golden tress, Lieb! a light in
your melting eye !
There is witchery in your smile, Lieb! and a magic in
your sigh
That may lure the strong ones to your shrine to worship
and—to die.
And I—when you whispered softly, Lieb—perchance
would have worshipped, too,
Had bowed to the spell of your beauty—an’ it were not
that I knew
The Devil had wrought his masterpiece what time he
fashioned you.
THE BREAKER.


Carter & Co?
u
j3l/AUTABIiE
NON REVERSIBLE
'PHIS Ingeniously Constructed Hl* I.IASCi)
A T»«LK is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Rilliaids have no equal, combin-
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PitTCES— 2S to <»n liras, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collias-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
“We clamour for originality, and then
abuse it.”—Carlyle.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonics during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none hut thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN AY AY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL AND LBCHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING."
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS,
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
“ You have a nice easy time of it; so few cases.”
“What’s the use of bothering with ’em? You
Can kill a man for a pound in this country.”
• w #
Melbourne folks may recall a divorce cause
eclebre of 18 years ago, by which the name of B
dwells in the memory in an extremely non-clerical
way. The lady had beguiled into matrimony an
old man on the wrong side of fifty. That she
might nut be left with nothing to show for it after
his death, she had obtained a pre-nuptial settle-
ment of a good property that brought her in £OOO
a year, a relative of hers being made trustee. A
voyage to England was soon after recommended
by her medical adviser as necessary to her health.
A year’s holiday was thus obtained as a freedom
from matrimonial monotony. On her return,
nothing seemed to satisfy her but further freedom,
which she obtained by a divorce. The report of
tin’s trial was so interesting that the newspapers of
Melbourne were prohibited from printing its
details. A full report of it was, however, printed
on the N.S.W. side of the Murray. The divorced
lady shortly after left Australia, and has not since
returned. Her deserted husband died some two
years afterwards. The lesson she learned was not,
however, lost upon her. She now lias a disconso-
late second husband—who was, when he married
her, a widower of middle age, with four children
“ needing a mother’s care.” He, too, was per-
suaded into making a pre-nuptial settlement on
the lady, which was productive of even a better
income to her than the previous one, the product
of which she still enjoys. Here, too, the same
game was played as with the first husband.
The lady scorned domestic life altogether, and
claims freedom —with her two jointures to support
her pleasures.
* * *
Five pounds of sausages can now be pur-
chased in the “working man” suburbs of Mel-
bourne for one shilling.
* * *
Spagnoletti ; “To day I saw a woman’s
hat marked 12s. 6d., in Collins-street, and some-
thing very like the same thing for threepence in a
suburban drapery knock-out.”
* * *
One of the N.S.W. Labour members was
recently, on a racecourse, served with a writ elect-
ing him a co-respondent in divorce-
# * «
From a Sydney temperance print;—
It is hoped that now there are so many abstainers who
are members of Christian churches, that (sic) the use of
unfermented wine will come into greater favour. Mr.
(name and address) will be pleased to supply you with it.
How’s this for hawking merchandise in the Tem-
ple of Jerusalem ? To say nothing of the intem-
perate abuse of the demonstrative pronoun.
* m %
Considering the remarkable looseness of
criminal court “identifications,” The Bulletin
would suggest that in future the dock should
be abolished in all the superior courts, also the
judge’s _ wig and robes, the barristers’ horse-hair
decorations, and the police uniforms, and that
judges, lawyers, police and prisoner should be
uniformly attired in plain blue serge. Then when
the usual fluent witness steps into the box and
positively swears to the Chief Justice as the man
who attempted to cut the throat of the court
orderly, and cheerfully assures the prisoner that
she would know the Chief Justice anywhere,
having seen his face as he got out of the window
with bloodstains on his clothes, the court will
begin to appreciate the value of the average
identifier. Probably half, or more, of the most
fluent swearers in the court only know which is
the prisoner because he is in the dock and the
judge isn’t. The Bulletin has often gone to the
Supreme Court and reflected what a hideous
ruffian the judge would look if stuck into the dock
wearing slop clothes, and on his chin a three days’
grpwth of stubble.
The president of London Medical Society
has exhibited a leper under process of cure! Treat"
ment: Small doses of arsenic and abstinence
from fish diet. A still better cure —Large doses
of arsenic.
The Traveller (Melb.) tells how a
drummer at a bush hotel was rudely wakened
by a shrill female voice ; “ Ain’t you going to get
up to-day ?” “ What’s that got to do with you?”
“ ’Cause it’s gone 12 o’clock, and we want the
sheets to lay the dinner.” Chestnut!
The usual weekly Manilla diver has been
added to the victims of misadventure by pearl-
fishery in North Queensland. Not a paper winces
as it calmly records each successive tragedy and
calls upon Premier MTlwraith to import more
coolies to kill off (by usurpation) the white man.
Isaacs, late of the Vic. Ministry, has been reminded by
Bowman, M.L.A., that he “doesn’t belong to the British
race,” and “never had a nationality.”
(( What kind of a joke is the proposed
“ Australian party ”in the Commons? There are
some four or five Australians in the House alto-
gether, and—save on purely Australian affairs—
they disagree on every imaginable subject. They
hate one another like poison—because, you see,
every one of them knows too much about the
other fellows’ antecedents. Moreover, as Aus-
tralia is self-governing, she has practically no
affairs to be considered in the Commons. The
only visible use for the new party is to rise on its
hind legs on royal festivals and marriage-days
and state that Australia is loyal—which it isn’t,
and will always remain loyal—which it won’t, and
longs to shed its blood for the Br-r-ritish Ker-
THE EXIGENCIES OF AUSTRALIAN PIONEERING.
Scene, black-blocks. Doctor, drunk—has been drunk for three weeks. An addition to the
local blacksmith’s family looms near. A prohibition order having failed to stop the Doctor’s
grog, the blacksmith takes steps of his own to sober the gentleman up.
The peculiarly professional means whereby the blacksmith proceeds to remove Smith,
M.D., out of mischief are here shown.
rown—which it assuredly doesn’t. And, apart
from everything else, a party of about five men in
a House of 050 is very like a solemn league and
covenant of one ant in the middle of a 640-acre
paddock.
“ The true reason,” says a learned Indian
native lady, “why female doctors in India find
most of their practice among the Mohammedan
women is that the Hindoo and Parsee women, who
are not so strictly kept from the eye of man, are
able to avail themselves of male advice.”
A British born, but much-travelled, Aus-
tralian (Tory) lately shifted from Melbourne to
Adelaide, writes an interesting letter to an old
friend in the former city :
The people are, I think, more sociable than on your
side . . . and as to their financial position there is no
comparison. . . If a man earns £3 a week he lives on
£2, not i‘4, consequently trade keeps at an even tempera-
ture. . . I find the whole country the same—steady,
plodding and money-making. There is a total absence of
that feverish desire to make a fortune quickly (honestly if
you can, but make it) which permeates Victoria from end
to end. . . Although this is a quiet place I think it is
the most democratic of all the provinces—whether this is
owing to the large German element I can’t say, but it
certainly is so. Although quietly carried on their meet-
ings are well attended, and the business and papers read are
fully reported, and great interest attaches to them. Have
met some of the Labour members and found them in-
telligent men, and likely to turn out better than the
ordinary run of professional politicians one meets. . . .
The excitement of the financial crisis made very little
difference in business; whether the people keep a stock-
ing besides the bank I do not know, but it would seem
that they do, for no one was unduly embarrassed.
TheM‘llwraithian pamphleteersare abroad.
The latest is a Mackay tract on “The Way to
Revive the Prosperity of Queensland.’'' Three
propositions are stated in cold blood and then
argued up to :
1. The development of the Frozen Meat Trade.
2. The formation of Land-Grant Railways.
3. The adoption of a settled policy, indefeasible for the
next ten years at least, of coloured labour for our tropical
coast-lands.
There is no beating about the bush now, when
MTI wraith is astride the State bull. The sequence
of the above trinity is significant. Meat, already
flyblown with .£12,000 of State money, is placed
first. The author, “ J.E.D.,” talks much about
“markets” and “exports” and the usual cloud-
land of totalities. What the worker wants to
know is—What proportion of these totalities is he
to get for himself ? None. The Fat Man is to
take all, except what he is forced to give to keep
his “coloured labour” alive. Other pamphlets are
bound to follow; those will be represented as
“ the voice of the people,” and Premier M‘Nebu-
chadnezzar will act like a demigod. Somebody
will have to invent a Special Prayer to Apoplexy.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Good bluchers in Melbourne, 3s. lid.
Mormon Elder Taylor had 50 stalwart
sons.
A small leather-bound volume, dealing
with a large hide-bound subject, has just been
published by Angus and Robertson, of Sy c ' n< ?y — '
“Divorce Law,” by A. G._ Ralston, M.A., bar-
rister-at-law. The married individual is liable to
five different kinds of major assault—for dissolu-
tion of marriage (or the common kind of divorce);
judicial separation; declaration of nullity or
marriage; restitution of conjugal rights; and
jactitation of marriage ; to say nothing of minor
c irollaries as to alimony, custody and maintenance
of children, damages in respect of the wicked
No. 3in a suit, propeity settlements, &c. in
respect of the common kind of divorce ; A hus-
band has six excuses for moving against his wife,
while a wife lias 13 excuses for moving against her
husband ; but the husband’s six are worth many
times more than the wife’s 15, which are mostly
mere numerical increases through the splittmg-
u p into kindling-wood of good matrimonial
backlogs, and the speculative spreading of
chances over “ double events.” For instance,
the husband’s No. 1 excuse is equal to the
whole of the wife’s first eight chances. A husband
can pray for a dissolution of marriage, on the sole
ground that his wife has committed adultery ; but
a wife has to pull off a “ double ” mostly thus (1)
incestuous adultery; (2) bigamy with adultery;
(3, 4, and 5) offences that need not be here named;
(G) adultery with cruelty ; (7) adultery with deser
tion ; and (8) adultery with domicile. The other
general grounds of cause are—desertion, habitual
drunkenness or criminality, spasms of assault or
attempted murder. These are less outrageously
unbalanced, but still there is a greater onus of
particularity laid on the wife all the time. It
seems to be yet a debatable point in law whether
a husband cannot get damages against another
man in respect of adultery with the petitioner s
wife,, without even seeking to be divorced from
his wife! The various Marriage Acts and
schedules are given in full. The price of the book
is 7s. Gd, which is its only disheartening feature.
What the great heart of the poor married public
yearns for is a paper-covered pamphlet—“ Divorce
for the Million : price Is.”
Patterson will not introduce
a land-tax, after all, but an income-
tax —despite the fact that no one in
Victoria has an income. The greatest
opponent in the Cabinet of a land-
tax was that alleged fierce Democrat,
O’Loghlen.
The 31sfc May, 1803, was a “ red letter ”
day in Mr. H. M‘Calmont’s calender. It was his
birthday. He won Epsom Derby with Isinglass ;
and he completed his term of probation under ins
uncle’s will, and came into possession of over
three millions sterling—a neat treble. M‘Cal-
mont’s uncle left him the whole of his gigantic
fortune because he was the only one of hia
nephews who did not pester him with attentions.
A new story —new to us, anyhow—lately
told, at a Chilian port, by a Yankee skipper •
’Tvvas during the war, and our hospitals were filled to
overflowing with wounded soldiers, when the wealthiest
and handsomest of our young ladies formed themselves
into a band of nurses, calling themselves “ Daughters of
the Lord.” One day a visitor's attention was attracted
to a cot where was lying what had once been a handsome
young fellow, whose emaciated form was plainly to be
seen under the light covering. On the sick person
exclaiming, “Lord! Lord!” the visitor immediately saw
a vision of loveliness glide towards the cot, and in the
sweetest tone say, “/ am a daughter of the Lord. I
heard you calling on my father. Is there anything you
would like me to ask Him to do for you?” His large
eyes shone brilliantly as he replied, “Yes, ask him if he
will have me for a son-in-law.”
Premier Patterson has expressed a Minis-
terial opinion that the magistrate who found
a case against Matthew Davies and his bank-
manager was “a crank.”
ON THE BEACH.
“ I have lost her—we parted—’tvvas yestermorn—
The salt cliffs rc-echoed her parting scorn,
I stood ’midst the wrack of the storm forlorn,"
And the hissing sea rolled on.
“ Is woman indeed so sordid a thing
That for lack of lucre her love takes wing?
Spurned ! Cast off for gold ! Ay ! There lies the sting ! ”
And the hissing sea rolled on.
“ One short month of bliss that was well-nigh divine
Then I lost the wealth I had deemed was mine ;
She left me with taunts into vice to decline.”
And the hissing sea rolled on.
“ Yet, 1 love her! 1 long for her, heedless how vile,
To hold to my heart, this creature of guile!
To smother in kisses that treacherous smile ! ”
And the hissing sea rolled on.
“Is this love ? Do I love her, or hate her ? Say,
Should I happiness find ’neath that false heart’s sway,
Or is it but lust for the perishing clay ? ”
And the hissing sea rolled on.
“Is it she that I crave—or at best surcease
From this wild world’s turmoil, to gain release
And escape from life’s trammels ? Ah 1 God ! To have
peace 1 ”
And the hissing sea rolled on.
June 9, ’93.
E. BRANFILL HARRISON.
Call me a, Jew
By the cast of my face ;
Ay name is a secret from no man.
Taunt me anew,
’Tis the lot of uiy race
To smart at the scoff of the low man ;
But don’t let a member arise in his place
To call me the brother of Bowman,
Call me a Jew,
There are many around ;
Yon meet them wherever you go, man.
More than a few
With the foremost are found
Prepared to cross brains with the foeman ;
And Isaacs, the Jew, is a gent, I’ll be bound,
Compared with the Gentile Bowman.
Call me a Jew,
Or a trimmer, or sneak,
A Government wrecker, or showman ;
Sit in your pew
The first day of the week,
And look up to Christ from below, man,
But never pretend, with true British-born check,
I hat your Lord is related to Bowman.
M’Donalcl, J.P., fle-flddlededee—
You’re one of the cranks.
Where was your wit—to go and commit
Mat. Davies and Millidge when palpably it
Was rough on the banks,
The beautiful banks?
Say, have you not heard that “ mum ” is the word
Concerning all pranks
That might have been played by gentleman staid?
Dead silence is best for the country and “ trade,”
And honesty ranks
As a sort of a crime at this panic-struck time,
When owners of dollars are wanting a dime—
All through the banks,
Those beautiful banks.
You’re one of the cranks.
Why you are so the many don’t know,
But the frock-coated few will endeavour to show
(With shivering shanks)
That men must be mad, M'Donald, my lad,
Who nowadays cling to the dangerous fad
That black isn’t white, or day isn’t night.
And open the shutters to let in the light.
0, dashed little thanks
“ Bluff ” gives to the “ cranks.”
The Crown has a fit if a prison door clanks
On any fat person connected with banks
(The boomer has plenty of beef on his flanks) -
Those beautiful banks.
Keep quiet—you cranks!
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ W.8.M.”: You ask, “Shall we fight?” Yes,
we shall, if you rhyme “draw ” with “ war." We prefer
“bag” with “gab” when we have to mix our dissonances
“Ponte”: We have no pocket to be picked.,..
“ E.F.S.” (Warrandyte): Not surprising enough to cause
any public emotion “ Red Rock”: What do you mean
by “Primordial repulse, the poet’s power convergent is
apprized?” .. “J.R.”: (1) Nothing in the nigger grog
anecdote. (2) Re Menindie, vre know the reasons well
enough, but it wouldn’t he safe to print them.. “T.J.D.”:
We don’t print American b ar-huntijig yarns, especially'
by a man who says he is “ nocked tlatt on is Bach.”.. .
“ Fossicker ”: Your scraps are exceedingly barren. ..
“Paul M.”: “The Wedding Day” descends into too
many particulars. Pretty nearly every subject is spoilt
by going into particulars. If you even inspect your best
girl’s countenance with a microscope provided the
microscope is strong enough- you will fly to the ends of
the earth and become a shaven celibate in a monkery
“Amused” (Echuca): Thanks “Q.” (Freemantle);
We don’t care for the gigantic poem which arrives in a
dray “H.”: The dying bushman, with a beautiful
girl’s photo, clasped to his hairy chest, was written and
sung and groaned to death long ago “ M.L.J.” : Why
name three sorts of grog and only one of women?....
“John G.C.” (Zeehan); Received “Thomas S.”
(Alpha): There is a fatal discrepancy about the lady who
was in an interesting condition. Think hard and you’ll
find it ...“The Spark”: Space is unfortunately too
limited . “ Rami ” : You surprised your ethereal maiden
and found her eating goose with her fingers, and spattered
over with grease. Only that and nothing more
“R.S.”: Wasted effort. Shambles Patterson is the sort
of man who can only be roused by a bard with a crowbar.
~..“Q.E.L.”(Wagga): Will consider “Mulga”; Good
“Geo. G. K.” (Newtown); The lie is so hollow that it
isn’t worth argument .. “J.H.” (Goulburn): The Bul-
letin can’t see that G. Reconstructionist Dibbs is any
worse than H. Unreconstructed Parkes. Unless you ban
show that Parkes and his gang would have prevented
the floods, the bank smashes, and the old loans
coming due just when new ones were unob-
tainable your theory falls to the ground
“Xover” (Adelaide): You can’t make the Royal heart
bleed in these columns. We’re too loyal—to our columns.
...“W.8.M.”: You’re chockfull of Gray’s Elegy, but
you make “wilds” “roofless” and waters that have
found rest “homeless.” Pah!... “L.L.” insists that
there are two bushmen up Gunnedah way who have lived
for more than 40 years on the one station. But they’re
not bushmen; they’re yams... “The Rover” (Myer’s
Flat, Vic.): You are not a humorist “A.E.G.”;
“Eternity’s dread trumpet” kills your poem. We’d
prefer Eternity’s stone-deafness “Sundowner”:
Have posted you “ The Tramp ” asked for, together with
letter from one of the many correspondents who have
sent us it “Calipers”: A bramble-waste, suggestive
of good possibilities “ Satan, junr.” : We admire your
sentiments, but the plot—the railway platform fight, the
well-directed blow and fall on to the rails, the broken
neck, the train, &c., and “verdict, suicide”—are as old
as Johnny Fawkner’s skull-cap. Find some other way of
killing your rival and marrying the girl “Thorne "
(Bass’s Straits): To hand “ Batavus ” : You “did not
take too much trouble with it?” Neither did we
“Geo. Waite” (and 11 others): Thanks for information
re “ The Tramp.” “The Sphinx ”: Old, re-dressed,...
“ E.D.” : Self-slaughter and “ suicide ” aren’t absolutely
convertible terms “ W.T.M.” (Kangaroo Valley,
N. Parkes, Dibbs, and Barton are Federationists
“ under the Crown.” “ J.C.” (H., Tas.): Verses moon-
shiny “ Tuarangi ” : Don’t recollect “■ Appeal; ” have
you watched this col.? May use “Bluey.” “ Van-
gurra” (Muttaburra): Probably your bush chemist has no
cocaine ; more likely, he didn’t know what it was when
he believed your eye-lotion story. Lota of people eat it.
Yes, it is “ equal lo opium for eating ; ” but it’s harder
than grog or tobacco to give up . ..“L.L.”: According
to the poem, you drink much better than you sing
“The Bard of W.”: (1) You’ve got the answer to the
ancient riddle wrong. The man was pointing to his own
son. (2) Acrostic a wen on the neck of idiocy... “Liar
Bird ’’ (Texas, Q,): Methuselah died of acute stringonitis
just three weeks before Noah’s flood “Fossicker”
(Major’s Ck,, N.S.W.); Unlovely nonsense, as you send it
“Nowland” (Albury): Will look up issue; but if a
Xmas one, don’t expect it .. “ Jorks” Will squeeze your
2-yard waste into 2in.; thanks... “Gool”(Ad.): Pretty
verse... “Abad Egue” (M.L.): Not egg, but chicken is
the goat who bleats of a “ horde ” of flowers, and rhymes
“wan” with “a10ng.”... .“Bohemian” (Bendemur):
O. You keep tally “ Rosebud” (Sydney); You are
“ reckoned the best rhyme-writer in your school,” and
jingle “wine” with “ sublime?” Turn on the school’s
worst bard. ..“The Tug”; “Hop-beer" returned
“J.8.H.R.”: Noted “W. El.” (Sydney): It doesn’t
matter, anyhow “J.J.C.”: Yes, they one day hire
and speculate in and boost up a gang of putrid-tongued
pugs., and next day screech for law’norder. But the
public don’t notice these things—the public is a fool
“Con O’N.”: Our view exactly' “C.C.0.”: It often
happens that when an insured house is burnt down the
insurance-officials bruit the word “arson,” with the sole
object of making the assured tractable for a compromise.
“ M.E.L.” (Brisbane, Q.); A background of common-
place, with, however, a few foreground splashes of real
art; the weak climax settles it. ..“Webster”: You’re
etymologically correct; it should be “ semi-weekly,” but
popular stupidity has minted the other with its reverse
meaning “Subscriber”(Narramine, N.S.W.): Thanks,
no.. .. “ C.M.8.” (Charleville, Q.); So the priest
“cristned” the convert before marriage with whisky?
What a wicked waste!. . “Rosebud”: A parody still-
born and misshapen “B. L’E.”; Old idea badly
handled .. “R. de S.”: Unprintable... “H.J.F.”; A
most insignificant grievance “A.E.S.”: Unsuitable.
“Eiffa”: Send exact address. .“5.5.0.”; The state-
ment that “every bit of bark has fallen off the trunk of
the tree, as if in horror of the spectacle witnessed,” when
interpreted, simply means, of course, that visitors have
been picking off pieces of bark asmementoea... “Eono.”:
The modern human child gives up nothing for an abstract
principle. The children’s self-denial offerings-business is
all on the plane of little Egbert’s, when he gave up his
ss. 3d. to the Lockahoopo Indians.


u
t .5,:/-
■
Wf
cr,:^
■
fm
v.
>■-' ,'i
"tgraHg
1
7
rs
2
J
wi
*''>u,
' ',t'-?i:mm.
■ /•>:
Hi
BKSSSR
«*y
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Melb. Stock Exchange monopolists made a. last
dying stand, a fortnight ago, for “corner” advertising.
Ten years ago, an abortive attempt was made to stop the
free advertising of quotations by its members; a split,
which lasted two years, eventuated, the final compromise
being the limitation of ’Change advertisements to the
foot of the Argus mining-intelligence column. A species
of boycott was thus established, the broker who adver-
tised in the Age, for instance, becoming excluded from
doing ditto in the Aegus at Is. per line—a monopoly both
for the Argus and the tew old brokers who had kept up
the custom. The attempt of tire newer and younger
brokers to break down this monopoly hurt the feelings of
the others, who thereupon determined to squelch all
advertising, “ outside the daily quotations and names and
addresses of members” —meaning, broadly, a continued
limitation to Argus columns. Before proceeding to deal
with the obnoxious upstarts under the heading of “Uis-
honourable conduct,” the chairman was cautious enough
to take counsel’s opinion, and was advised that “freedom
of quotation ” was graven deeply in the corner-stone of
the institution. A Melbourne broker may now, therefore,
advertise as he pleases.
# * *
In the Argus of 19th Anril, ’9l, one “ G.D.M.”
,G. D. Meudell, the stockbroker?) wrote, under the
heading “Banking Cash Reserves,” this notable pre-
diction:—“ln the natural course of events Victo-
rians shall, some day or other, be brought face
to face with a financial panic, for we cannot hope
to escape the experience of all commercial communi-
ties. When that dire event arrives the community may
awake to the fact that its casli reserves are not only in-
adequate hut that their exact amount is positively un-
known. They are inadequate because they just suffice for
the ordinary requirements in times of peace, and there
are no means of rapidlyreplenishing them." “G.D.M.”
was arguing for the publication of weekly returns by the
hanks of the actual coin held, instead of the present
antique system of rendering quarterly averages of coin
holdings which are liable to he “doctored.” Tills letter
was re-puhlished by the Bankers’ Magazine of London.
G.D.M.” was thus the prophet of the panic.
• * *
Some sensation has been caused by the not
unexpected issue of criminal summonses charging the late
officials of the Sydney Imperial Land, Building, and Deposit
Co., with conspiring to misrepresent theco.’s affairs. This
case will, amongst other things, draw attention to the
stipendiary connection of certain Government servants
with public companies.
# * #
A.J.S. Bank shares sold, in December 1890, at
£24 15s. per share. Last week they were quoted,
“ sellers, 14s. 9d.”
* * *
The financial troubles of Australia are to extend
over an indefinite period in order that a mob of cronk
elderly gentlemen may be reconstructed instead of burst
up once and for all as they deserve to be. We are damn-
in«- the future for the s die of a few paltry politicians and
X<Try merchants who are a present blight on the country,
and who hope to he dead before the iniquity of their hank
dealings is proclaimed by the crashes which their bluff
has, for the present, so unhappily averted. That’s what
reconstruction means, ye bamboozled depositors !
• # *
To one single individual shareholder of Golds-
trough, MortandCo. the present trouble means £20,000
a vear in calls 1
* # *
A Melb. rowing club, asked by its bank for a
reduction of overdraft, replied that the club had sus-
pended to reconstruct, and that the bank would have to
take members’ tickets in the new club as payment.
* • *
The Royal Bank of Victoria is about to take the
Oollins-street premises of the defunct and putrid Mercan-
tile.
« • *
Some of the bankers who prominently moved
in re the testimonial to manifest satisfaction with Premier
Dibbs’ conduct during the bank crisis tentatively sug-
ested that a similar tribute of respect should he paid to
the judges sitting in Equity who helped so materially to
consummate the wishes of the directors. They, also,
“ only did their duty."
# # #
Three gentlemen, who constituted a “com-
mittee of advice ” to the liquidators of the Federal Bank,
have been granted £lOO each for their services by a judge
in Chambers. It would be interesting to hear what ad-
vice they have given concerning James Munro’s dealings
with the capital of that same bank.
# # *
Premier Patterson has, presumably, a poor
opinion of the dozen and nine men who found a true hill
against Davies and Millidge. All cranks. If not cranks,
where did M'Donald's madness come in ? A flue point for
Patterson’s subtle mind to deal with.
# # #
Once more, how about that missing
from the debris of the Imperial Bank? It must have gone
somewhere, even if the cat took it.
* • *
The Bank of New Zealand’s liabilities in Aus-
tralia-fixed deposits, current accounts, and notes—
amounted, at the end of June, to £893,588, and its avail-
able cash to £256,101, or over 05 per cent.
# # #
The Australian Mutual Investment and Build-
ing Co., of Sydney, presented a species of progress report
to its victims last week. The most gratifying features of
the document were that three directors had borrowed
money from the co., principally on its own shares, which
are now not assets, but liabilities, so that the oo.'s
security now consists in the fact that it can seize the
liabilities if it feels so inclined. Amounts owing by the
00. on mortgages and hank overdraft, £114,000; interest
overdue, £15,000. The “ book values ’’of the oo.’s pro-
perties—otherwise the purchase price in the boom season
—over and above liabilities, are £96,000, but a pro-
perty which was sold recently only fetched a fraction
over the mortgage money, and the board, with a dread-
ful sinking at the pit of its stomach, evidently realises
that the others, if put on the market, would
pan out very much the same. One big property
costs £825 a year in interest, &c., and brings in £BB6.
Another costs £660 a year and brings in nothing. A
third costs £907 a year and also brings in nothing. A big
leasehold properly costs £3077 in interest, &c., and yields
£2050 ; and a final disastrous asset costs £2430 annually,
and produces just £1164. Therefore, the company's
“assets,” instead of producing interest, appear to be a
dead loss of nearly £4OOO a year, and it would be that
much better of if it hadn’t any'assets at all. The meet-
ing finally decided that all deposits should he renewed for
two years. It was apparently scared into doing this by
the chairman’s assurance that otherwise the company
must liquidate, and then ail the assets would be lost. Tub
Bulletin’s private opinion is that such assets as these
couldn’t be lost, however much the company tried to lose
them. It might as well try to mislay the recollection of
a buried crime. Also, why anybody should want to avoid
losing them passes all comprehension. To any' ordinary
intelligence it would seem that Faust might as sensibly
renew his deposit for fear that Mephistopheles would
otherwise be seized by the mortgagee.
# * *
The estate of ex-banker and ex-legislator Abigail
has yielded to the Australian Banking 00. a dividend of
£143 12s. 3d. The cost of liquidating the 00. to the end
of June last was £3339 3s. Bd., of which over £lOOO went
in law and about £lOOO in fixed salaries.
* * *
The Australian Banking Co.—Abigail’s famous
institution—has been endeavouring, so far without much
success, to fix up what is euphoniously called an “ar-
rangement.” The proposal made is that the shareholders
or those of them who can be found, and who are not
bankrupt, or in gaol, or mere men of straw and dummies
—should be released from their liabilities on payment of
£5 per share, provided that enough of them pay up to
realise a total of not less than £3500. From this stipula-
tion it would appear that they don’t expect to pan out
for much more than £3500. The shareholders of the Aus-
tralian Banking Co. are probably the most undiscoverablo
lot of men in the world, and the estimate is evidently
based on the assumption that not quite one out of twenty-
five will lie found ,or will yield any thing when he is found.
The liabilities are nearly £lOO,OOO, so the proposed com-
promise means about lOd. in Hie £ for each depositor, less,
a trifle for liquidation expenses, which might possibly
leave about sd. in the £ net. The depositors, meanwhile,,
think that 10s. in the £ would be a reasonable compro-
raise, and some of them want to seU up the sliaieholders.
bodily and rush the whole lot of them into the lasoh ency
Court.
* * *
London EVENING Standard got into trouble
over the Q.N.8., through mistaking a “To Let” notice
in a window next to that of the hank for the half expected
“suspension pending re-construction ’ announcement.
* * *
Upend it. Constructed pending reclosing..
Again—closed pending reconstruction, and so on !
8 , #
* w
Altogether, £2, 665,152 Government money was
financed into the reconstructed banks in Queensland. Of
this, the Q.N. s nest-egg was £2,394,1,)-.
• * .
Lead has advanced, and is likely to rise still
higher, owing to the cessation ot work in so many silver-
lead mines.
# # *
As The Bulletin long ago foretold, a first
attempt to break down the £3 a week standard at Charters
kS" ( Jdin h “u"ta*™n Jbutll willS
rit
wage is eternal vigilance.
# * *
With a ss. 9d. div. this month, and a 2s. 9d. last
month, and an equally good prospect ahead, you can still,
get 1 North Zealand at 17s. 6d. or so. Shows what rash.
speculators they have in Gyinpie (Q.).
* * *
The Rothschilds are said to have waded into
Mt. Morgan shares at £l2, £l4. and £l5. They were
guided by their own examiner, who, no doubt, was
guided by past richness. The cultured mining stranger
never knows or learns as much of any big mine, in one or
half-a-dozen examinations, as those who work and manage
it from one year’s end to another.
# * ft
, ~ , ~ , ,
After the Rothschilds, the others followed, and
many Queenslanders thought it was good enough to buy
in such a co. up to £l7, at that time. There were few
substantial owners of shares, hence it is easy to guess
who sold. The Rothschilds faced the avalanche to the
tone of hundreds of thousands, but the comparatively
Lilliputian Queenslanders were squashed beneath the fall.
* *
The report of “splendid gold” struck in the
Mt. Poole mine has been followed by the usual sick result
—7O tons, 45 oz.
» * *
The greatest sufferers in Barrier stocks through
the silver-fall are the English buyers, who have been con-
sistentlv taking Hills for years, and have bought heavily
these last few months. But, for the insatiability of the
London market a panic in Hill stocks would have followed
the bankin'' collapse. None are belter able to bear their
losses. Besides, they have the reflection that should
silver boom to 4s. again, millions of money will fall into
* * *
The Aladdin’s Lamp, at Lucknow (N.S.W.), in
eight months produced £37,347 gold.
* # #
.
It is high time some development took place in
hydraulic raining on the Shoalhaven River. It was stated
many weeks ago that the Spa and Jessop Co.’s had begun
throwing water on the drift faces. As some £30,000 have
been suent for this purpose, many who have invested
anxiously await the result. It will he a horrible night-
mare to them should it be found either that the plant is
too small to cope with the big work, or that the drift is
too poor to stand the cost of lifting the enormous body of
water required to supply the nozzles.
H „ # #
Pumping machinery for the property known as
Crocker’s Mint, Shoalhaven. has arrived on the ground—
of the payahleness of which people acquainted with it
express much confidence,
• # #
What is the proposed move in re Baker’s Creek
snine? something must he in the wind or why the cable
that the Financial Times anticipated heavy dividends
fiQm that quarter ? London has never dealt in its shares.
Perhaps the time has arrived when it is thought the
opportunity should be afforded. It is said a London
office and register are to be opened shortly, and the last
oake was unusually large. What is the little game?
• * #
The Umberumberka (Silverton) mine, the
pioneer Barrier silver property, is now working on tri-
Bute, and made a modest profit for the past half-year of
£3O 13s. 3d. The co. has been working for nearly twelve
years, and paid 2s. 6d. in dividends before the middle of
1888
* # *
Five Qf the lea( ji n g Broken Hill miws, before
t| le silver collapse employed 4300 men, the Proprietary
heading the list with approximately 3000.
« # *
Another start made with the old Bonang mine,
on the Vic. border. It has fluctuated for nearly 25 years.
N.S.W. Lands Minister Copeland has made and lost much
in it, and is now- chief owner.
* * •
Some 23 miles from the Boram is the Alpine
o " M •
j nsf 0 f 20 tons brought to Mort’s Dock, Sydney, returned
201 oz. gold. This is the sixth crushing, and the average
has been about lOoz. The vein is small hut consistently
rich, and at last report was going down well,
# * #
The directors of British (Broken Hill) mine
hung up the property ostensibly because the fall in silver
rendered operations no longer profitable. Whereupon
the largest Australian shareholder writes to the Adelaide
press to say that, as the ore lately being smelted only
averaged 7 oz. silver per ton, and 45 per cent, of lead, a
fall of even 6d. per ounce in silver would only mean a
redaction of 3s. 6d. per ton in the value of the ore, which
would probably be more than compensated by the pros-
pective rise in lead. The real reason of the suspension
was that the ore could not be profitably smelted by itself,
any how.
* * •
t> , Trip p rnnr iptarv besides having a larger
HroicenMUi proprietary, pesiaes navmga target
output of stiver than any other single mine, produces the
metal at a lower cost than any other big property For the
oz it Pexpw yeaFs operl
tions will show a small reduction on that figure.
# # »
The Howell-Ashcroft Patent Slag Steam Gcn-
erator Co. thought that the disinterested report of Mr.
Howell would induce the Proprietary directors to jump at
the Slag Co.’s offer to let the big mine use the patent for
three years on payment of-well it would shock people to
mention how much. But the directors only offered the
Slag Co. £lO,OOO for the perpetual right. The Co. angrily
refuse, though they would thus get their invention tested
thoroughly for £lO,OOO less than nothing, and oonld pay a
£25 dividend while idly waiting for other customers in
oase of success. #
The day after the first assay had been made of
the newly-discovered deep lode in Block 10, the reporters
(tor mutual protection) waited on the manager in a body.
Something had occurred to make that potentate angry,
and his reception of the scribes still tingles in their ears.
Warren is too big to fight with, and when he tells a peace-
ful reporter to “ clear out of this, you , or I’ll break
your —— neck,” and makes a dive forward at him, the
only thing to do is to get your information from someone
who knows a man whose brother works in the mine,
« » #
„ , ... ... , , ~,
The Sydney daily press feeling bad at the pro-
speotive closure of Broken Hill mines, entreats the men to
",'. th ll^, e ow ." erB and K° on working for bare
“tucker. “There is no way out but a reduction in
wages.” Probably not; but there was. That way out
wa s by a profit-sharing sliding-scale arrangement—or,
better still, a co-operative partnership—with the workers*


ADAMS'
I TATTERSfIITS HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fTHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
■* ahovc old-established and popular Hotel being now
lompleted, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’HOte DAILY at Ip.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Fltt Street, Syciney.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 4.
The competitive lists for The Bulletin’s No. 4
Missing Word Competition closed last Saturday
with 2349 entries, representing a pool of <£ll7 9s.
In addition to this there were the whole of the
entry fees in the No. 3 Competition, which no
contestant solved—9B4 entries, of <£49 4s, The
total sum to be divided between the prize-
winners of No. 4 is, therefore, <£l66 13s.
The number of these being 10, the individual
cheque due to each is <£lG 13s. 4d. The
“ missing word ” was “ SENSATIONALISM.” Some
hundreds of competitors favoured “exaggeration
many others relied on “ mendacity others stood
their luck on “lies;” while “duplicity’’enamoured
the minds of not a few. An Annidale (N.S. W.)
gentleman touched the hem of success with
“ sensational!ties.” A few people tried the word
“bulletin,” or “bulletins,” while one crab-
walking genius sent in “photograph!” The
following are the names and addresses of the ten
prize-winners:—
1. H. Parr, Port Pirie, S. A.
2. John Bolarn, Milray-street, Bendigo, Victoria.
3. S. M‘Kean, Charlestown, Newcastle, N.S.W.
4. B. S. P. Claye, Nyngan, N.S.W.
5. G. 0. Marshall, Mab Cottage, Marrickville,
Sydney.
6. Nelson P. Whitelocke, National Advocate,
Bathurst, N.S.W.
7. Nora Becke, Darling House, Lower Fort-
street, Sydney,
8. F. L. D’Aran, Goolagong, via Cowra, N.S.W.
9. N. K. Backhouse, 10 Hunter-street, Sydney.
10. Charles Oswick, 93 Madeline-street, Carlton,
Vic.
*
“The Bulletin’s” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 5.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will he divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office until Saturday, Augusts, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 4.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, sth August,
1893.
“ Women are employed it railway
switches and crossings in Italy because
they do not get intoxicated.” This, cut
from a Sydney paper, is triumphantly
hurled at the world in general as a
fact. But it’s a lie. Women are so em-
ployed in Italy because they are cheaper
than men. Why are men employed at
Australian railway switches, pray? Because
the lines have not yet been collared by Bat
Man, and it isn’t policy for the State to
employ Chinamen or females.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
xvill he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
Three more Labour papers being born in
Queensland—at Charleville, Bundaberg and Win-
ton. This makes eight in all. A single Labour daily
would accomplish more in a year than the lot of
them in ten.
A London firm of firework-makers insured
the Duke of York’s marriage for a large amount
at five uer cent, premium. The same firm had
made immense preparations for the marriage of
the Duke of Clarence, and when that feeble young
man came to his premature end, it was left with
many thousands of unsaleable illuminations on
hand. It didn’t want to risk being ‘‘left” a
second time, hence the precaution.
&
&
<</
( a
<s> x
from
every flower that
breathes a fraTrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
■p
V
e
*°Qd street
Beware of imita tions.
The genuineis signed
</T
u
Where are all the Q. Labour members who
were to have resigned in favour of Glassey, de-
feated at the polls ?
Now that , M.P., has been appointed
to a stipendiary office in Q. Parliament, he may
possibly begin to wear socks.
The Strongest Arguments.
From an issue of the Wolverhampton Chronicle
we extract the following : “We have for a long
time heard various reports of the wonderful effects
produced by the use of St. Jacobs oil in chronic
cases which had been given up as incurable, but
had always supposed these were enlarged upon
for advertising purposes, like all other patent or
proprietary medicines, but the reports from hll
our leading chemists must he considered one of
the strongest arguments which can be advanced
respecting the value of any leading article of trade
in their line. Toe uniformity of these reports will
be noted at once. All speak in the highest terms
of the value of St. Jacobs oil as an outward appli-
cation for pain. The oil is only advertised to cure
rheumatism, neuralgia, gout sciatica, and those
bodily pains where an outward application is used.
The proprietors of this popular remedy never
advertise the oil to cure those diseases which it
will not actually cure. By so doing they have
gained the confidence of the people. We see by
the Liverpool papers that St. Jacobs oil is used
largely on board of nearly every steamship that
sails from that port. Many companies, including
the Cunard, White Star, and some of the South
American lines, do not even consider their ships
ready for sea unless a sufficient supply of this
popular remedy is on board to last the voyage.
Latterly, we are informed that all H.M. troop-
ships leaving Portsmouth take a large supply of
the oil on board. The oil in yellow wrappers for
veterinary purposes is being used with equally
good results by the leading omnibus and cab com-
panies of London and provincial cities for use on
horses for sprains, sore shoulders, and general
ailments where an embrocation is required.”
A leading article in an issue of the Chemist
and Druggist stated that St. Jacobs oil had the
largest sale of any medicine in the world, and
when an article possesses the actual merit which
St. Jacobs oil undoubtedly does possess, tbe pro-
prietors are entitled to icceive the benefit of the
enormous sale which this popular remedy has.
IF you want a watch to SWEAR BY,
Buy a Waterbary; but
IF you want a watch to SWEAR AT, then one
of those numerous dear-at-any-price, Swiss rattle-
trap imitations can be warranted to give you
every satisfaction.
HE BEST
SARSAPARILLA
fe
* .
BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIC
I . For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove thst
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name Ayer’s Sarsaparilla —is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, July 11, 1393.
r | LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
i SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazkttb.
TENDERS for the Works, &c,, specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clooV
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 2G.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
Constriction of Wharf, Sheds, and Approach at
Wagonga Wharf, at Naroorna
Bridges Nos. 1 and 2, Baker’s Creek, road Armi-
dale to rfiilgrove
Bridge, Bega River, at Tarraganda, Completion
of; fresh tenders
Repairs, &c., Royal Mint, Sydney
Lining Stronghold, Royal Mint, Sydney
Iron Grills to Windows, Public Works Offices
Construction of Service Reservoir, Moss Vale;
fresh tenders
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 9.
Construction of Timber Beam Footbridge of Sus-
pension Footbridge over Moonan Brook, at
Denison Diggings
Bridge, Chambigne Creek, road Grafton to Glen
lanes
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23.
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King-
street to Ocean-street 7 ramway
' WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
but that would not suit those who don’t work but only
water stock and bull and bear markets. “The chief cost
of silver-raining, apart from that of the machinery, is in
the current wage-sheet.” No, it’s not. It’s in the divi-
dend insisted on ; it’s in the aforesaid watered stock.
# # #
Healthy reports re the West Coast (Tas.)
mineral fields. There are now vastly improved facilities
for prospecting over large tracts liitherto almost in-
accesdl l•. The “ tribute ” system lias worked splendidly
—as in the Oonah and other cases, putting the silver
companies on their feet. Large parcels of scrip are pass-
ing into the hands of (he working miners.
* o *
Bendigo mines, for the past six months, yielded
92,&710z. gold—a hig fall as compared with the second
half-year of ’92, which gave 118,049 oz.; but exceeding
by 87550 z. that of the first half of the same year-
-34,1Ki0z,
* # #
The Bulletin has to hand a private and con-
fidential circular of a new several per shent..establish-
ment, Sydney, the object whereof is “ to meet a long-felt
want which has existed amongst gentlemen requiring
temporary loans for a few days or a few months.” A long-
felt want!
* # «
A Molong (N.S.W) storekeeper, the other day,
succeeded, before Chief Justice Darley and a jury. In
recovering .€llOO, to wit-goods, €420 ; interest at 10 per
cent., compounded at quarterly periods, €6BO !
* * #
Matthew Davies is anxious to meet the charges
against him, but, meanwhile, Millidge’s counsel is pre-
paring some half-dozen, or so, reasons whv the true bill
ghould be “ quashed ” to begin with.
* # #
These Westralia gold-shovelling telegrams are
playing a magnificent game for the shipping companies.
* * *
Henry Wrixon, after rashly asseverating that
Davies and Millidge were really on their trial, told the
Victorian Assembly that, “in the whole course of his
political life, he never knew a case where it was more
important that there should be no public excitement”
(cheers). Wrixon need not distress himself. If Davies
be ever really put on his trial, there will be intense sur-
prise, hut no excitement. For Wrixon may as well under-
stand that the excitement he deprecates is the result of
12 months growing belief that the trial of his brother
knight would never come off. His sporting brothers-in-
law, the Millers, will tell him that a “ trial ” is a genuine
test of merit, and not a bogus gallop in which one horse
is pulled to let the other horse win.
• • •
The North Sydney gas agitation has borne
fruit. When the discussion started, three years ago, the
local co. was charging Bs. 6d. per 1000 ; to-day the
oharge is only ss. 3d.
* * *
Another director has been to the Rockwall
Freehold mine, N.S.W., and, as usual, he reports its great
richness. “New find dis dosed in the shaft. Picked
oxidised stone assayed 31nz. to the ton. Sulphidised
stone, 18oz.; reef. 8 feet wide, average sample taken across
the reef assayed 6oz. to the ton.” Yet we have the grim
fact that 212 tons have yhlded 107ozs. Why assay a few
ozs. of stone when there is a battery there to crush thou-
sands of tons? The publication of assays should be sup-
pressed by law.
* * «
After a visit to the Lilydale and Warburton
district, the Age reports Patterson as being favourable to
a certain railway being constructed-which, it omits to
say, goes alongside David Syme’s property.
* * *
Before the grand jury gave its decision the
writer was pointed out two iurymen who were “dead
birds ” for Matthew Henry. The majority of the jury for
a “true bill” was 21, the efforts of Matthew’s good
friends being unavailing.
* # #
In 1860 silver was worth os. Ifd. per ounce. The
other day it was being offered in London at 2s. 9Jd,
and later it fell to 2s. 6d,, since which it has again
advanced. There is now probably not sixpen’orth
of silver in a shilling. If the United States, like India,
stops the free coinage of silver, it will probably gel, down
to 2s. before the drop comes to an end. A colder day for
this industry than any pessimist has ever dreamt of seems
to be looming in the near future.
• • •
Dear Bulletin,—After getting so far advanced
With our Pennyweight Hill (Vic.) undertaking, we were
compelled to throw it up for want of assistance. Patter-
son, I contend, promised to get ns a bigger supply of
water and on more reasonable terms, but on being elected
promptly replied that he could do nothing for us. We
went solid for Longmore at the election, ten of us. We
sold race, plant, &c., for €5O, and lost about €5OO over the
job, besides our six months’ hard work. Have managed
to stagger this far after a tramp of 250 miles ; have been
here now eight weeks. That there has been a lot of gold
got locally is beyond dispute and it is easily obtained;
most of the alluvial was simply picked up on the surface.
A good deal of the prospecting was done on horseback. In
most cases it is very hard to trace the source of the gold,
but several ricli leaders have been found, and splendid
“ dabs ” are obtained on them. There are about five good
leaders here, and I have seen the gad stuck into seams of
gold on more than one occasion. About 10 OOOoz. have
been dollied nut of the shows here so far, lint the shoots
seem continuous. On the Island there are four or five
similar good shows. At the Cue it is mostly reef, but in a
good many cases they dolly a living, and an ounce per
week in some. There should be a few good reefs and
plenty of stone for the mills when erected. The Day
Dawn is a very big affair and likely to prove a mine
worthy the name. Thompson and M'Caw, close by, have a
pile claim, I reckon. We are hunting for leaders and
have a fair show of getting on to it, I think. So far, we
have only got a few coarse specks, including one piece
over a pound-weight. We have, I trust, a show of finding
the source from whence they came. Some look to have
dropped from the skies like the horn-silver sings on the
Barrier. To a man that can land here with £5O and likes
hard work, I consider that 12 months on the Murchison
would be a fair gamble. Climate equal to Barrier.—
Tasmaniao. (ho Mainland, Lake Austin, Murchison, West-
ralia, May 28,1893.
* * *
The conditions of mining in Victoria are, in
many respects, easier than those in N.S.W. The urea
allowed for leases is 30 acres; N.S.W., 25 acres; rent in
Victoria, ss. per acre; N.S.W., £1 ; miners’ rights in
Victoria, 55.; N.S.W., €l.
* * *
Should Mount Lyell copper show float, the
general management will be given to one of the largest
shareholders, H. H. Schlapp, the Broken Hill Proprietary
Co.’s metallurgist. This, we hear, was practically
arranged ere Mr. Knox left for England.
There is a derelict Brisbane blackfellow
who always waylays Jimmy Tyson and the Bris-
bane squattocracy with this petition : “ You been
Aplenty stealim my plurry country, you know. I
eay, boss, give it tsisspen. Come on ! ”
“The Order of the Cake.”
In these days of hollow knighthoods and trumpery
titles The Bulletin feels the urgent need of a
solid institution whereby struggling merit and
active rascality, superlative wisdom and hopeless
idiocy alike, receive the meed of their more
earnest and lurid manifestations. It has, there-
fore, instituted “The Order of the Cake.”
Henceforth, “the cake” shall be taken literally
instead of only in a metaphorical way ; and
this paper will be prepared to forward it to
that individual in Australasia who shall have, by
some supreme effort of distinctive originality,
pinnacled himself above bis fellovvs. The variety
of possible performance is as unlimited as are the
functions and departments of human life and its
shades of character and passion. The trophy, a
substantial embodimentof 40 separate nightmares,
will be awarded to the man or woman or child
who shall uniquely lift himself or herself out
of the common groove of every-day monotony;
who, in any department or capacity of life, shall
have placed himself or herself as a sky-sign to
admiring or horrified humanity. The Bulletin
has no desire to be narrow-minded in this distri-
bution, and every suggestion sent in from corres-
pondents will receive judicial consideration.
Preeminence—Alpine distinctiveness of deed,
supreme uneommonuess—will be the one and sole
essential. The twelve-times married woman who
elopes with an archbishop will be as eligible for
th.e Cake as the man who knits lunacy in unspeak-
able verse, or who invents a new virtue and passes
it into currency, or who wags both his ears by
muscular movement only.
For a start, The Bulletin Order of the Cake
goes to Minister of Justice O’Connor, of N.S.
Wales, in recognition of the ineffable sublimity of
bis impudence in implying, by the release of the
Broken Hill “ conspirators ” on the day of the
York-Teck wedding, that the electors of Australia
care one solitary curse for the Guelph dynasty.
The Duke of York, we are informed by
the Argus, “is said to have that faculty of un-
forgetting memory for names and faces proper to
kings.” The Duke will be able to remember
L. L. Smith, for instance, until his dying day.
Some 120 officers —clerks, surveyors, drafts-
men, &o. —have just been retrenched from the
N.S.W. Works Department, and turned out to
prospect hopelessly in the shockingly over-
crowded labour-market. Most of these unfortu-
nate officials have been, up to now, earning (say)
from =£l3o to ,£l7O a-year, which means simply
that they have been “paying their way,” and, in
the luckier instances, escaping debt. Fifty com-
positors have been discharged from the N.S.W.
Government Printing Office, and 27 have notice to
go from the Echo —all to join the hundreds already
out of work. And so it goes on all round.
Three people, it is cabled, were either
trampled or squashed to death, in London, during
the mad rush to the Duke of fork’s wedding, and
several hundreds were injured more or less
seriously. Some of them will never quite recover
their human shape so long as they live, and will
either travel on crutches, or go like beasts on all
fours, or else linger in bath-chairs with their backs
broken for the rest of their days. But the occa-
sion was worth the sacrifice. If the true-born
Englishman can get a good look at a newly-
married prince he doesn’t mind though he is
mangled into the shape of a four-footed swine and
remains so for ever afterwards.
The released Broken Hill strike-leaders,
Sleath, Ferguson, Polkinghorne, and Hewitt—
who last Sunday were publicly welcomed in
Sydney Domain by the various Unions—turned
out to be an extremely presentable set of men. On
the whole, their speeches were conspicuous for
common sense and absence of malice. Sleath is a
rather handsome fellow ; Ferguson’s shaved head
and face gave him the appearance of a big, new-
born babe; the youthful Polkinghorne facially
resembles Toby Barton ; and Hewitt is like
nobody on earth except Hewitt himself. Fer-
guson especially is an excellent speaker and will
get into Parliament whenever he submits himself
to a democratic constituency. Interviewed by
the Worker, he said, among other things :
The gaol is full of old out-of-date bonks. Every book
before being admitted has to pass the censorship of the
gaol chaplain. Orthodox drivelling authors and goody
goody stories, fit for old women, predominate. It is a
brutal system that enchains a man’s brain as well as his
body, for that is what it amounts to.
Again, he remarked :
I consider it a criminal action for the Government to
guarantee the scrip of semi-insolvent banks, more
especially when such banks are preventing settle-
ment, and holding out of use (for a rise) enormous
tracts of land, practically speaking, undeveloped. Out of
all our disasters, good must come, and the atrocious
ruffianism that we have to submit ourselves to now, will,
as sure as fate, bring about a tremendous reaction against
agrarian and Joint-stock monopolies. The next general
election should be a memorable one. Mora interest will
be excited by it than any that has ever taken place in the
past. If leaders, hold and intellectual men, can be found,
then N.S.W. Democracy will march into power
by an overwhelming majority. We have a splen-
did army and a fair organisation, but our gene-
rals have, in the past, been faint-hearted. They
only come to the front in order to go backward.
The party politicians of to-day must be swept aside-their
doom is written on the wall. Far too long the People
have followed the fife and drum of party. They will, I
hope, do so no more. Ttie way politics stand at present—
the Freetrade versus Protection fraud—is really asking us
whether we shall be roasted or boiled. What the people
want is not theory—it is land and cash—our own land,
our own capital.
Dear Bulletin,— You say that you would
like to hear the Jesuit version of the statement
lately made by a cleric in Melbourne re the
“Jesuit priests’ wives” in the islands. The
clergyman in question stated at the United Mis-
sionary Conference that “it was true that the
Jesuit priests had no occasion to bring their wives
up from the islands, and that that might account
to some extent for their diligence at their post.”
Now, I am a Protestant, brought up, like my
father before me, in the Church of England. But
I would like to tell The Bulletin something that
that parson knows as well as Ido : —ln the whole
history of the Marist Brothers since they first ran
opposition to the Loudon, Wesleyan, Baptist, and
Presbyterian missions in the Pacific soul-curing
business, I know of only two oas s in 40 years in
which French priests disgraced themselves by
liaisons with native women. Can the Protestant
missionaries show as clean a record ? I don’t say,
“ Ask the white men who live down there what
they know of English missionaries meddling with
native women.” That wouldn’t be fair ; but I say
to that clergyman—Ask the Administrative
Council of the Wesleyan Board of Missions ; of
the London Missionary Society, and of the Boston
Board of Missions, whether any of their white
missionaries have succumbed to the charms of the
native women. Let the cleric in question do this
—and he will hold his peace for ever.—Yours, &c.,
Marion Benny,


NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle'a Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine ”: —
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—VoI. YII.
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Prof. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—VoI. XYI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience. ” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS. —Vol. XYL
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food;
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch- Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being tree from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
ECZEMA,
SALT-BHEXTM,
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when,
the remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Head the following testimonial from Mr. R. H.
Stahl, a respectable citizen of Dee Moines, lowa,
U.S.A. He says: “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
m
'if
A
a
&
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. We tried it, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great_ change for the
better was noticeable. We continued the treat-
ment, and a thorough cure was the result.
“ My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheum,
was comp'etely cured by the use of Ayer’s Sarsap-
arilla.”— Maria R. db Rins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s; Sarsaparilla.
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Maes., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
d
6*^-
| KS?" r
&3T The only thorough!}
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
BUONCIIITIS
AMD
INFLUENZA.
Tt can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s,
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
% H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY,
ity Retail Agency~J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale of Elliott Brothers. Limited
MAMMOTH
DISTRIBUTION
THE
PROPERTY
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS IN
MUTUAL INVESTMENT & BUILDING SOCIETY, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
Proposed Issue of 35,500 Slastres o/fc £X.
Committee ;t. W. SUTTON, Esq. J. W. Sutton endOjgJ«n» ** X ' **V, ~ . , ... .
The Committee of Management, having purchased the undermentioned Properties, have decided to distribute the same by ballot amongst the member*of the Society as provided by the Society s Miles, provi mg
PRI7ES valued from £5 to £20,000. All being in terms of allotment as per Schedule to be seen at the Society s Office.
Vo . J, —Those magnifl ; ent Chambers, situate corner CREEK and ELIZABETH STREETS, BRISBANE, close to the G.P.O. and the Q.N. Bank, and lately occupied by the Royal Bank of Queensland (Ltd.), at a rental of £lOOO per annum.
Firat Prize .. - £20,000. Fourtli Prize.
Solicitors; Messrs. THYNNE(M.L.C.)and
1 Prize £20,000
1 , £6,500
1 „ £5,000
1 „ £5,000
1 „ £2,500
1 „ £2,200
1 „ £2,000
1 „ £l,BOO
5 Prizes £7OO
Total Value of
Prizes,
£85,500.
mm
ini
IS
i ' ■'■ ‘ sSfUhk r -iJ
1 EidHf 6
:■ .„■■•■. 1..
ill
*l*
Blip
sira
I
ii«l i
mi
P|||,p
» i
38
SJ
r?-.
Total Value of
Prizes,
£85,500.
THE BALLOT will positively take place not later than November, 1803.
rriJT’ Tvrnnw OF DRAWING will be by numbered marbles, placed in a revolving barrel, trom
which will be first drawn the numbers securing the 380 J 5 prizes. The marbles drawn will then bo
replaced' and the numbers will be drawn securing the 790 £lO prizes, and so on for the several classes
repiacea, aim finally the drawing for the chief prize is effected.
of P" ze ® s iylpY SHAREHOLDER is entitled to draw for each of the several classes of prizes (18
i„ J h Z,?iSd*£SrtS“ filled). Bo that .very share 1.., a ole,nee el 18 SEPARATE PRIZES,
m all, pro i J 53 making it possible for .£1 to secure <£48,103 worth.
Wlt The Schedule, which’has been carefully prepared, clearly specifies the properties for allotment, and
can bo aANSFERS wifi Shareholders immediately after the ballot, free of all
. 1 "“i: . mortgage and free of any deduction whatsoever.
rR TIVTP\DING SUBSCRIBERS should apply on accompany ingfonn, and also enclose two addressed
•tamped envelopes, one of which will be used to return Share Certificate, and the other to send the
reSU FORBHARES and all particulars apply to Secretaryof SociG> % lB6 Queen-street, Brisbane, orT.
A BOND, Broker, Queen-street, Brisbane; or care of J. H. \\ ISE, 330« George-street, Sydney.
Payment of the sum of =£l will secure the Allotment
of ONE SHARE in the Society ; the member to
whom any Share is allotted cannot be made liable
to make any further payment on it.
UniIHiUtBIIHIU
HIM
paiiiiiii
BALLOT, according to Rules, to be held on
NOVEMBER 2, 1893, in BRISBANE, under
the Supervision of a Committee of Representative
Citizens,
Each SHAREHOLDER, for every Share held by him, will have 18 SEPARATE CHANCES, viz.,
a chance of 18 SEPARATE PRIZES with a total value of .£48,153, so that the Investor of
XI may Secure £48,153 Worth,
THE MUTUAL INVESTMENT AND BUILDING SOCIETY,
HRISHANE, QUEENSLAND.
—Please allot me Shores in the above Society, in terms of attached Circular. I enclose
for payment £ hyt also 2{ Stamped Addressed Envelopes for your acknowledgement of
above and advice of result of ballot.
day of 1893.
Dated this
Name in fu11...
Address in full.
I Specify l here if payment is made by P. 0.0. or what. Please do not enclose Stamps in payment for
Shares 1 NI?- P O O preferred. If Cheque sent, exchange must be added.
1 i When enclosing stamps for reply postage, if stamps he other than (Queensland, do not attach them to
envelope. Amount of stnnps may be added io P. 0.0, or Cheque, &o.
Register your Letter, and, until acknowledged, hold Post Office receipt.
NINE TIMES ON THE NINE.
“I’m as good as dead. t I’ve won nine times on
the nine, and lost nine times on the seven. Give
this note to the banker ; lie knows the address of
my relatives.”
It was in a gambling house in Montana. Ihe
gambler who uttered these words threw down Ins
cards, rose from the table, and left the place. At
aarly dawn next morning the police found his
body in some shrubbery about a mile distant. His
own pistol was full of cartridges ; it had not been
used, yet there was a bullet hole in his left breast.
Was there a mysterious prophecy in the cards, or
was the gambler's fears the outgrowth of super-
stition, and his death a coincidence ? Everyone
must decide for himself.
But people are often considered as good as dead
for a much more intelligent reason. Mr. William
Goble, of 104, Albion Street, Southwick, near
Brighton, was recently placed on that list by his
friends. In his case the danger was not from
powder or sharp steel, but from something that
hurries more folks out of the world than they do.
His story is this : Looking at his tongue, one day
in the spring of 1887, he found it coated like a
piece of brown leather. Of itself this might not
have worried him, but other signs and portents
went with it. His appetite failed, and what little
he did eat seemed to cause great pain in his chest
and sides. Now good food never acts that way
when a man is in proper condition. Quite the
contrary; What was the matter?
Writing about it under date of Nov. 20th, 1891,
Mr. Goble said ; “I couldn’t imagine what had
conle Over me. Nothing like it had ever hap-
pened to me before; 1 had always been strong
arid healthy. But now I had a foul taste in the
moiltli, and wind appeared to roll all over inside
msr body. I had a choking sensation in my
tllidat, and sometimes my heart would beat so
fast and so hard that it frightened me. After a
while I got so weak I had to give up my work. I
was almost too weak to walk, and when out walk-
ing I would get short of breath. Gradually I
became weaker and weaker, and lost all ray flesh.
I dould just crawl about, arid that was all. My
cheeks were sunkeri, and I had such a pale, ghastly
lodk that my friends said I was iri a decline and
Would riever be better.
‘‘ A doctor in Southwick said I was suffering
froiri dyspepsia, but after he had treated me for
nine months I was worse thari ever. At this time,
our clergyman, Rev. Mr. Hey wood, recommended
me to the Brighton Hospital, where I was under
treatraerit for one year. Several of the doctors
sounded my lungs and seemed puzzled by my
complairit, and changed my medicines so often
that I wondered if they would ever find the right
remedy. At the end of the year I stopped going
to the hospital, and began to take cod liver oil;
but it did no good, and I made up my mind that
I was irideed doomed to death and nothing could
prevent it; ■
‘‘Still lam alive and well to-day* and 111 tell
you why in few words. In April, 1889, I met
with a friend of mine, Mr. Groves, of Southwick,
who told me of his own illness and of the great
benefit he had received from Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup. I got a bottle, and by the time
I had finished it my food agreed with me and I
felt a little stronger. Four more bottles completed
the cure, and I have since enjoyed as good health
as I ever did in my life. lam a gardener, and
have been in the employ of General Turnbull, The
Hermitage, Southwick, for ten years. I will
gladly answer inquiries.”—(Signed) William
Goble.
The Southwick doctor’s diagnosis was right;
Mr. Goble’s disease was indigestion and dyspepsia,
some of the symptoms of which he names in his
statement. His plain testimony will serve to
strengthen, if necessary, the popular confidence in
Mother Seigel’s Syrup as a cure for this prevailing
and perplexing malady. The Southwick gardener
lost two years’ time by not knowing what to do.
But he is vastly better than a dead man now, and
will, we trust, live long to give others the benefit
of his knowledge.
Sydney D.T. now has two columns headed
respectively, “ Religious ” and “ The Churches.”
Which somehow makes one smile.
The Maoriland Govt, decline all tenders
under ss. 6d. per page for printing electoral rolls,
because that is the lowest sum compatible with
union wages.
At the N.S.W. beekeepers’ conference, at
Sydney, it was mentioned that one apiarian won
over 22 tons of honey (market price, 4d. to sd. per
lb.) in a single season.
It is said that when A certain coilvict
emerged from gaol in N.S.W. the other day, after
serving a long sentence, he had in his possession
over ,£3OO, the result of private trafficking in
prison;
Rev; Charles Strong, Melb., on the
‘‘rational Sunday” question: “It is gross
hypocrisy td be so scrupulous about working an
hour on a Sunday, and then On the six other days
to sweat a clerk or a factory hand.”
The latest Sydney canvassing dodge. A
well-dressed person enters a business office,
inquires for the head of the firm, and hands over
a large official envelope embossed “ Parliament of
N.S. Wales.” The merchant, thinking it a noti-
fication of a K.G.M.G.-ship, or of appointment to
the Legislative Council, devotes himself to the
contents without delay; These also are oil “Par-
liamentary ” paper, and run thus
My dear Sir,—The bearer is a gentleman well-known to
me as a man of unusually high literary attainments and
splendid business capacity. lie represents a newspaper
in the important electorate of LastTuesda3’. and is intimate
with all the requirements of the district. lam member
for Last Tuesday, as you know, and I can say that the
paper in question has a circulation of considerably over
5000, and is far and away the best organ in that part of
the country. lam told that your extensive firm may do
a large business in the district if i IS goods were brought
properly under the notice of the residents, and with that
in mind I consider it my duty as local member to
introduce the hearer to you.
This is signed by the M.L.A., and the merchant,
in nine cases out of ten, parts with his signature
for a column ad. for a year. Later on, he acci-
dentally learns that the M.L. A. \s the sole
proprietor of the backblook organ.
“Drink does, undoubtedly, conduce to
assaults, rowdyism, and mayhap murder, but for
most other kinds of crime a cool head and a steady
hand are as requisite as in the ordinary affairs of
life. No ! a regime of teetotalism is not going to
empty our prisons and enable us to disband our
police. Wanting in the law-abiding instinct, or
simply in ‘conscience,’ the criminal is one of the
many unsound types which are thrown off by the
species in every generation. Some go to asylums,
some to workhouses, and some to prisons, accord-
ing to the nature of their deficiencies, but, funda-
mentally, their cases are identical.” —London
Referee.
The coming railway-grab. The Age
knows of a syndicate which will lease the Victorian
railways for a term of 50 years. But it is not stated
who is a member of the syndicate.
N.S.W. Commandant Hutton has control
of “ military finance, accounts and pay, artillery
and stores not in charge of troops.’ Bven in
monarchial England the Ministerial head holdg
the purse-strings, and Duke George of Cambridge
must apply to that head for even an extra ration.
Rev. Hector Ferguson’s letter to the Age,
attacking Syme on his assertion that a sacred
concert is more provocative of religious sentiments
than the utterances of the pulpit, and extolling
the clergyman as a teacher, recalls Ingersoll’s
representation of the parson as an owl perched on
a dead limb of the tree of knowledge, hooting the
hoots that its predecessors have hooted for 1800
years. __
A Memory.
Like some remembered dream,
A long-forgotten thought
ITrom some unfinished theme
On which of old I wrought,
The unolouding nerves reveal
In its birthday sheen and glow ;
And again in a vvond’rous trance 1 feel
My life in the Long Ago.
Once more the forceful will
And flashing brain of youth
Embrace, unite, and thrill
With concept flames of truth,
And anon the soul darts out
In a widening burst of light,
And leaps back with a sudden quivering shout
As awed at its own wild might.
Ah ! memory glad and bright,
Yet sad, since thou must part,
Thou wilt, in Time’s despite,
Return, to cheer my heart;
And the glory of thy rays
Is the Godhead I adore —
But the callow bliss of thy living days
Will shine on my life no more !
Sydney.
J. A. ANDREWS.


uù
HOW TO
151 ■ rm
Jv »ln saJLi
i^V* 8 Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), of 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
prepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
* s known ever Y Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
AXiJPAXbINS VITALITY" PILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate-
ful cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint.
The ALP ALINE VITALITY FILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of
Memory, Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and all other Affec-
tions of the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended to all sufferer#
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary Course, 235. 6di
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s. Warninglmitators -will be Prosecuted.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
JFtosiSa-toreci. 10“ PAMPHLET SENT TREE.
CURED over 100,000 SUFFERERS.
Awarded Two Geld Medals.
OPINIONS OF THE PRESS OF HERR RASSMUSSEN,
“ Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing; many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove."—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”— N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”—Daily Telb-
geaph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassraussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
REGistER, Adelaide,
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, anti
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria arid Queerisland.” CooliTowri
CotiniEß, Q.
Ho# to Curie
THE NERVES.
TAlik A COURSE OF
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to Cure
NERVOUSNESS,
DESPONDENCY, DE BI LI TY,
NERVOUS IKRITA BIBITY,
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
3SIE L A NCHOIT A, 1,0 S S O F
MEMORY, WEAK BRAIN AND
NERVES.
Boxes— 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Spctiai IVnvei'l'ui Course, 435. 6<l.
Testinaoixial.
R, AjiAKTS IiUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, a gehtleihan whose testimony
harries especial weight, writes thus to
HJsrr Rassmussen. Dear Sir, I
think it my duty to inform you that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on ray
htetvouS system, ahd, in cotlsequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
their Use. Very truly yours, R.
Adams Luckham,
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS.
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
COSTI VENE S S, WIND;
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
flatulency and irregu-
larity.
Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and 6s.
Testimonial.
Here Rassmussen. I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies.—A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
How to Cure
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
ALL COMPLAINTS PECULIAR
I TO FEMALES.
_ Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
Herr Rassmussen,—l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl,—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Vic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiller.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, and
wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas. -
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is.; posted, Is. 6d.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remedy for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all
Affections of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 25.;
posted, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
Porous Plasters.— These Plaslers
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each ; posted,
Is. 6d.
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. 6d. per bottle.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, H.S.W;
Also at
150 Eourke Street, Mme,
91 Lambion Quay, Wellington, E,
Also at
160 Queen Street, Hue.
154 Eundle Street, Adelaide.
C H
Mf Alt?
i
c$
f*
54 7
PILL ARCADEJ
SYDNEY Iff
SYDNEY
Herr
PILL PALACE
LOCK
CUBE PIUS
_£££__
VITALITY
PIUS
fOR
blood
ALFAIIW
BLOOD
DISEASES
i I UERW
THE
NERVES
Plus
FOR THE
ALFALI NE PILLS
lr°? BLOOD&NERVE DISEASES [1
I!MS
FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
f|•HERR RASSMUSSEN•
BOTTLES at 1/ 3lf * 22 l fi A
f books
ALFALINt
HAIR
RESTGRIP
IMAUTIFIfP
ALFALINt
RHEUMATIC-
PULS
U.
ALFALINT
COMPtEXIOH
BEAUTINER
BOIIIES^#
ALFALINt
HVERIRIONfV
PIUS J
BOX ONLJHJOIfK
I ill,
<j<y </</<'/< '/<!/<'/ 1
1 / > l <V l/ t N,^ v,, > </ t v,/ > w 1 i ' V* i 1 ■ l l' t i M
1:431.
M**
ml)
HERBAL REMEGIEt' '■
: .(hh« Lsifji kklHt
IMflHw
&
4
kjoSkk sWp w V
DECERNEE
IWw
&
vBFSa
1 ill
9
The CELEBRATED DANISH HEE.BALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALPALIKTE R E M E D I E S!
Which have CURED over 100,090 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of Acaddmie Parisienne des Inventeurs, Prance ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U.J.F.C. •
Honourably mentioned m Centennial History of New South Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries ; Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney for his Herbal
Remedies ; Author of The Natural Doctor; formerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal,” Sydney : Discoverer of the “ Minto Process "
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Blood. Remedies —Cured 100,000.
SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
CSrTJ’-A.EI.A.axrTESDESXJ HEH BAT ■ CXJ3EIES
FOR THE
BLOOD ana KT E R V B S.
REGISTERED AND AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS:
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN.
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Head Depot:
South Australian Head Depot:
New Zealand Head Depot:
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
How td Cure
THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Look Fills;
, Guaranteed to Cure
BLO OP PISE ASES; S KIN
AFFECTIONS, J3ORES, BOILS
ANP PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SAI/1’
RHEUM, OLP BLOOP COJVf-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, ANS
OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYM PTOMS OF THE BLOOST'
Boxes—6a. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. (id.
Special »»owci-fiil Tour.sc. 43s."fi3^
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
health.—Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills*
Guaranteed to Cure
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS ANP LUMBAGO"
_ Boxes—3s. and 65., Posted.
23s. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Testimonial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herb Rassmussen.— Pear Sir, —1
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A,
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND COUGH,
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure ~’
ASTHMA, COUGHS anFCOLPS,'
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxes—Posted, 35., 65., and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 235.~ 6d., Posted"
Testimonial.
■ .The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. H. Kimm,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER & BEAUTIFIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
T e stim o xxiala.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautiiler
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.—J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of
Debility.— Thos. Mudiman, 515 George-st.,
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albury, 64 Wash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.— Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia. •
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son,
after many doctors had given him up—
John F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria,
Herr 3E^^SS33^EXJSS3ES]IXr’S
Chief Laboratory & Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in only onewhich
Dirbctors—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A
tar*
Chairman;
’DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER
provident
so c
E „. THOMAS UTTLEJOHN, E.q.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Rsq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; BOOT
ESTABLISHED 1849.
Annual Income : Two Million* sterling-
Accumulated Funds ; Over Eleven Millions sterling.
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
of over One Million sterling.
Head Office:
07 FITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
r ii
'i
33A.3W3E5Z
Warwick Farm, August 1, 1893.
5.000 at 10 5,000
RoaeUU Ausnat Handicap- «»““'• l g"‘ '*
5 00 0 m~ at 10 -JEI _ 5,000
REGISTER TO
UEOIEGI) ADAMS
Owner Tattersall’a Hotel A
Old Club Premises, Pitt-st..
Sydney, N.S.W. _
Paraguay Lane is understood to be very
ill just now, owing, it is alleged, to the worry and
disappointment induced by the badgering of the
authorities over the Royal Tar. Even the pros-
pect of becoming a kntg doesn t sustain him.
Bindley, publisher, who died in Brighton,
Eng., a few weeks ago, confessed, in Notes and
queries, that he invented the “Prophecies of
Mother Shipton.”
Amusements.
Theatre royal.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
LAST TWO NIGHTS 1 LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
The House on the Cliff or A Royal Pardon.
Saturday Next, July 15, Rider Haggard’s
“ JESS.”
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel.
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 25.; Stalls, Is. ;
FtaU,OM.,M. Boj m>iw FRE D . QPHTHER.
ENRY FARMER’S ARRANGEMENTS
for VIOLIN and PIANO.
“ Martha,” “ Robert le Diablo,” “ Crown Diamonds ”
“ Lucrezia Borgia,” “ William Tell,” “ Faust, Un
Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trovatore, Les Huguenots.
Of all Music-sellers, hr the Publishers, I* AX TON A CO.,
19 Oxford Street, LONDON, and 251 Swanston Street,
MELBOURNE,
gapr- 1000 SONGS, DUETS, WALTZES, etc., 3d. each.
Catalogues Post Free.
g I R GEORGE DIBBS
TESTIMONIAL FUND.
SUBSCRIPTIONS to the above will be received
by the COMMITTEE : Hons. W. J. Trickett, A.
J. Rilev, John Toohey, J. Watson, Ms.L.C.,I.
A Wright, J. Hayes, James P. Garvan, Ms.L.A.,
Messrs. A. W. Meeks, T. Littlejohn. J.Houn-
gan, J. M'Elhone, M. 0. Cowhshuw, F. B. Lark,
John Woods, W. Henderson, Captain Broom-
field O. C. Beale, J. Burns, L. Lloyd, P. Mao-
Mahon, R. Binnie, John Meeks.R. Pendergast,
Alfred Hancock; and at the TOWN HALL
DAILY.
W. P. MANNING
R. J. BLACK
Hony. Treasurers.
F. A. WRIGHT
A. J. RILEY
Hony. Secretaries.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
i«»»SaSSSP
BUTTER - SCOTCH
THE CELEBRATED CH.LOREN’S SWEET
JBk I
' Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
AYMANS
BALSAM
IS A HOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CUBES COUGH.
Sold ly all Chemists in Bottles Is. lid. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and Us 1
Prepared only by A. HAYHAN & CO.,
IS. Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung&Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
ú
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount topre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BEAHAM Si MUTCH,
75 Kino ST.. SYDNEY.
MACK
s
o
c
H
R
"llcquircs No AUDITION or PREPARATION a* it
CONTAINS : Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax. &e.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy I.iuen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty,
Bole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
All,ary, Sjilney, and Melbourne^
ù
ADAM BEDE’S
0033.5nia.1-fc2a--tii.oxxs.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CAUTION.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY
Address
■is
A.dLaxn Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
5 EACH.
u
5. EACH
Mot* 5 '
û
ú
ON TTTE
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE-
July 15, 1893.
First, 1500; Second, 500 ; Third, 250; S. (<L), 600 ; N.S.
(d 1 400 ; 20 at 20, 400 ; 50 at 10, 500 ; 100 at 5, 500; lia
Consolation Prizts at 2 each, 350.
Important Notice.— ln consequence of the new
Postal Act coming in force July Ist, we have been com-
pelled to change our address as below. Ri mitta >ces by
Cheque, P. 0.0., Postal Notes, Stamps, or Casa inpay-
ment for tickets as before.
ADDRESS-" GALA," c/o. H. Alexander, Box 171,
G.P.O. Brisbane, Q.
M.&J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Streel),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
S Y D E it.
ear Commissions Executed on following events >.-*
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5,
Y-E-0* Derby and Melbourne Gup,
200 TO 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
Kf” THREE CHANGES.
BMIWRi
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 63i
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor
CEO. W. ELLIS.
The OALIGEAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Si7en« and D«mWs.
1 All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
JTs peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
"'The Electric Telegraph Department of N.B. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Ageist for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters. riiwuminent
There are now 120 Cahsrraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in 'the public offices of Australia than machines of al
ot The Cahgmph wi'n manifold 20 copies at one opera,tion
bv interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
Uth Edison's Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
fo TheNew S^ciai r No. a 3 Caligraph has two Merchant-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six add
tional* keys which may be fitted with fractions or oth
characters to order. rwiereaeh
AGENTS; - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham 40a Lastlereag
street (two doors from Australia Hotel); ’.
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-strcet; E
WiggASon, Rundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & hons.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Millers had secret hopes of winning a third
Grand National Hurdle Race with Redleap until the big
horse took bad in his poor feet again. Pity that such a
brilliant performer should be an intermittent cripple.
Kedkap has started for six jumping races only in the last
iour years, winning four times out of the five when he was
backed.
» • •
William Cook, who used to run neck and neck
with young John Roberts for the world’s billiards cham-
pionship, in the “ spot-stroke ” period, is dead. Cook, an
amiable and well-mannered fellow, was a brilliant player
until drink began to weaken his nerve. With a constitu-
tion equal to Roberts’ he would probably have been
dividing honours with him to-day at the “spot-barred
game. As it was, he degenerated into a second-rater,
died before his time, and didn’t leave the wherewithal, we
imagine, to pay for his tombstone. Poor Bill Cook 1 He
teamed a Melbourne girl, who divorced him.
• # •
The “ record ” totaliaator dividend (.£ll2 —224
tier cent.) for Tasmania was recently paid to the lucky
investor Of a half-sovereign, on the Bellevue Racing
Club's ground at Hobart.
# # •
During last cricket season, two Vic. clubs
(Wesleyan) competing for a trophy, sang the doxology at
the close of the day’s play.
• • •
Whether Slavin was drunk or was drugged in
his fight with Hall matters not. The last nail has been
driven into the coffin of big-stake pugilism. Slavin has
done for himself now, and nobody in London has a good
word for him. Mitchell and his erstwhile pal, Hail, are
now at war.
• • •
M'Calmont won his Derby first try ; other, and
perhaps better, men have tried all their lives. But he has
three millions. Fate is a ghastly snob.
• # •
An ex-bank-clerk and footballer of Melbourne,
“retrenched ” by reconstructing employers, fell back on
the football club, and is now getting ±2 per week. The
sward is mightier than the pen.
# * *
Two S.A. members of the Australian Eleven
ire proving themselves nearly worthless. Reedman, the
Adelaide player, in place of Walter Giften, and little
Wales or Lewis in place of Jarvis, and what a difference it
would make I _
• • •
Some of the Sydney “ totes ” showed big divi-
dends last week. In one. King Olaf, who won the Tramway
Handicap, Moorefield, paid an alleged £2OO, but it would
take a barrowload of salt to swallow that with. However,
Neta, who ran second in the Welter, at Warwick Farm,
pud a genuine £3O for half-a-sov., the investors being
lour girls at a Sydney pub., who threw in half-a-crown
apiece. , , *
Of the three crack Australian scullers of their
day Elias Laycock is caretaker at the National Paik,
W. Beaoh has just purchased an estate at Lake Illawarra
(or £4400, and “ Ned ” Trickett now leads Barrister Field s
evangelistic choir in Moore-street (Sydney) daily at lunch
hour. * -
• * *
Of the many Australian athletes, boxer Larry
Foley and sculler Beaoh are the only two who have settled
down into “ men of substance,” and cut a steak out of the
country. It remains to be Seen how Peter Jackson will
fare. . m
• * *
For the G.N. Steeplechase, on Saturday next
fl6th). a good deal depends upon the weather. With no
Redleap in the field. Sit Wilfrid will be the giant of the
occasion, and the Miller stable, at lime of writing, fancies
the chance of this ancient performer. If the ram moder-
ates its ardour during the week, and nothing goes wrong
with the ’orse, Sir Wilfrid is expected to get just about
there at the finish, although he still jumps at an angle of
45 degrees, and is a heartbreaking animal to watch,
* • •
Grand ftat. Hurdle day at Flemington was a
tespectable ghost of its old self. Fair weather and a few
fine women smiled upon the show, and the two hurdle
races, anyway, fell to popular horses. Sydney people
backed Oxenham for the Maiden event, while most °* the
local cognoscenti had a 'ittle bit on Tim Swiveller for the
G N The race, although slow by reason of the heavy
going, was truly rim, no likely winners coming to grief
with the exception of Satyr and Fire King. The. N.S. W.
horse (ell for the second year in succession, and Hre King
merely staggered home with one, or more, of ids legs in a
seemingly hopeless state. A sound hunter, in Royal Oak,
won the Maiden Steeple from five blundering duffers, who
fortunately brought no harm to their jockeys. Both flat-
races produced the time-honoured "boil over, old
Pigeontoe being noteworthy among the beaten lot as one
that looks like winning any little race in moderate com-
pany when the ground is firmer than it was on Saturday.
• * *
The Australian Eleven hare an awkward knack
Of confounding those biassed admirers who declare them
to be “ stab.” or over-fed. or over-drunk, whenever they
lose matches. The young men have only to meet a second-
rate team to prove themselves quite fresh again. Last
week they were equal to two individual scores of a hun-
dred or more, and one of more than a couple of hundred.
Within the fortnight, every member of the Eleven did
something good enough to knock over the theory that he
was amiss. 8 Wherefore, excuses (or Our Boys, apart from
Turner’s intermittent sickness, had better cease. V hetfre
alt right when luck isn’t too bad, or the other side
a little too good. Their “ form ” has been consistent
enough up to now, allowing (or the fact that a
•logger like Lyons is a very uncertain quantity, same
as all other sloggers. They have upheld Australian
supremacy on “queer” wickets (witness their defeat of
the formidable Players’ Eleven) and will quite probably
beat All England on Monday next if it be a bowlers
match. It is hard to explain why Australians should
generally heat Britishers on the wicket they are less
accustomed to, but experience proves that they do On
the other hand, they are generally out-scored by the best
English batsmen in warm, dry weather. If they get
b'ullv beaten at Lords, and again taken down In either or
hothot the two following matches (with Middlesex and
Surrey), the true explanation of the calamity is more
likely to be a dry wicket than anything else. Tbe stale
excuse ” will not do - and if it did, it would be just as
much an excuse for the English pros, all of whom are
playing, week in and week out, the whole season through.
# • #
Since the unexpected but decisive defeat of the
Maoriland footballers in their return match with New
South Wales, strong efforts are being made to arrange for
a third match, after the campaign in Bananaland, and
before the Maorilanders return to their islands. The self-
exculpatory theory for their rattling defeat is that the
visitors had got out of form and stale in consequence of
having over-footbailed themselves.


Established 1876.
û
WRITE
D?
HAIR’S
I TREATISE
ON
ASTHMA,
u
ù
Rocke.
Aoenb:
AftEIBOMRME
Tompsirttfe.
SYDNEY: BllOttßfW
BRiSßAWE:Tirioltßron(°
ing ic(L
PETfmfelldil
RIDE:
ctoh'H?. SharlamTfrC
harland a, (?. ■£>*&,
2/6 '
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. AND S.
(Eegisteked bt the Medical Boaeoof N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
Tuegeet.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Db. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST,,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEASTS PATENT
invigorate
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON.” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They arc delightfully comfort*
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. KEti.Y L.8.C.r., Edin.. says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of tbo kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of tbo
figure without Uie iniurious effects of tlieord)*
«avy Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED,
Don't bo put o(f with old shapes) insist oil
having our now long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from D.npnrH' write Untcnteo, 15,
Olurumoiit, ll.ist Inu's, England.
Why Suffer One Moment
From Torturing Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
1
rcc
Vo/
C#)
vV.
-
m
rest and sleep, speedily heals the CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifier, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cure every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,** 64. pushes, 300 Diseases so Illustra-
tions, and 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resoi vest °
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticur a Soap 2 sc •
Cuticura Resolvent, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston USA
u
u
ù
J\ Perfect Food.
HORLIOK’S
MALTED
MILK.
u
&
&
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
[MALTED MILK is made from the
' Mi. richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
| IWALTED MILK is not to be cooked.
[ ifl no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
bv dissolving in water.
} IWALTED MILK is the best food for In
(111 fants. “ The composition of Malted
» Milk resembles that of human milk.’
( — Lancet, April 4,1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
1 Being most nutritious and easily
1 assimilated, it is constantly pres-
-1 cribed by the Medical Profession
• in England and America. “ Very
' palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Elliott Bros, Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO,, 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR an° SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald<
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Be w York.
û
Reuter’s Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
.Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, ns well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pillofthe U. S. Medical Profe S -
"on. The smallest and easiest to take, - Forty in a phial.
u
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
1
NS
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intr<
dilco the neW list of
u
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
ù
TXT'' THK f'nT.ONtr.a
W. 11. BSlOttr.SJ?, IS. *Se;?:orn,. £.er,C«n. Eng
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK 3POOIX
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
. To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
£49,460 worth for £l.
MONSTER FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS IN THE
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—los,ooo Shares at A'l.
Anyone Can Apply !!
No Liability !!!
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Committee ;
Hon. B. B. MORETON, Hon. JOHN DON-
ALDSON, J. J. KINGSBURY, Esq., M.A.,
M.L.A., JAMES HIPWOOD, Esq., J.P.,
AITCHESON OVEREND, Esq., C.E.
Solicitor Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
2103 PRIZES Valued as Under ;
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking
Chambers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
at cost .£30,000 ; rental value, .£l5OO a year.
Nos. 2to 2103.—Residences, Shops, &e., and
Picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
u
u
100 qf £25
125 of 20
1000 of 10
1000 of 5
Total, <£105,000. No deduction ! Clear Titles!
Apply to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen street, BRISBANE.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
Stamped Addressed Envelopes. Register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49 4SO worth.
Hti
The poor Barmaid having-
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Now ready, port free It Cd,
THE '
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To ho hiul ntilv of
Mdm. PANZA, ik.v aia
O.i’.u,, Sydney.
England in Egypt.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
From the dusty, jaded sunlight of the careless
Cairo streets,
Through the open bed-room window where the
deep blue held the palms,
There came a sound of music, shrilling cries, and
rattling beats,
That startled me from slumber with a shook of
sweet alarms.
For beneath this rainless heaven, with this music
in i iy ears,
I was born, and all my boyhood with its joys
was glorified,
And for me the ranging red-coats hold a passion
of bright tears,
And the glancing of the bayonets lights a hell
of savage pride.
So I leaped, and ran, and looked,
And I stood, and listened there,
Till I heard the fifes and drums,
Till I heard the fifes and drums,
Thrilling all the alien air !
And “England, England, England,’ 1 '
I heard the wild fifes cry,
“ We are here to rob for England,
And to throttle Liberty !”
And “England, England, England,”
I heard the fierce drums roar,
“ We are tools for pious swindlers,
And bullies evermore!”
And the silent Arabs crowded, half-defiant, half-
dismayed,
And the jaunty fifers fifing dung their challenge
to the breeze,
And the drummers knee’d their drums up as the
reckless drum-sticks played,
And the Tommies all came trooping, tripping,
slouching at their ease.
Ah, Christ, the love I bore them for their brave
hearts and strong hands—
Ah, Christ, the hate that smote me for their
stupid dull conceits
I know not which was greater, as I watched their
conquering bands
In the dusty jaded sunlight of the sullen Cairo
streets.
And my dream of love and hate
Surged and broke, and gathered there,
As I heard the fifes and drums,
As I heard the fifes and drums,
The fifes and drums of England
Thrilling all the alien air !
And “ Tommy, Tommy, Tommy,”
I heard the wild fifes cry,
“ Will you never know the England
For which men, not fools, must die ?”
And “Tommy, Tommy, Tommy,”
I heard the fierce drums roar,
“ Will you always be a cut-throat,
And a slave for evermore? ”
No, I shall never see it with these weary, death-
dim eyes,
The hour of Retribution, the hour of Fate’s
desire,
When before the outraged millions, as at last—at
last they rise,
The rogues and thieves of England are as
stubble to the fire !
When the gentlemen of England, eaten out with
lust and sin—
When the shop-keepers of England, sick with
godly greed as well,
Face the red-coats and the red-shirts, as the steel-
ring closes in
And hurls them, howling madly, down the
precipice of hell!
But O, I knew that hour,
Standing sick and dying there,
As I heard the fifes and drums,
As I heard the fifes and drums,
The fifes and drums of England
Thrilling all the alien air !
And “Tommy, Tommy, Tommy,”
I heard the wild fifes cry,
“ It is time to leave your fooling;
It is time to do or die ! ”
And “Johnnie, Johnnie, Johnnie,”
I heard the fierce drums roar,
“ It is time to break your fetters
And be free for evermore.”
A.F.
The wisdom of Saphir, the famous
Viennese journalist :
Who has money? The rich! That is a misfortune!
If only the poor people had money we should see what
poor devils those rich people are. It is no art to be rich
when you have much money, and it is no merit to be
poor when you have none.
One of the troubles of tramway-passengers
at New Brighton (M.L.) is a stout lady who is
understood to have a grievance against the local
Tramway Co. The stout lady is a person of pro-
perty and is alleged to have an unsatisfied claim
upon some land which is traversed by the line.
The company, so far, lias failed to arrange terms,
and apparently the lady’s legal position is so
strong that the management doesn’t care to take
violent measures against her. She is an uncertain
person ; sometimes she isn’t seen or heard of for
several weeks, and on other occasions she gets on
the line with her umbrella several times in one
day. On these occasions the car has to stop—
or else run straight over her. When it stops
she generally delivers an impassioned address
about the way the company treats a lone widow,
and shakes the brolly vigorously at the driver, and
asks him if he “calls himself a man ? ” Then the
passengers get down and argue with her. If they
do it diplomatically, she generally shifts after a
few minutes, but if they assume an aggressive
attitude she may remain as long as three-quarters
of an hour. When the tram gets in 30 or 40
minutes late, the driver simply reports that the
stout lady was on the line, and no further ques-
tions are asked. ■ When an outgoing driver meets
one coming in he asks anxiously if the stout lady
has been seen anywhere about, and if she has he
recognises that there is going to bo trouble. Ami,
s.. far. the stout lady seems to be incurable, ami mi
human precaution can guard against her.


AR
Soap .Makers
By Special Appointment
** TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince *• Wales
The Camp on the Big River.
( FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I avas trying to read by the flickering rays of an
evil smelling slush-lamp. Bray, my mate on the
out-station, and the cook, were swapping lies, and
the black-boy was curled up in a knot in his
blanket. One large but served us for all living
purposes, for it was long ago, during the earlier
settlement of the North Kennedy. My eyes were
getting heavy, and I closed my twice-read book
just as the cook finished a yarn of how he once
killed a black snake by squirting tobacco-juice,
down its throat when it opened its mouth to bite.
At that moment all the dogs outside awoke simul-
taneously and began to bark loudly. Bray opened
the door' and listened. “ Somebody coming from
the station,” lie said.
There was but one track leading to our hut and
that came from the head station. Bray stepped
outside, and I busied myself making my bunk
ready, for we expected somebody oyer with
tobacco. But the man who came in with Bray
\vas a stranger; a youngster with a smooth face,
who seemed dog-tired and just about to collapse.
“This poor beggar has been bushed for a couple
of days,” said Bray; “he blundered on to the
track and his horse followed it, luckily for him.
I’ll go and let his moke loose.”
The newcomer sat down on a block of wood
near the fire and stared round in a foolish, lacka-
daisical manner. There was some hot tea still in
the billy, and the cook poured him out a pannikin-
full The young fellow drank it and braced up a
little. He told us that he was looking for
work, but coming up from the crossing of
the Upper Bukeldoon he had got off the
track, although how he., crossed the river an( i
finally wandered on to onr track he could not
explain. Farther questioning elicited the fact
that he was a new-chum in the bush, and had
been lately down with fever. He did fair justice
to a good feed, and Bray, who was a most good-
natured fellow, gave him up his bunk for the
night. „ , . . .
It was Brays turn to fetch the horses next
mornin", and when I heard them coinin? into the
yard I'strolled up with my bridle. Bray was
leaning against the rails with his cabbage-tree hat
(they were cabbage-trees then) pushed back on bis
head, staring at a very tired and tucked-up-
looking horse, presumably the new arrival s.
“ This beats cock-fighting,” he remarked.
“What is it?”
“ That’s not the horse I put those hobbles on
last night”—and he extended his hand holding the
articles in question.
“Nonsense, why it was as dark as pitch when
you hobbled him.” „ , ..
“ I don’t care if it was as black as the Earl ot
Hell’s riding-boots ! I can feel, can’t I ? I’m not
altogether an infernal idiot! Run your hand
down his leg.”
I ran my hand down the fore-legs of the poor
old BCFOW.
“The horse I hobbled last night was as clean as
a whistle and as lively as a kitten,” went on Bray.
“ Now, could I make any mistake? ,
I admitted that lie was probably nerht. Here s
the man himself,” I said, as the youngster saun-
tered up to the yard.
“ This vour moke?” remarked Bray.
“I suppose so,” said the boy, with a feeble
smile • “ it looks like the one I rode.”
“ Jehosaphat! Don’t you know your own
horse?”
“Not very well. But I feel sure that s the one
—I think I know his tail.”
Bray had to plunge in amongst the horses to
hide Ids emotion. The idea of knowing a horse
by its tail was too much for him.
’ We told the young fellow he had better spell tor
a day or two, which he seemed very glad to do.
Bray was remarkably silent all that day out on
the run. Evidently the mystery of the horse was
troubling him.
“ Seems to me I’ve seen that young fellow
before,” he said, as we rode home.
I started, for that was .the very thing that was
worrying me. I had the same suspicion.
We both of us eyed our visitor curiously when
we returned, and he did not seem to like it. He
was a good-looking youth, with very bright, dark
eyes, and coloured up like a girl when he caught
us looking at him ; in fact, only that in the simple
bush dress his figure must have betrayed him, he
might have been taken for a girl masquerading.
“ By the'way, what’s your name, sonny? said
the cook, as he. laid the supper,
“ Harvey— Frank Harvey,” returned the boy,
with some slight hesitation. .
“ Well, Frank, draw up and back yoqr cart in, '
said the cook. Bray, who had been sitting on his
bunk, jumped off it with a sudden exclamation.
We all looked at him, but he came and sat down
at the table without another word. After the
meal was over, I went out for a smoke, and Bray
followed me. ....
“I’ve got it,” he said; that kid has got
Hawkins’ eyes,” Hawkins was the superinten-
dent. , _
“By Jingo, you’re right,’ I replied, that s
the likeness that puzzled us, but it doesn’t follow
lie's any relation.”
“ Of course not, but I’d like to know who he is.
I’m going to find where that horse went to.”
Despite this curious circumstance, I took rather
a fancy to Harvey. Ho was a quiet, reserved
youth, and very well-mannered and obliging.
The dirty old cook had conceived quite a fatherly
affection for him.
Bray was away all next day, and came back
lats iii the evening. “ I was right enough about
the horse, of course —there’s a fresh track going
fr in here across to the Big River. I he Big
River, so called, was a branch of the stream on
which the out-station was situated ; it junctioned
ab ut five miles below where we were; higher up
a r n -e separated the two branches.
“One track only? None of our horses are
away.” . ,
“No, and the horse has been ridden over.
We’ll follow it up to-morrow.” Just then I hap-
pened to turn round and saw young Harvey on the
vi rand ih close behind us.
Brfty and the cook got into an interminable
arn that night. Once I was nearly asleep when
the loud voice of the cook awoke me. “ By gum !
don’t I know that district ! That’s where Haw-
kins comes from. About the loveliest lot of
cattle-stealers there that ever lived. Smart men,
mind yon. Can't beat ’em. When they’ve got
nothing else to do they steal each other’s horses.
Ride anything with skin and hair on it.” I
looked over where Harvey was sleeping, and saw
that his bright blue eyes were wide open; then I
dozed off, wondering how it was that cooks and
hut-keepers always knew more about stock and
country than anybody else on a station.
Next morning, when I cane down to the hut
after yarding the horses, I found onr guest with
his bridle in his hand. .
“I think I have trespassed on your Kindness
Ion" enouerh,” lie said in his mild, half timorous
way “ I’ll make a start to-day.”
Of course, we told him that he was quite wel-
come to stay longer, but he took his saddle and
bridle saying he would catch his horse and then
come down to breakfast.
“ Don’t worry him,” said the cook, “ I expect
he’s a bit awkward at saddling up, and is afraid
of being laughed at.”
We sat down to breakfast, and were about half-
way through, when we were startled by loud
trampling and still louder profanity in the horse-
yard, which was close to the hut. We made one
break for the verandah.
“Jupiter l ” almost screamed Brav, “he’s got
the roan colt ” and he started to run to the
yalT ].
Seated like a centaur on the plunging, bucking
horse, and swearing like ten bullockies, was the
gentle, mild-mannered new-chum. With one wild
outburst of blasphemy, he sent the horses jostling
each other out of the yard and streaming over the
flat before Bray could get to the rails. Then he
turned and swept past the hut, the colt half
galloping half bucking. “So long, boys!” he
shouted, “you can keep the old screw”—and he
headed up the river. Bray came back and tore
down a rifle, but the rider was out of sight
before lie could get a cartridge in. Whilst still
uselessly staring in wonderment we heard the
crack of a whip. Some men were bringing our
horses back to the yard at a run.
“Just too late,” remarked Bray, and I guessed
at once that Master Harvey had caught sight of
them in the distance, and had therefore made his
hasty flight on the best horse in the yard, h
Hawkins, one of the station men, two strangers
(evidently policemen by their boots and oords,
although not otherwise in uniform) and a black
police-boy rode up after yarding the horses. Ine
super was evidently in a tearing rage, and bneffy
told us to change their saddles on to fresh horses
and catch our own, whilst they snatched a hasty
breakfast. Soon we were off on the track of the
roan colt and his rider, and whilst following the
trail got an explanation of the mystery. Suddenly
Hawkins pulled up and after a few words
with Brav the tracks were disregarded and
we all turned and rode fast towards the Big
River. We struck it early in the forenoon,
and about two o’clock came on to a camp
with a small mob of horses feeding about. The
two men in the camp were surprised, and hand-
cuffed by the policemen. Just as this business
was concluded, we heard a loud shout from the
summit of the range, at the back of the camp,
Harvey had evidently intended to lead us a dance
round on his tracks, and then cut across the range
which divided the two branches. Evidently he
was not aware that he had been anticipated. He
came racing down the range without a baulk—as
fine a bit of riding as I have ever seen—but, when
about half-way, he must have caught sight of the
extra men in camp, for he pulled up short. In an
instant, Hawkins had mounted and dashed up the
range, followed by Bray, myself, and one of the
troopers. The youngster had the whip hand, for
there was a steep gully between us. He waited,
as if in derision. Hawkins saw it, and, with a
curse pulled out and levelled a rifle he had
brought from the hut. Before he could fire, Bray
rode up and caught his arm. “For God’s sake,
don’t vou fire !” he cried. Hawkins stared at
him amazed, but the trooper had unslung his
carbine and pulled the trigger. The bullet
knocked up the dust in front of the roan coif. Th e
young fellow hesitated, waved his hat, and rode
down the gully towards us. He had given in.
I watched Hawkins’ face as the young rip rods
up, and ho recognised his brother. He set his
teeth and his dark eyes blazed again. The boy
looked at him, and the next moment , was nearly
knocked off his horse by a blow in the mouth.
“ You were bound to come to this, anyhow, you
young devil,” he said ; “ but take that for being a
cur and funking at a shot.”
Young Hawkins and the other two had stolen
ten valuable horses from stations on the Peak
Downs and got away with a They
had come up the big river, which was unoccupied
country seldom or never visited, in order to be
quiet until things had blown over. Hawkins,
junior, had come to our hut in order to watch for
a chance to steal some rations, which they
dared not buy openly. Unfortunately for
them, they made three stupid mistakes. First,
from the "head-station they stole a privately-
owned race-horse belonging to Hawkins. Next,
the youngster rode this horse to our hut. Thirdly,
one of his mates, to rectify this blunder, changed
the hobbles on to the old horse and took the other
away during the night. This roused Bray’s
suspicions, and finally led him to guess that some-
one must be camped on the big river.
Murderer Smedley, hanged at Sydney the
other day (it is now, alleged he was not married to
the slaughtered woman) told the gaol authorili s
and the doctors that he would not thank them for
saving him from the scaffold, and if they did he
would commit suicide first chance.
Tire stars in their courses seem to light
against “ Cold Pie ” Blake. When it was sought
to appoint him Governor of Bananaland, that
provinoe»absolutely declined to take him. Now
that the Colonial Office is feeling his way for him
in South Australia, that province doesn’t want a
Governor at all.
Floquet and Comte d’ Haussonville have
had the usual bloodless duel over Panama scandals.
When the famous Marquis de Ray’s colonising
expedition to New Ireland was hopelessly broken
up and the colonists living on board the Genii at
the Duke of York Island, they occasionally varied
the monotony of existence by a duel. One Lieut.
Surete called Monsieur lo Medicin Baudoin “a
quack” ; and a bloody encounter was arranged at
the little islet of Ultuan in the harbour. Harry
Robertson—a nephew of old Jack of N.S.W.,—
who was then book-keeper to Mrs. Forsyth, the
merchantess of those parts, was asked by one of
the gory-minded men to act as second. He said
he would if they fought in his room with trade
muskets loaded with buck-shot. His offer was
scornfully rejected. Then a trader who was sick
with fever was asked. He v anted sdol. to attend.
Then Schuler, the German supercargo, of the
Pacific steamer, was interviewed. His reply was
rude—he would come, but if neither of the com-
batants was hurt at the first fire, they
were to keep it up till one at least had some
holes in hjs vital.parts; and he also promised to
give a case or two of beer to the victor if a corpse
resulted. Finally, seeing that the English and
German residents wouldn’t help the show in any
way, they found French seconds. Three shots
were exchanged and some cocoannts got hurt.
Then Surete and Baudoin rushed at and wept over
each other, and all hands returned to the Genii,
where much beauty smiled on them (there were
some very French girls on board)* and everyone
got drunk.


Hotel.
«" IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(Vrom rm-Mtrect to
<'n.<ttlmagli<i)treci) l
tktwem King A Market Sit.
NVOVKY,
I
S®'- IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding- Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SS&NS jV|rtnagGi!,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS
rp
<o
3
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
ami nervous dis irders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick he id-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizr.'ness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, ooa-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
®n the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
ami all nervous and from-
blimr sensations, &o. Tim
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. E erg
offerer is earnes' ly invited to try one bos of these
Fills, sod they wit! be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
Fbr females of all apes these Pills are invaluable'
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECH AM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages ■to sound and robust
health. Tins has been proved bv thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits, which are ensured by
their use . .
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and alt disorder*
sf the liver, they act like “ MAOIC," and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
Jrgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes ified
continually by memhe s of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
A* a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections llnarseuMis, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Hkrciiam h Coiiou
Piu,s a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold \Vhole»ale and Retail, bv tho
Proprietor, Thomas Berouam, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealer*
everywhere.
Nvß.—Full direction* are given with each box.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, SrJiliHtiTM .TAD 1/GOK RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
p 8 R I CO RD’S
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedfiiti d success throughout (tie world.
Dr Records Essence of Life rest oven Health and
Strength, 'o the moot shattered and deWHat-d constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In eases of /.?<•'. or four quantities in one for .16s Freight
extra Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia- Perry dc Co., 73 Gertrude
Street Fitzrny. MELBOURNE
Agents for N.S. Wales—VV. H. Soul &Co., Pltt-st., Sydney.
tsr NOW n'BT.T-HED.
“ Tlie Xaflis\» of Six.”
Medical.
£
m-
ROSES
I_oTl°^
%
%
%
u
u
THIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
X ami SANDY BLIGHT, INK LAM ED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
K. A.. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1868. By Post Ss. 6d.
CS’" Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
mm i
mj
EUREKA
m
T?
ELECTRIC
BELT
/✓
\ v \
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR AM..
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM,
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Ehctric Magnetic Beit will cure
MHJI.ITY and WEAKNESS, Pains In the Back, Lum-
bago. Gid finess, Hhemnatisni, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt hjr
the wearer. It has great improv m nits over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 d.a,ys trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what e represent them to he. Those lulls are
made! >r the sp'cifio purpose of producing a c> niinuous,
rtiild, soothing current o' elect ricity through ail the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanent l ! cu el in three months.
It is more co ivenienl to w>ar than any other Belt A
It iok illustrated, containing full information and te«ll,
inonials from prominent peO| 1 ■ throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they mav obtain these belts
• iilvuit paying for them until t.ie.v have proved tlihtn
competent to cure any disease of the Nerves System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for |>ostage.
Address;-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney,
NOTICE.
To Newsagents, etc.
jßk. js jsc£ ji\.isr'jusk.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
ows
‘■EMBROCATIO
9
t/
i • ■
V- \SOLO O/]
<\£VERMWHERE«
VV
m
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING-
COCOA
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘Price Warung,’
From The B&luctw, are now pul dished and
may he had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Buu.ktin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Business Announcements.
SNO sJtfM
ù
whisky
%
‘■f
I
gss:
•-ifc.
Best ON Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt s Brewing & Wine !s Spirit Co., Eimited,
///
A
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sobkr Party ; “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! 1 drink nothing else! ’’
Coupon with Every Case.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
The original and-only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
i exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRAN6IPANNE
ess. BO’jqun 1
STEPHANOTIS
JOCKEY GtUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! — Only Pennine with shield-
shape nine and yellow label and usual
s Trade Mark -a “ White Hose"
fcs and address in lull.
'Men I have Smiled with."
w £ STA Yat Bruto n’a,
NHnainoD
W .A.GrGKA..
fllve 3E3. INTaugliton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Opposite PsrWnmpnt House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
CHANT) Ilo7^
***» nODRVJI.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking'
Treasury Gardens.
Hoard and Residents, f"3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast. 55.; l onhle dit to. 10». Special arrange-
ments (or large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
THE GROSYENOR HOTEL,
Sydney.
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Rooms from 3s. Double Rooms from 6s,
Inclusive Tariff 10» Bd., 12s. 6d. per dietn.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W, A BOULTON, Proprietor.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-strect, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 80s. per WEEK
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
"THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletln, M
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
It the only paper which has a consistent and dU
tinctive Australian National Policy .
The Bulletin favours—
■ A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
iiiducation.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one Mouse to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
insurance.*
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
slop of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
papfer which strives to exclude from its artisti-
oally-eondensed columns all matter which is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains*
ana has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once bo seen by oomparoig
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well established Aus-
tratian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nations
progress; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of hall the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the oLvms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, asrainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily papi r
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian Journals, is most frequently quoted-in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys tv popu-
larity unhampered hjr the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the busimian of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at onoe the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bush man must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact-
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed fcom
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and Vjest, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy > the- Boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL, NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
ShMkigs and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum,
Business communications to he addressed to
Walliam MACUioB, Manafpny Director, to whom
all remittances rrr payable. Editorial cammuni-
aliens to be. addressed, to J. F. AusUIBALD,


Box KKJi,
«.E
'.O.
Telepbonr 9JSf.
&
«
MANUFACTURERS OF
SUhjoT and Electro-platod G-oods
—AND—
nTTTT .TIT?.
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD
01xc3-w 3E£.oo3K»a.a s
KM 1*11! i; CU AMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
NOW PUBLISHED.
THE LAST OE SIX; M
Talcs of the Austral Tropics,
BY
ebuest paveuc,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address. Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO, (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL
Wynyard Square, SYDKfEY.
[Establishes over a Quarter ok a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SJT GATED. ACCOMMODATION DNBDRPASSED.
PACING THE RESERVE.
tar Terms—ioe. m. per Way. Iff alter Sidney date of Newcastle), 4 ‘ Prop. ’ ’
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
:
{.
Us
Si
V
o
o
V ° s
«
o
V
u
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 48 I’Ut-st, Sydney.
Free Freacriptiona
Are to be found in the and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent)
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
IKT ®TlC*E.—Advertisements for Current Week
1’ cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDA Y.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
■Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
True Tanner or Ore Concentrator,
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED>,
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
* wc-ipr-ir !■
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY op EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlx® “ Pioneer 99 Ore Treating: Works,
PYEMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
u
m
;
.
o\vf
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT!
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip—ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles man
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to.adorn and make home what a home should
be a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duff a or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life. N
We are now coming to business. lam POY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Pour Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY. BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Poy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is nut proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Poy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Poy is not a bad man.
OXPDED ST3U3BT, SYDNEY
sNkab HYDE PARK.).
MARK FOY’S.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma cA Honour and Gold Medal. Hisrhwit Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UITDKR COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s WhlsKy.
30 GOLD And PRIZE MEDALS AWAUDKD at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
' 0 -
Sydnay AgenUt ... ... CVRCIER. ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
“THE BULLETIN" SERIES. No. S.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
B
Short and Pithy Australian Tales by the Adven-
turous Queensland Explorer and well-known
Writer,
(:)
Preface Contributed by “ Rolf Boldubwooo.
