

So
A?
&
CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS *t 5 EACH.
METROPOLITAN STAKES SEPT. 19th
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER 14th
MELBOURNE CUP,. NOVEMBER 7th
MELBOURNE CUP. NOVEMBER (For Horses Only)
fy* Register Letters and Address to “GALA," c o H. Alexander,
20.000 @ 5 Each.
20.000 5 Each.
50.000 @ 5 Each.
20.000 @ 10 Each.
Box 171 Gr.P.O., Brisbane, Queensland.
R. G. WATKINS & 00.,
107 Itent Street, Sydney,
■ ’ . —FOR— ' '
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
tr
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVJ
iMETmliil
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
1 Guaranteed PURE COpOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
~x>
1
T:
4>
So
o
o
o
<RAC‘\Ai | oCK>
o
o
o
iS?
o
-4
V
A. Hervey, Agent, 28 Fill-*! . Sydney
tiroes 3E*r«>Eicsri^>tioja.as
Are to be found in the “Li "hi and Life,’
for the Speedy'Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A (,-'Ty of this book will be sent
i* Free, sealed, for Six Penny Sunups.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
r« hunter street, Sydney.
■VT OTICE. “Advertisements for Current Week
.1A cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
rv '
rvj. ]
r Ojg
-■ •
©X
rHi
roil®
r«£
0
-(JU.4 4.j.,
lull
:■
:"r;
w _
Tlie Oxford Hotel, King Street;, Sydney.
H. THORPE Proprietor.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
"Golden Star" Creamery, Head.
Colonial, English, St'/.., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUED KBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered hy the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD'DAILY to al)
parts of the Colony:—
2VCII*K, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
l«. I’tTEsto.v
Dt.fitly, l&OiJ. Manager.
MILK
CRE4II ..
ICE
ICIITEK
FISH
GAME
IMHLTKV
riMiti, .t,-
WALKER'S WBISKT. iUSOFf’S HE.
JOHN WALKER, 24 BOISTD STREET, SYD3XTBY.
J. SC G. HOWARD.
Sole Agents l*x New South Wales Meaaia. Clayton aixuttleworth.
HOWARD’S KV0DO8K1) GEAR,
Orient iteel Mower & Reaper.
ST HI I’PEKS, WINNOW ICRS, RA K S 3,
HAH V EHTKItS, I! K\ 1 *KKS.
mm
ms
.<■ ;*'Tcui y tow’ -?
IMriiOVKl.) PORTABLE KXHINK.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
m
IMPROVED I‘OHTABLE THRASHING MACHINE,
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engine*.
Horizontal Engine* of all classes ; Uudcrtypc Engine*; Boilers of all kinds.
Pdftahie Thnudiitig Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevator* ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam power Chaff-intllng and Bagging Maoiiine* ; f’ortuble Steam-power Corn Shelters.
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL KT( KTC.
LIXJTKIC LIGHTING RNGLNiS,
jr, & o.
WINDING EN WINES, TRACTION ENG INKS. or FuH Catalogues uf Engines, Agricultural linplemtntfc and H<irv«atiai{ Machinery on appHuabioa
280 J Pitt Street,
Howard,
-3*
Syaney,
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. 707. j
[Saturday, September 2, 1693.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tbe Briglatoxx of jKTew South 'Wales.
i. most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families,
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE,
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs.
A. And J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
m
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia— T. JT. MacWilliama, 297 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY
“ Leger” Tobacco. “ Leger” Tobacco.
AMOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OF THE
“LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O DIVIDED £5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER. 1893. Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893*
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS! DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING!
“ LEGER ” has caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreoiation of the startling success of the “ LEGER,” the manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O £5O £5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER” paper tags or labels
from the plugs during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS ...
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity,'SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS'
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS .. ... .. ...
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINF.AS
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS .. .. .. , ..
Competition closes December 17, 1893. Tickets must be sent in not later than December 21, 1893.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23, 1893. in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public may be present to see the contents counted.
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—" LEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
cur statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, hut of superior quality, to what you have beeti paying Is. 3d. and often
Is. 6d. for. The proof of the pudding is in the eating 1 v %
Ask for the “ Leger ” Tobacco—Price, Is. per Block.
“ Leger ” has cauglxt on I
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week’s-supply 25 per cent, cheaper.
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMABKET, SYDNEY.
“THE LAST OF SIX.”
Price - One Shilling*.
£l5 0 0
10 0 o
7 10 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
2 2 0
2 0 0
Medical.
The First Step
FOB
NERVOUS MEN
W APPLY FOR
Hr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Br. M. PERRY,
145 Elizabbth-St., SYDNEY.
m** Wm P 0
EPP S S
GRATEFUL —COMFORTING
COCOA
IW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised, world where
the healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised hv thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured onlyrit 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers shoxild look t o the*Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, they are
Stmrious
DOWS
EMBROCATION
t/
r^oLo
m
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., <fec. Wm, Johnstone
Ph.D., F. 0.5., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Business Announcements.
POWDER
£
T
m
She ; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ’
He : “No 1”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
-THE-
Bank of Mew Zealand.
Sydney Bra nch res :
64 PITT STREET, and 568 G EORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange. Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
‘Men I have Smiled with.”
w
E STAY at BrutoM-’s,
■* NHneTXIOD
B
OURKE. Every Comfort at RALPH’S
“ UNION.” Good Hall for Troupes.
K
BALL’S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms,
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney,
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
V
ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
Universally admired. Other Odours
■ sense > but Atkinson’s
White Bose ” is ever fresh and sweet.
ATKINSON’S
EAU BE COLOGNE
Renowned for a couple of centuries,
this Perfume has given rise to a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English— the finest.
Of all Dealers.
, & E. ATKINSON,
S 4, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION I— Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
. Trade Mark—a “ White Rose
tpv and address in full.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RBSTOkED
In Four Weeks by the use of
ds
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY. ,
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the humanframe.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry & Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fittroy, MELBO URNE.
AgenteforN.S. Wales—W. H. Soul & Co., Pitt-st., Sydney,
To N ewsagents, etc.
TA.SM^L|\riA.
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st„ Sydney.
Medical.
#
%
(ROSE’Si
■J&fM
S8K
rPHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
X and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OK SIGHT, &o. It will be found very bene-
ficial nnd cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1-858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
&
u
5?
EUREKA
m
ELECTRIC
BELTh'
SV
H?
H
S'
A NEVER FAILING- CERE EOR ALL.
Diseases oe the nervous system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 c3Lsa/ys trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what > e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address .-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0,, Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE,
Beecliam’s Pills
PATENT
i
PILLS
0!
$
&
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for Bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
'sleep, -frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
aufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
rills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
«
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
&s a few doses of them carry off ail ( humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEEOHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liverj they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders, upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of thehuinan frame. These are “ FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Gough Pills-
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial'
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ■* ill speedily remove.’that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest, Let any person give Bbischam’s CquaU
Pills a trial and x the most violent Cough will in »
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beechaui, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. lid. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N-.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


Medical.
R
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation, and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and thedast edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, ou receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourseit
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, 1 ale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, F ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders; Loss of Memory, Bad Taste m the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine-s during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Month during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
OPi E POUND
with first letter.' and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING ■ GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr, J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves df irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
persons to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been s(> widdy lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should- write to Dr. J. Vi mis for Advice
and Trektnjtent; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thub enable them to marry honourably.
Hours t'oasoiliilion :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—s)j3o a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday -$.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings; Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 pfm.s to 0 p.m,
It si' Address all Communications :
DrjJECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
I I.K.VSK qt'OTE rms I’APIiH WHEN WRITING,
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
<^s\
—-
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about, to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
PoSt,Be FEEE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a C andid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case' send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully -prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drug* under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
Ins successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
-'omhig tb Australia, and has permission from, at
least. 1.8 000 persons to show their written evidence
,f I,’is success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
; t4 CO liliKOß STRKI3T, SYDvMY.
I’e sure to mention
this paper when writing
COiNISUJ.TAT 10N TBEE-
Hotel.
m
v.t
1
fiffiKSSl
11111
Bin
“ The Sydney Coffee palace” Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domnin. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
T A It IFF,
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPAQIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Rangingtrom £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
Rooms. BATHS. &c.
DESCKimVB.
Position in the very centre
of the City. .
Overlook! nar Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
- —150 ft. long. -
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Tea Rooms.
rpHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one <f the best-appointed Ladies’Tea and Refreshment
roomsin the citv. It v ill also bea great boon to Business
Men in : he vicinit v, who prefer light refreshment,combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
Medical.
RUPTURE CURED!
\
Pr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag-
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture m all parts ot the
world and givingrehef to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
couldbehlledwithlettershkethese;
A Resident of London.
Mr, John King, of No. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden s Estate, b. G.,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write toyou about the Truss!
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. It fits so easy
that I don’t notice that I have got a
Truss on. I don’t worry now as 1 did
with the old steel trusses.! can jump
off and on ’busses with safety jean even dance ana no sign
of its return ; i t holds everything firm and sure.
From Belize* British Honduras.
Ms. J. Tomaseixi, of the Governrnent House.nnder date
of December9.lB92, writes: — On tnelitn or last
one of your trusses and i t has already nearly cured me of a
very bad rupture of about 26 years standing. I t
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse,“bio to do fn
done what doctors and trusses have of
26 years. may publish my letter for the good oi me
afiliotfld.” Lateat from New Zealand. .
TVIn T W.Narbey,of Akaroa, Canterbury,inaledterdated
Feb.il, i 81)3, says; “ I received the Truss i n good order and
rrlnHtnsjiviV fits me like a £I 0"l>t . I Clin rid© With GB.R6, lift, in met
do anytWngfand don’tfeel sore or chafed. No more steei
trusses forme while 1 can get one of yours.
tjfirCall orwrite to-day for our free "Hl n *\h* aSstraHan
1 ” and please mention this paper. Address the Australian
agents Messrs.W.H.Soul(fcOo.,lsH I’dtSt Sy.incy hlhott
Bros. Brisbane ; or, the Magnetic Elastic Tra' S Co. t
*so. 704 Sacramento St., can Francisco, Cal.., J. S. A
DeafncstT Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
mitister, London, S.W,
]XTo Cure, 3NT o y.
rXm
w.
rrlllS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
L cure all. NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to KOHLoi
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
von. If it docs not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what wc say, and do
precisely what we promise. . ... . ~
NOTICE.- Before purchasing, We preder that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fpost free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency.
Victoria Chambers, 03 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
53
YEARS DYEING
: FOR THE LADIES.
W. C- lEXjIDIR-ICXDOIE &c CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
|<) YORK ST It MET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Connlru Order* by pout .from nil the cotoiiif* tmmjMfl
(tttfHcleri In. ' • .
nALES () F Tll E SYS TE M
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OP SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Through Tares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land : . i
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, <£s2 10s. and =£s7 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d. ...
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
Tor time cards, railway maps, and guide books
shelving ‘ all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.,
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIESJIARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows; —
I Dates of Departure. •;
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : ±’6o to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.- ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etci, and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
CHOMARtI
a set ne sto ’ wtcMJjS
v.o.
Cromarty
Whisty
Cheehie.es Brothers
OI«COWIDHDO* AND
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA,
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
FOR A MOUSTACH Ell
: ijp- Tub Lightning Moustache Producer. IsS
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Caplllarlne— los. 6d., Post Free.
(HAIG A AITKKN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street. Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfort able ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works ease, is a nice, light looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used hy
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE,
OHO A oS‘i George SI reel, Sydney.
“ The Last of Six.”
FROM
Capillarine! f
jgp NOW PUBLISHED.


I
NEW NATIONAL HAND
Sewing Machines
BEST®" EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent, -
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat.
alogue witlx full
particulars.
TREADLE
AND
0
e
♦
►V AV
#
*
-I"" tf 5
<>
JS*’
J**
*
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
ds
SELF THREADING SHUTTLE
FOR THE
NEW HOME and NEW NATIONAL
SIMPLICITY ITSELF!
“TALES of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
SHAVING MACHINE.
These Machines or Razors, 8/6 each, post free. Please see that
the name “ W. Jno. Baker, Sydney,” is on each Box.
Illustrated Booklet, showing accompanying Machine fitted
up in handsome cases for presentation, forwarded post free on
application.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER,
3 HINTEK STKEET, SYDNEY.
mm
mm
Shaving
Machine .
Bs. 6d.
POST FREE throughout
the World.
NEWTON & LAMB,
IMPORTERS & MANUFACTURERS OF OFFICE FURNITURE.
LIBRARY & OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. HAT STANDS.
ENCLOSED WASHSTANDS. COPYING PRESSES, etc.
w
msss*
H
• v i: x -
<s
FALL FRONT PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAK,
WALNUT, ETC. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS & STOOLS.
The ** Commercial 99 sft, Doll Top Desk,
THE LARGEST AND MOST VARIED STOCK IN AUSTRALIA.
BOARD ROOMS & OFFICES FITTED UP. DESIGNS & ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
H. P. GREGORY & 00,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Engineß,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tr
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery yon may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
THE
* Plum’
*0
Plum
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a liell; set ready for use, and wo
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, lO.i. (VI. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather ease, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any k>/ the Australian colonics , Queensland and Tasmania , h. extra
Solo
A*cnt» :
CBAIG &l AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDQN DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET, two
doors from Pitt-street. —Single Tooth, 2/6 ;
precisely the same CELEBRATED GOLD
and PRIZE MEDAL TEETH, painlessly
lixed by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages :
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes: —“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, an-d content themselves
with a i easonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our Great WORK on
DENTISTRY, post free on application to
the LONDON DENTAL INSTITUTE,
98 KING ST., two doors from Pitt-st,
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ahd SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thiek and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Hew York.
fds
GISTERED).
H*-'
M
S3T The only
reliable Remedy for
GOUGHS, GOLDS.
BRONCHITIS
Ana
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George
Wholesale ft£ Eiliotl.lkathers, Limited
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Asrtsx Underclothing
FOR WINTER COMFORT,
A consignment of the Celebrated UnshrinkaMa Merino
■Singlets and Farits just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (* sleeves), 7s. 6d
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 78. 6«1.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrinkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. fid.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and Include in Postal Order or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
BRAHAM & MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
f
PUREST.
SAFEST.
BEST.
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PUREST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed.”— Ohhmist and Druggist (London). In five kinds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical),. Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
• BLONDE AUMJK
Depot™,
:• Ryland Road
'
.FOR ITCHING. ECZ EMA.
ROUGKNESS.& SKIN IRRITATION
m
Nm
wlli
o
mk
m
For Toilet, Nursery^?
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKXiY HEAT, &c.
In Three Sizes.
A SANITARY, SODUBDE ROSE-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes—in Pink, White and Cream Tints.
CAN
BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THB WORLD.
Of MIAO
B MOONTCASTIEfif S<?Hs
dIRECT IMPORTERS & MANOFACTURER3
of HATcS & Qa P 5
df
dsf
r
k
m
d
m
fsd
f
dsf
dsf
ds
fds
f
ds
fds
f
dsf
ds
fd
va»
<«r
rti
fd
f
8?
FDK (t)QK,SEY & (Vi [ELEBRATED IONDON HATS
When ordering number of hut will be sufficient


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission hy post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 13—Ke. 707'.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1898.
Price, 6 d.
fat
A GREAT FERTILIZER
THE HIRED MAN (to the Fat Man) : “Well, it mayn’t be exactly wiolets to you, sir, but it’s a powerful fertilizer.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for tha Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
AT 24 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ••• 0 I£6
Quarterly... 0 6 C
NOTICE.
Bn sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
bhillings sterling—with postage added where required ,
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, but is entirely
m the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
tube addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
•whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with .lu-s-
-tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 0000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin irill return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and slumps arc enclosed.
But we desire these sending MSI. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, SI Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal: —The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:-if. -4- Thompson and Co., ‘J Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
Tn consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Intel-provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with Ss. Sd,
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription he pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
♦
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
'dleZxtii.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1893.
The N.S.W. Democratic Programme.
Unless treachery or some of the innumer-
able accidents attendant on the system of
Party Government should intervene, New
South Wales will shortly hold its first
general election under the pure-manhood-
suflrage system, and in these circumstances
it is time for the Democratic Party to be
prepared with a comprehensive scheme where-
with to go before the country. Already the
leaders of the two old parties are stumping
the province on the congenial business of
mixing up the issues and demonstrating to
the bewildered electors that it is impossible
to have Protection without G. R. Dibbs, or
local option without the Single-tax, or the
Single-tax without Foreign-trade, or Foreign-
trade without G. H. Reid, and that every-
thing else is so utterly and hopelessly mixed
that unless the country gives a vigorous and
whole-souled support to E. W, O’Sullivan
all things, including Federation and W. P.
Crick, must fall together like a house of
cards. And because of all this confusion it
behoves the Democratic Party to make the
establishment of (lie Referendum the first,
and the abolition of Party Government the
second item upon its programme, and to
keep them there permanently. By doing
this they will draw a definite lino between
themselves and their opponents ; they will
become the Party of Order while the others
are the parties of Anarchy and Chaos. Every-
thing else—the fiscal question, the land-tax,
Federation, the abolition of the nominee
Council, the reform of the penal code, the
revenue shortage—everything, in fact, that
the leaders of the other two parties rave
about up and down (be country, should bo
subordinated to those two bedrock reforms.
All other things arc so much ancient fish
drawn across the scent, and arc merely in-
tended to divert attention from the one great
question— whether (lie people or a mere
handful of party tacticians are to rule in
New South Wales.
If the Referendum is established on such
a basis that any question can be referred to
the public vote on the requisition of a certain
proportion of the members of Assembl}',
or on the requisition of a certain proportion
of the electors entirely apart from the action
of the Assembly, the decision thus arrived at
to hold good for, say, five years, then the
nation can begin, for the first time, to decide
its own destiny. The fiscal question, over
which at least five sessions have been fooled
away without bringing the final decision any
nearer, can be decided in one day, and prac-
tically laid to rest for five years thereafter.
At present, no one really knows whether
New South Wales believes in Freetrado or in
Protection, despite the definite Protectionist
majority returned at last general election,
and a hundred similar elections would still
leave the question more or less in doubt.
The country has been convulsed for years
over this one problem, and yet despite all its
agitation, it has never got either Protection
or Freetrado, but only a miserable apology
for them both turn-about. And it may keep
on exchanging one revenue tariff for another
and perpetuating thisdismalchaosindefinitely,
unless it establishes a system by which it
can arrive at a decision itself, apart from
politicians and from all other extraneous
circumstances. Similarly, the Referendum
is the quickest and most efficient method—
if not the only possible method—by which a
Land-tax can be imposed, and the oppressive
land monopoly broken up. It would take
any number of years, up to 20 or more,
before a reform of such importance could be
secured by the present methods of legislation.
In fact, when all the difficulties are con-
sidered, 20 years seems an exceedingly
moderate estimate of the time required to
secure such a measure of land taxation as
would produce any results of value.
* # *
For, in the first place, the idea, after it
has been accepted by the majority of che
nation, has to run the gauntlet of a general
election—or a dozen general elections—at
which it is so much mixed up with other
urgent questions that there is no definite
expression of opinion about any of them.
New South Wales affirmed the principle of
Local Government for 25 years, and never
got it notwithstanding, and it returned
“Frcetrade” butter-and-bacon-duty politi-
cians to office for the best part of half a cen-
tury, and, of course, never got any Freetrado
all the time. Then, when a majority of poli-
ticians definitely pledged to support the land-
tax has been returned, (he measure may
still be talked out for successive sessions, or
it may be blocked by votes of no-confidence,
and changes of Government, and Parlia-
mentary dissolutions, or the Government
may flatly refuse to introduce it at all and
yet bo retained in office for other considera-
tions, and as the less of two evils. And
then, if the measui’e does at last make its
way through the Assembly, it may be rejected
over and over again by the irresponsible
nominees of the Council, and every time
it is rejected the whole weary process
has to be begun afresh from the beginning.
And meanwhile another election comes on,
and some new burning question is raised
which probably draw's off public attention,
so that the whole matter is shelved until a
fresh agitation brings it again to the front,
and everything is started anew from the
very beginning.
* • »
This is no exaggerated picture. For fully
five years Freetrade or Protection was the
one great question in New South Wales
politics, and it was written and talked and
wrangled about until at last the great mass
of the nation became sick even to death of
the very name of the fiscal problem. Yet it
is as far from being settled now as ever it
was; the country has had a revenue tariff
ever since it had any political system at all,
and it has got a revenue tariff still. The
next election will apparently be fought partly
on the land-tax issue, and the fiscal problem
will be allowed to take its chance through
pure weariness and public disgust. The
public had another spasm of mild ex-
citement over Federation, but it was also
talked to death before any possibility
of a decision was arrived at, and to-day
Federation is also a weariness, and no one
really cares whether it is alive or dead. And
unless the Referendum is adopted, so that
the country can come to a resolution on its
own account without waiting for the snail-
like ways of Party Government, the Land-
Tax may also be talked into oblivion, and
then superseded by some newer idea. The
path of polities is lined with great ideas
which have died of sheer weariness and
dismal reiteration.
# • *
The New South Wales Nominee Council
lias probably done as much as all other in-
stitutions put together to block reform and
make progress impossible. To reform or to
abolish the Council by the ordinary process
of legislation, considering that nothing can
be done without its own consent, would
probably take the best part of a generation
uf time and an illimitable amount of political
agitation. But, provided the nation desires
that the Council should be abolished or
reformed, the decision could be arrived
at by the Referendum in a single day,
and if the nation did nob so desire,
then the question would be set at rest
for a fixed period, and would disturb the
country no more. The same process of
reasoning applies to payment of members,
local option, federation, (ho abolition of
party government, and every other separate
item of the Democratic policy. Unless the
system of Government by Contradiction im-
proves—which it shows not the slightest sign
of doing, and unless the House of Liver
Disease dcvelopes some entirely new ten-
dency towards Liberalism —which is not by
any means apparent, the various reforms
which are already included in the Democra-
tic programme will occupy forty years or
more in their realisation, and before they ai’e
realised some of them will be out of
date, and an entirely new set will be
required to meet new circumstances. The
Referendum is the only means by which the
will of the people can be definitely ascer-
tained concerning them within any reason-
able space of time, and by which the public
will can be enforced with anything like
reasonable speed after it has been ascer-
tained. Moreover, it is the best guarantee
against Parliamentary corruption which has
yet been devised or which seems likely to be
devised. Recent experience in more than
one of the Australias lias shown that the
Legislature can be bought, provided there is
“consideration” enough to purchase a majority
of votes. If the swindle on hand is large
enough, and there is consequently enough
commission to go round, that is all that is
necessary. But there is no swindle lai’go
enough, and no syndicate rich enough, and
no commission sufficiently plentiful to buy
up a nation, neither can it be all made an
aggregate K.C.M.G., or presented with a
royal cigar ; and therefore the Referendum,
as a guarantee of political purity, is absolutely
unrivalled. And for these reasons it should
be made the first item in the Democratic
programme—in fact, it is a Democratic pro-
gramme in itself. For with it everything
else is possible, and without it everything is
chaos and a mere chapter of accidents, and
the reform which is secured to-day may be
lost to-morrow, as the manhood suffrage
principle was lost in Queensland at the in-
stance of the Land Grant Railway swindle
Parliament, and as it and the principle of
payment of members may both be lust next
year in New South Wales, if the prospective
railway and tramway syndicate finds it neces-
sary to buy up the Legislature for its own
purposes.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Unclean Saints.
That hysterical songstress, Madame Antoin-
ette Sterling, took her departure from New
South Wales a few days ago, after another
series of wildly explosive addresses, which she
has since continued at Melbourne, about “ social
impurity.” Social impurity is evidently the
lady’s strong point, and of late she has seldom
talked about anything else. Her popularity
has increased enormously since she took up the
Social Gimlet crusade. All the dirty saints
have rallied round her, and big audiences have
rolled up regularly to hear her wallow in
illegitimacy information, and go into hysterics
about the fallen leaves of humanity. At the same
time that section of the community which doesn’t
belong to the dirty saints is very weary and very
much disgusted, and when it reads the full
report of Madame Sterling’s speeches, to
mixed audiences, in the respectable daily paper,
it feels inclined to go and take a bath. How
much of the world’s immorality is provoked by
the itinerant preacher who gathers together a
vast crowd of people and—from a pure and
lofty motive—proceeds to supply all manner of
unwashed information which many of the
audience might otherwise never have obtained ?
Every such preacher is an indecent publi-
cation with a halo on it, and that class
which dares not read Zola, for fear of being
found out, goes to hear and slobber over the
mouldy variety of evangelist as the best avail-
able substitute. The he saint who lectures
“ to men only ” generally gathers an immense
audience, which comes simply in the hope of
hearing something too nasty for printed publi-
cation. The she-saint who lectures “to women
only ” does the same for the same reason. The
difference between the small and comparatively
indifferent audienee which assembles to listen
to a lecture on intemperance, and the large and
w'ildly-enthusiastic one which attends a lecture
on social purity is entirely owing to the
joyous hope that the latter will be more
or less beastly. The difference between the
sale of a teetotal paper—which is almost
always a poor, mean, washy, impoverished thing
ever flickering, on the verge of extinction—and
a half-dirty, half-holy piece of Steadism arises
from the same cause. The manner in which
every unclean-minded individual in England
rushed for the Pall Mall Gazette in Stead’s
palmy days to gloat unctuously over the
“ Maiden Tribute ” is another bright example
of the blessings of the social purity crusade.
The popularity of that crusade arises out of the
fact that it thoroughly combines Zolaism and
respectability. Therefore, The Bulletin is
glad that Madame Sterling is gone and
devoutly sorry that she threatens to come back.
Pedagogues and Retrenchment.
Dear Bulletin, The present Queensland
Government’s scheme of retrenchment deals
cruelly with State-school teachers—the higher
the classification, the more deeply pierces the
knife. Of all State servants, the teachers .have
been and arc the hardest-worked. Very few of
the larger schools are sufficiently officered ;
every one of them has to work shorthanded
sometimes. The average is one temper to about
50 pupils—rather a contrast to the highly-subsi-
dised Gram mar Schools, with their three and four
masters and mistresses to each 50 boys or girls,
(But the Grammar Schools are the cloisters of the
moneycratic broods.) In addition to his ordi-
nary,'regular teaching, there is hardly a State-
school headmaster who has not also to give
additional tuition either to pupil-teachers or to
scholarship pupils. Further, ho has after-time
duties appertaining to school-work that he
must perform, or the regular work would be at
a standstill. Eight hours’ form the fixed day
for labourers. Where is the State-school master
who does not regularly work his 10, H or 12
hours per day ? No other Government servants
arc so doggedly watched. If a schoolmaster
fails to keep his school “ up to concert pitch ”
of efficiency, he suffers. Hitherto, however,
perquisites and extra emoluments-—for the pre-
paration of successful pupil-teachers - and
capitation fees, have been an incentive to
zeal. All these have now been taken away,
in addition to the reductions made in salaries.
The head-master of a first-class school loses not
only 10 per cent, of his salary, but his pupil-
teacher extras ; while the new law' decreases
his classification, by forbidding the attendance
of children under six years of age. Some are
thus deprived of one-third- of their income;
while 4 per cent, of the balance still goes to the
Superannuation Fund. In many cases, the
junior receiving £l4O a year —the reductions
only affect salaries above £ls0 —is better off
than his chief who nominally receives £2OO.
Married and familied teachers, after years of
service, are, at a step, reduced to the positions
which they held when they were tempted, by
hope of a “ career,” to marry. Bome teachers’
incomes are suddenly reduced by as much as
£6O or £BO a year! This, when the cost
of living in Queensland is more than ever it
was before. Many a highly intellectual man,
lured (I feel inclined to say, fraudulently duped)
into the Education Department, finds, now that
lie is too old to start afresh in another pro-
fession, that his “ career ” has been ended for
him.—Yours, Dominie,
Teetotalism and the Single Tax.
“Local Optionist” writes as follow's from
Albury (NAS. W.)
Dear Bulletin, —From jour remarks in tins week's
paper in reference to Local Option sis not voting for
Single-taxers who desire abolition of Custom House taxa-
tion, thus making alcoholic drink low in price, I infer that
in j - our opinion all men are hi rn drunkard; to a greater
or less degree, and reducing drink to a penny, in place of
01., would involve the community in a continuous wild
bacchanalian orgie. Now I think it would have the oppo-
s t ,• effect. Drinking, on the whole, is more a habit than
anything else, a mark cf gold-fellowship, hut when a
shilling would pay for the whole crowd, or a bottle of fizz
could ho paid for with 2s. 0 1., it would he “so deuced
common, don't you know,’’ that it would he largely given
up-certainly among those whose expenditure on high-
priced drinks swells the revenue. Again, it would be too
cheap to adulterate, and would do a lot of stood that wry.
To the above The Bulletin replies : (1) Tire
writer shouldn’t “infer” unless he is sure, in
the first place, that Providence has supplied
him with the necessary machinery for drawing
an inference. The Bulletin didn’t state or
imply that all men were born drunkards to a
greater or less degree, or any other degree.
But it is open to conviction on the point,
and if “Local Optionist ” thinks that they
are, or that they are not, this paper won’t
contradict him either way. (2) If reducing
the price of drink by abolishing the customs
duties on alcohol—as they must be abolished
under the .Single-tax programme —won’t in-
crease drinking, then by the same logic raising
the price of drink won’t diminish it, and people
would consume as much if the price were 10s. a
glass as they would if it were twopence. Also,
if the price were £BO a glass the result would
still be the same. This may be true, but it
doesn’t look like it. If the Single-taxers reduce
the price of liquor to one-third, then the bush-
man who starts periodically to drink his cheque
at a back-blocks shanty would—unless he were
badly swindled—get three times as much fusel-
oil as he used to do before he woke up, but
the chance of his waking up and finding
any of the cheque left doesn’t look any
better. The moderate drinker probably wouldn't
drink much more at the reduced price, but the
hopeless “case,” who simply drinks as kmg as
his money lasts, certainly would. (3) The fact
that alcohol is mainly a habit is really evidence
in support of The Bulletin’s contention. Tea
is also a habit, but when tea was 30s. per lb,
very few people could afford to have that habit.
Now the habit has become cheap and everybody
has it. The same applies to tobacco. The
object of the teetotallers is to make drink
so expensive that even one nobbier will
cost a heavy fine or a spell in gaol.
And the object of the Single-taxers is to
establish a system under which drink will be so
cheap that anybody can make a beast of himself
for sixpence, or a complete hog for a shilling.
And unless the Single-taxers are prepared to
make the importation or manufacture or use of
drink a felony—which, at present, is no part of
their acknowledged programme—the combina-
tion of Single-taxers and teetotallers is an un-
natural alliance in which one party—evidently
the teetotal one—is going to be badly “ left.”
♦
The Melbourne Women's Hospital.
Editor Bulletin, —A few words re a feature
of the Melb. Women’s Hospital about which
even the Argus’ special enthusiast would find
it difficult to ecstasise. I refer to that branch
of the “noble institution” devoted to the atten-
tion of out-door patients. The Women’s
Hospital is managed by a ladies’ committee,
eminent personages who mostly dabble in
charities and “patronise” the poor and lowly
for considerations received in the shape of
humble deference from the patients and
saponaceous adulation from the “respectable”
press. The high-toned committee receives
applicants for benefits in a delightfully cosy
room, luxuriously furnished and well warmed ;
the suffering women await the pleasure of the
managing ladies in a breezy apartment without,
sealed on hard forms, where they can enjoy the
pangs of their complaints to the best advantage,
ami rehearse an air of deep humility combined
with frantic gratitude. The committee ladies
apparently resent an appearance of neatness and
cleanliness in an applicant, and scent imposition
in moderately good wearing apparel. They
arc particularly close in their scrutiny as to
character, so much so that I am led to believe
they must regard it as a piece of unpardonable
effrontery, not to say sinful rebellion against the
will of (Jon, in a person whose character
is not immaculate lo desire to he relieved
of an aflliction in the shape of disease.
With true tabhy-cat instincts, the ladies
expect to have the respectability of the
would be palicrl guaranteed in writing by a


parson. Of the manner of usage extended to
indoor patients, I know nothing, but for the
visiting sufferer there is scant accommodation
and no consideration whatever. In saying this
I am not reflecting on the doctors, of whom I
have nothing but kindly and grateful remem-
brances, but on the female management of the
institution. The room in which the women are
expected to wait their turn to go before the
medical men is a bleak, comfortless, fireless
barn. The dressing-room is a wretched corner
cut off from this, and partitioned half-way to
the roof only. Here I have seen suffer-
ing women and pale, tortured girls clad
only in the miserable, thin, dressing-
gowns provided by the hospital authori-
ties, shivering wretchedly with the cold,
contracting more evil to themselves than was
likely to be balanced by the treatment pre-
sently accorded them. Patients will sometimes
sit for nearly an hour thus lightly clad, and a
request to be allowed to assume more cloth-
ing meets with the sharp response: “You
must be ready for the doctor the moment
your turn comes.” Recent energetic appeals
to the public pocket resulted in a
magnificent donation to the Women’s
Hospital, a donation which leaves the institu-
tion clear of debt and endowed with a very
substantial credit at its bankers’, but it is
apparently too much to expect the ladies of the
committee to provide a fire in the patients’
waiting-room even now that that luxury can
be afforded without sacrificing their own cheer-
ful blaze, or to ask them to supply furniture
there that, at least, will not aggravate the
tortures of the afflicted women. The elegant,
cushioned seats in the committee’s room would
do admirably, and the ladies might show their
*clf-abnegation by sitting on wooden seats,
the true, sympathetic spirit of charity is
absent from such of the committee’s work as is
apparent to the out-door patient, and it is a
Eainful ordeal to any woman of some sensi-
ility to have to avail herself of the hospital’s
benefits. I pray to be spared for the future
from the society lady with a charity hobby, and
wondering when the public will rescue its
institutions from her management.—l remain,
Ax Out-Patient.
“Fatjstine,” of Sydney Telegraph, repro-
duces some thrilling facts about the York-
Teck wedding from a letter by a Sydney lady
now in London. A sample :
We started in the evening to see the illuminations. In
Piccadilly the crowd was awful. . . . They say that
loyally to the Throne is dying out. No one would think
so who had been in the midst of the excitement of the
last few days, l.i fact, 1 don't believe it 1 It is nothing
but talk.
Is a big crowd a proof of loyalty 1 Probably
the biggest crowd that ever gathered in Aus-
tralia, except at Melbourne Cup time,
was the one which met about the Sydney
wharves to heave the last consignment of
British convicts into the sea, if they couldn’t
be otherwise disposed of. About the biggest
one which over gathered in England was the
one which came to see Charles I. beheaded.
The next largest was possibly the one
which attended to view the flogging of
Titus Oates. These crowds were all more
or less enthusiastic, but they weren’t loyal.
The gathering at the York-Teok marriage was
large enough, but it is nothing compared to
what it would have been if the occasion had
been the beheading of Batten hero on Tower
Hill. A crowd will collect to see almost any-
thing—a circus, an execution, a white elephant,
iv.fire, a coronation, a royal funeral, Moody and
Sankey, a procession ; it doesn’t matter which
or what. If the thing is new or horrible the
crowd will be a large one; if it isn’t new and
is only partially horrible the crowd will be
small. But there isn’t necessarily any loyalty
in the case ; it is only a craving after a cheap
show. If anybody had got up an equally
gorgeous pageant in some part of London with
free beer or a prize-fight as an additional
attraction, the royal marriage would have been
pretty well deserted.
*
Premier Dibbs, of New South Wales, being
possessed by the National Ass, has de*
linilely declared that ho is against a land-
tax, whether largo or small, and that he is
going to light for the land monopoly to the
bitter end. Dibbs has already declared himself
absolutely hostile to payment of members,
which is in itself sufficient reason why the
nation should abjure him and all his works.
And now his avowed resolution to shore up the
great land monopoly is a sufficient reason why
the nation should abjure him all over again.
Amid all the uncertainties of the approaching
election the one absolute certainty is that the
Protectionist party and the nation at large
must get rid of Dinns for ever. He was raised
to his present high office because he professed
to bo a Protectionist, a Republican, au advanced
Democrat, and asupporterof the land-tax and of
the principle of payment of members —both of
which lie strongly advocated in the past. Now
he is not a Protectionist, but the advocate of a
mongrel revenue tariff, lie is not a Republican
nor any variety of a Democrat, lie is avowedly
the leading opponent of t he laud lax, and he seeks
to abolish the Democratic principle of paid par-
liamentary representatives f onscqucntly, his
usefulness has entirely departed, ami there is
no visible reason for his further continuance.
The most lamentable feature about the case is
that, under the system of Party Govern-
ment, Dibbs, as the leader of a party, is
authorised to tack on his anti-land-tax and
anti-payment of members apostacies to the Pro-
tectionist policy, and to demand that the
elector who wants Protection shall be required
to want Dibbs, and the land monopoly, and the
resurrection of the old system of government
by self-paid political boodlers along with it.
And if the country doesn’t want to abjure Pro-
tection then there seems to be no escape from
Dibbs and the other two evils above-mentioned
—unless that ex-Republican happens to be
removed, by the hand of Providence or other-
wise, in the interim.
There seems every prospect that, at long last,
there will be established in Sydney a Demo-
cratic daily paper, with a wide platform,
pledged unmistakably to the cause of the
workers, and owned by the workers themselves.
At a meeting of the Australian Workman
Newspaper Company shareholders, the purchase
of the printing plant of the defunct Echo for
£l5OO was approved. The chairman announced
that 5000 shares in the Daily Post had already
been allotted. No copy of the new daily is to
be issued until 20,000 new shares have been
subscribed, and the plant and machinery fully
paid for. That number of shares will yield a
working-fund of £lOO a week for a year.
Another resolution enabling the directors to take
steps to increase the capital to 80,000 shares of
10s. each, was adopted, and the whole project
seems actively moving. Wise rules have been
framed to prevent capitalism from ever acquir-
ing a gagging power in the proprietary ; theprin-
ciple of one-shareholder-one-vote will be en-
forced, and the Democratic policy of the paper
cannot be changed except by an extraordinary
general meeting of shareholders,- at which the
quorum must be 100, while the voting must re-
present three-fourths of the membership. The
editor is to be annually elected, but is remov-
able, or may be suspended, by a special meeting
of directors, he, on his part, having the right to
appeal to an extraordinary general meeting of
shareholders. This is the first fair and square
chance N.S. Wales workers have had of owning
and running a daily newspaper that can, if pro-
perly administered, be the eyes, the voice, the
sword, and the shield of the Democracy.
Heaven grant that the shareholders may have
the sense to employ (as do the representatives
of capitalism in the press) first-class journalists
and not harass them with blatherskite. Like-
wise, that they will keep off the board, and off
the literary staff, everyone who hankers to get
into Parliament.
+ .—.
Panton, P.M., giving irrelevant reasons for
evading his duty, was, after all, a little less
funny than the Vic. Solicitor-General who
reprimanded him. The unguarded Wynne fell
into Panton’s error of talking outside of his
own business. Addressing the magistrate, per
medium of the Crown Law secretary, he said—
“ Furthermore, the Solicitor - General is of
opinion that it is not for a magistrate, when
applied to under the circumstances I have
stated, to consider the question of expenses of
the prosecution.” Wynne should have come to
a full stop there, but with consummate “cheek”
or faith in the country’s capacity for being
hoodwinked, lie added, “ that being soldi/ within
the purview of the law officers of the Crown.”
What, in the name of impudence, had the
Crown or its law officers to do with tins appli-
cation for a summons against the Mercantile
Bank directors ? The informant was a private
citizen, backed up by private money, and quite
well aware that the Mercantile case might
stink till the crack of doom for all the Crown
cared. Panton, when he professed to be
thinking about more expense, might have
surmised that the country would be
called upon to pay for more prosecution.
But Wynne, when he dictated his letter, was
aware that the Crown had no further “purview”
in the matter. Patterson has “washed his
hands” (with O’Logiilen soap) of all Mercan-
tile Bank responsibility, and for his colleague to
assume any sort of interest in the new proceed-
ings was an unwarrantable joke. Moreover, it
tended to make Panton’s action look more
defensible than it really was. Victoria needs
to be distinctly and vehemently reminded that
the Crown had nothing to do with the case, and
never intended to have anything to do with the
case, as instituted by private parties. Premier
Patterson talks about the Mercantile prosecu-
tion being carried on “as long as the Crown
will find money for the lawyers.” And he
talks artful blather. The lawyers are getting
their money from men who are heartily sick of
the Crown, and it is solely within their purview
that the question of expenses will come. Mr.
Wynne may criticise Panton, P.M., as much
as he chooses, and make it his business to see
that justice is kept sweet and clean, but
neither he, nor Patterson, nor Bryan O’Looii-
lkn is entitled to say another word about the
cost of proceedings in which they ought to be
ashamed to have no concern.
«. •
Bryan O’Logiilen, being pressed in the Vic-
torian Assembly to explain why magistrate
Panton should not bo superannuated without
further ado, made a characteristic reply. ‘ 1 The
difference between Mr. Panton’s salary and
pension would be only £212 per annum, and-as
the position must be filled, the saving would
be very little,” Whereupon Murray, M.L.A.,
suggested —“If there were no saving at all,
why not call upon him to retire?” O’Logulen
ignored this remark, and the subject dropped.
It would appear, then, that the question of
magistrate Panton’s fitness for his position has
no “interest for the Victorian Attorney-General.
Ho neither condemns nor defends Panton's
official eccentricities. His pitiful excuse for
taking no notice of a scandalous incident, is the
small amount of money that could be “re-
trenched” on the strength of it. - As a matter
of fact, Panton’s retirement on a pension would
involve the fresh cost of a succeeding magis-
trate’s salary,loss the £212 per annum aforesaid.
Bryan was absurd in his figures as well as
appalling in his theory. ictoria positively
naves a few pounds a year b\ keeping tm■
sexagenarian I’avton m the billet he docsn I
adorn. The Bulletin advises Victoria to pay
no more magistrates after Pantok shall have
seen fit to retire. There are plenty of wealthy
men in that promising country willing to
provide magistrates, or judges, at their own
private expense.
♦ —-—
Again is the whistle of the lash heard through
Australia. The advent to power of Fat Man
always means more flogging. The man who
attacks his fellow with any weapon, however
murderously, is not so intrinsically devilish as
he who applies the physical torture and moral
degradation of the scourge. Society recognises
this everywhere. No criminal is regarded with
more abhorrence than the hangman. The man
who has been flogged is thenceforward .avoided
as one hopelessly degraded below association
with men of unscarred backs, but his (logger is
spat upon as a leprous dog in human
form. Not a magistrate would dare to
carry out with his own hands the
punishment which he delegates to the
foulest ruffian among criminals—the scourger
who, for purposes of gain, does what the law
which employs him forbids others to do for any
purpose. The lash is no instrument to place in
the hands of men who “ instantly” take steps
to apply it. Neither should it be placed in any
other hands, and the' representatives of demo-
cracy have no more sacred trust than that of
now preventing any extension of its use, and
utterly abolishing "it at the earliest possible
moment. It is a horrible weapon of Class
Torture, which has never yet in this country
been applied to the backs which most deserved
it, and is never likely to be. The cat is for the
back of the man in workman’s garb, and for
him alone.
-♦
Fat Man has openly disclosed his plan of
campaign. At the half-yearly meeting of
Silverton Tramway Co., held at Melbourne last
Friday, Chairman M'Bryde announced that
the directors had, “somewhat reluctantly, as
the men were not overpaid,” reduced all wages
10 per cent., and, to provide for debentures
falling due in ’95, had also reduced the usual
dividend. Then :
Mr. James Grice objected to the reduction of dividend,
more especially as the men had only been reduced 10 per
cent. Men could be got. for one-half the usual rate, and
there should have been a more substantial reduction in
the wages of employes.
The Chairman thought the wage low enough.
Mr. Grice considered that employers had been com-
pelled to work for the employes for years. Now was the
time to turn the tables on them. For his own part he
MIGHT MENTION THAT MEN IN HIS OWN EMPLOY WHO FORMERLY
OOT 30S. PER WEEK WERE NOW GLAD TO TAKE £1 PER WEEK.
The meeting closed with a vete of thanks to the chair-
man.
“ Now was the time! ”
♦
It is refreshing to meet a forced confession in
the recognised official columns of an uncom-
promising “Freetrade”— (i.e. , revenue-tariff) -
journal. Writes the “ Chicago Fair ” (U.&.A.)
correspondent of S.M. Herald :
At Philadelphia, in 1876, it was almost amusing to
notice the care with which competing American manu-
facturers—for example, in some sorts of cutlery—tried to
duplicate the work of their European rivals. But in the
17 years that have since elapsed, the American makers,
having had absolute control of the market, have com-
peted among themselves to see what kind of goods hest
suited the needs of customers, and the result is a curiously
marked and characteristically American divergence from
English and German types.
After illustrating the advantages gained in
ordinary carpenters’ tools, by success in adapt-
ing each “to the particular needs of the
locality,” the writer enthusiastically observes—
Even among American-made machinery the same ten-
dency seems to be well established, for, in spite of higher-
priced labour, dearer coal, and other disadvantages, the
western agricultural-machine makers hold their own
against the competition of the east. Tariffs are very
potent, hut, even if the tariff were absolutely abolished,
ft is hard to believe that the European makers could, for
many years to come, export railroad rolling-stock that
would meet American needs. A stroll through the
Transportation Building is enough to convince the spec-
tator, not only of the vastness of the difference between
foreign and native work, but also, if he_ is an American,
of the enormous advantages, for American uses, of the
home over the foreign article.
Herein is conveyed a telling object-lesson to
Australia. A protective policy against foreign
inutilities is what is needed to stimulate Aus-
tralian genius; also liberal and encouraging
patent laws.
The Bulletin takes pleasure in printing letters
from people who can write like this :
Dear Bulletin,— A word to you about New Australia.
Although I am not going there, I think you are inconsis-
tent. Have you not constantly educated Australians to
aspire to Bellamyiam ? Then why such a tirade against
these people trying to accomplish in their lifetime their
ideal? You prophesy failure. Easy to do that of any
undertaking. Man has relentless Nature to fight from the
cradle to the grave; the storm, the drought, the pestilence,
follow him everywhere. How many ship loads of emigrants
have come to Australia and failed? How many to Balla-
rat, to Bendigo, to the Palmer? Ilow many pioneers to
Queensland with their flocks? How few have succeeded,
and what sort of a life have they led ? Blow hot or blow
cold, the New r Australian has his women-folk and friends
with him, and hopes to lead a life without preying on
his fellow man—to score one point against Nature
by suppressing the Saurian instincts within himself.
As for Paraguay being unsuitable, it gives what no Aus-
tralian Government gives—free land, near railway or
water carriage, and it is nearer Kurope and the large
markets of the world than is this country. I refer you to
your article re Gov. Duff and settling people on the land,
to show what a poor chance anyone has of getting suitable
land. It certainly applies to Queensland ; the mountain-
top or a desert is all they would get here.
Other things being equal, what is a voyage to Paraguay ?
Is it anything like an overland trip to Kimberley, or, in
search of work, humping hluey from the Murray to the
Gulf? Is it as had as a trip to the Batavia, making a
pack-horse of vourself as hundreds did lately, and hack,
without earning a penny or sighting a colour of gold?
It is evident the Paraguayan Govt, do want free people
to cultivate the land ; it is also as evident the Queensland
and N.S.W. Govts, do not—they only want slaves.
As for “ who will do the washing up?” it is a frivolous
question. No work in such a community would be
degrading. If one were washing up he would not be
digging post-holes, or milking cows, or hoeing potatoes.
The only objection I can see lo the Now Australians going
is that they might have stayed and tried to make Old
Australia a new Australia. But 1 look at past events and
the despicable spirit of the average Australian—it would
appear he is destined to become a slave or a mean white.
The Paraguayan may perhaps be a bit of a savage and
of not much account, according lo our notions ; but, say,
did vou ever hear of his marching his women through the
streets to attack blacklegs and police, or go with begging-
petitions praying for justice from the unjust while his
good right hand was free?—Old Australia.
Prostituted.
She walked the crowded streets at noon,
A stately figure, gaily clad
In fashionable frock and shoon,
And on her classic head she had
A hat with costly feathers dight,
Her jewels shimmered in the light.
Her cheeks were rosy-red, and fair
Her brow. The paint was not yet dry.
Her wondrous wealth of golden hair
Was gleaming with the gamboge dye,
And as she passed in pride secure
She spat upon the suppliant poor.
The fair round men with power and gold
Leered grossly in her face the while ;
She answered them with looks as bold,
And with a harlot’s ready smile.
She is their creature, yet, in fear,
The people call her J ustice hero.
Mclb.
E.B.
To Readers of “The Bulletin."
Attention is directed to Tub Bulletin s
Wt rd Compclion {No. •'•) announced on
f.ivrr of this , . , " l , ' 1
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
add) ess must, in every case, appear on MS.
“R.S.” : Australia’s champions have not “all”
flown with “ New Australia this country can do with-
out champions who skedaddle from a struggle.....
“ W.B.M. : You dance a Highland medley from Ossianio
tragedy to the choky gurgle that rlnmes “rage ” with
“carnage,” “h'ade” with “slaycd” (Great Syntax I),
and that lets its hero-suicide “fall with a thud!”
“ G. H. M‘K." (Ad,): Your doggerel too crippled to stand
in Tub Bulletin “of 15th ult.”— as you request
“ Broken Hill ” ; Tub Bulletin's figures were for half-
year ending May, ’93. Yours are for half-year ending
May,’92, and have no earthly hearing on the case....
“ Iconoclast” (Ararat): You depict the Deity as being in
an awful state of ignorance...“L.C.” (Adelaide): Well,
whom would you punish? The man? Or the girls? Grail to-
gether?. .. “Namoi” (Narrahri): A blank and dreary screed
“ Ben Sun” (Mologa); Your poem is a solemn recita-
tive, like a man talking through his nose in his sleep
.... “ Fossicker ” (Braidvvood): The same old Bill tell-
ing his narrative to Tom and Jim by the camp-fire...
“ P.N.” (Brunswick): The Bulletin published that same
scheme many months ago “Uhrich” (Alexandria):
We can’t advise without more particulars. How much
rent has the Building Society collected on your property ?
Are the rents sufficient to pay' the instalments due on the
loan? What did you owe when the property was taken
over?.... “ Old Hiram ” (Leichhardt): Thanks,... “ J.K.”
(Warramine); The idea of letting everybody take up
Crown lands anywhere on the residence system, free of
rent for three years, and afterwards at a rental of five per
cent, on the capital value, has just one serious deficiency—
it doesn't touch in any way on the disastrous fact that all
the good land within easy reach is held by the fatted
speculator, and the proposed settler must either go into
the far wilderness or else take some barren patch which
hasn’t been regarded as worth grabbing. ..“Wihan”
(Brisbane, Q.): (1) The “Slip” is a yarn built of clay
freckled with pun-pehbles. (2) The “Sermon” unin-
teresting in matter, and mediocre in style.. .“The
Pauper”: “Settled on the Land”—n commonplace
suicide .. “E.A.M.”; Your argument condensed : Hynry
Lucy, ttie London “ chronicler” for S.M. Herald is a
snob who loves V) advertise to the world the fact that lie
breathes the musk-odors of the aristocracy ; his rehash of
the stale Bmke-Cavendish murders is as wantonly un-
called for as it a Sydney “chronicler” resurrected the
bygone Nicholls-Lester atrocities as a type of present
Australian times... “ Ishmael ” : Will probably use....
“W.F.N.”: Stale allusions to the “Fall of Troy” and
Jove and Juno are unconvincing ; besides, your attempted
stateliness dwindles at times to domestic commonplaces...
“Con Moore”: Why, cert’nly; since “the Melbourne
Irish swashhuckelers” didn’t “have the manhod ” to
congratulate you for your song, we print one verse of it—
“ Thare were O'Conell, Sheields, Moore and Grattan,
Those names will never he forgoton
By every true son of Erin’s shore ;
All true Irish men,
Join in this my song and sing
Home lule for Ireland ever more.”
Also, “ by request,” your “ Farewell too Stinking Mel-
bourne ” :
“ Scotland, Land of Cheefs and Song,
England the Rose,
Young Victoria, Land of Pious Frawds,
God in heven knows.
Marvilous Melbourne, a poor man's Hell,
A rich man’s heven,
You rotton Irish swashhuckelers, fare the well.”
... “Bagman”; Thanks. Too indefinite for publica-
tion, however “H.V.”: Too h0t.... “A.M.”: No
mend er can do his duty to the people if he has to scratch
for a living while he should be attending to his Parlia-
mentary work... “Yankee”: Dress-circle “Alien”:
Good sentiment in rocky rhyme....“ Pen ” : Then, the
late Sydney Echo did not coin the phrase “ all right-
thinking personsit only stole it from Thackeray.
The Echo would have said “purses” instead of
“persons.” “Waihoa”: “Carbine” came too
late, but we don’t remember “Lament.” “11
Penaeroso”: Too improbable. Too obviously a story
“Amos”: Should M‘Gooey be elected he will he
the king-parrot of N.S.W. Assembly. ~“Bon”:*The
thing that best and soonest enables a woman to become a
wife is the possession of cold cash “W.E.0.”: True;
no man can actively participate in the designs and
achievements of any secret society , and also work duti-
fully for the Democracy “Hauroto”: (1) Thanks.
(2) We are prepared to accept ex-champion Ned Trickett
as an authority on the sliding-seat or on whisky and soda,
hut we decline to regard him as a guide to Heaven ...
“ R. de S.” r Because a few ex-journalists become master-
litterateurs, it doesn’t follow that Robert Louis Steven-
son speaks nonsense when he styles Journalism “the
school of cheap finish.” Take the average of all the press
boobies you know.,.. “Mul.” : Excellently written, but
we delete portions casting odium on the parson. Surely
no parson would deliberately allow a man to die of thirst
rather than give him a lift in his buggy. Until such a
thin" really happens it needn’t be described—even in a
story.. ..“One and All” (Cobar, N.S.W.): The Bulletin
has been established primarily to provide its-proprietors
and staff with provender every day, and (in order that
they may he able to properly digest same) to permit them
to say just what they please 52 times every year....
“ O’Wisha ” (Red Bank Plains, Q.): Four lines of your
tender-toed tum-tiddy;
From over the mountains a westerly wind
Is bringing me pure oxygen,
I sigh for some salmon that’s lately.been tinned,
Or even the thigh of a hen.
Great Lucullus 1..,.“ J. Achin ” (Cowra, N.S.W.); Sal
volatile, or suicide, should cure you ; nothing can cure
your verse “M.U.” (Rockhampton, Q.): Noted
“A. J. Chesney”: If you are in earn st about a big
reform, it is useless to write about it only once. You
must write about it ten thousand times in ten thousand
different ways... “G.J.J.”: It is perhaps best for the
new Democratic paper to have a colourless name ; though
personally, we’d glory in seeing some strong organisation
set up the Morning Republic, and, by sheer force of
outspoken financial and political criticism, shove it,
despite its name, down the throats of rieht-thinking
people... .“Ponte”; A story bursting with dramatic
Improbabilities “ Junee Junction”: Profmity is in-
excusable in a correspondent who isn’t “gr at” enough
to sign his own name “A.W.C.”: Thanks “VV.G.”
(Lake’s Creek, Q.): Your “Ode” on the York-Teck
marriage is insanity in its most deplorable form. Rant
t, '“ Royalty 1 What blessings shower upon the name 1
Again England's name is blazoned
Forth, to lands beyond the sea
Where wild gulls weep ”
They do, they do.
•• And may their lives be happy, pure
As maiden’s kisses.”
A lot, you know about it. Why—but, holla !
The worms in Clarence’s scooped sockets hiss,
Like serpents, at such mention of a kiss.
The Jew, in secret, nibbles at his pork,
But May hues publicly her brother, York.
You couldn’t tail to find a mate for Took
While mawkish matrons till the wedding cheque.
J.G.W.” (Zcehati, Tas.): No use raging agai a
department collectively. From what office to what o'Hoc?
All round, the Single-taxors nre sincere,
and really believe their nostrum lobe “for every
human trouble.” Tho worst knock yet given th«
Single tax cause in N.S.W. is Mr. Frank Colton's
iicn*/.ied Parliamentary advocacy of the ('<>lo
Valley water power syndicate's grab, which I ;m
nr-pir- U di-ti list alike among li hauls and h


FROSSARD'S SWISS.
A Good. and Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
fds
Manufactured, by
J. FROSSARD & CO.,
PAYERNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you loss, and you know you,got the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
R4G Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
August 30, 1893.
My Dear Moorablnda
It is never quite safe for vice-regalities to accept
valuable gifts from any sort of public person,
unless they want to have the whole affair savagely
discussed in public at a later date. Look at the
fuss over the Loch diamonds—and now I hear
that the horrid Labour-party is going to play up
over the two-hundred-guinea piano which was
bought at Paling’s (out of State Treasury money,
it is said) in the Caringtons’ time for use
at Govmentouse, and which was sent up with a
vague and flattering letter from the then Grand
Mokanna, which Lady Carington construed into
an offer of the instrument as a personal gift—and
she accepted it as such.
Consequently, when the Caringtons left for
brighter spheres the piano went too, leaving a
great blank in the official furniture, and a very
wiry instrument to provide melody for succeeding
Governors’ wives and other piano-playing belong-
ings. However, the gentleman who gave away
the official piano in a moment of unguarded corres-
pondence, and is, therefore, responsible for the
jingling music from which Govmentouse suffers at
present, will have ample opportunity to explain
himself when Parliament meets.
What a place Sydney is for “ Nurses’ Homes !'”
They are simply everywhere, although you must
not think that the hordes of square-rigged damsels
who rush about with their cloaks and veils
straight out behind, horse-tail fashion, are all
members of the barley-water brigade. There are
“deaconesses,” and “sisters,” and corn-cure
hawkers, and even Totties loose among us in- the
effective dress of Sister Dora.
All these Nurses’ and other kinds of Homes only
show what a longing the average woman who is
compelled to work has for that sort of shelter.
Men who work don’t need a nominal hearthstone
to start from—any sort of boarding-house satisfies
them —but women seem unable to revolve on any-
thing but a domestic axis, even if it’s a, “ Home” in,
name only, and presided over by a wire drawn
spinster with rooted notions as to when the, gas
should go out.
Which reminds me of a notable illustration of
the eternal fitness of things. At Darlinghurst,
the other day, I encountered a doctor’s brass-plate
next door to a nurses’ home; next door again, an
undertaker’s shop. One, two, three—biff ! The
whole duty of doctors in three chapters of bricks
and mortar !
The latest Sydney society engagement impli-
cates a wealthy and well-known bachelor, an
Australian Club man who has long triumphantly
evaded the matrimonial bird-lime, and the
genuinely popular matron of a fashionable doctor’s
private hospital.
The latest fashionable dissipation for feminine
Sydney “ society ” will be poker-work—which con-
sists of more or less artistic searings on a wooden
surface done with a red-hot pencil kept up to con-
cert-pitch by, a machine, like a magnified scent-
spray, worked by fire—just about the most un-
comfortable pastime that ever got a footing in
Australia at the beginning of summer. But it’s
going to be fashionable because Lady Duff spends
a lot of her leisure in pokt r-work—though one
would think Lady D. would like a change in her
untrammelled moments—there is so much “poker ”
in the vice-regal official lexicon !
The dog and bird show came off at Sydney
Exhibition Building for four days, last week. I
am credibly informed that Lady Duff opened it,
but I went on the first day and mjssed the cere-
monies, which culminated in a basket of flowers
presented to Lady ; Duff by Miss Hordern. I
couldn’t help noticing, in the dog division, that
very rudimentary arrangements were made for the
staging of the dogs— not by the management,
which provided the time-honoured packing-cases
with one side knocked out—but by the owners.
The scented and truffle-fed darling of older
civilizations, which entertains its friends at after-
noon tea, hasn’t caught on in Australia—perhaps
because there are so many babies out here. One
blue-ribboned tyke, like a combed-out door-mat,
was certainly accorded a carpeted cage, as if be
were a four logged canary, but most of the dogs—
even a curly poodle—were reposing on chaff-bags.
Tin pannikins and a handful of straw are evidently
style enough for Toby on this side of the world ;
he has to earn his ribbons for himself.
The display of pigeons was simply gorgeous. I
do hope that some of the recently-appointed Js.P.,
who mayn’t yet have quite got into the way of
wearing a white waistcoat, went and sat, at the
toes of the first prize white fan tail pouter, for it
had got the “ representative ” pose to perfection.
The canaries seemed tame, and t 'ose in the
o.iyenne-fed class looked us if they had teen badly
cnrrie 1, the red was so streaky. By the way, if
the prize cat got loose in the night and one
of t ie.se pepper-primed warblers, what a surprise
she’d meet!
After all the private theatricals, fancy fairs apd
amateur concerts, not to speak of house-to-house
canvas ing and society enthusiasm, Sydney
“Be Araut." What docs it mean
Messrs. Tnnes & Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Head brand of Wines, informs us that it is old
Saxon, and means “be true,” As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines which
arc sold at all grocers from Is. per bottle upwards.
Their invalid Port, at 3s. Gd. is a wonderful wine,
full of health-giving properties.*
Women’s College is a damp squib. It was simply
an ill-digested society fad like a lot of other things,
but it is a fad that has left a tangible foot-mark, in
the shape of a red brick building in course of
erection to the tune of ten thousand odd pounds.
I don't think a fashionable frenzy ought ever to
include a large red edifice in its complete schemes
for the hod-carriers remain to-be paid when the
frenzy has hacfTts nose put out of joint by some-
thing else, and the enthusiasts are left footing
grimy bills for “ slack lime and sundries ” when
they were horribly bored by the whole thing ages
ago".
The failure of the Women’s College to do more
than pay the rent of its temporary premises
shows how little the local “society” girl (the
college was meant to be very, very high-toned
indeed) worries about trie loftier paths of learning.
It was claimed for the idea at first that feminine
society was absolutely spoiling for a chance to get
a length or so ahead of Shakespeare and the
musical glasses, and that it wouldn’t bo done if
the she-student was boarded out promiscuously—
- she must eat, drink, and sleep in the odour of
wisdom as the he-students do. So they achieved
a government grant of live thousand and begged
another live imported a dreadfully learned
.Englishwoman (lor whose salary the Government
is responsible), took a house, and left the rest to
the seekers after higher education. Seven students
resulted !
But the fact of the matter is that the really
intellectual Women are like the sheep in the
rhyme—if you leave them alone they’ll all come
home and bring their degrees behind them. The
girl who wants to go into brain-training will go
if she has to board fifteen miles away from the
intellectual training - track, and the girl who
doesn’t will not bother her frequently pretty head
about ologies and isms even if you lodge her like a
Princess, and bring her afternoon-tea when she’s
“ kept in.’ Even society enthusiasm cannot force
the local damsels into turning deep blue simply
because a house has been erected to facilitate the
process.
Nor can yon blame the damsels—they have never
done anything to warrant such a step. But you
can heap a little mental objurgation upon the
people who looked upon a nation of lawn-tennis
players and concluded that extended facilities for
getting at the differential calculus was really what
they were asking for. And the result will be more
cobbled fancy-work, over-painted amateurs and
raspy vocalists staged in aid of the Women’s
College, which is still a long, long way off aiding
itself and thereby proving its claim upon the
“public pocket”—a term I heard somebody
using, the other day, as calmly as if he had a
hand in it—the pocket, I mean.
By the way, is it because of the withdrawal
of a certain amount of yearly State aid from
Sydney University that the Senate announces its
intention of dealing out only bronze medals to
most of the successful examinees in future?
There was no National Anathema performed on
Governor Duff’s entry to the N.S.W. Horticul-
tural Society’s show at Sydney Town-hall last
week—a departure for which most people felt
truly thankful. Lady Duff wore a black dress
and mantle, and a small black bonnet with an
edge of pink heather and a feather in it, and
carried a topsy-turvey bouquet of daffodils.
Miss Duff wore a quaker-grey serge trimmed
with dark-grey velvet, and a black hat, but
none of the dresses quite cut the flowers out.
Mrs. F. B. Lark sported a very good-looking
black velvet cloak, trimmed with feathers, and a
becoming Frenchy bonnet of mauve straw ; Mrs.
Louis llaigh, a black corded silk gown with violet
intervals; Mrs. Burdekin was in shot green and
strawberry silk, with a Figaro jacket of straw-
berry velvet and a floral bonnet of mignonette.
But I really couldn't tolerate a woman in a bright
purple coal-scuttle bonnet and a purple veil, and
a somewhat pretty girl in grey sported wide white
hat and billowing feather which were altogether
too fetching for exhibition anywhere outside a
cigar-advt. Also, I was rather entertained by a
gardening enthusiast, who went about with a
whole bough of mauve orchids in his mouth. He
looked like the modern aspect of the dove with the
olive-branch.
Florists’ windows are so. well-dressed nowadays
that shows need to be exceedingly clever to
specially interest you. The prize floral basket of
pink and cream roses, ferns and forget-me-nots
(arranged by Miss L. Bosher) was really artistic,
and I liked the yellow-and white decorations on B
table—the menu stands (one lady critic objected
to so many “ palettes ’’ being on the table !), all
delicately ornamented with orchids and ferns, were
very taking. A feature of the show was the
native flora all heavily laden with botanical Latin
(which seems to consist of addipg a vowel to some-
body’s surname and stringing on a fulsome adjec-
tive) although some of our ragged blossoms were
simply marked “ Smith,” wliich is just as easy a
rhyme for the spring poet as “ wattle,” anyhow.
But what are the odds that one of our birch-
broomy native products isn’t ticketed “ Lady
I?uff ” at next show ?
The very latest in drawing-room decoration is
bo arrange wild flowers in preserving-jars, wliich
is polite English for pickle-bottles. If it isn’t an
effective fashion (our flowers are about as gay by
candle-light as bundles of chips) it has at least
the attraction of economy, and if I told you just
where it was first introduced you would wink the
wink of the incredulous.
The accidental death (by drowning) of Mr.
James Bettington, of Brindley Park, Merriwa,
N.S.W., is, a very sad circumstance. Mr. Bet-
tington had been married but, seven weeks —to a
daughter of the Rev. Dr. Harris, of King’s School;
Parramatta.
The benefit concert, tendered to Mr. Charles
Huenerbein was a success of numbers— both as re-
gards programme and audience. Lady Duff, in
black with iris-coloured silk puffs, brought her two
daughters and Mr. Galton, and was presented
with committee flowers; and a large and bare-
backed audience pervaded the reserved places. A
committee of. ladies and gentlemen, headed by
Kowalski, managed the concert. Mixed com-
mittees are becoming as numerous now as though
the equality of the sexes had been fairly estab-
lished since Adam and Eve. No social enterprise
of any tonnage is thought likely to succeed now-
adays without six of one and half-a-dozen of the
other on the board of management.
It may be because women are such cheapeners !
A man who had dealings with a mixed committee
told me that women iiad a salutary effect on the
expenses—they got so much for nothing, he said.
As a matter of fact, if there is any begging to be
done it’s the best plan to leave it to the women—
or the clergy.
The programme was cleverly arranged. Mis 8
Maud Eitz-Stubbs, Miss Lilian Tree, Misse 8
Hasler, Gertrude Gray, MM. Weigand, Pons*
sard, Straus, Riccardi, Hallewell, Hazon, and
three bands—two of brass—were among those who
helped Mr, Hnenerbein on the occasion. A
Qottschalk Tarantelle for eight hands, played
by Madame Kellerrnann, Kowalski, Huenerbein,
and E. M‘Quade, got the first “live” encore.
Deslouis refused a warm recall for his expressive
singing of “Le Nom de Marie”; Miss Nellie
Young's sweet soprano was well heard in “ Come
to Me,” only she spoils the effect of her warbling
by moving from side to side like a weathercock in
a choppy breeze. A restless singer is as irritating
to an audience as the vocalist who comes on with
a wooden face and stands stolidly, like a well-
trained servant announcing that dinner's served.
Kin one Sydney divorce-case last week the hus-
band was petitioner against a young wife of 25,
who had forsaken him ixr favour of a Lothario of
(iO ! Henceforth I withhold sympathy from the
girl who lets somebody old enough to be her
grandpa lead her to'the altar; she might hate
eloped with him if he hadn’t.
Miss Maud Eitz-Stubbs’ “Heather Waltz,” the
most successful piece of dance-music yet published
by a Sydney composer, has, I hear, run through
three editions in as many weeks, and has been
scored for the military band, by which it will be
played daily at Randwick races.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS TOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's. “Struck Oil.”
Theatre Royal. .. “The World Against Him,”
Lyceum “ The Mountebanks.”
Criterion “ Richelieu.”
School of Arts , ~ Steens.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s.. . “On Change.”
Theatre Royal. “ Home Rule.”
Opera House Variety Co.
Fillis's Circus.
After a series of depressing experiences
with “Life for Life ” at Sydney Her Majesty’s,
Mr. Darrell gathered up his four-post drama and
walked, and on Saturday Mr. Eiguold. turned the
big theatre into a comedy house, and staged
“Confusion” with unexpected success. That
well-known comedy, in which a dog is mistaken
for an infant, and a doctor for a policeman, and
the policeman for a lunatic, and a detective for
some new variety of a madman, and a happy,
though somewhat doddering, old gentleman is
taken for a conspirator, and a bride for a midnight
assassin, was well staged and well played, and
was received on Saturday with enthusiasm.
Miss Kate Bishop, who is happily recovered
from her late accident, loomed up as Miss
Trickleby, and was the only actress The Bulle-
tin remembers whose nose got plainly and undis-
guised lv inflamed after a violent fit of tears. Miss
Watts-Phillips’ Maria was good, both as a slavey
and an afflicted mother y and so was Stirling
Whyte as the amiable but doddering old gent
whose vacant smile extended back to his ears.
Mr. Rignold bad a tendency to get heavy in spots,
and to recall memories of the disinherited son wlm
was always going to London to seek his fortune
and having bales dropped on him in the docks,
but, considering the heaviness of the average
British property-owner, he filled the bill admir-
ably. The balance of the company was generally
satisfactory. “Struck Oil” will be staged on
Saturday with Maggie Moore as the evergreen
daughter of old Stofel.
* * *
The Steens opened with a strong American
accent at Sydney School of Arts last Saturday,
and the accent is in good condition to this day..
The show consists principally of one thin gentle-
man and one very stout lady—somehow, ladies in
this line of business are almost always of copious
circumference. The gentleman, when he does
anything, says, “ I done it,” and states that the
proceedings are absolutely genumc, and the lady
sits blindfolded in a chair, and reveals strange
secrets in a cold, sharp voice like the front of a
chisel. Some of the exhibitions are fine efforts of
memory, and the rest seem to be either thought-
transference or general bewilderment. The lady
adds up heavy sums which are chalked:
by the spectators on a board; behind her
back, reads figures- which are out of sight,,
explains what number you are pointing to and
the one you meant to point to before you
changed your mind, tells the time by the wateli in
your pocket, and explains where you got the
watch, and breaks off suddenly bo point out that
the fifth man, on the left, behind her back, is feel-
ing in his hinder pocket for a book, and the
eighteenth woman in the fourth seat, on the right,
is chewing her handkerchief and thinking about
somebody in Melbourne—whereupon the woman
in question blushes intensely. Also, she works
elaborate chess problems, blindfold, on two
boards simultaneously, and brings volumes of
smoke out of empty pipes in the mouths of
the committee, while her colleague patters inces-
santly in his American accent.. The audience
is evidently interested, but takes it all stolidly.
The Australian audience, as a rule, isn’t of an
inquiring turn of mind ; it simply acknowledges
that there is a mystery somewhere, and lets it
rest at that. It never wants to cut open the
bellows or the professor to see where the wind
come from, and it doesn’t strive much after
details. Perhaps it is owing to this trait that
business ia rather depressing with the Steens.
** * *
The Bulletin attended on the opening
night of the Chinese opera at Sydney Protestant
Hall, and it never expects to hear distinctly with
that ear again. The Chinese opera is like no
other entertainment upon this earth, except pos-
sibly a million iron tanks falling into a gully full
of cats and trombones. There is no, scenery in it,
and the orchestra, in its shirt-sleeves* occupies the
back of the stage. The players all come'iu at one
door and go out at the other. When any player’s
back hair gets adrift, owing to excessive exertion*
the orchestra rises up and fixes it, and then goes
back with an air of calm unconsciousness to its in-
strument. About half the time there is only one
player on the stage, and he staiks up and down in
his petticoat with an impressive stride, and
emits a dreadful cat-note at intervals. But
the orchestra goes on without ceasing, and
there are no flies nor any other animal upon it or
anywhere within 200 yards of it. It Consists
partly of a Chinaman chopping wood, partly of
another Chow blowing with a horrible intensity of
devotion through a bull’s horn, partly of a curious
stringed instrument which makes a cry Tike an
infant 40 yards high crying in the night, and
mainly of a pair of cymbals about the size of two
barn-doors. Upon these cymbals a maddened
heat hen flings himself 18 times a minute without
cessation, and Wades through slaughter tp a top
note that makes the building totter oil its'founda-
tions.
# # *
The opera begins every evening fit seven
in order to get the first act through before mid-
night. All the characters are dressed very much
alike in a gaudy buckram petticoat, only two of
three particularly aggressive characters haVe
feathers, six feet long, in their hair. There is
evidently some ill-feeling between a pair of these
individuals, and they had six separate fights with
spears during the first hour on the opening night.
From this it seems safe to calculate that they have
114 fights in the course of the opera. Nobody is hurt,
but the basso is defeated and put to flight every
time, and then the baritone celebrates his victory
by flinging his petticoat up in the air. Now and
then the tenor drops in, distends his mouth to the
capacity of a cheese, and lets out a cry that
blows the scot and the sparrows off the roof on
the other side of the street. After that one fear-
some yelp he departs, and the other parties come
in and have another fight. Nobody is in a burry
in the Chi nese opera. , Even flic most blood thirsty
character conducts himself at the rate of two
knots per hour. During the fight the combatants
revolve on their own'axis after every four passes
with the spears, and after every ten passes one of
them walks up the stage throwing bis petticoat
in the air, and the oilier walks down ihe stage
doing, likewise. When the heroine ,is eotvhicled
she is cowhided - gradually, and her lover is
gradually flogged, apparently by the.public bang-
man. There is a faint odour of old' ClTuia and a
breath of subdued tea-chest about the show, and
it is always easy to recognise when anything im-
portant has been said or done for then the accom-
plice with the cymbals executes a wilder, madder
'bray than usual on his implements of torture, and
the shriek of the strong bagpipe in its agony goes
up on high with a louder desolation.' All the
same, the Chinese opera looks as if it was a paying
speculation, and there should be no need for a
change of bill for some time.
** * »
Sydney Royal is still doing good businers
with The World Against Him,’* Sampler's
comic Frenchman, with the lost marriage-certifi-
ea te hidden in the lining of his hnt, having got on
to the audience with both feet. Fitzgeralds’
Circus, after doing some profitable business with
the lions and the partially-eaten “subjugator”
about the Sydney suburbs, was last heard of at
Mittagong on the way South. Mr. Ulling opens-
the Opera House on Saturday, with “White
Slaves.” Jennie Leo is the principal slave,
ifc
Mr. Walter Bentley (otherwise Mr. William
Begg), whose portrait appears in this issue, was
born in Edinburgh in 1849. His father was a
parson of the old, cast-iron Free Kirk, and ho is
another of the numerous descendants of the poet
Burns,. He was apprenticed to the sea at an early
age, and left it at Sydney in an unexpeeti d>
fashion, which need not be further alluded toi
Next, he was engaged on a sheep-station in the
neighbourhood of Rockhampton (Q.)■, and 1 ,, later
on, he drifted! to Dunedin (M.L.), where he
became a financial and general agent—in these
days every second man in Dunedin was a financial
agent, and the other man was a sharebroker. He
took to the stage in ’7B, and in ’74 went
to London. Then he fulfilled engagements
with Charles Wyndham* Henry Irving, Miss
Bateman, Sothern, and Ristori, and during
succeeding years he toured Great Britain,
Ireland* and the United States with much
success. In Australia and Maoriland, Mr.
Bentley has built up a reputation as a good
actor, who has probably gathered in more good
-notices, and got more testimonials and-illmninated
addresses, and been met oftener on the wharf
by the mayor and corporation,, than any other
histrion who ever visited this country. He com-
mences a season next Saturday at Sydney
Criterion, opening with “ Richelieu.”
** * *
lolanthe ” (otherwise the Apotheosis
Ryley’s Legs) was revived at Sydney Lyceum last
Saturday amid the cheers of the multitude-
Vernon’s Lord Chancellor was the star of the
operetta. It is commonly reported in the worst
informed circles that Vernon embalms himself in
this role, and unwinds himself every time
“ lolanthe ” comes to the surface - which satisfac-
torily accounts for the unvarying excellence of his-
performance. Ryley’s Strephon suited that hugger-
niuggerish, youth exactly, for when he wasn’t
hugging a lady who evidently liked it, some other
lady was talking about liis far-famed legs being
mortal.
» * *
Flora Graupner’s Phyllis was a desultory
sort of damsel in a Dresden-Chinaish frock, but
the music suited her. Violet Varley, as lolanthe,-
sang with feeling and put some refined acting into-
her scene with the Chancellor. Miss Clara
Thompson as the Fairy Queen —well, she was a
light -voiced, normal-sized' actress, trying to fill
operatic shoes expressly built fur an Eilb-l-Tower
songstress with a voice like a thunderstorm. The
phenonienally-neat Bracy, as Tolloller, was in ex-
cellent voice for his high-pitched music, and
Sydney Deane, as the other Earl, may reckon it as
his best performance up to date. Also Gfr.undy’s
Sentry was encored as usual, and when L< on
Giuon (who- conducted)- took his sent ho was-
encored too, “Yeoman of the Guard” dispersed;
the Fairies on. Wednesday, and on Saturday “The-
Mountebanks ” go up.
«# m *
The success of FilhV Circus begins to bo
((noted in Melbourne as a glorious proof that the
city is not financially defunct. Men brag about


ADAMS'
| TATTERSALL’S HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
milE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
X ahovo old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can he effected for acconnnorta-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fitting*, Fumishinye and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric. Light. Chargee etricthj moderate.
Table d’lfdte DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
rn i\.
TKe OldßlervdL
Whisky
3 f th - e iffiHORSE
Cellar
WHI'
DIRECT PROM distillers.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MtU.O«
* «AA-uo»B SCOTCH HALT ,
it, and seem to associate the crowd at the pay-box
with a certain "alleged determination to put the
shoulder to the wheel. “ AskFillis if the country
is in a bad state,” they say. Meanwhile that
enterprising master of the horse looks sharp after
his show and makes a point of always thanking
the audience for their kind support. Up to now
the opening programme has been good enough to
continue without a change ; the lions, as of yore,
absenting themselves from the matinees because
they are then digesting great masses of food, and
would get very cross indeed if required to jump
through a hoop. Also the wise policy of running
up a large iron building in place of the old tent
has been brought under public notice by recent
gales, and the animals are glad to be out of a
damp draught.
*****
Edward Terry is winding up a prosperous
six-weeks’ season at Melbourne Princess’. On
Saturday he appeared for the first time in Aus-
tralia as Chevalier Walkinshawof “ The Rocket.”
The part allowed him to fire off all his mannerisms
at random, and although the Chevalier bore very
little resemblance to a possible being he was an
amusing burlesque. The dress-cirele, in par-
ticular, screamed with rapture every time he
remembered not to sit down on the spot where
Sass had kicked him. “ The Rocket ”is largely
built upon this assault from the rear. To-day,
Thursday, there are two farewell performances of
“Sweet Lavender,” and Mr. Terry wisely makes
his last appearance in his best character, written
to suit his bizarre style.
** * *
A very composite programme will be
given at the Princess’s to-morrow (Friday) night
for the benefit of Miss Aimee Moore. On Satur-
day they produce ‘"On Change,” wherein Court-
neidge, of the Gaiety Company, makes his Aus-
tralian debut as a comedian pure and simple. “On
Change” runs five nights only—after that the
Italian Opera and Ballet season.
** * *
The Alhambra variety show goes on, but
the Gaiety seems to have shut its doors for the
present like the other halls. Leumane’s little
opera company, up from the provinces, appeared
at the Exhibition with W. J. Turner’s concertists
on Saturday.
** * *
With special designs upon visitors to the
Agricultural Show the directors of Melbourne
Royal have “induced” the Taylor-Carrington
Company—who doubtless jumped at the chance—
to give a short dramatic season at thfe old house.
The T.G. company were to burst forth in “ Home
Rule,” a drama of music and sensation, on
August 30.
** * *
Antoinette Sterling made her alleged final
appearance at Melb. Town Hall on Saturday, two
or three hours after Marshall Hall had concluded
a fine Wagnerian orchestral concert in the same
place. The voice with which she landed in Aus-
tralia has been badly damaged, its social purity is
much corrupted by overwork, and Madame needs
reminding that the first duty of a singer who
makes dollars out of a reputation is to sing up to
it. The lady is becoming a very painful joke. On
Sunday she carried on in a wild manner at the
Theatre Royal, mentioning, among other matters,
that God was working in her to do what she ought
to do. There is no objection to the theory that the
De ty has moved Antoinette to talk herself hoarse,
hut it is inconsistent with her other theory that
il wishes her to sing in public at a large salary.
** * *
Of the eight newly-imported Italian operat-
lists there are three undoubted stars —the prima-
donna, Italia Del Torre (not to be confounded
with Signora Del Torre, of the company), tenor
Fiorella Giraud, and Carason, the baritone. The
Bulletin prints the name of Carason with some
diffidence, because the gentleman has been else-
where described as Oarnson, Carnoon, and other
variations. Melb. Age went 'so far as to apply
the prefix Signori to each male Italian in turn, as
though he were several vocalists rolled into one.
# * #
All the members of the Italian Co., save
the musical conductor, are guaranteed to be under
30 years of age. Martin Simonsen, we remember,
declared that his lust lot of importations were
under 30, although Cuttiea (the hubby) and one
or two others hadn’t preserved their youth care-
fully.
** * *
The people most to bo envied in Australia
just now are those of Adelaide, who have before
them the splendid fresh repertoire of the Brough-
Boueieault Co.
At Poverty Point.
Edward Terry's engagement to the Firm has yielded a
good profit for both parties. Terry “found ” himself in
plays ; audit ho received a handsome salary (with com.)
he didn't Jn_vj2Lvi-‘A louueiaas company .at much -expense---
in putting on. A modern comedy season, in which the
houses range'from “crowded” to “ full,” is always a
financial success, even if you allow for a good deal of
elasticity in the term full.
Mr. and Mrs. Antoinette Sterling were married on an
Easter Sunday morning, and were ever afterwards “noted
for their conjugal devotion,” says a London paper.
Mascagni, composer of “ Cavalleria Rusticana,” is said
to be a reveller in Italian superstition. He carries a
portmanteau full o( amulets, including a choice collection
of unroasted chestnuts for warding off the evil eye.
Well, unroasted ’taters are said to keep the gout at hay.
Photos, of Musgrove’s Opera Co. are shown in Collins-
street. Signora Del Torre, the prima donna, is thin and
distingue, with very expressive eyes. Frasca, the tenor,
is rather like Stockwell, more robust, but not at all on the
fat side. Carason, the basso, is a fine man, recalling
rimazzom a little, with unshaven beard. Giraud, the
baritone, figures in his characters from “ Cavalleria Rusti-
ema” and “Pagliacci,” both picturesque. Signora
Mettier, the mezzo-soprano, is pleasant, and, indeed,
Musgrove has got beauty all round, notably in the
danseuses, Mdlles. Bartha and Farina, the former, appar-
ently. a German blonde, and the latter a French brunette.
Kyrle Bel lew once met Eugenie Le Grand (his former
wife and now widow of squatter Hector Wilson) at the
house of a well-known Melbourne dramatic medico.
Eugenie was in a room and saw Kyrle approach the door
and begged said doctor to let her open it to K.B. after
their years of estrangement. It was a Quakers’jrreetinpf,
however, as Bellew passed into the house without speaking
l °“Thave made a vow,” said Madame Sterling, at Sydney
Town Hall, “never to sing the top note in ‘The Lost
Chord’again.” For ail praciioal purposes this apostle
of the “ words without songs school might just as well
have registered the vow before she came to Australia,
Vulgar people may think that Madame dodges the long
note because it is awkward, but Madame herself covers
tip the trick as an “inspiration. She says the “new
reading” greatly improves the song. How pleased
Sullivan.will be 1
Flora Oraupner and Florence Young are both Jewesses.
The Semitic element is uppermost in Melb. amateur
theatrical circles. Nearly every club is in “ the hands of
" “" P0 "‘ l “•
t. . .. , . „ . „ „ a ...
Terry, n the "Churchwarden, makes up as ££ Smith
-that is, so far as Terry can make up as anybody.
The bright ID tie curtain-raiser. “ The Nettle." at Melb.
Princess, quite obscured the piSre de resistance, which Is
reported to have been written by the great English actor
himself. It looks the sort of play Terry would write.
Bentley’s early love (one of ’em, anyhow) is in Sydney.
She is now a pen-lady, and will probably have much
saying nasty things about "the Australian
Irving ” in her notices.
Little Mary Castelli, of Melly, chose an appropriate
stage-name in “Dolly Mace.” While waiting for her
“ pro.” husband, a hoodlum insulted her. She smashed
at him with her handbag, losing the contents, 18s. 6d.,
and followed him and his young woman on to a tram.
Result, to him, at Fitzroy poiice-court, £5 or six weeks.
Saunders, Melbourne’s new tenor idol, is fine and fat, d
la Verdi, but shorter.
Eloise Juno was in the Edinburgh Co. with the callow
Henry Irving, an I abounds in anecdotes of him.
Mnsgrove’s opera people were delighted with the
readiness of everything in Melb., and with the Princess’s.
While Willard's Opera Co. was performing at Secundera-
bad (India), a British offic r, “accompanied by a lady,”
audibly made blackguardly references to one of the
actresses. Musical-director Wyatt mounted the stage and
exposed the officer publicly. A complaint to the Officer
Commanding followed, and, on the next Saturday night,
the theatre was surrounded by howling British officers,
while the house inside was crammed with swaddies hoot-
ing their officers. Wyatt had to still the storm by
apologising publicly, but the gallant gentlemen stayed
around waiting to pommel him. They only caught Harry
Hall (the late John L.’s son). An officer pulled Harry’s
nose. Harry landed him in the mouth, but was badly
beaten by two or three of the warriors, and took train next
morning with “two lovely black eyes.”
Thomas Hardy’s “Three Wayfarers,” played in London
recently by the Achurch-Charrington Company, is a grue-
some thing. It is a rainy winter day on the Wiltshire
Downs, when three men successively drop in for shelter
at a shepherd’s hut. The first is a convict who has broken
gaol the day before his execution. The second to arrive
is the hangman, belated on his way to the execution. The
third arrival is the convict’s brother. The hangman
doesn’t know the convict, and he chats with him in a
ghoulish fashion about the hanging, and shows him the
rope, and dances a clumsy and bear-like hornpipe. The
brother knows tnth of them, and looks on them from the
doorway with a frozen eye of horror. Then the police
arrive, and the brother bolts and leads th<m a long and
frantic race over the squashy moor, and while they pur-
sue him the convict slinks away, leaving the hangman
brooding with his rope beside the dying fire.
A comic-opera frost is a black frost indeed. The chorus
at Melb. Royal were called together after a seven nights’
run of “ Queen’s Lace Handkerchief” and rewarded with
the munificent sum of 3s. 6d. each. Five weeks’ rehearsal,
one week of performance, and 3s. fid. for the lot! Seven-
per week, or one penny per day, including the
Sabbath.
Dampier was the original Hawkshaw in “ The Ticket-of-
Leave Man.”
“Captain” Dan Fisher, a gentleman adorned with 700
tattoo designs which, he says, were executed on him by a
Mexican while in captivity among the Indians, has lately
been exhibiting in S.A. Considering that there are now
half-a-dozen or more places in London where anybody
can have 1000 designs tattooed on him at a reasonable
figure, after which he can invent his own Indian yarn, it
seems about time for the tattooed man to become an
extinct sensation.
Salvini tells an anecdote which out-Rignolds Rignold.
One night, after his Othello, the people were so excited
that they assembled in groups outside. Then they rushed
back into the theatre, and shouted him before the curtain
again, half-dressed.
A new play called “ Little Tippett ” causes the Ameri-
can ladies to book seals for a blush. Tippett is a baby
born of a divorced wife, since remarried, and the first hus-
band, also remarried, is at a loss to discover whether he
or the other man is baby’s papa.
That bright young actor, H. R. Roberts, native of
Maoriland, has been engaged for a term of 12 months as
leading juvenile, by George Rignold.
George Darrell is an ardent spiritualist, like many more
of the profession. George’s future play is to have
spiritualism for its basis and superstructure.
The D’Ensem-Doyle company’s programme was being
printed by a Maitland (N.S.W.) printer. Manager Mac-
Mahon heard that the item, “ How Bill Adams won the
Battle of Waterloo,” was not new to Maitlanders, so he
sent instructions to , “Get‘Bill Adams” taken out
of the programme and put 1 The Novelist ” in place of it.”
The programmes were beautifully printed, with the an-
nouncement—" How the Novelist won the Battle of
Waterloo.”
Judge Casey is putting on his critical glasses, for the
ballet.
A lady advertiser, in the Era, offers £lOO reward to
anyone who can prove she lias had an illegitimate child.
The bronzy dressing-room, Nellie Stewart’s nest,
associated with Bernhardt and Potter, is now Signora del
Torre’s.
“There never has been a ballet in Melbourne till now.”
— Musgrove.
Some low person writes to the Melb. press complaining
of the squeaking of the chairs at Town Hall organ recitals.
Saith he, “ If the Council can get a man, horse and dray
for 6s. sd. a day, it wouldn’t cost much to get a China-
man to repair the seats in our “model ’’ concert hall.”
Mdlle. Bartha, Russian, is Williamson and M.’s_ new
chief ballerina, to be the Melbourne Taglioni or
Mafieuroy.
Melb. people never quite understood how it was that
the phonograph was a pecuniary failure. A local barbed
threw some additional light on the matter the other day :
“Why, I goes lo that air machine, and asks them to give
me * Two Lovely Black Eyes ’ and Gladstone’s speech,
and as soon as I ’ears the first line I sez, ‘ Why, that’s Joe
Davis’ voice 1’ I goes back to work, and presently in
comes Joe. 1 Bre ! wasn’t that you who has been singing
into that phonograph?’ Sez he, ‘Yes, dry up though;
it wouldn’t do for everybody to know.’ 1 went another
day to the machine and asks for Fred Leslie’s song,
and, d nmy eyes, if that wasn’t Fanning's lovely
gurgle 1”
Spagnoletti; The par. on Simonsen’s lucky precaution-
reminds me of the Marquis of Mirabeau’s recipe for obtains
4«g sons. Result, seventeen girls.
Lonnen is a patchwork comedian. In one of his per-
formances you get a little bit of everyone. Terry appears
to be responsible for his grimaces.
The tailor employed by Petruchio, for Katharine’s
gown, could not be more caul ions than the Australian
tailor supplying theatricals nowadays. Miss Plantagenista
ordered a fine dress, tailor-made, her first to be worn in
the play. Snips delayed till the overture was actually
playing. Even then he wouldn’t hand over the brown
paper parcel, till the sovs. were in his hand. The co.
looked on ruefully—no money for them.
•• The Bulletin's ” Missing Word Competition,
Attention is drawn to the date on which The
Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition, No. 6,
closes. The coupon is to be found on the red cover
of this issue.
“They don’t spoon, they ladle.” —Pinero.
Edgar and Jones, Melb. journalists, have
taken the Ballarat Post.
Edinburgh is the only one of Queen Vic
toria’s sons not a Freemason.
The Bible is Republican. Samuel advises
the Israelites not to have a king.
N.S.W, spends on imported fruits every
year the enormous sum of, say, £3!)2,000 !
Vic. Chief Justice Madden remarks that
the men on the criminal calendar, for two months,
have all been under 28.
Apropos of “ Steele Grey's ” reminiscence.
Less than three weeks ago, bushranger Power’s
sister was again fighting fur possession of the
“ bit of land ” in Melb. County Court.
The must successful hook of Australian
bush-stories ever published is “The Last of Six :
Tales of the Austral Tropics,” by Ernest Faveno,
the well-known explorer, in whose writings fact
and fancy are blended to a charm. Post free for
15d. in stamps, from Bulletin Office to any Aus-
tralian address.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Almost on the very day when the last recon-
structed bank got af'oit it was decided in Sydney to raise
the rate of interest from 4 J to 5 per cent., “in order to
attract deposits.” Apparently the same old rot tenness is
going to break out again in the same old spot. The banks
have just finished compounding with their creditors over
their old liabilities, and already they offer special induce-
ments to attract new liabilities. (It doesn’tsound so nice
that way, but that is what it amounts to.)
* # •
Considering that the freshly-whitewashed insti-
tutions have scooped in nearly £20,000,000 among them
of new capital and perpetual deposits, debentures, and
other things which are really capital under another name,
and that they have fixed something vaguely resembling l
twenty millions more for very long terms, it is difficult to
understand the frantic eagerness for more deposits. In
the pre-hurst days the hanks complained that they
couldn’t find outlets for the money that was thrust upon
them, and they have still got that money and much more
besides.
* * *
Moreover, even at the old per cent, rate
deposits kept coming in tolerably fast, and the rate is
only raised because they are wanted to come in still faster.
The demand is just as it was before, for deposits in any
amount and for any term, long or short, and the day of
repayment is to take care of itself in the good old way'.
The last burst isn’t finished yet, and the foundations of
the next hurst, and a good part of the aide walls as well,
are already erected.
# # #
The excuse given for the increase of bank interest
in Sydney is that a similar increase has taken place
already in Melbourne, and it is necessary to prevent
liabilities being attracted from N.S.W. to Victoria, in
consequence of the special inducements held out in the
latter province. This mad rush after liabilities is
grotesque.
* * #
The following circular, dated August 25, which
has been sent round to the shareholders and depositors of
the foundered Federal Bank, suggests quite a lot of
things;—“As it is intended to hold meetings of share-
holders and depositors in connection with the affairs of
the Federal Bank, we beg to inform you that, having
obtained from the Official Liquidator here information
which leads us to believe re-construction practicable, we
beg to enclose tor y©ur signature, and return to us, a
form of proxy and power of attorney to enable us to
attend such meetings. We have ascertained that the
current expenses of the bank in liquidation are nearly
equal to what would cover the expenses of the bank as a
going concern. We are holders of 1500 shares, and have
consulted other shareholders who desire re-const ruction
in preference to liquidation, we therefore naturally take
an interest in the matter, and will do our utmost in the
interests of all concerned. Please return the form by first
post, so as to be available for a meeting that may he held
at once.—Yours faithfully', John Louis Oastner, William
J. Green.”'
# • #
There are a lot of questions which don't seem
to he answered in the above circular. In the first place,
why does this sudden outbreak come now more than at
any other time ? The Federal put up reconstruction
notices on its old premises months ago, and then took
them down again, seemingly in disgust. Then things re-
mained quiet until the British creditors began to demand
an investigation and the removal |of the ex-manager
from his billet as liquidator, and to talk about prosecuting
the board. Now, if the shareholders and depositors
can be induced to vote by proxy, and without asking
about the alleged overdrafts of the board and its friends,
for a reconstruction, there will be no investigation, and
no unfriendly liquidator will look into the accounts, and
the hoard’s doings won’t he enquired into any further.
Affairs will simply go on in the old way, and presumably
the hop less overdrafts will resume their appearance in
the balance-sheet as “advances, and all other debts due
to the bank.” Does this explain the otherwise unaccount-
able sinmltaneousmss of things?
« # *
The Federal has, so far, furnished no official
information about its condition, and the unofficial state-
ments concerning it are, practically, to the effect that it
is a hopeless ruin and a whited sepulchre. These state-
ments have never been contradicted. But two interested
persons say they have received certain information
of a favourable character, and they don’t mention what
the information is, or how they know it is authentic, or
why it was given to them when nobody else
got any enlightenment at all—in fact, they simply say
that somebody said to them something which they didn’t
further explain. It shareholders ami creditors send in
their proxies and “ go it blind ” on this statement, they
almost certainly will never get any further information,
and the wonderful tale about the overdrafts of the gang
particularly the £250,000 which is alleged to have
been compromised for Cd. or 9d. in the £—and the rest of
ttie horrors will never be either proved or disproved. In
fact, no one will ever know whether these overdrafts are
among the “assets” or not.
# • #
The liquidator who supplies the information on
which the reconstruction is to lie based is presumably
the same old general manager who used to supply
the shareholders with information in the ante-
smash days. The sanguineness of that gentleman in
the past, and his awful reticence in the present, and his
connection with the old crowd against whom there are so
many aspersions about, are all reasons why no bank, not
even a sand-bank, should reconstruct on his unsupported
evidence. Moreover, if this gentleman is running the
bank about as expensively, now that it is closed, as he did
when it was open, that fact furnishes about eleven more
reasons why some independent man should be appointed
in his stead.
# # #
The Bulletin has received letters concerning
the bona-Jides of two of the “property-distributions”
which have_heen widely-advertised of late. Concerning
the first, the “ Columbian," identified with the Nambrok
estate, enquiries reveal that the cash subscribed is on
deposit with a leading hank, in the names of trustees,
men of excellent standing, and that no money can
be drawn without their signatures. Ail questions asked
at the office were frankly and satisfactorily answered.
Concerning the “Mutual Freehold Property Distribution
of Sydney,” as much cannot he said, and the public will
no doubt cease subscribing until much more satisfactory
assurances are volunteered by the management.
# • *
A firm of Melbourne sharebrokers bave.oom-
?ounded with their oreditors for the good old id. in the £.
he Bulletin still expects to see the time when the
average composition will be nothing in the £, and the in-
solvent will charge his creditors for lime spent in filing
his schedule and cab-hire to the insolvency office.
• • *
Another prosecution of the Imperial Bank teller
has again ended in his acquittal. Some strong hints
about other people were thrown out during the trial.
# * •
Liquidator Ducker seems in no hurry to bold
the annual meeting of Mercantile Bank contributories,
which is already several months overdue. The last
Judge’s order was that the meeting should he held when
the True Bill trial had terminated. That didn’t take
long to terminate, but still the meeting was delayed,
until fresh summonses were issued, and a public dis-
cussion of the Bank’s affairs couldn’t be allowed to pre-
judice Matthew’s prospects. ’Tis whispered that tha
Mercantile’s shareholders will be further staggered by tha
liquidators’ report when—Lord knows when—they get it.
Had it been likely to prejudice in the bank’s favour it
would not have been allowed to hang back all this time,
says common sense. There was a fortnight and more in
which to pull off a meeting after the True Bill had been
quashed.
* * *
Manager Howell, of the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary, interviewed by the Menindie Tramway Co.
people, held out prospects of a contract for the carriage
of 5,000,000 tons of sulphide over the line.
# * #
Block 14 manager Lane has finally been re-
trenched. Lane was the bogey-man of Barrier unions, and
ruled his mine in a martinet-like fashion which frequently
brought him into collision with local labour men. It is,
however, but fair to say that he was little less unbending
tobis own directors, and his disregard of the directorial
curb was a sore trouble to the Block 14 potentates. He
now threatens to contest a seat on the hoard at next
vacancy, and if successful will make certain of the sea-
board smelting crowd now on the directorate look blue.
* * *
Broken Hill South half-yearly report to June
30 is most depressing. The co. finishes with a debit of
£23,783 16s. 6d., of which the best that can be said is that
it is t'6077 Os. lid. less than six months ago. The ore
smelted was 13,905 tons; silver, 305,2070 z., or slightly
over 220 z. per ton. The directors record that, ownng to
shrinkage in the ore supply, onlj- one furnace has been
running for the greater part of the half-year, while there
is nothing to contemplate for the future hut a further
shrinkage to vanishing point of the smelting ores. The
sole hope for the future of the co. lies in a solution of the
sulphide problem.
# # •
The B.H. South directors, after experiment at
Moonta (S.A.), believe that they can concentrate their
sulphides to a profitable smelting grade, and have autho-
rised the erection of a plant capable of treating about
1000 tons per week.
* # #
B. H. South mine since the strike has run a
small sick and accident fund of its own amongst its em-
ployes, the directors having refused to ally themselves
with the octopus-like institution which embraces the
other big mines. The South fund, so far, is solvent,
which the other is not.
• # *
The Broken Hill mine-owners’ bogus friendly
society, established only to coerce the men, will he legally
squashed at an early date. The business may prove an
expensive one for certain of the syndicate’s minions.
# # *
A leading Broken Hill mine-manager, one of
the chief agents of the associated employers, now openly
speaks of his “ free-labourers ” as “ my blacklegs.”
» # *
Dr. Morrison, of Sydney, who has many friends
in South Australia among buyers of his Aldine history,
has become bankrupt.
• ft *
M’Cracken’s City Brewery Co. (Melb.) has
decided not to pay a div. this half-year; they intend
creating a good reserve to prevent fear of calls. As the
shares have been pressed down to Is. 6d., this step has
been anticipated for some time.
• * •
Mb. Lyell shareholders grow uneasy concerning
the result of Mr. Knox’s trip to England and America.
It wants a heap of money to put this mine in order.
With its prospeels, three or four years ago, a million
could have been rais 'd in London, but to-day capitalists
there have too many painful recollections of the price paid
for British Blocks.
# # #
The Sydney Stock Exchange has been compelled
to abandon its most conservative rule enforcing a fee for
the official quotation of mining stocks. For years busi-
ness has been done by its members in unregistered stocks,
and as little or nothing could be gained by payment the
fees were never forthcoming. The idea of exacting a fee
for the purpose of transacting business is asinine.
* * #
The Brilliant Block has not, so far, been a mine
of wealth to its holders. However, being largely held in
England the shares maintain their price, 225. about.
# # *
There seems very little ground for “ a Call-paying
Shareholder’s” obvious suspicions that the management of
the big Spa and .Tessop Hydraulic Sluicing Co., Shoal-
haven, is purposely concealing results from the public.
It is true that some'frightful mistakes have been made.
There was little excuse for the bursting of the dam—one
of the largest in the world—and none whatever for the
miscalculations in the capacity of the pumping-plant.
These mistakes have cost a large sum of money. Tub
Bulletin has reason to believe they are sending away
thousands of cubic yards of drift weekly, and that the
nozzle is now playing on a splendid body of wash. The
cleaning-up will prove the value of the largest alluvial
river-bed known in Australia. But will it pay to lift 10
tons of water 130 feet to remove one ton of wash,
averaging probably not more than Is. worth of gold per
ton? If it will, then the gravitation co.’s on the river
have a big time ahead.
* * •
The Bulletin predicts “ much mining excite-
ment” all over N.S.W. ere the year is out. By the time
another two or three thousand “fossickers” have been
sent from the city at least a dozen rushes should occur
weekly. You can find gold almost anywhere in N.S.W.,
and where you find gold excitement is sure to follow— i.e.,
newspaper excitement. There is gold in every sunbeam
and in every gallon of seawater; but, like N.S.W. in
general, each is too poor to pay for working. Possibly
gold may have descended in showers; it so, the N.S.W.
shower of gold was a very slight one, but, to quote the
weather-reporter, “ It was general throughout the country
districts."
■..•* _— •
Good and bad news of Coolgardie comes in
turns. First it was declared -to be the goldfield ; then
came warnings that it was dnffering. Now the public are
again told it is a big thing. The men are there—diggers
from every part of Australia—and time will prove it.
• * *
Speculative mining is dead in Sydney. Yet
scores of vampires loaf about Pitt-street, waiting for a
mining mug who oometh not. There are exceptions, but
the broad, golden rule for investors is that no N.S..W.
gold-mine is worth a rap. If you gamble in'gold, gam-
ble in Qympie, Charters Towers, Bendigo, or Ballarat.
# # •
Hydraulic sluicing lias revived at Kiandra,
where the New Chum Hill cleaned up last week 232}ozs.
for a five weeks’ run—ll men and one nozzle.
« « *
News from Mt. Allen: “ 113 points, but no
good." If the catchment is such that over an inch of
rain is no good, what possible hope have they of crushing
in summer-time? In such dry country they’shoukl crush
dry, for which the Otis ball mill seems well adapted.
# # *
| |So far, Hannay’s treatment of base ores with
the use of cyanide and mercury has been a wonderful
success. It promises to knock out every expensive
method of treatment and even to solve the sulphide
problem.
# « «
An in connection with the Bonang G.M.
Co., now liquidating, is threatened.
• • #
“The latest greatest He comes from Australia—
' Depositors will be paid in full.’ ” —Man of the World.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page )


yvAAAA
IS
m\ :
w ~JVVvv\ro
Go to ECELL-
K3OI.AND for Pretty Stamps. We
Si II i lif Sot of 14. turns: cl, for Is. 0(1.
lllustiatul Price I .fat of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
Cinh'ft.
D. A. m DIN & CO,
T 4 EllZAimil STIiKKT, SYDNEY,
N.S. W,
m
IXSIE
m
m
■■■
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUAUANTERD SPLENDID COKDITIOV.
Largest Bottlers ami Shippers in the World
Purvajuri h Chimyo Kt'iiNtinn,
Balchin, Johnston & Co.. 6 Eridge-st., Sydney.
The sixpenny revised Bible is sold in Eng-
land for a penny.
YOU LOOK SICK!
YOU KEEL SICK I
you Are sicki
WHAT WILL YOU DO?
IF
YOU ARE WISE
YOU WILL TAKE A COURSE OF
CLEMENTS TONIC.
The greatest renovator of a worn out system
the world has ever seen, positively and per-
manently restores manly virility, to prove which
evidence is forthcoming from any quarter.
READ THIS CASE.
Mr. Richard Waters, Rygmalian and Galatea,
Illusions, Goulburn, N.S, W., who writes on May
23rd, 1893 As a professional and one who is
continually travelling, there is a tremendous
amount of hard work attached to our occupation.
I have no doubt you, as a business man, can
understand what I, mean—-there is a lot of mental
worry attached to our profession. I have been
running the Pygmalian and Galatea Illusions
down here on the Southern Coast; if it had not
been for the great nerve strengthening powers
of Clements lonic, I do not believe I would ever
have been able to carry out my engagements. If
you think that by publishing this letter it will
benefit any of my brother professionals, you are at
liberty to do so. Wishing Clements Tonic all
kinds of successes, I remain, yours truly, Richard:
u iters, Pygmalian and Galatea Illusions, Goul-
burn, N.H.W.
Scut *ch-JUi st ra 1 1 sell c $ nst
la-.vchcint jeden Sonnabcnd in Sydney. Pro is au‘.
Zu babcn bei alien Zoitungs-AgcntCu.
Altonnement 10 sli. Jiihrlish direkt bei der
I'orrign I‘uhHMng Oficr, 20 Hunter Sir., Sydney.
Personal Items,
Parkes’ Recollections already sold in Melb.
it half-price; Loftus’s at quarter price.
W. M. K. Vale goes ghostlike about Mel-
sourne and now resembles a ritualistic parson.
Dan. Mayno, widely known as the ex-editor
af Bathurst (N S.W.) Sentinel, is one of triplets.
Helen Hart, saith rumor, has succumbed
lo Cupid at last, in tho shape of a handsome,
•vealthy widower.
Dully is now nearly 80, The cbuckler 1
Where are M‘Oulloch and “the strong men?”—
not to speak of the Speakers?
Gov. Norman (Q.) now 67, is the oldest of
Australian Governors, Ho enjoys exercise and
relieves in going to bed only when well tired.
Brunton Stephens has of late been goaded
by publishers hungry for “copy,” but it is un-
likely he will respond, for he has been literarily
torpid .for years.
Dr. James Leitch, the popular young S. A.
medico, took his B. A. degree at 17, M.B. at 22,
and P.M. at 26. P.M. means post mortem.
Moral—Go slow.
£ £ Smith, ere his late visit to England,
never wore a neck-tie as ho wished to flash his
diamond collar-stud. Now lie wears a tic—the
tie that binds us to ’Omo.
Vic. -Chanman of Committees, Mason,
prides himself on his likeness to Charles I.
According to this, Charles must have strongly
resembled a Yankee bagman.
T. H. F. Farrell, found dead in his bath,
nt Randwick, the other day, had just returned
from England, and was a young bachelor who had
gone the pace. By his death, £60,000 reverts to
ilia family.
It appears that a Tasmanian solicitor and
ex-M.L. A., recently struck off the roll for cruel
frauds upon too trusting clients, for which frauds
he is “wanted ” by the police, now lives in luxury
at Chicago.
J. P. T. Caulfield is reported to be on bis
way back to .Sydney—perhaps to Melbourne.
Caulfield is 30 years old now, and tho fond hope of
many Sydney acquaintances is that age and
travel will not be found to have impaired his
modesty.
Lawyer Purves celebrated his 50tb birth-
day laSt week. Ho was born in a hut on a spot
that is now almost in the heart of the city. He
has been eminently successful, but that block of
land has been more so—its average earnings are a
lot bigger than his.
QUITE SIMPLE.
THE NEWCHUM : “You say you have come all tho way from Cape York
Peninsula to here—over one-third the length of Australia—and
never used a compass. It’s wonderful! I cannot understand how
it is you do not lose yourself.”
THE NORTHERMER: “Well, you see, as you’re travellin’down you’ve got the
East Const on your left and the Inland Telegraph line on your
right. Why, it’s like travellin’ down a big road all the way.”
THE NEWCHUM : “Ah ! I see. Never thought of that. It’s quite simple,
after all.”
“ Timothcns,” of tho Arhus, prattles
somewhat artlessly upon the political aspect of
Matthew Davies; “His personal popularity re-
mains. If there were a trial and an acquittal
nowhere would there bo such a cheer sent up as
wilhiirthe walls of the Assembly.”
Lewis Morris is to bo Poet Laureate in
succession to .Tennyson. Morris’ “Wedding Odo”
pleased our Sovereign Lady a good deal better
than Alfred Austin’s loyal effort, “A Betrothal,”
Austin,told the happy pair that tin y would have
to “abide in austerity august—-inglorious!}’ wise,
impersonally justl”
“Lady G.F.”—ex-Governor Jersey’s aunt
—once had her attention drawn, at Ashburnham
House, London, to a Murillo painting, “The
Good Shepherd.” The old lady, having examined
it through her glasses, remarked placidly—“ Yes,
beautiful! Ouc of the Villierses.
Dr. Youl, Melbourne’s 30 years’ coroner,
was once asked by a newspaper man of the same
city for an account of his life, which he “wanted
u n st ', nf '„ bome , to Blackwoods Magazine. ’
Dicky’ saw through it at once, and smilingly
replied : “ You want my ‘obituary.’ Cull up and
see me when I am dead.”
, T , . ...
A Max is specially retained by the
Argus to fight Protectionist windmills. Ho finds
a little time besides to advocate Socialism and
g o j d monometallism ; single taxing and no taxing;
freetrade and freethought. He is at once the
champion of the monopolist and his opponent.
Only an indiarubber intellect could stand such a
strain.
Miss Lucas, secretary of Sydney Women’s
Temperance Onion, has been overwhelmed with
compliments of late on the force and character of
her public speeches. She has a clear little voice,
a n«at little manner, and the cool assurance on
difficult topics of a practised uolitician’s daughter.
Mada.nc Sterling and Govemoress Duff call her a
genius.
. Corporal Nicholson, of the Rupertswood
Battery, who won so many prizes in England, is
the twehty-ono-year-old sou of the Melbourne
I’-M. so well-known by his share in the Kelly cap-
tl\r9- ‘Lob” Nicholson, stroke of the last and
other V lotonan eights, is also a son of Ins, while-
auot.her is assay er at Bayley’s Reward claim,
CjoDardie.
■ • ■ , , , .
Newspapers invariably “ regret to an-
nouncc thc death” of anyone whose demise they
specially record. Melb. Herald, the journalistic
soothing-syrup for the Davies gang, “noticed”
tho tlom i, G of sterling John M-Donald by com-
mencing tliusly: “Wo announce the death of
Mr. John M‘Donald.” Probably they announced
it with pleasure.
Our old friend Edinburgh has become
l1( , ko and , ole boss lno „arcli of Saxe-Coburg-
Gotll a German principality about a Sabbath
d . e , journey ;lC ross and a donkey-race in circum-
ft.rt,nco. Under these circumstances it might be a
Kl . ace f u l act on the part of the loyalists of Aus-
tralia to pay up the duke’s old outstanding Auck-
land wash-bill, and present him with the receipt
on a sheet of bant as a token of profound esteem,
It would doubtless be a load lifted off the duke’s
bulky chest to know that this ancient liability was
settled and the poor washerwoman had at last got
her cash.
“The other fel-
low” in the famous
Maybrick poison-
ing case i,s now in
Sydney.
The fal s e-
bearded hangman,
“Jones,” of Vic-
toria, is a pious
fellow of much,
counsel. He will
yarn at times
when alone with
pressmen for a
spell on the grey
floor of the Pent-
ridge torture-
(jhamber, and ad-
vise as to the pro-
per conduct of
patients under hia
care. “Deeming,”
said he —“ Yes, a
good death, very
good, but there’s
no mystery in. it.
It all depends on
keeping plumb be-
low the beain. I’ll
put you there if
you’ll stay. You
see, if they stand
plumb they drop
plumb, if, they get
off the plumb they
swing.”—“ They
swing anyhow.”
“lt aint no
joking matter,
sir. You see, they
drop straight, the
knot cracks the
neck sure; if they
getoff the straight
the blow can’t be
direct.” It’s
wortli remember-
ing, perhaps—the
times are parlous.
And to all those
who may chance
to be flogged the
sworn tormentor
had a word on-the
same occasions.
“ They should let
themselves hang
loose, and never
tighten the mus-
cles. It’sthe worst
mistake in tho
world.” Maybe,
yes ; but still one
wondered if the
shaggy old which
himself would
“stand plumb,”
or continue to
“hang loose,” if
things were up-
side-down.
Tho present Vic. Railway Commissioners
are severally suing the Argus and Australasian
for £ 10,000 each, libel damages—■£()(),ooo in all.
This sort Of thing grows monotonous. Victoria
is heartily sick of discussions on the longevity of
rolling-stock, and the avoirdupois weight of con-
flicting opinions. If the now Commissioners have
any complaints to make, it is to be hoped that the
defending journals will say something definite and
short. The next generation doesn’t wish to be
haunted by railway “ exhibits,” or carried down
to Williamstown to stare at scrap-heaps.
Lord Gormanston, the recently-arrived
Tasmanian Governor, sings an excellent comic
song, is a good Koinan Catholic, and has, since
his landing in Hobart, turned out at seven
every morning for Mass. The new potentate’s
MR. WALTER BENTLEY (Criterion Theatre, Sydney).
favourite expression is “By God’s help,” which
sounds especially reverent coming from, a 20st.
man standing Oft. 2in. in his socks.
Significant item from a loyal London
weekly :
The Queen has been photographed sis, hundred and
thirty-four times since her succession, but only one
photographer has ever caught, Her Majesty’s smile.
That lucky artist must have got a snap-shot at
Victoria when she was drawing, her month’s
screw,
"When Rudyard Kipling visited the Austral
Salon, one of the gushers who had managed to
secure the lion and was keeping him jammed in a
corner, cried in little hysterical gasps, “ Oh, dear
Mr. Kipling ! do tell me which way did'you really
—realily—mean that lovely story, ‘The Light
that Failed’ to end ?” Yawning replied the great
man—“Ow! yer pays yer money and yer takes
yer choice !”
When Madame Sterling went to “ try
over ” the “Lost Chord ” with organist Wiegand,
at Sydney Town Hall, the organist suddenly
pulled up to remonstrate : “ Madame, it is impos-
sible! For mo it will not do. You no sing the
notes !—no time !—no tune !” “ Sing !” answered,
the extinct vocal volcano, “I. sing this song as
God has taught me to sing i,t!” “Oh, pardon !”
replied the organist, “ I did not know your friend,
was a musician !”
Parkes, as figured in a Sydney photor
graphic gallery, in stars and sword and Windsor,
uniform, is pronounced generally to be a sadden-
ing spectacle. In plain,black he has “ properties ”■
as a picture, but with “ those ornaments on” he
is voted to resemble the boss official of a con-
tinental hotel and to belong to. the same plane as
the gorgeous person who stalks around Sydney
G.P.0., or the draper’s handy man who does duty
a lit,tie. further up Pitt-street.
A brother Civil servant wrote anonymously
to Adelaide Advertiser charging Surveyor-
General Goyder with loss of memory and in-
capacity to make up In’s mind. The results were,
a libel-action and an abject apology on the part of.
the correspondent—reminding of the Scriptural,
curse of the serpent, “On thy belly shalt thou go
and dust shalt thou eat.” Now Goyder unavail-
ingly memorialises Ministers to secure the re-
instatement of his antagonist, who, however, has
been crushed too flat by the car of Juggernaut,
to be moulded into shape again.
Tho resignation by Ernest Blackwell of
the editorship of Brisbane Worker should carry a
counselling moral to the promoters of the pro-
jected democratic Sydney daily—the Post.
Blackwell seems to have been cross-hobbled as to
choice of effort; it has been stated that his literary
oteatiyeness was confined to one leader, a week on
a topic carefully selected for him ; the rest of his
duties consisted principally of hack-work. Such
a state of mental captivity means newspaper
paralysis. Tho editor of a paper that means to
achieve success must not only be trustworthy, but
he must be loyally trusted, ' He must write as lie
thinks—Without a gag.
Lady Jersey, writes an English paper, lias
some amusing reminiscences of her Australian
home. One is too truly piquant to omit. The
chief housemaid at Government House was suc-
cessful in captivating a tradesman who supplied
the vice-regal establishment, and they were duly
married. He was a man of considerable means,
and had got himself appointed a Justice of the
Peace, Now, by Australian Court etiquette, J.s’P.
have the right of appealing at the 1 Governor’s
levee on the Queen’s Birthday, and a large evening
party is always given in honour of the same event,
to winch those who have attended the levee are
invited with their wives. At this function thd
newly-married couple were present. “ I should
have been really pleased to see her,” said Lady
Jersey, “ but, oh ! imagine my feelings when! she
advanced towards me garbed in an exact counter-
part of the dress I was at the moment wearing
myself, which she had copied exactly. This dress,
which was of a conspicuous and novel colour direct
from Paris, I had never worn before, and could
never wear again in the colony.”
Ex-Premier Munrc
(Vic.) has gone to
Westralia to make a
fresh start.
When R. S. Smythe
visited England re
Brigand Stanley, Jie
dined one evening with
the Society of Odd
Volumes. Fred. Vfi-
llers was Srny the’s host,
and in introducing him
to the company, said
that his friend was a
man of varied parts,
distinguished as one of
the most enterprising
and able of entrepre-
neurs, and had “just
arranged with the great
traveller, Stanley, to
deliver a course of lec-
tures in Australia.”
The chairman rose, and
in a few graceful re-
marks welco me d
Smythe. The Society,
he said, was always
pleased to offer hospi-
tality to distinguished
gentlemen of any pro-
fession, but on this-
occasion they would
accord their guest a
specially warm greet-
ing, for was he not
about to confer the
greatest possible obli-
gation upon them, and
the community gener-
ally, by taking Mr.
Stanley out of the
country ? The cheers
which greeted this bit
of chaff might almost
have been heard in,
Sydney.
George Frederick Howard, or Petrie,
stands charged, at Brisbane (Q.), with having
caused an explosion on the steamer Aramac. So
far, the suspicions against the accused seem chiefly
to rest on some wild, bilious remarks he made,
mouths ago, in Sydney, against “double-breasted
parasites,” and an expressed yearning for explo-
si.ves in, order “to make an example of some of
tho plutocrats ; ” together with the fact that he
was a second-cabin passenger by the Aramac, and
is described as having been on deck (though he
declares that he was in his bunk) at the time of
the explosion A Sydney navvies’ganger named
Fitzpatrick, lias deposed that he was offered a
bnbe furn '? l liow l ard w . lUl and that
f me ™ cka rock and fuse were stolen
from stores mins charge as foreman.
FREDK. HOWARD, or PETRIE.
(Arrested in connection with the explosion on the
S.S. Arunac.)


PHOTOGRAPHY.
i (Portrait Piiorooiurnßiw)
floyal Arcade, &yc3.rxey*
■ - y/>
“Messrs. CHARTjKMONTstudy to keep tlreffl-
wives abreast with the various new mvl beauti-
ful processes in photography.
,\ clear head is indicative of good health and
regular habits. When tho body -is languid, and
the mind works sluggishly, Ayer’s Cathartic Pills
will assist in the recovery of physical buoyancy
and mental vigor.
ARE .YOU AFFLICTED
with
DYSPEPSIA,
' CONSTIPATION.
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
BACKACHE,
ACHING LIMBS, or
LIVER COMPLAINT?
If so. remedies are within your reach at a nominal
cost. ’ CLEMENTS TONIC and FLETC
2-j, « ETCHER S
PILLS liai’e-wa' yet -failed to cure the worst
cases. General debility, nervousness, weakness,
and general complaints of the digestive and nervous
systems are promptly cured by these reliable
remedies. They are prepared by scientific pro-
cesses, and are not merely mechanical mixtures
made only to ‘-gull the public.” The renown
CLEMENTS TONIC and FLETCHER'S
PILLS have won in Australasia is proof of the
fact that they stand pre-eminent for their special
classes of diseases. No remedies over sold gave
such entire satisfaction to their patrons, and
evidence is forthcoming from every city, town,
and village to prove their virtues. No doubt can
now exist as to their value, but purchasers must,
be careful to get the genuine articles as many
unscrupulous traders will attempt to i aim off a
substitute if possible, for the sake of extra profit.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MILLING
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE Emm,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES & BUGGIES’
lliam Fleming,
82 & 24 Clabkkcf. Struct,
s§S-;x''.
IS
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest, rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale; Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sibsei.
dsf
POLITICAL
POINTS
£170,000 to be saved annually in tlie
Victorian Civil Service.
Premier Kingston is exceeding the
anticipations of S.A. Labour-members.
The characteristics of “Honest Tom”
riayford are—long feet and a short memory.
Agitators are the cleansing boils of the
body politic ; they bring bad matters to a bead.
It is proposed that Albury (N.S.W.), and
Wodonga (Vic.), be incorporated as the Federal
Capital.
The land-grant railway scheme between
Port Augusta and Eucla (S.A.) has been squelched
by the Kingston Government.
nAw. Premier Dibbs, when Treasurer,
ton years ago, proposed to tax land Is. Bd. in the
JC on the annual income derived from it.
According to a Sydney paper. Melbourne
Vis contributed to Australian politics Loth the
phrases, “ stonewalling ” and “ the iron hand.
Speaki r Bent lias ruled that Vic. M.'sP.
must look at him when addressing the House, and
iow hbn. members are to patronise tho
efroshment-bar.
Again the trouble between Italy and
Ft .nee, Italy is in tho wrong. .She craves her
Alsace and Lorraine —Nice and Savoy—which
were plebiscited to France.
It is estimated that one-third of the refined
sugar landed in Sydney is refined in Mauritius
and China, and, under a Custom-house quibble,
entered at the port as “ raw ” sugar.
Since B. R. Wise and Freehill had their
“go-in” on the Irish question in Macmillan's
Magazine, the Macmillans decline to have any-
thing to do with Australian polemics.
“Queensland wilder the MTI wraith Govern-
ment resembles nothing so much as a live pigeon
plucked bare and left nude to shiver in the cold.’'
—Wide Bay News (Maryborough, Q.).
Somehow or other nobody credits N.S.W-.
ex-Treasurer M‘Millan with the sole authorship
of the (MS) lecture delivered by him at the
Sydney Bankers’ Institute the other night.
A S.A. parliamentary return disclosed
that, during a 35-hours’ train-journey, a party of
bon. members consumed liquors to the extent of
J 63 15s. 9d. per man. Good old Thirst, M.P.
In voting on Murray’s amendment con-
cerning the prosecution of Matthew Davies rc
Mercantile Bank, 40 members of Vic. Assembly
were afraid to record their opinions. The forty
S.A. Government is running relief works
on half-time so as not to tempt unemployed from
the other provinces. In someplaces the men have
to work up to their knees in water for 3s. the half-
day.
Premier Patterson has ukased that hence-
forth only Victorian coal shall be used on the Vic.
State railways. Which means, it is claimed, an
immediate saving of <£lBo,ooo a year to the pro-
vince.
Murray, M.L.A., is bringing forward a
motion that Mr. Pantou, P.M., should retire in
the interests of justice. Considering his conduct
in the Deerhnrst case, his scurvy remarks to a
foreigner, Slgismund Israel, "last year, and his
action in the Mercantile case, the motion seems
reasonable.
London Times, with
owlish ignorance, says
that the Vic. Govern-
ment’s policy of stimu-
lating and extending
production must shortly
cause the value of land in
the province to rise con-
siderably. The fatuous
Age reprints this opinion
(per.cable-) for the benefit
of local banks, and Fat
Man waddles down Col-
-1 ins • street proclaiming
that “the depression of
land prices is only tem-
porary.” All the while
owners of land, whether
banks or other bloated
insolvents, are hanging
on (to the tag end of
their boom valuations,
and even the present
paper iprice of property
will have to fall fifty per
cent., on an average,
before any rise becomes
ipossible.
A last week’s Argus on tho French
elections: “So far the result,is in favour of the
Republicans.” Lower down the numbers are up :
“Republicans, 301>; Radicals, 14; Conservatives,
44.” So far I
Absentees, mostly resident in London,
own wiimproved S.A. land values .worth
£4 088 20(1. Most of this represents the interest
,of the S. A. Co., which pays its shareholders,about
,15 per, cent.
G. 11. Reid, loader of N.S.W. Opposition,
.once more shakes out the late R.C. Archbishop
Vaughan's autograph letter, in which the cause o(
Free trade is commended. All the Vaughans wore,
and are, Freetraders.
The Betterment Bill was opposed on the
third reading in S.A. Legislative Council by
Angas, Bosworth, Addison, Duncan, J. L.
Stirling, and J. Warren, all squatters. The bill
was carried by four votes.
There is danger lest the hew single-
electorate N.S.W. Parliament be a Parliament of
aldermen—a Parliament to which, as it were,
cabbage-gardener Bent will tec returned every
time as against George Higiubothaui.
Preacher Northcott, of Albury (N.S.W.),
says that Labour is already sufficiently paid -
Then lie complains bitterly about the falling off’
in church attendance and church collections.
Well, the church is sufficiently paid also.
During the five years terminated On June
30 last, S. A. Ministers of the Crown, in travelling
expenses, banquets, &0., cost that province, iii
addition to their salaries, .£4897 15s. sd. The
Bulletin is astonished at their moderation.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) strikes a dang'er-
ous sectarian snag when he proposes to hand over
to the Salvation Army the reformatory homes of
that province. Equally arguable claims could ba
urged by (say) the St. Vincent de Paul Society.
Medway Day, in his paper, Adelaide
Voice, is writing just the kind of leaders one used
to read in S.A. Register (Which he Until lately
edited) oa the Land Values Assessment Bill. The
Register is silent now, because things havli
changed.
A N.S.Wk M.P., returned by the Demo-
cratic vote, was “ taken down ” for .£250 on the
racecourse the othpr day. Tiie Labour member
who gambles on a big scale is no good, and should
bo shunted. He is hound, in the long run, to be a
mere slave of “ the Jews.”
Sam Griffith last year reduced the salary
of Queensland members of Parliament from .£3OO
to £ 1 50, for the purpose of keeping out Labour
members, but was canny enough not to quit office
until his (then future, now present) salary as Chief
Justice was raised from .£2500 to <£3500.
Colonial Secretary Tozer (Q.) would not
“ pay”M.sT. ; but would only reimburse them
for out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending
the Hou so. In other words, he would only grease
the fat Parliamentary swine. A Labour-elected
member could not afford to attend for mere
“ expenses.”
Premier MTlwraith (Q.) : “ All the money
I ever got from the country as a member of Par-
liament, or a Minister, has gone entirely in the
expenses attached to my office, without consider-
ing election-expenses at all. I have never had a
single farthing out of it to keep myself.”—Q.
Hansard.
Weep, Queensland, weep, for Apoplexy’s woes,
Mourn for MacLandgrab, wail for Sh'mdycate ;
Lament, ye pallid poor, for Purple Nose,
The bleeding patriot of the much-bled State ;
In all his seasons of official pelt
He’s never had a cent to keep himself!
Cameron (squatter), M.L.A. for the
Mitchell (Q.), was distinctly .returned (through.a
split in the labour .vote) pledged to .One-man-one-
vote, and as an Oppositionist. lie sits and votes
with the MTlwraithians, and will have nothing
to do with Central Separation on a .One-man-
one-vote basis.
•■Colonial Secretary Tozer (Q.) has confessed
that -.Griffith’s .real aim last session, in cutting
down .payment to members, was to cripple the
Labour-party. Similarly, all in N.S.Wk \vho
believe in squelching Democratic representation
will vote 'for the D.ibbs Ministry’s proposal to
abolish payment.
'Queensland Parliament bids fair to cclipso
S. Australia in Democratic legislation. Hamil-
ton’s Bill to increase the.payment of members was
carried by 31 to 25 votes, and Thorn’s measure .to
allow litigants to he represented in« Court by any
person not necessarily a lawyer,.is read a second
time on the voices !
Jack Hamilton, M.P. Tor Cook (N.Q.),
“book-keeps” the question of .£l5O a year as a
member’s salary, thus Electioneering ex.’s, £l5O
"GO THOU AND DO LIKEWISE.”
(or £5O a year spread over three, years); postage
and telegraphic, £5O a, year; one visit each year
to his constituents, £OO a year; result—£lo a
year, in debt as payment for hra services.
John Gillies, M.L;A.-, and part proprietor
of the dreary, Pharisaical M ajti.avd Merotoy, is
prouder of the two local butchers his influence
raised to the Commission of the Peace than of any
other of his parliamentary aduevernents. And
this with good reason, fpr the engineering of those
appointments was the snpocme effort of his genius.
Did not tho Q. Labour-members advocate
land-nationalisation at tho last election? Why,
then, did they abstain from supporting Chataway’s
amendment on the Communal Settlements Pull,
and thus bolster up Minister Barlow’s “ultimate
. • > to create freeholds ? The canker*
worm of MMlgrab is gnawing the core of Northern
Democracy-
;Jß. D. Morchead (Q.) objects to Free
Education, which, ho says, is bringing about its
■own retribution even now. “If a good education
’ vas worth having it was worth paying for.
■Certainly, and l>>) the Mate. Someone paid to give
Unrehead a University education, and now he
Keoni- to doubt if it’s worth anything. So does
Till.; Bdllrtin, in tliis case. A circus-clown
•doesn't want a University education.
Advice to Young Men Dr, Uiehvrds’ ad., p. b
An electoral tactic now going for all tis
worth : Politician gets someone to write to the
daily papers accusing him of doing something
which he did not do. Then Brassyfaco demands
that “its you have allowed me to be traduced ill
your columns you will afford me room to prove
how different my conduct has been.” Whereupoh
lie blows his horn with might;
Archer, M.L.A., the nomimU leader of
the bentral Q. Separationists, wants to keep
MTlwraith in power. ‘‘l am,” he says, ‘a
Queenslander first and ;1 Separalionist afterwards;
What would be thought of the Home Ruler in the
British Parliament saying ho would keep Salis-
bury iu power, and that he was a Britisher first
and a Home Ruler afterwards?
Editor Bulletin, — lie naming Democratic
newspapers Citizen, Commonweal, People, &c.,
HOME MADE—AND SOLID.
NIGGER (rejerring to her first batch of bread) : “You cook 'cm ?"
THE BRIDE FROM Town: “Yowi.”
NIGGER [clearing out): “Budgory good time [?] chocky chocky,
bime by? My wud!”
I believe that those thus named are born with the
mark of death upon their brow. All stlie big
papers of the world have unaggressive titles—
World Times, Herald, Standard. Beware of
cant words. “A rose by any other pame would
smell as sweat.” —Felix Sundowner.
In the Freetra.de and Land-tax controversy
the Parkes party to-day stands exactly where ex-
Treasurer J. ,F. Burns posted it six years ago.
“We” he cried, at the conclusion of a Lapmet
meeting, one afternoon, of that period “are as a
party positively in favour of a land-tax, blit ,1
pledge my reputation that I will so economise ps
,to prevent the necessity of imposing it.
M'llwraith’s next move may be to captm'o
the leadership of the Q. Labour-party. Disgusted
beyond measure With The blanky mob behind
him” (verbatim).-, financially crippled; unable,
with his dimderbeaded supporters,, to carry out Ins
schemes of grab,,the vista of a great Socialistic
state with MTI wraith as director-pr-chief begins
to have charms for the weary dictator.
The-“ Vagabond ’’considers Chief Justice
Griffith’s conversion to black-labour politics as
largely the work of his tongue and pen. VV hyn
,1 ulian Thomas visited Brisbane eight years ago,
the Griffith party did its best to dyny him a
hearing, but he tlie.n said that the seed he sowed
would grow despite all opposition, and that
Griffith, if alive, would be among, the first with
his scythe at the harvest-time.
Among the -recently-published return of
S A Ministerial expenses are sqme queer items.
Thus the Premier and Treasurer, one of whom is
a teetotaller, once consumed liquor to the extent
of £7 10s. between Adelaide and Melbourne. A
Cabinet, engaged in chopping down Civil Service
salaries, dined at the expense of J.3s. id. eaqh and
charged the total amount to the treasury.
Treasurer Playford’s idea of making a
budget speech is to rattle through the figures
supplied by his officials and to sandwich between
them some moreor less coherent comments. 1 ben
he condemns the reporters because the printed
result is neither artistic nor intelligible.
lie has been nearly a quarter of a century m l are
liament, he says lie has invariably been villain-
ously reported.”
Premier Patterson states thatj he has 110
feeling of excitement whatever” about the Mer-
cantile Bank case. Nobody supposed that he had.
One of his colleagues tried to persuade him that
it was his duty to feel a little bit excited, and
Patterson promptly cast the disturbing influence
forth from the Ministry. After winch he felt as
calm and collected on the subject as O Loghlcn, or
Pant on, P.M.
M Timotheus ”y,Willoughby thus gives away
his own organ, the AiiGUS .
You sell the laud worth £5 an acre for £l, and you buy
it back for £lO per acre, SO ns to give the poor man
another £1 per acre* dhanfcO. Ahd this pleasant process
might go on for ever. ’ It lets the patriot in with a cry,
and does not shut out'the jobber from the pickings.
Landdeasing must become the land-reform Water-
loo.
Morgan, M.P. for Warwick (Q.), like the
average country-newspaper man, is an expert rail-
straddler. He sits on one of the Opposition cross-
benches, principally for show and to disguise
the vote he always gives. A congenial ornament
that ho wears is a shark s tooth, set in gold, as a
pendant to his watch-chain. Recently, during a
minor division, each party in the Assembly howled
at him to “go over to the other side; we don t
want yor ! ’
During the recent Queensland Parlia-
mentary debate, it was shown that those who
voted against payment of members represented
the metropolis and the metropolitan district ele©*
torale.s. Anti so in N.S.W. the i-liief opponents
'of payment will bo lawyers, who make a living
out of membership, and the shoddycratic(National
Ass, whose members, even if direct payment were
abolished, would continue to go tea-diumming in
tho provinces on their Parliamentary railway -
passes.
Whisperfed that S.A. Government has
marked out for retrenchment the recently-tilled
Postmaster-General (.£1000), the septuagenarian
Registrar of Deeds (£(>00), and the highly-paid
Surveyor-General (£1400). The first entered the
service in 1851, the second in ’<«); and the third ill
>52. At Jbast one Of the Audit Commissioners
(£100(1 each) is also believed doomed to des-
truction, while the Chairman of the Railway
Commissioners (£2500) will probably lose bis posi-
tion at the end of the term of Ins present engage-
mem t.
Once upon a time
a member lor Tannul;
fell asleep on the
N. S. W. Opposition
benches and voted for
thenoes in eight divi-
sions, and against his
party, without waking
Up.
• ‘ If killing is to
fetOp it is for messieurs
the assassins to be
-in.” This is the oh|
gag ” the S.M.
Hkkai.u once more,
delivers at the foot of
lue gallows, believing
that i ts cribbed words
constitute an argu-
mentative poser. It
indeed assassins-, and
assassins only, desired
•killing to stop them
would be rude argu-
ment in the Gallic
persiflage, but it is
just those who con-
tinue it or desire it to
goon. Society does
*lOl say to a man Hi
not rob you if you do
not rob;” it says,,
“As robbery vs
wrong,' neither you
nor 1 must commit it;
if you commit it, 1
will punish you, but
not by doing what you
did.” Then, again 1 ,
,tho “gag’’misfits the
•social conditions, f t
assaf-sination ceas6(l
,in Trance, judicial
killing might stop;
but in N..S. Wales ft
would go merrily on
for about a -score qf
other offences.
The member of Parliament who is 1"
business for himself can save at least -filfiO a year
by the use of his railway pass, and if necessity
takes him to other provinces, lie saves mucjti more
in railway fares. For he can personally do the
buying, &c,, for his business, and thus obtain great
advantages over his competitors. It is just tips
sort of sleek patriot .who opposes adequate, or any
payment of members. Yet another retrenchment
hero is he who has inherited money, m who
married a rich wife who is dying to be a lady
or, the wife of an “ honourable. ’ Ihen again the
city “ niembah ” “does not deem it advisable to
hold,opt a bait to needy adventurers' while, he
himself has made a colossal fortune by paying
.himself ” as a politician' through “ influence.
|3ome remarkable railway statistics, have
come to light in Speight v. Syme. On one
political State railway, Morwell to Iraralgon, the
average number of passengers per train one month
was four-fifths of a passenger, who realised Is. Od.
A sudden increase took place during the next
mqnth, and the average went np with a bound to
t li passengers, and the revenue to 2s. lOd. per
train. On the line from Stratford to Sale for 11
days out of 30 there was no traffic whatever, afid
on the other 19 days the number of passengers
ranged from one to four. Though these lines did
not realise enough revenue, to pay for matches to
light the engine fire it was decided not to Close
them as “the saving effected would be small ns
compared with the general public convenience !


" The Darling pea is a nice-looking plant.
Horses eat it even when other feed is obtainable,
and having once tasted it they cannot keep away
from it,"
)
They will also try to climb trees.”
“ When horses eat they become drunk or mad, and continue so.
Under the influence of the pea thay behave, in the wildest manner.
They will run at persons who may, be in the paddock, and attack
them in a most eccentric way.”
And occasionally seemingly to attempt
suicide by running their heads against stumps
and fences,”
<^7^ ling,
“ Having once tasted the Darling peas horses will eat
nothing else if they can obtain it.”
“ They ultimately fall into a wretched condK
tion, gradually wasting away, and their madness
ends only with death,”
DIBBS ON THE DARLING PEA.


ds
SW'l N OJLE
oK v has
Returned.
Vtt* four 777 <777 awcl he 11
ff'JTazi a -f ot - dot* hie. lie
Che a:nori>i f 7 "
V<an/<ee ' feishof*, C?o Urn
fn Co fd r< * 0 ~fkof jur&nCa day
of A l*'dtio n and
S/- nan cal J.
Coned/ff° n ■ cftci fours act.
j&jskofi £° e - y / ' ci " / ”t ae v ™ " ch •
•J 4 are cAaste n e d fo ur~
Ttjt S r fra.*<fktette£■
. <*•'
V
x v
N*3s
OOHROS
VAN
fds
The female passengers on the railways who
have a weakness for travelling in goods
trains have scared the guards. / Gases have
occurred In which- the guards have been
accused of insulting female passengers in the
vans, and a few months ago a complaint of
this nature, after a secret inquiry by the
department, resulted in the dismissal of the
guard though he protested innocence.
/&? C'i'ar&l —|
ja/e i
unless ?7o '
I'eu rs -/rfese.
7? a- a s' ,«
rfaurn.
■<%
fd
rfl Cor ho*-a. 7/ o tl,
7a*- /S ?A<i- /<z,fes7
y uyye 9 T/o >%
c " r '< Sff
Z roi f{ r^fi
__ 7 Ratrendh-
meni, he says. might be effected In
dpmg «waj with the single men's quarters, and
in * “>• »en t 6 board with married 090-
S/rtjPe Cortsfa iZe.
lAin A/nf of Jirinf uriM
Afa mecl tyu tfo Jijr
° Mol~-much '
?uSi |C
■ • ’ -O- _
\ ’
-II th. Government u not .upper tea 0B
hn T ° f «*
(th«r with fh U,# t 0 ‘ ,rooeed f,lr-
- r W ’ tb tbt 80h era® of retrenchment.”
" jyeScrj'/- S£4 Afao? / we
3 SA<*A2 Accts* 7TT
S/T
<?/o z*~r\ •'
A/. S.WMt*
rt. M. Ct/t i
NoTies. |
Chi ►va_i>i e vt.
sa.Uiwt IVv ts I
XV Xv'i 11 P
rxoT Joe }3tosecuTe<H.r
£/>€•* her &e*Tfc-
° YbuVe tfo/' ?ook
o"*“?ne **~A. trn yoz* £/>**,% S'**
bridge ow tbr Murray at Alburr
threatening a collapao. Ito qairaruig i*
traooabU to old ago, and not to ita griof at
tbo unraoiprooal rolatiooibip of tbo two
jprorioc.. -blob it oeonoota “5* rf* ► <i'
Mr. I’anton saM,—
(1 rejp-et very mucn tnai such a case ns this
should have come before the Court without
ion inquiry in.the first instance.
(That theaccused was not oioeof the criminal
i class was apparent—the very sound pt his
voice would have shown that
/Ton 7?ft(. - p . (7 o Jo /■/sorter)
" 7?ec/ie ct i/erse of-
-2/ft/e atncft P’JJ Soon
ft77our jSaiM, 7be/o on.g~/o'
~//i4 <?f~im/na.7 a/aS’Jes. "
vitro* 1 *
I
He Tit-e— N °
IBRCKS
O N
CH/Nft M£/V
i?v o n o)?i>
5^-ig
A LOOK BOUND MELBOURNE.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Cool yard ie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, ami must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next-
few years. One of the best investments at present-
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., Pittstreet, Sydney,,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
illO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and!
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight-
dealing. The manager is Mr, W, J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
LADIES.-
A Pair of onr Handsome Engraved
Annnian Hold Bar UK OOC lIKH
Posted to any address for Stamps (any Colony), 2s. 6d.
J'uulknor it (o , 3SO Flinders Cano, MELBOURNE.
mum SALVATION,
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. 1K715T. HERMANN,
the' kicat. French Specialist. His treatise on “ Woumn's
Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope, upon applica-
tion l>\ letter, enclosimr three stamps, to 45 Collins
Place. COLLINS STREET, MKLHOUItNE.
Scorn
Scrubby
Imitations
Sold by
Scurrilous
Scoundrels’
Drink only
WOLFE’S
Schnapps
Buy Whole
Bottles
and 'look
out for
£'
Orders.
Society
A well-known Melbourne medico has long
been married and a paragon of respectability, yet,
in the small hours he is often rung up, not to visit
patients, but to bail out quondam pals. Always
a good fellow, he responds cheerfully. The last
demand on him, however, was almost beyond his
powers. The message came: “Bring down £1
and two hats, sizes G 7-Bths and ?4.” He went,
but the strayed ones had to do the best they
could with a tasselled smoking-cap and a varie-
gated straw-decker.
« * «
A certain “great singer” went into a
Sydney photographer’s, the other day. To
operator: “ Will you swear by the glory of God
not to exhibit any of my pictures ? ” The camera-
man promised. Subsequently, as the operator
attempted to arrange her dress in artistic folds :
“Go away : don’t touch me. I allow no man to
come near me.”
* # #
A Sydney detective who received carte-
blanche from a patron tendered an account lately,
in which one item was a landlord’s claim for three
months’ rent for a three-storyed furnished house.
The “D. ” explained that ho found it necessary
to take the house so as to be next door to his
victim.
# * m
One of the days on which N.S.W. Chief
Justice Dariey was lately confined to his house
with bronchitis, the Sydney press made him send
word that “ he could not go to court,” and, in
reference to an “At Home ” at Gov. Duff’s, that
“he deeply regretted he was unable to go to
Government House.” Perhaps the Chief Justice’s
message was no more curt in one case than in the
other, but the Sydney press evidently thought it
should have been.
# * #
As N.S.W. law at present stands, a man
who disobeys an order of the court, in a matter of
£5, may be sent to prison, and will not be allowed
to file his schedule in forma pauperis till he has
spent 12 months there. If, however, when the
order is issued he steals £5 from anyone and pays
it in he will, it convicted of the offence, be sent
to gaol for only three months or thereabouts. As
life is short, the nett balance of liberty figured out
from a comparison of the two transactions is con-
siderable.
« • •
A fetching little German woman, accused
in Melb. Divorce Court of infidelity with a tram-
conductor (tram-conductors appear as dangerous
as tenors), being questioned as to whether she had
ever kissed the co., gave an indignant negative;
but when asked if he had kissed her she dropped
an uninistakeable wink at his Honor. She carried
the court completely with her, and it consented to
overlook her non-compliance with certain legal
formalities and allow the case to be re-opened.
LAM 0 /V)AP A/ j.iV
If you art
you will hr
Fat.
OTHELLO’S OCCUPATION.
SCHOOLMA'M: “And what does your father do?”
NEW BOY: “He drinks.”
Gov. Duff’s narrative to the Sydney Boys’
Brigade, last week, of the career of Baronet Clark,
physician to Her Gracious, was an intense effort
to magnify toadyism into heroism and genius.
Clark merely owed his luck to the illness of n
senior ship’s surgeon and the fact that the Queen’s
mother fancied she was very ill. Hundreds of
professional men owe their success to mere
accident. The vogue of xriany a doctor simply
depends on whom he happens to be iflarried to.
In the centres of civilisation ychi can pay a
fashionable physician £\ 4s. for a consultation ;
but in the same city you can, if ydu know where
to go, get equally sound and experienced medical
advice for Bs. 6d. from some poor devil in a back
street.
« « *
Melbourne’s chief magistrate, the popular
Panton, has quite unintentionally dispelled the
mystery of his recent refusal to sign a criminal
summons in the Mercantile Bank matter. The
secret of Panton’s powers to distinguish between
cases that are suspicious or otherwise seems to
have slipped out last week. A harmless citizen
was charged, thanks to the reckless stupidity of
his accuser and the police, with a ‘‘confidence”
swindle. There was no doubt about him not being
a spieler, and, moreover, the victim of mistaken
identity had witnesses to prove an alibi. But
spielers do run in all shapes and styles.
However, Panton said: “That the accused
was not one of the criminal class was
apparent—the very sound of his voice would
have shown that.” God has endowed very
few people with the gift of detecting the accents of
educated crime. As far as The Bulletin knows
the oar of Panton is phenomenal. It ought to be
moulded in wax and exhibited along with Deem-
ing’s “Hands that did the Deed.” (If you are
ready, Mr. Panton, we will play the overture.
Here are words and music for you);—
It was rumoured in Melbourne last week that
magistrate Panton had Sent in his resignation. A
very idle rumour. The policy of the country is
to ignore clamour, and enjoy the consciousness of
one’s own integrity. Look at the amount of
clamour that Bryan O’Loghlen has ignored !
* * *
A Yankee firm of female barbers (hair,
not hotel) contemplate starting in Melbourne.
Yes, who is “ George
Edwards Bulmer, lieutenant
in the Devon Artillery Mili-
tia, ” who has been “ap-
pointed a lieutenant on pro-
bation for six months in the
N.S.W. Regt. of Artillery?”
• • •
Apparently, Comman-
dant Hutton desires to re-
construct the N.S. Wales
“ forces ” on British army
corps lines. A sudden in-
spection of the warlike stores
might reveal that much al-
leged “effective” material is
less hurtful than boiled
onions. The Commissariat
and Transport corps, at pre-
sent, when there is a whole-
day parade for three regi-
ments, marching only a few
miles out, doesn’t seem to
manage the victualling with-
out the assistance of several
waggons belonging to certain
big city grocers and butchers.
The military genius of N.S.
Wales, up to date, seems to
achieve—peace efficiency on
a war footing.
# • •
The depression! The
percentage of marriages per-
formed has fallen throughout
Australia,” Only “urgent”
marriages are solemnised
now.
Dear Bulletin, —You say, in a recent
par.
Is there anything In the 'fact that nearly all those
ruffians in wax aboard the convict hulk Success (now
■doing good trade in Brisbane) have light-blue eyes?
Yes, there is—a great deal. From long experience
as a police-reporter, I find that the big majority of
sneak-thieves and confidence-men have hazel eyes;
the violent criminals— i.c., garotters and mur-
derers, have generally light-blue eyes and reddish
moustaches. The “ pettr-toucher ” — i.c., the till-
thief, is nearly always a boy under 20 or a middle-
aged mail with a dark beard, small nose, and little
grey eyes. Likewise, his head drops away from his
forehead in a gentle slope. Very few big-nosed men
are to be found among criminals. A big nose seems
to carry honesty and generosity with it. The only
vices of the big-nosed man are alcohol and Flossies;
■otherwise he is an angel. (I am a big-nosed man
myself.) Strangely enough, the women of the
town are mostly small-nosed, and have large blue
•eyes. The larger the eye and the deeper the blue
and the smaller the nose —the mOre is the owner of
them a perfect lady. There are two kinds of
women who are absolutely safe to marry—the big,
masterful, and yet gentle, lady with dark hazel
■eyes, a generous nostril, and a short npper-lip—
■or the little, small-faced woman with the dog
nature. But both of them must have hoses for
their chief feature, and their mouths must not turn
down. I would say something about the red-
haired girl, but you seem to like red-haired girls,
and I don’t want to give offence.—A Big-Noseu
Man.
• • •
One of J udge Windeyer’s ordinary work-
ing-days in the N.S.W. Divorce Court averages
generally the disposal of about 20 suits. Taking
one of last week’s daily records at hazard—2o cases
heard—lo rules nisi granted ; two cases adjourned
for further evidence; one decision reserved till
next day; one suit failed. Sixteen out of the 20
cases were suits brought by dissatisfied wives, the
grounds of complaint in almost every instance
being (or including) “desertion.”
CATHERINE BARTHA.
(Prémière Danseuse of the Williamscn-Musgrove New Opera Co.)
The rapidity of divorce-getting in N.S.W.
now almost parallels the practised beak’s method
of running through the list of “drunks” on a full
charge-sheet— “ Five shillings or the rising of the
court. » . Next. . , Twenty shillings or 10
days. . . Next.” By the rule of progression
we shall soon have Judge Windeyer chirping: “De-
serted you? Just so; rule nisi, returnable three
months. . . Next. . . Sliced you with a chopper;
drunkenness; ’dultery? Rule nisi; ’turn’ble
three months. . . Next’’—and so on.
* • *
And, by the way, since a man and a woman
can get married for half-a-crown, why shouldn’t
they be able to get divorced for half-a-crown ? The
two events are equally momentous ; only there is
less uncertainty of future attached to a divorce
than to a marriage. Further, why shouldn’t a
man, when he contracts the two-and-sixpenny
marriage, be allowed to take a return ticket for,
say, 4s. ?
• • •
How stands the creed of “woman’s rights”
in relation to divorce? Would the dears like to
occupy the present footing of men in regard to it?
Suppose Snuggles, for instance, takes divorce pro-
ceedings against Mrs. Snuggles, with half-a-dozen
co-respondents, the facts being notorious? Mrs.
Snuggles may go to a lawyer, who can immediately
demand from Snuggles £2O or .£3O, as the case
may be, to enable Mrs. Snuggles to defend the
suit I Snuggles may refuse to pay. Madarne’s
lawyer applies to the Court, and gets a judicial
order for (say) £2O (with “ costs of this applica-
tion,’’ £lO iOs.); also an order for alimony of
■(say) 255. a week till the suit is settled. Snuggles
now wants to abandon the suit as a luxury beyond
his means. But lie can’t! He must pay the
lawyer’s costs and the Court’s order, or—six
months in gaol. Then he must pay the alimony,
or—l 2 months in gaol. Beyootifnl!
• * *
Or, suppose that Mrs. Snuggles com-
mences a divorce against Snuggles. Her lawyer
can immediately dun Snuggles for funds with
which to carry on a suit against himself, and one
that may socially blast him for years. The alter-
natives are—pay up or go to gaol. That is why
there is not heard much feminine outcry about
“ woman’s rights” in the divorce-courts.
• # #
Some Paraguayan statistics. From March
’92 to Feb. ’93, in Asuncion, 'the capital of
Paraguay, 984 people died, 222 were married, arid
120 were born. During the months of -March,
April, June, ’92, not a single birth was registered.
Eight deaths for every birth 1
* # #
Says Julia Nicholson, in the N. AMERICAS’
Review : “ Australian women aspire to the
freedom and independence of American women,
and stand in awe of the presence and traditions of
English women.” The lady ought to peruse tho
records of Australian Divorce Courts.
# * *
By the decision of the Judges in a recent
big Tasmanian will-suit, in which a destroyed will
and other more or less sensational matters were
discussed, a Sydney engineer, a native of Hobart,
becomes the possessor of real estate to the value
of over £12,0J0 with back rents, &0., thrown in.
Two medical practitioners who came to
blows over the liver of a patient five years ago
are now members of the honorary staff of a Sydney
hospital, and so bitter was the enmity of that old
feud that they refuse still to speak to one another,
and declined last week to act together on a case to
which they were invited.
** * _
One or the allegations against a Balmain
man sued for divorce is that he used to take his
wife’s only set of false teeth with him to his office
every morning and keep them there till he returned
night. History repeats itself. Such conduct
was alleged against a husband in a celebrated
Sydney divorce case years ago.
# # #
The star dancers brought out by manager
Musgrove from the Continent are Catherine
Barth a (whose likeness is here given) and
Enrichetta D’Argo, the latter taking the place of
Santori, who was unable to come. Mdle. Bartha
ranks as A 1 at St. Petersburg and Moscow
Imperial theatres, where nothing sho.'t of ex-
cellence goes down, and Signorina D’Argo took
honours at San Carlo, Naples, last season. Eight
leading coryphees were engaged in London. The
rest of. the ballet is to consist of local talent, and
altogether there will be nearly 200 legs on the
stage at suoreme moments. Some of the local
talent has delighted the ballet-mistress, they say.
• • #
Melbourne “ society ” lady journalist :
“I missed many well-known faces from the
reception at Government House on Thursday.”
Naturally—the reception was not held at Pentridge
prison.
* * *
The Alters, discussing daffodils ; “ Somo
of the English names given the daffodils are
prettier than the Latin ones. One red-tipped one
is the Pheasant’s Eye, another the Hoop Petti
coat.” Ye gods!. Hoop Petticoat!! The ArguL
would not object to a rose called the Wire Bustle
or the Liyer Pad.
* * •
Prompted by the demolition of that old
Sydney landmark, “ Hancock’s Tower,” the local
papers have suddenly started reminiscences of the
crank, “ Bob ” Hancock, who kept the Tower Inn
in Geoi-ge-street, opposite the railway station.
Hancock died over 20 years ago in a Bay-street
public house, where he was alleged to have kept a
hareia. Ho made a will whereof John Cecil Read,
.ex-governor of Darlinghurst Gaol, was the execu-
tor, leaving the bulk of his property between two
female acquaintances, but shortly afterwards a
second will was put forward by an attorney’s
clerk. A trial as to the validity of this will took
place in the Supreme Court before Judge Hargrave
and a jury—Mr. Dailey appearing in support
of it. 4
This second will recognised the two ladies pro-
vided for in the first, and left big sums to Rand-
wick Asylum.; it also included several other per
For thirty years, or more,
I’ve studied criminality ;
I'm deep in alt the lore
Of evil personality.
I always know for certain when
The prisoners are guilty men—
They only have to cough, and then
I recognise rascality ;
For crime is in reality
Denoted by a certain tone
Of voice alone to Panton known.
A wonderful fatality
In finding out a way to speak
Betrays a felon to the beak.
Remanding cases for a week
With me is a formality,
(Chorus ) With Mm is a formality,
A man is brought along ;
There’s guilt potentiality—
The evidence is strong
In circumstantiality.
I ask him what he has to say—
How cunning is the Panton lay !
He answers in a pleasing way
With purest punctuality.
Ills innocent vocality
la far beyond all disbelief —
The case, in brief, has come to grief.
With strict impartiality
I let the lawyers still proceed,
To lengthy speeches giving heed ;
But all the time I know, indeed,
That's merely a formality—
(Chorus) The funniest formality.
Mat Davies has a voice.
Its tender cordiality
Makes seraphim rejoice ;
It indicates magnality.
Some charge attaching to a bank
Is laid against that man of rank ;
Unlike the late lamented “crank”
Of Irish nationality,
/ know no illegality
Could lie attached untoTiis act;
I’ve heard Sir Matthew sing, in fact,
A top-note of morality.
From nobler nature never came-
l’ll bet my life he’s not to blame ;
This summons is a social shame,
Although a mere formality.
(Chorus ) The merest mere formality.


Mrs. Ruppert,
The World-renowned Complexion Specialist,
.r:
wwi
j>EGS to inform her
numerous Clients
that her SKI X TOXIC
is AiisoLtiTKLY harmless.
Some of the most cele-
brated London doctors
and chemists have
analys'd all her pre-
parations, and abso-
lutely found nothing in
t hem to injure the most
delicate skin.
HlilX TONIC tones,
Invigorates, tines not
HLKACII the natural
colour, is excellent for
all eruptions, dis-
colour itions, etc.
Price —Single Rot tie,
12 1! ; Three, 32 ft.
SKI* SO.ll%. unexcelled,,ls. ltd.,
Mr*. nUrPKJIT wii’ica it lo be msTixcTU t'SDBR"
STOOD THAT am, OKNtTINK GOODS bear the address* o'
Hie Hrad dmffl,SO RKGKNT STRUCT. LONDON, os nil-;
Labkui, and that her only Ayenry In A nstrnlin h
No. 12, The Strand, SYDNEY.
T'oTbr Dkak.— A Gentleman whocured himself
o! Deafness and Noises in the Head after H years'
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of tlje
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, ,‘W Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
| ‘ w
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF FT A NOS
AUSTRALIA.
IN
No Better Yat.uk to be Obtained Elsewhere,
the “VICTOR” AND “ BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially lo Our Order.
Their Sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the post ten years that they have
become unquestionably tlie MOST I’OPUt.AK of all low-
priced Piaftos. Our principle from the first, has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, ns a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions,
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STF-INWAV AND SONS, .1111,1 IS PEUIMCH,
TIERED AND I,ECU I,EITER, CAUL ECIvE,
THE “ VICTOR ” And TUP. “ BEDDING.”
Pianos hy dll Good Makers.
KSTPA ORGANS, DOUSE VS BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New anti Popular Music,
sons. Dailey 1b alleged to have pledged hi*
reputation that the will was genuine, and made
a pathetic appeal on behalf of the “poor people ”
defrauded by the first will. The jury, however,
found the will a forgery, and someeight'person's, undo
and female,, were committed for trial, amongst them
being the attorney’s clerk and a then well-known
coloured gentleman. The latter was acquitted
early in the case, and, as ho left the spikes, asked
Chief Justice Martin, who presided, if he left the
Court without a “stain.” Tho Chief stuck his
eyeglass in its usual place, surveyed tho dark-
skinned enquirer very carefully all over, and
jokingly replied : “ Well, I am not quite pre-
pared to say that." Most of the arraigned were
convicted, the chief culprit getting seven years,
and the others smaller sentences.
# a #
One afternoon last week Gov. Duff and
family visited a Japanese shop in Pitt-strect, Syd-
ney, leaving two girls in short frocks in tho
carriage. Soon tho approaches to the shop were
blocked by people, mostly well-dressed, wiio stood
on each other’s toes and craned their necks round
the corners inside the shop. Then both sides of
the street became blocked—mostly with women.
So enthralled were they that no one spoke, save
one fat creature with a handsome dress, high com-
plexion, and eyes like a long-dead schnapper’s;
who sighed steitorously, and, indicating the
children in ihe carriage, said, “ Ain’t they lovely,
the sweet pets !” Republican Australia !
w * #
The recent Victorian free-pass exposure
failed to make public the fact that one lady friend
of a certain member living some distance from the
metropolis, has been in the habit ot travelling for
two years past “on the nod” with her “boy’s”
pariiamentary ticket.
* # #
Women’s subscriptions to Sydney School
of Arts have been reduced to 10s.—half-price,
while men’s remain at £l. Disguise it as. one
may, this is a pure act of grace on the part of such
men as voted for tiie proposal, and of grab on the
part of the women, who voted to put IPs. annually
into their own pockets. Women earn less than
men and can’t afford to pay so much; they also
use far more hooks and give far more trouble to
the attendants. And yet—curious inconsistency !
—the reduction movement was headed by the
women’s righters, who scorn to- be dependent on
Man !
# # *
When N.S.W, Parliament was prorogued,,
many members were heavily in arrears to the
refreshment-room. A list of the defaulters would
open people’s eyes.
# # *
One of the characters of the Hargraves
district (N.S.W.) is a Chinese hermit, who lives-
on native bears and wild honey. No man can
get a word out of him, but report saith that, hr
days gone by, some miners sold for <£loo to tho
yellowskin a white girl, who ran away. That is
John’s little romance.
* * #
The new geyser near Taupo-, the grandest
in Maori laud, which started business a few months
ago with a select stock of steam,, sulphur, boiling
water, and assorted rainbows, works strictly on
union principles a steady eight hours daily, resting'
peacefully in its mud-hole for the remaining six-
teen. Several pious Scotchmen are trying just
now, each on his own account, to get a fee simple
of the- geyser from the Maoris, bub the natives
know too much for Sandy and won’t “part.”
# # •
Justice Hartley Williams- (Vic.) says “a.
man may bo driven to adultery.” A dangerous
doctrine,, though the poor woman who has been
driven to adultery is not an unfamiliar personage
mi the divorce-courts.
# * #
On Monday, Aug. 15, only 400 children-
out of 4124 on tho rolls attended the four principal
Adelaide State Schools. Measles ! by which
several news pa per-reporters have also been i ncapaei-
tated.
m * *
Adelaide Hospital Board has just spent
£14,00P, raised by private subset!ptions, in build-
ing a new wing, but the Govt, is too poor to
spare the extra <£9oo* a year needed for its main-
tenance, and there is a danger of its remaining
closed till brighter days dawn. “ There is
that which witliholdcth more than is meet and it
tendeth to poverty !”
• * •
Book-arcade Cole, of Melb., has written a
booklet on the evils of tight-lacing.
• * *
A Sydney wine and spirit merchant has
been fined .£lOO, with £5 ss. costs, for selling to a
lady customer six quarts of stout—just two quarts
less than the legal minimum quantity permitted
to be sold under a wine and spirit licence.
* # *
Christie Murray was speaking of some
Melbourne saints, “Ah!” he said, “ they have a
perfect concupiscence for virtue.” The phrase
glove-fits Antoinette Sterling and the rest of tho
shrieking gang of mixed-sexes who discuss “the
age of consent ” in public.
* • *
Father Carroll, of South Melbourne, ad-
dressing that slobbersome institution, the Mel-
. bourne Austral Salon, in a discussion on
“Costume,” lapsed into metaphor and gravely
announced that his mission “ was to undress
women.” The Salon took him literally, and smiled
at the idea of this original and attractive ecclesias-
tical function. It didn’t blush. Any woman who
lias listened to Antoinette Sterling for half-an-honr
uses up the supply of blushes for a lifetime.
# # #
A “highwayman,” who has haunted the
neighbourhood of New Plymouth (M.L.) for
several months past, was ignominionsly captured
the other day while attempting to “stick-up” a
public-house. He proved to be a young man of
“good familj,” belonging to the local Y.M.0.A.,
and a bright ornament of tiie church. He had
become 'afflicted with the penny scalp novel with
the red cover, and when the contents of that pub-
lication had accumulated in his system lie used to
go out on the roacj at night, and scare old gentlemen
out of their money and jewellery at the muzzle of
a big revolver. Now Plymouth lias lived in terror
of its “highwayman” for nearly three months,
and now that tho desperado is in gaol, and proves
to be a woak-looking young baritone belonging to
the local choir, it feels very small indeed.
* # *
Sydney is on the eve of a very sensational
scandal. In high life", of course. Apropos of
scandals, within the past tiiree weeks two bank
officials (one a cashier) have drawn too much coin.
# # #
Parson Curzon-Siggars—there are a good
many ways of pronouncing this name, but Curse-
On-Cigars is probably as near right its any of
them—of Ballarat (Yio.), states that marriages con-
ducted by the church are made in heaven, and
marriages conducted in registry-offices are not.
Well, the registry-office is a recent invention, and
until a few years ago all marriages, according to
tho rev. cigar-curse man, must have been made in
heaven. And, judging by tho crime records, the
heavenly marriage is quite as apt to end in a
divorce or a badly-injured and jumped-upon wife
as is the earthly variety. The present writer once
saw an English wedding party, bride included,
all run in for intoxication, and shut up in the colls
for the night, less than six hours after a church
marriage.
# * *
Said Chief Justice Madden, sentencing a
man in Melbourne Criminal Court for assault and
robbery committed three years before his arrest —
“ It is most desirable that it should be thoroughly
understood, particularly ly persons of your class,
that though the law is sometimes slow, it is pretty
sure, and will prevail in the end.” —
It is a good rule to accept only such medicine*
as are known to be worthy of confidence. The
experience of thousands proves that Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral is the best medicine over used for throat
and lung diseases.
[ Advice bo Young Men -Ur. Richards’ nab, p. 1.
An Adult Suffrage Bill ia before B.A.
Parliament. It does not give the right to women
to sit in Parliament, while it remits the question
of the franchise to a Referendum, first of the
electors and then of all women over 21 years old.
The Referendum ia coming, and the Upper House
going, all the while.
Labour-member Hoolan (N.Q.) got “right
on to the point’’with Oorfield, M.P., when thelatter
said that he had given a pledge to his constituents
to vote against any increase in the payment of
members:—“As be met no constituency except
the returning-officer, I hope ho will enlighten us
as to whom he gave his pledge.” Corfield was
declared elected owing to a declaration that his
opponent’s nomination was informal, the return-
ing-officer who so ruled being an employe of
Corfield.
Victorian distilleries are practically subsi-
dised to the extent of .£50,000 a year— the differ-
ence between the rates of excise and import duty
upon the quantity of spirits produced in the pro-
vince. As a national financial policy—apart alto-
gether from the great question of whisky as an
influence on the public health —the differential
rate of duty is a success. Victoria raises at least
£75,000 worth (cost price) of spirits in excess of
N.S.W., where the local distiller is practically
wiped out for want of the protective “subsidy.”
The old, old tragic farce of disintegration
by jealousy is being enacted with the Labour-
party in the Q. Assembly. Secret joy is indulged
in because honest, fighting Tom Glassey has gone
to “the States,” and “may he never come back” is
the inward hope of several whose personal am-
bition is greater titan their Democratic integrity.
John Hoolan has been practically engineered out
of tlite leadership of the party, and now generally
“speaks only for himself,” while two or three
others, badly afflicted with big-head, are intriguing
to “jump his claim.”
Says Reynolds :
The landlords of Wales have escaped the odium of
public opinion too long. Some of the customs prevailing
on agricultural estates in Wales remind one of the Middle
Ages, such as the tenant being obliged to supply the land-
lord’s household gratis with cheese, the tenant doing all
the cartage a'nd coal carrying free for the landlord, the
tenant entertaining the landlord and his friends for three
days during the shooting season, the tenant being for-
bidden to keep dogs on his farm or to work on his farm
during the shooting season lest the game should be dis-
turbed. These are a few of the slavish conditions imposed
by members of this gang of robbers upon the industrious
farmers of Wales.
SpagnoleUi : “ From a theatrical and spec-
tacular view point,.! would not have missed the
Melb. Exhibition welcome of the military contin-
gent from England for anything. General Tnlloch,
firing off his speech in pistol-shots, d la words of
•command, was superb, audible to every soul in a
big barn packed with people, and very bad for
hearing, so that even the raucous Premier Patter-
son was caught but fitfully. War Minister Reid
made a stupid blunder. He addressed Part.
Clarke’s men as ‘the N.Fi.W. Cavalry.’ There
was a roar of derision. Positively this General
Poiribastes did not know his own uniforms !”
M‘llwraith on Separation :
It is very plain that if Parliament affirms (he desir-
ability of granting territorial Separation to I lie Center'
and Northern districts at this juncture, such provinces,
if created into self-governing colonics, would bo governed
by Labour Ministries. And (bis being m, I shall
strenuously oppose Separation until the time when Capital
will have better representation.
What does MTlwraith want? Representation
wholly by nominees of Capital ? It seems like it,
for, under the present pig-vote electoral law, out
of 11 Central members but three were elected on
the Labour ticket; and of 17 Northern representa-
tives seven only are Labour men !
Parkes has practically abandoned tho
Freetrade-Protection controversy. His own affec-
tion for himself is the measure of his hatred of
Reid who has displaced him as leader of N.S.W.
Opposition, He will move Heaven and earth to
smash Reid politically. This he can do by
enlarging the fissures in the ranks of the local
“Freetraders,” now divided into land-taxers and
revenue-tariffists, tho latter of whom denounce
the former as thieves and eonfiscators. Should
Parkes get into power he will leave the tariff as
it is, and propose a light land-tax, and take as
Ills Treasurer —W. P. Manning, now Mayor of
Sydney.
“T. A. Eagle” (M.L.) points out, in
scorn of the “New Australia” exodus, that
there are in Mao ri lan d 2,000,100 acres suitable for
close settlement, besides pastoral lands. In one
district alone, there are 250,000 acres of unused
agricultural land available. The Cheviot pro-
perty of 80,000 acres is also admirably situated
and suitable for an experimental settlement. r ihe
lands are available for settlement on the loase-in-
perpetuity system, which means 5 per cent,
annually upon the total value.
Dear Bulletin. —Re your Comments con-
cerning the “com i ng Syd ney d ally paper, ” the Daily
Post : All you have said respecting the required
editor applies equally to every member of the liter-
ary staff, right down to tho dog-light reporter.
The journalist employed on a truly Democratic
paper must have the interests of Democracy ever
before him. No man whose heart is not wholly'
with the Democratic movement can thoroughly
fulfil the duties of a journalist devoted to the fur-
therance of that movement. How can a man who
is not in entire sympathy with the interests he is
supposed to support advocate those interests with
Ids utmost ability ? Almost every man employed
by existing capitalistic newspapers has bad to
write contrary to Ids convictions, and lias all
the time been conscious of the woeful weakness of
his work. Granted that you may get a brilliant
master of ink-power to write on any side of a
given question ; but you cannot get from him the
convincing utterances that electrically spirt from
a brilliant writer who is moved, swayed and con-
trolled by the sincerity of his convictions. Down
to that drudge of an ordinary daily, the police-
court reporter, each man should be so much a
lover of the general principles voiced by Ids paper
that he can catch and reproduce every detail of a
commonplace occurrence from an honest Demo-
cratic standpoint. The members of a “demo-
cratic” staff must be not merely brilliant littera-
teurs ; for sympathetic work, every man, and not
merely the editor, must be inspired by democratic
faith and earnestness. That such men can be got
is undeniable, as everyone who has acquaintance
with journalists must know; but that there are
pressmen who will (and do) sacrifice their prin-
ciples fur an extra pound a week is equally undeni-
able. I would suggest to the promoters of the
Daily Post that the salaries of the staff be small
at first—as small even as they are on some of the
money-hungry papers now existing. This reads
“ Capitalistic ” at first glance ; but if the salaries
commence small, yet are so arranged as to follow tho
fortunes of the paper, rising as it rises and falling as
it falls, in the shape of a bonus or dividend, each
member of the staff would become a co-operative
member of the company. It may be argued that
such a policy would result in swarms of applica-
tions from needy inkslingers, soul-bare of all demo-
cratic aspirations. I think not. There are men
of ability, one of whose greatest troubles is that
they are not free to write from conviction, and
who would eagerly array themselves under the
leadership of a trustworthy democratic editor, on
any reasonable terms. Such an editor and such
a staff would be comrades, sharing an _ en-
thusiastic esprit de corps that would bo irre-
sistible. The resultant publication would be a
paper which, from title to imprint, would breathe
“sympathetic sincerity” and honest advocacy of
Government by the People.—Yours, Wax Rim.
THE LOYAL BOY’S PRAYER.
BOBBIE'S PRAYER
Bobbie knelt at mamma’s knee,
At eventide to pray
(Bob’* father' was a C.M.G.-
We'd better stop to say)—
His thoughts were on his fishing-rod,.
And likewise on his top ;
The sinner got as far as “ God,"
And then he had tor stop.
His little fingers clasp't a “ Jib,"'
He stared around the wall;
Though, as a practice, rather glib.
He couldn’t pray at all.
The lines he ought to know by rote
Wore now forgotten quite—
In fancy be beheld his float
Responding to a “ bito.’^,
Such accidents occur to men
Who want to say a prayer—
They cannot find the words, and then
They .usually swear.
Young Bobbie’s head began to nod,
He didn’t lose his pluck ;
Full twenty times he muttered “ God " —•
As many times he stuck.
“ God— what, dear ?” said the parent fond,,
, Her forehead frowning dark ;
Yet Bobbie didn’t get beyond
That opening remark,
tl Ood— whatV’ —his troubled eyes grew bright.
His countenance serene.
He clasped his hands together tight—
“ I know ! God—save' the QiAen 1”
i The gentle mother kissed the hair
Of Bobbie’s loyal head—
The pet had Said sufficient prayer,
She tucked him into bed.
*' God save the Queen /” she never thought
Of Bobbie praying that.
He slumbered, and in dreams he Caught
Another tittlebat.
Melb.
EDMUND FISHER
Cries the Chief of Justice pure—
“ O, the Law is pretty sure,
Sure although
Sometimes slow,
Ami, in the end, ’(is found prevailing;
Good old Law !
You never saw,
You never, never saw it failing.”
Echo answers to (lie Chief'
Beautiful is your belief.
Yea, although
People go
All round the town at Panton railing.
Robberies with rough assaults
Rank as lower orders’ faults ;
Tnem to stop
Law must drop,
Drop on offenders most severely.
Good old Law
Has then no flaw,
It’s sign u urc is “ Yours sincerely.”
Ntmesis will nab the boor;
He tier to bo rluhtlinn poor,
II gli than low
Ct.vime il fan!
(This is a poor opinion merely).
Australian Federation
Is ft topic upon which tho most inimical of party
politicians can meet for discussion upon a. common,
neutral ground, as the intellects of Australia’s
greatest statesmen are imbued with the idea that
the practical federation of the colonies is “aeon-
summation devoutly to be wished.” “Union is
strength,” and who can deny that the amalgama-
tion of tho scattered Governments of the Aus-
tralian continent shall not result in a nobler and
purer political arena, where self-aggrandisement
will be subordinated to the universal endeavour to
advance and promote national prosperity. The
life dream of Sir Henry Parkes will then become
a reality, and the veteran statesman may bo
spared to see an “Australian Commonwealth”
rise from the ashes of the past. And so we pass
on to the contemplation of one of the gtandest
successes in federation the world lias ever seen, wo
refer to Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. This un-
rivalled preparation is an aggregation of sterling
medicinal properties, which through admixture,
or federation, are rendered doubly potent. It
is an infallible remedy for weakness and lassitude,
and in the spring of the year should be in every
house, as its bracing and invigorating qualities
cannot bo over-estimated. It strengthens
and supports the weary, gives energy to tho
feeble and timid, and instils courage and nervous
power in the debilitated and despondent.


Se & /,
, V >^ EBV 'V ~
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
4t
*°nd Street
sfy
Bevsa reof imitations. Thegenuine is signed
f
df
N ESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
>~or delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.-Vol. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Prof. Wm. 0.
Lkube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—VoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” —Prof.
BIUOH-111RSCH FE LD.
It is recommended-by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely- voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it al>ove other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
V:
Qi
THE BEST
Family Medicine
CURE SICK HEADACHE,
CONSTIPATION,
Dyspepsia, Liver Troubles
” EAST TO TAKE
PURELY VEGETABLE
The delicate sugar-coating of Ayer’s Pills
dissolves immediately on reaching the stom-
ach, and permits the full strength of each
ingredient to be speedily assimilated. As a
cathartic, either for travellers or as a family
medicine. Ayer’s Pills are the best ia
the world.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Every Dose Effective.
UP” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer’s Pills—is prominent
on the wrapper, and is blown in the
glass of each of our bottles.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
Hay man’s
B ALSAM
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOB
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &C.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Hollies Is. lid. 2s. 9d.,
4s. (kl., and 11s 1
Prepared only by A. HAVMAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Aoevts.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung & Co.,
and Australian Drug Co,, Ltd.,Sydney.
The English, Scottish and Australian
Bank (Limited).
THIS Bank will OPEN for Ordinary Banking
Business in New South Wales on TUES-
DAY, 22nd instant, having been constructed from
the old English, Scottish and Australian Chartered
Bank in the terms of the plan of arrangement
recently approved by the shareholders and credi-
tors, and sanctioned by the High Court of Justice-.
The SUBSCRIBED CAPITAL
of the Bank is £1,575,000
Of which has been called up (the
final instalment being due
January, 1895) ... ... 1,012, SCO
The PERPETUAL INSCRIBED
STOCK of the Bank amounts
to ... 8,120,000
In announcing the completion of the legal and
other arrangements for the re-opening of the Bank,
I desire to express the regret of the Board of
Directors and of myself at the inconvenience
occasioned to our clients by the unavoidable delay
in the re-construction, and to thank them for the
goodwill and forbearance that have been shown
throughout the proceedings.
A. URQUHART,
Inspector and General Manager.
Sydney, 21st August, 1893.
BiIEMIA.VS lUI HUNGS.
GEOEGE & MAEKET STEEETS,
SYDNEY.
6
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
5>
N : c\V Banel portrait,
Size, 9x7 in.,
IS#. DOZEN. /,>*.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
(/eve*
■\E qU (Sding
Pleasure to use
S.Of>TS
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Razors excel-
lent
KROPP^H
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GROUNO^^^H
From nil Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 61,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
SHARPS
THROUGHOUT
• ' -
THE
world:
STANDARD- NEEDLES.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, August 29,1893.
rpENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.ni. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with Iron
Piers, over the Murrumbidgee River at Wagga
Wagga
Pipelaying, contract No 5, Moss Yale Water
Supply
Pipelaying, contract No. 4, Nowra Water
Supply • (
Bathroom, Lavatories, &c., Coast Hospital, Little
Bay
Erection of Water-closets, &c., General Post
Office
Drainage Works, Sandgate Cemetery, Newcastle
Additions, &c M Hospital for the Insane, Parra-
matta
NOTE.—Tenderers are warned not to begin any
work until they receive the official acceptance of
their offer in the usual way. The Department
will accept no responsibility contracted by a
tenderer prior to receiving the official acceptance
referred to, and any liability incurred, or any
work undertaken, will be solely at the risk of
tenderers, and will not be paid for.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar 3\T one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
may be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON’S OINTMENT purely
theproductionof thecolony, composed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you ?
Read this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs,—l have tried your .To-ephson’s Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, Herald Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of Jong standing
have been cured by using this Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man eanal to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day ; a wineglassful for an
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than anyotiier medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1830.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows:
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
I hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street.
«' vnammm" ckup •vazr’ —""r —"jaw - r - ■ —tit
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Baron Berzilius’—
■ Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in' its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on all
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions and
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them—
BJERKIN, M.D. : —The Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. It has a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting it
when deranged, and restores healthy evacuations in oases
of habitual costiveness.
D. ECKSTROM, M.D.—BBBB—I find tiusa Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure and
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting diges-
tion. I therefore thus recommend them.
G. B. WOOD, M.D.—lt is the purest of Bitters, and
exerts a peculiar influence over the liver.
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by these Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Oriental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tumbler of
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depressed
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite and
! eneral depression of spirits cannot do better than
take
ROW’S STEANE’F WINE.
It cannot harm you, but must do good to all
delicate persons. Young Ladies can take this
when suffering from general debility. It’s only a
pure tonic. Try it.
Teetotallers will find this newly-invented
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stimulant
without its intoxicating quality. It will satisfy
the cravings of nature and create a desire for food
instead of drink. As an anti febrile is unsur-
passed.
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD "ROW A CO.,
Sydney.
The report that the mines of Cowra Creelo
&.S.W., were giving consistent returns of 10 ozs. per ton,
with crude machinery, is an error. It should have been
10 dwts. The gold is fine and flaky and adheres to the
slate of each wall. The reefs are large and well defined,
but turn into an unusually large percentage of pyrites
at 100 ft. On the bulk value of these pyrites the field
hangs.
# # *
Melbourne may yet boom again—by reason of a
suburban gold field! Last week at Queenstown, but a
few miles from the centre of the city, a crushing of 4 tons
yielded over lOoz. per ton.
* * *
A short-lived gold-rush, Mt. Pleasant, is but
some 30 miles from Adelaide, so 300 men got there the
day after it was declared a rush. At night 150 holes were
bottomed, every one a duffer, and many disappointed
diggers returned to town next day.
# # #
One of the last N.S.W, rushes is at Herbert
Park, not far from Hillgrove or Armidale. Already there
are over 100 diggers there-Hillgrove unemployed, prin-
cipally. The field is on private property, and the terms
imposed, 10s. per man a month to start, and £1 as soon as
pa\ able gold is struck, have been quoted as highly satis-
factory. But the gold belongs to the State, and to charge
10s. and £1 a month a man for the right to trespass on
land probably worth not even £2 an acre is quite enough.
# * #
Gympie (Q.), which has been recently attracting
special attention by its yields and developments, owes
much of its market revival to Southern investors. It
should cautiously avoid giving unreliable information,
and should “ ware " the present temptation to run “ wild
cats.” The Q. mining laws are iniquitous, and speculators
have a well-founded fear of liquidation calls —a fear, in-
deed, that is almost proof against the tempting bait of
many rich dividends. One day every month, at least,
should be set apart for the public auction, without fear
or favour, of all shares on which calls are overdue.
# * *
An idea often tried, but seldom in N.S.W., was
carried out at Swamp Oak ten days ago. Two rival bat-
teries were trsted by the owners of Highland Mary claim.
Ton per ton was carted to each. One battery put 21 tons
through a 280-hole screen for 66 ozs. ; the other, 20 tons
through a 200 hole double screen for 60 ozs., being 3 dwts.
to the ton less than the other. This proves nothing unless
the tailings were careful)}' sampled and assayed.
• # #
Some recent Randt crushings : Robinson mine,
8042 tons, 9062 oz. ; New Primrose, 12,200 tons, 4802 oz. ;
Longlnate, 18,639 tons. 4700 oz.; Crown Reef, 10,125
tons, 4666 oz. ; Terreira, 4446 tons, 3839 oz.
* * #
June saw the largest gold output known on
the Randt—l2'2,29ooz. This is the earth’s greatest
goldfield. Its "annual figures are, in 1889—369,5510 z. ;
J 9O 494,8100 z. ; ’9l-729,2330z. ; last year, 1,210,8650 z.,
and, so far, this year indicates another big advance. In
comparison, every field in Australia sinks into insignifi-
cance. About one-fonrth of the Randt’s gold is got from
tailings by the M‘Arthur-Forrest cyanide process.
# « •
A correspondent in the Malay Peninsula writes
The Bulletin' that out of 40 odd local 100 square-mile
mining concessions in the State of Pahang only three now-
are succeeding. Money has been spent by the hatful, but
it is probable that the success of those now making
money may induce some of the others to start again on a
sounder basis. Cost of transport of supplies, trying
climate, and wretched native labour are some of the
reasons that run expenses high. The reefs also are not
at all well defined, but occur in floating masses in the soft
elate country.
# • #
Bibby, the Ranb gold-mine-manager, arrived in
Singapore with llOOoz. smelted gold. The tonnage is
not stated, hut as it was turned out by 10 heads it would
be a good yield for three months’ run. The gold was won
from surface stone. Another 10 heads are on the mine
awaiting the striking of the lode at a depth. Transport
is the mine’s greatest difficulty, all machinery having to
he carried in small sections. Bibby is hopeful of the
Selangor railway being carried on to the Raub which
should then boom.
# « •
The cause of “reconstruction”! An ex-pawn-
broker, examined the other day in Sydney Bankruptcy
Court, stated that one of the big “ regular ” banks had
advanced him £2OOO on second-hand jewellery, accepting
his (the then paw nbroker’s) assurance that it was worth
£4500. After the bankruptcy, the valuable security
(“ liquid ” enough ?) was sold for £650! Not one of the
daily papers seems to have included in its lengthy report
of the case this interesting admission.
* * •
Suttor and party, New Era' claim, Hill End,
had 18 ozs. from 10 tons of stone, and the correspondent
rises to the occasion. “The reef is large, therefore it is
considered the best crushing for 14 years. It can be
traced for half-a-mile, and the greatest interest and en-
thusiasm are shown by the townspeople.” Reef very
large, crushing very small. Natural conclusion—either
a patcli or a mich-pickert crushing.
# # #
The N.S.W. coasting-steamers are limited to the
conveyance of one 501 b. keg of blasting powder each trip.
This is insufficient for the wants of Pambula alone, conse-
quently explosives are carried surreptitiously and labelled,
say, “soap.” It wants an explosion to bring some Govt,
officers to'their senses.
* # •
Nothing can be easily concealed from Bendigo
shareholders; hence, we read that a number having
recently visited the Golden Age mine and observed the
tendency of the reef to decrease in size, down fell the
t-hvres. Nine out of ten N.S.W. mining shareholders
would lie no wiser after inspecting, as they could not tell
ore from mullock.
# • #
The balance-sheet of Marshall’s Paddington
Brewery (Sydney) shows a profit of £4630 for the
half-year, which, with £4485 brought, forward fr m
last balance, makes over £9OOO available. With
this amount it would be possible to pay a dividend
of 10 per cent., but in view of the dismal prospects
of the country the co. has decided to take no risks.
Consequently, £3500 is written off for doubtful debts and
depreciation, £lOOO is carried to reserve-fund, and £4575
is carried forward to next half-year.
# * *
Rumoured that a well-known and at one time
popular actor and publican has offered his creditors os. in
the £, which has, so far, been refused.
* • •
A receipt-stamp lias to be used when accepting
a promissory note in liquidation of a debt, so rules Vic.
Treasurer Carter.
# • #
Out of a hole 2yds. square at Foley’s find,
Woods Point, Vic., £lOOO worth of gold has been taken.
It is not a mere patch, but promises to prove a good
workable mine.
• * #
Melbourne advt. ; “How to go insolvent, how
not to,” etc. “ Consult,” etc. Efficacy guaranteed in
two lessons, probably.


ESTABLISHED 1849.
.A. XT STRALIAN
mutual
ROVIDENT
SOCIETY
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY
YEAR;
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL. Esq., Deputy-Chairman; 3. T. WALKER, Esq._; THOMAS^'LITTLEJOHN, Esq.;
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling;
Head** Office: 87
BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS; Esq.; ROBT,
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F. A.
Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted tot over £501,000; yielding
of over One Million sterling.
(BV-myrmy ROBERT B< CAMERON, Secretary.
Reversionary Bonuses
PITT
STREET.
OCJ
r m
_j k
j
MBTnOFOLITA-M STAKES —Sept. 19, 1893.
25,000 at 10 25,000
MELBOUHKTB CUP ■Fleiiiliigton, November 7, I8!)3.
100,000 t*,'" at- ~0 100,000
TAITKKiAU,"
Care of George Adams,
The Telegraph” Chatuheis,
QUEEN STREET,
Itilshanc, ftiiccnslaiul.
“Yorkshireman’s” nag?
—tOR
EPSOM AND METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP.
V.R.C, DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should be obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be had as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Rkfkukf., News
and Stab. $‘W~ “ YORKSHIUKMAN,” c o VV. J. Frank,
3 Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
M. ft J. MOLONEY,
. 134 a PITT STREET (near King Street)*
(opposite Gunaler's)
SYDNEY.
AST Commissions Executed on following events
Epsom & Metropolitan.
300 TO 1.
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup-
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
VRO- Derby and Melbourne Cup*
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
THREE CHANCES.
TJENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia*.” "William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, IV. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
f'iOß the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE ( KESt EXT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,'* situated 50-ICING STREET,
and near the General Post Ollice.
Proprietor GEO. \¥. EI.ITS.
Straight-out books on the above.
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
PUBLIC NOTICE.
IT having come to our knowledge that certain
postmasters have refused to register letters
addressed to “Gala,” c/o H. Alexander, Box 171
G.P.0., Brisbane, Q., our clients are notified that
the new Postal Act only applies to N.S.W., and
cannot interfere with our business in another
colony.
We shall esteem it a favour if subscribers will
at once notify us of an.y refusal on the part of the
postal officials in their districts either to register
our letters or issue tnoney-orders, so that imme-
diate action may be taken by us.
“Gala” would feel greatly obliged if clients
will circulate this information amongst their
friends.
Drawings will take place in Sydney, and can be
witnessed as usual.
5. EACH.
r>
JL
5. EACH
MON
ire*
j5Sh£52?
,s T
On the Following;
Trimway Handicap, Eandwick, 2nd Sept.
At 5 each. 10,000 At 5 each.
Metropolitan Stakes, 19th September.
At 5 each. 20,000 At 5 each.
Register and Address Letters to
“GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, a
JLBjSIMI SEEIES
All the Year Round on Principal Events*
NOW OPEN ON THE-'
Metropolitan Stakes
Caulfield Cup
New Zealand Cup
Melbourne Cup
10,000 @ 10.
10,000 @ 10.
10,000 @ 10.
25,000 @ 20.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
Be sure and register your letters, and take caro
>f P.O. receipt till you receive our reply.
Address
ADAM BEDE.
K«.v 157.
BRISBANE, Queensland.
AGENTS
EVERYWHERE.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery
NEWEST DESIGNS, at Makers* Prices, all Government Hall-marked, DIRECT from tkelr HEAD ESTABLISHMENT, LONDON.
■SOT OX*
PI«S
Usually
Sold
at ilO 10s.
Ladies’ 18 ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
f)it(o Silver clit-lo rfitln £2 10,
Unapproachable in qua i y and price.
513.—0. FT. ML JKct. Gold Brooch, 9/6.
Dit'o Silver, 2 6.
vr&i.
True
Lover's
Knot
Brooch-
With Charm Lucky Hell.
514.-0,11 M. Oct. Gold, £1; 15 ct, £1 15.
*2
mean
515.—G.T1.M. Gold Brooch, 15 61
Stiver, 4 3.
d
Tlie
Now
Lucky
Hell.
616.—Brooch of unique (ioaisjn,
0.11. M. (U t. (lo.il, 12 e.
- --
mmHml
V*B
618.-O.IT M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, £1 I.
388.-Suite Studs, G.IT.M,
Very Strong,
O ct. Gold, 12/6; 15-ct. £1 5.
Silver, 3s.
226.—Set G.11.M. Links.
9 ct. G ’lil, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4 6.
The “ Nuptial'” Brooch.
605.-0.H.11, 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, 13 3*
-•ftv
227.—Set G. IT.At. Links,
O ct. Gold, 18/6;
15-ct., £l 15; Silver, ss.
£3 &
224.-.G.11.M. 15-ct,
Gold. 12 6; Silver, 2/6.
225.—Combination Pin and
Stud, Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Gold, £2.
The New Lucky Bolls. Latest Loudon Novelty.
756.— G.11.M. 0 ct. Gold 5-Bell Bracelet, £2.
755.— G.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 3 Bells, 7/6.
•->d
Roe.-G.H M,
Diamond Centre,
l 5 ct. Brooch,
£1 15.
767.-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-cf. ditto £4 10.
.'M'.-'-Elagant Uioocli. New Desiirn.
(J.H.M. 0-ot. Gold, 18 6; Silver, 5 6.
Charm
Bell
“ against
Fascination.”
758.—Cf.11.M. Oct. Gold Bracelet, £1 10.
Diltn Silver, 10 6.
0.11. M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, Set with Fine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
106. —Gent, 'a Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 15; Silver, 15 6. 107.—'Gent.’s Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6 ; 15-ct £5 17 6; Silver,l36.
126.— Elegant Seal to «iatoh either Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 21 15-ct. Gold, fl 17 6; Silver, 4 6.
fds
fds
,35.-Single Stone Diamond
King-, IS-ct. Gold, £lO ICs
Special Value,
3(>. —Ladies' 5-st. Diamond
18-et. Gold King, £5 5.
32. —lB-ct. Gold Ring,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £2.
33.—15-ct. Gold Ring,
' Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
£4 10
25.—18-ct. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
18-c't. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, cut hole
in card.
No. 839.-O.ILM.
5-ct. Gold Earrings, 15 6.
50. Electro - Silver Rreak-
fnsl Cruet and Spoons, 10 6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
m
mi
a;
mib
m
m
us
OR
.....
601.—G.11.M. Silver Match Box, 11 6.
A size smaller, 8 6.
G.H.M. O ct. Gold, ,t 2 10,
m
620.—G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, handsome
design, Diamond Centre, £;{ 5.
SOVEREIGN
Vif
Wit
IBM
m
PURSE,
606.—G.11.M. Silver, 96. Plain ditto, 86.
0.H.K1. 9 ct. Gold, engraved, X'2 10.
V '
521.—Elegant Bow Brooch.
G.H.M. 9-ct., 17 6; 16-ct., XI 10'
Silver, 5 ■.
99$
&
$
nK\
Bt.—Mrttnlflcent O.iU and Slver Electro*
Monnti (I f.irfuof Finnic, Fine f’(it
Botlh 8 (14 h ones long, IP high), 13 10.
delivered Free, 2 C extra.
NOTE. The belt nG.II.M. for "Government Hall Marked." Each Article being so Stomped Guarantees the Quality and protects the Buyer; at the same time our Prices are about Half the Colonial Charges.
\*r Add to Rnnittame for Pent and Register; One Article, Gd.; Two. 9.1.; Three, li
We despatch Goo Is daily, post Raid, at thews rates, and take all risk in transit.
i.; Six, Is. Cil.
AJdrcft—
STEWART DAWSON & CO.,
412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY. NS W
SPORTING NOTIONS.
On a moderately dull, wicket where “patient
play answered best, the Australian Eleven, fulfilling Tim
Bulletin’s predictions, has proved much about the same
as Ail England Elevctl When slumps were drawn on Ihe
thiid test match, the Britishers had six wickets in hand,
but 81 runs still to make, and as two wicket-) bad just
been bowled by successive balls, it was anybody’s game.
Mold, as before, was the weak spot in the English team.
He scored another “duck,” and took .3 wickets for 105
runs—the most expensive howler of the side. It would
seem that Lord Sheffield rules English cricket to a
great extent, and still asserts that Mold is a
better man than he looks on paper. This explains
Why Grade, who represents “his lordship,” let the
Lancashire fetish be knocked about in both innings,
whilst Brock well, the howler with a belter average than
Richardson for this season, was waiting to be put on.
According to the cabled particulars,-Drockwell could only
have bowled a few balls, if any, in the first innings.
Another feature of the match was the stand made by
Blackhaln and Turner, the la c t men, when “time” was
getting near. Perhaps Grace didn’t like the look of the
wicket, and was not anxious to start his second innings
until the chance of an Australian victory was reduced to
a minimum. The old man must have observed that his
side couldn’t win quite an hour before he could safely
reckon on not being able to lose. Consequently the wisest
policy' was to give friend Blackball! an easy time, and not
be too rough on Turner, whose finger had b-en injured.
# * *
The Christchurch (M.L.) Press complains:—
Of course, we all know that in England cricketers are
divided into two classes, Amateurs and Professionals, or
Gentlemen and Players; and that while the amateur is
always spoken of as Mr. W. G. Grace, the player never
gets anything more than plain blunt Shrewsbury. The
Field was for a long time greatly exercised about the
Australians, and finally compromised by withholding the
Mr. but acceding the initials, thus creating three orders—
Mr. W. O. Grace, W. L. Murdoch and Shrewsbury. This
had at least the appearance of according them some kind
of a status; but ttie last team lias apparently fairly tied
the Field up in knots. 1 learn from two consecutive
issues of this authority on all matters connected with
sport that Mr. J. J. Lvons play el against Lord Sheffield's
team, Lyons against Warwickshire, and Mr. J. J. Lyons
against Gloucestershire. Somewhat confused by all this,
I began to read the detailed account of the opening
match, and discovered that while Mr. Lyons appears in
t ie score list, only Lyons is spoken of in the remarks ;
while even in the score sheet itself Mr. Turner hatted,
while only Turner bowled. Now, as there is a distant
possibility of the Australians taking in Maoriland on
their way horn-, I want to be put right in this matter.
Until this weighty question is settled I cannot, with any
peace of mind, consent to meet either Lyons, J. J. Lyons,
or Mr. J. J. Ly ons.
# • •
Tliere was an interesting race for tlio Vic. Club
Handicap, at Caulfield, the other day, in which several
of ttie said to he “dangerous” hoists had a genuine go.
Wild Rose, the ’92 Newmarket winner, proved just good
enough to give 171hs. lo Sainfoin and Duorow over 17
furlongs, the latter Overrated animal running like a non-
stayer. On this “form,” Wild Rose has a show for the
Caulfield Cup, and with others like Malolo and J 5 in his
stable hackers are bound to believe in the horse that
Foulsham sends for the £3OOO race. The trouble will be
to spot the one that is sent.
# * #
The Bulletin fears that Lord Hopetoim may
become unduly famous through the winner of the next
Melbourne Cup. Democracy' could have tolerated the
success of plain Hopeloun, who went to India awhile
ago, but it shudders at the thought of victory for a
Governor’s namesake with the title Attached, The
flunkeyism of turf nomenclature is rather distressing.
Suitable names for promising horses would be Peter Lalor
or George Higinbotham. Even Parkes would seem a
reasonable name for a horse with a heavy mane.
„ # # *
M’Malion Bros, figure in tire ’Murkan news as
having obtained a verdict against Johnel Sullivan, which
they can’t realise; The amount claimed was for money'
advanced td the pug. to get home with. Now', on Jack
Dougharty’s schedule £lOO figures for the same purpose.
The cash borrowed by Johnel for travelling exes, seems to
be like the ovsters in the “Churchwarden.”
# * #
A Tenterfield (N.S.W. ) official, who poses as a
small authority on horses* reported recently that one of
his mokes had sustained an injury to his “ hind knee.”
# * *
John Hanson Craig, of California (L.S.A.),
supposed to he tire biggest man on the globe, is 37 years
old, and weighs 9071 b. His measurements—6ft. sin. high ;
Bft. Jin. round the hips ; 18in. round the ankle ; 29in.
round the knee ; C6in. round the thigh. He requires 41
yards of cloth to each suit of clothes,-and 3!b. of yarn for
a pair of socks,
## . •
Reid was a lucky name in Sydney amateur
athletic circles, last Saturday. R. C. Reid finished first
in the N.S.W. cross-country championship, raced over the
Rosehill steeplechase course ; and J. H. Reid won the
East Sydney Rowing Club skiff championship.
* # *
The “Syndicate’s” Derby colt, Pulvil, by
Chester from Perfume, started at level money for the
Steward’s mile, at Moorefield, on Saturday', and won in a
■anter from Torpedo.
# # *
Another Derby colt, Mr. H. Oxenham’s
Solatium, Soimms from Blue-and-White, started favourite
for the Moorefield Handicap, and looked ail over a winner
until Harnaby Rudge ran him into the rails and put him
out of his stride. Barnahy finished in front, but upon
protest the race was award-*' to Solatium.
• * *
The V.K.C. had three wet days in the Spring
meeting, and three in the Autumn. Estimated loss,
L‘12,000.


Established 1876.
fds
WniTt Eon
/ D?
/ HAIR’S
/ TREATISE
en
ASTHMA,
f
f
BOURNE
Rocke.Tompsi
Sydney: Elliott Bid?
RaiKHAMETWiotIBronK
lfTauldi n<j » (°
Wellington
arlrTnd &(? . >o*sl
UtKIAWD
JjtM ee/rcf Treatise esc/Test/moniabfr
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. AMD S ;
Registered bt the Medical Board of N.S. W.)
May be consulted at tlio moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist's business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
sfc. AND CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—AT—'
LONDON & NOW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
ts CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Ok the Philadelphia College of Dental
Sdrgert.
IPe guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth,
Upper or Lower Sets from JB2 2s.
Fall from £4 4s. f %
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co,
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST., A
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST S PATENT
¥
FOR
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:— “l think them such very
gooil stays, and those j-ou sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O; “II is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.
Dr. O. Keli.y L.8.0.P., Filin . says lie be-
ieves it is the best invention of the kind for
mproving the carriage and appearance of the
mire without tbo injurious effects of the ordi*
ary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don't be put off with old shapes ; insist or,
bavins onr new long waist. If any difficulty in
Chtainiug from Drapers' write Patentee, 15,
OlHremout, Hastings, England.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
a m*
iSOd
AVMV
N3AIO
M
ds
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Song,
Piano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the now list of
fds
INTO THK (JOI.OMKS.
W, H. BROOME. 15. Holborn. Eondon. Ena.
Why Suffer One Moment
From Tor hiring Skin Diseases
When a single application of the Cuticura Remedies will, in
the great majority of cases, instantly relieve the most agonizing of
itching, burning, scaly, crusted, pimply, and blotchy skin and scalp
diseases, and point to a permanent and economical (because so
speedy) cure, when the best physicians and all other remedies fail ?
Cuticura Remedies are the
greatest skin cures, blood purifiers,
and humor remedies, are absolutely
pure, and may be used by the
youngest and most delicate with
gratifying and unfailing success.
CUTICURA
the great skin cure, instantly
allays the most intense itching,
burning and inflammation, permits
1
V
%
m
rest and sleep, speedily heals the CUTICURA TYPES OF HEALTH AND BEAUTY,
skin, and restores the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite skin beau-
tifies is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuticura
Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin Purifier and greatest of Humor
Remedies, cleanses the blood of all impurities and poisonous ele-
ments, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Remedies
cure every disease and humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss
of hair, from infancy to age, from pimples to scrofula.
All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustra-
tions and 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap , 25c.;
Cuticura Resolvent, $l. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U.S. A.
Bad Complexions,
pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and
oily skin and hands are prevented and
cured by that greatest of all Skin
Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other
skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of
toilet and nursery soaps. The only medicated toilet soap, and the only preventive of inflammation
and clogging of the pores, the cause of most complexional disfigurations . Price, 25c.
fds
A
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
hears the Signature, thus ■
d&c
Os
Astc for Lea & Perkins’ Sauce, and sec Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hy the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ WacJavcU, London, sc., sc. ;
and bp Grocers and Oilmen throughout the If oral.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO.. SYDNEY.
Positively the Best Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS NARU
x WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
AFTER USB.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising,
As a producer of Whiskers and Moustachios ithas never been equalled. Asa Cnrer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey to its Original < olour, nc\ci fails.
Physicians and Analysis pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is.. 2s. 6d„ 3s. 6d., and 5s. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists.
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY liY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGEUHOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
GIVEN m in Sard Cask.
To any person who will succeed in naming the Two Winning Horseo
In the forthcoming Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup Races. The names
of two Horses only to be selected: one for each event. Should two or
more nersons select the winning double the £lOO will be equally divided between them. Fond penny stamp
for list of Horses Arrangements have been made with the Proprietors of the Standard Newspaper Co., for
the tfnoiii trustso that payment of same will he guar mtecd to the . Witb your "™we™-
• a. ifUvo PJft-Am Stamps lor a Box of “Star Antlblllous Pills, the best Llvci, Ki<luc> n.nu
KilifirTyS r hm l '? Choicest Medicinal Herbs, harks, and Roots, sugar-coated ; they
Uoucl itegniaioi cv i u ; 1 , ( „ . 94 ,wos in each box. Ko answer wih he recorded unless Pills
aCt n, r i«wi y aVtheso(’ash Present's are given solely to introduce our Wonderful Medicine. Immediately
a UP Race rrircVMonov will bo forwarded, and name, or names and addresses of winners
sftci Meibouine ( « J V 0 elo«e on October 20th, Write at once as this advt. may not npitenr again,
«dverti-< din un J “ TO „ pkase, but Pills must be ordered for each double selected.
Address National Drug- Company, Russell St. Melbourne.
fds
Auother Dog.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The faithful dog eats the legs off its dead
master, and then hauls him outside the hut to
view the landscape.” The true dog generally gets
hydrophobia. This is a story of a false dog.
It is Very simple. The master of the homo
used to stroll out of an evening. He would toll
his wife ho was going to the post. Put she
noticed that he was wont to leave the dog at
home.
One night she loosed the animal, and holding
him with a string, she let him direct her steps.
The dog made straight for the avenue, thence he
sought an opening in the hedge, and gliding
through it, betrayed his master. He also betrayed
someone else.
The dog got cursed and shot. The happy home
was stove in. Truly the quadruped has no reason
or else that dog would never have acted as he
did. ...
POLYPE.
“ Vanity Fair ” (in Argus) :
I did not go to Ascot this year. The hereditary monarch
of Ugogo, the country in which most of my savings are
deposited, having suddenly made fragments of rhinoceros-
hide legal tender in his dominions, I felt it wiser to
economise until specie payments are resumed there.
At Dubbo (N.S.W.) on Wednesday, last
week, an old and feeble woman suicided. The
few hundred pounds which were her sole means of
support has been “reconstructed” in a bursted
bank. Under these circumstances, the aged lady
lost heart, and nearly cut her head off with a razor
on her own doorstep. The poor old creature some-
what detracted from the force of the proceeding
by not cutting her throat on the bank’s front step.
A Westralian correspondent : “The odori-
ferous Chinee is arriving here, not at the rate of
1 per 500 tons, but more nearly at that of 500 per
1 ton. The very classes that object to the influx
of Europeans from the Eastern provinces welcome
cheap Chows and instal them as members of the
“first families.” A Chinee prisoner was being
conveyed by a policeman by train from York to
Perth. As the train crawliugly reached the very
summit of Riley’s grade, John jumped clean
through a carriage-window, and, ere the astonished
officer had collected his wits, the train had dashed
on the down-grade to Chidlow’s Well, miles
distant. The fugitive has not been discoverable
among the thousands of his slope-eyed mates, and
not a single paper has thought it worth while to
record his.escape. Probably it isn’t.”
Dear Bulletin. — l have seen recent
references in your columns to the length of time a
bushmau will stay on one station. One man is
reported to have lived 40 years on one run. lie
must have been an Englishman or a German.
Sometimes an Australian will stay three years,
but ho is then probably either a toady to and a,
spy for the boss, or in love with the boss’s
daughter— generally speaking, the station
scavenger and informer. My own and my mates
experience—from Pt. Parker to King George s
Sound—is that, even when the work is congenial
and the surroundings generally good, a bush man,
after a year or so, gets the megrims and wants to
leave. Good bosses know this and never try to
stop him. In my opinion, this nomadic yearning
is generally the premonition of a “burst.’ If not,
then it is a disease peculiar to Australian bush-
men, as is nostalgia to the Kanaka. — Mulga.
What’s in a name? The brewers and
licensed victuallers of Maoriland arc just now in
arms against Robert Stout.
What’s in a name ? Aye, there’s the rub 1
Tis clear beyond a doubt
That every man who keeps a pub.
Derides the name of Stout.
But here’s a fancy that may strike
The dullest witted lout—
The licensed victuallers would like
To put a head on Stout;
And all the time that, in the bar,
They wax uncommon wroth,
The hypocrites pretend they are
Objecting to his froth.
Thus a Bananaland politician who holds
the Labour-members of that province somewhat
cheaply :
The Labour-members might have scored off M'llwraith
more than once. Mac has a numerous, but not a strong,
following. The old feeling of loyalty and actual affection,
that bound Mac’s followers to him years ago, is dead. It
was killed when General Mac, on account of a personal
quarrel with his officers, deserted his party and fought
under the foeman’s flag. No sentimental ties bind to him
his present following, the members constituting which
consider their own interests first always. If it suited any
individually to leave Mac, the departure would be instant
on the’perception of that fact. Nevertheless, a peculiar
source of safety, if not of strength, to M'llwraith, is the
absence of a fit Democratic leader. Powers is neither
liked nor trusted. Groom and Drake are under similar
disadvantages ; their weakness is that each has a record.
The weakness of others who sit with them is that they
have no record. Leahy seems to me energetic and
capable. [Leahy has an electioneering record of acts com-
mitted in distinct antagonism to a Labour man’s candida-
ture.—Ed. B.] M'llwraith’s old friends used to believe in
his personal lovalty and magnanimity ; he now merits
their contempt for developing theoppositecharactenstics.
An instance in point ? Agnew’, M.P., voted against the
Government, and M'llwraith snorted publicly. Within a
fortnight estimates are submitted in which Agnew’s sister
is “ retrenched ” from the Education Department. There
may be no connection between the two circumstances, yet
our evil minds link them maliciously.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
18 of this issue.
The latest Townsville(N.Q.) meat-freezing
experiment is the shipment of pork ; total cost of
carriage, &c., to London 2 1-l Cd. per lb. ; expected
realisation, from to Bd.


Mr. JAMES &>. TURK,
Of the Commercial Gazette Office
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Describes the Suffering and Distress
of His Daughter
How these are Exchanged for Health
and Happiness by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
*‘I wish to state to you what your bloocl-
burilying Sarsaparilla did for my daughter.
Some two years ago she was attacked with
diphtheria. A physician was called. He helped
her a little, but not much. Finally, I called
another. She got over the soreness in her throat,
but a large ewelling came outside of her throat,
hard and angry looking. We poulticied it for
three weeks, but it looked no better. She then
lost her voice, and her throat swelled inside
again. The doctor lanced the swelling, and it
discharged for two or three weeks. She then re-
gained her voice, but was paralysed in the lower
limbs. I became discouraged, dismissed the
doctor, ard sent my daughter to the country.
My wife, knowing the purifying qualities of your
Sarsaparilla, determined to give it a thorough
trial; and after using two bottles, the news
came to me that my daughter had begun to im-
prove. From that time on, she continued to
gain, until she became sound and well again, and
she has enjoyed good health ever since." I have
used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family many
years, and I know it to be the best blood-purifier
extant*
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., LowellMass., U.S.A,
Has Cured others, will euro you.
CASCARA —HAWLEY. Tasteless Laxative.
SAYAR’S CUBEBS CIGARETTES. Asthma.
SAYAR’S COCA WINE. Restorative.
Full directions.
All Chemists.
SAVARESSE’S
SANDAL WOOD OIL
CAPSULES
Efficacious from the purity of
the Oil and the superiority of the
organic membrane over gelatine.
Savaresse’a Pure Copaiba Capsules.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER ■SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CHiLDREN S SWEET/
Lancet.
(THE CEL
h*r
3 SWEET/
jM
<.<u Js&i l
-JM
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C,
f
Reuter’s Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to euro every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
. enough for the strongest,donotaftor
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
u: e them. The stand r l Pill of the U. S. Medical prop's-
! on. XI e smallest and easiest to take. Forty in a phial.
Tales of the convrer "system
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
JJANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
NOTICE TO SHAREHOLDERS.
NOTICE is hereby given that a SPECIAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders of
the BANK will be held at the Chief Banking
House, George-street, SYDNEY, on WEDNES-
DAY, the 27th day of SEPTEMBER Next, at
Noon, to consider the propriety of increasing the
capital of the Bank, by the creation of new
shares.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, July 31, 1893.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOM ED COTTAGE FURNISHED for £l9
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNLSHED for £32175.
7-POOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £5O.
8 ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DIN ING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
GOB GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. GO.] [Established 1800
WM. AYTOUN SILVER.—As your mother
Tf is dead, and your sister anxious to hear
i from you, please communicate with the under-
! signed. Any person supplying reliable in forma-
i tion of the present address of the abovenamed if
| living, or certificate of death if dead, will receive
| £lO on application to Manager, Union Bank,
[ Maryborough, Queensland.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893
JNAMBROK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
Tlxe Only Agricultural Property Distribution!
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments !
“ NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties;
]NTambrok House,
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties;
Second Property, estimated value £12,000
Also, 59 Properties n each 1,050
6 M „ from £560 to 990
1 »» si 310
On 15th JULY, only £20,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representatives of the Press) is to take nlaee irithnut
'ail in NOVEMBER , and results will he duly advertised. All moneys are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure. P. P, LABERTOUCHE Eso M«1 bourn* /u!
I M. OFFICER, Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J. WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z. uut i,, Lsq., Melbourne ; Major
Estate, which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (out of a total of
fail
V ‘
The FIRST BALLOT will be from the “ NAMBROK ”
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
APPLICATIONS for SHARKS should be made by Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
c/o J. H. A STROP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, N.S AV.
State amount forwarded, and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp fof reply (two, if
results required direct). Do not attach stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is
made by cheque.
N.R.—ln the case of the extra .£20,700 pot being subscribed by November, the best value of pro-
perty for the amount subscribed will bo included in the pro rain drawing, and a proportionate per-
centage of bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per Cent, short, the Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed the Shareholders.
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
i . . ..
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co.
0,0 J. 11. AST HOP,
Marlborough Chamber?, O’Coskell Strbrt, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
* REFERENCES can be made to the well-known Firms ol Messrs, ALEXANDER WILSON 8c CO., of Sydney, and Messrs.
IIICHARD NEW lON & CO., of Brisbane.
“ After a number of years of married life,
a woman learns to let a man have his own way in
some unimportant matters.”—W. D. Howells.
Engine No. 32 (late 44) running on the
Victorian railways, is a veritable manslayer. Since
1873 it has killed 31 people, and injured, more or
less seriously, 250.
The Bourbons stick to the white flag. At
the last important marriagein theirfamily, in Notre
Dame, the sun shone through a stained glass
window, and invested the altar with a tricolour.
“Sainted Solomon! You call the man
happy to whom heaven has given a virtuous wife,
and 1 agree with you ; but did you really find it
necessary to take about three thousand wives in
order to obtain a virtuous one ?”-— Webem.
A sympathetic lady on one occasion stepped
up to the bed-side of a soldier lying in a hospital
during the war, and inquired ; “ Well, my poor
man, is there anything you want? ” “No, Miss,
I believe not.” “ You’re sure there is nothing I
can do for you?” “Nothin’ I can think of.”
“ Oh, I do w ant to do something for you—can’t I
wash your hands and face ? ” “ Wall, if yo’ want
to do that, I reckin’ yo’ kin, but yo’ll be the
fo’teenth lady who’s done that same thing this
mo’ning, and two of ’em has washed my feet.” —
Amkr.
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows : One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
to bo signed by the manager of the shod, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
The end of the Rees-Cadmau quarrel is a
woeful thing for the Maoriland Conservatives.
Cadman was Minister for Native Affairs in the
Ballance Cabinet, and Rees, an ex-gospel grinder
and ex-many other things as well, accused him, in a
particularly loud and aggressive fashion, of using
Ins position to traffic in native lands. Cadman re-
covered 20s. libel-damages, but the accusation still
rankled in Ins mind and was dug up afresh every
day by the Tory press; and coming down to the
House one night lie gave up his portfolio and sug-
gested that he and Rees should resign their seats,
and run against each other for whichever con-
stituency the latter preferred. The ex-preacher
assented, and Cadman laid his own resigna-
tion on the table and handed another form
of resignation to Rees complete except for
his signature. The situation came on him
so suddenly that there was no drawing back,
and the retired expounder, there and then signed
away his seat and his well-paid billet as Chairman
of Committees, and cast the document with a
tragic gesture on the table. The contest came off in
Rees’s constituency of Auckland, and after a voci-
ferous campaign, in the course of which Rees’sown
dealings in native lands were extensively dug up,
the latter politician was left in a ghastly minority
of 750 votes. Rees always called himself a
Liberal, but there was an ancient and fish-like
odour about his Liberalism, and in the present
instance the Tory party rallied round him for all
it was worth—and damned him utterly.


J 4 7
MU
PILL PALACE
wm
k ■ M
EASI:
BUODiNunc
SCVTLUr}'
KJL
m
Herr Rassmussen’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT i
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
Qeorge-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to
say that his Remedies have cured more than all others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALP ALINE VITALITY PILLS will dire
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves;
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at os. and 12s.
WARNlNG.—lmitators will be Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.-Herr Rassmussen has
ho Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
nmm
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
AU ALINE
VITALITY PILLS.
RWO GOLD ~
yws
EDALS
%
m
'■'v
ILL
ALFA LINE .
CURED 100,000 FOR THE BLOOD v. NERVES.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. Gd. Boxes > 6s. And 12s.
ZlegiateredL axicL Purely Hertoal* s
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND* tTSEFXJL PAMPHLET, With ADVICE ahd TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions 6t the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassniussen’S well-known Herbal Remedied have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has Shown tis some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.’’— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wdnder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr RassmusSen’s press tioticel agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fideS of his
testimonials appear to be well established. S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Verbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
| Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Qoiit. Boxes, posted-,
3/-, 6/-, 1 if- and 23/8.
Alfaline Asthma and £otlgh Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer*
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches; Packets, 3/» and 6/-; posted.
Alfaline Cdmplexion Beautifter.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples-.
Breckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds; Boxes, posted, 1/8.
Alfaline Ointment*
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, !/•
and 2/-; posted, 1/6 and 2/6.
Porous Plasters*
RelieVe pain instantly; Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders*
Boxes; 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD.
TAKE A COURSE Otf
A LVA LINK LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure - _
BLOOD DISEASES, - SKIN AFFECTIONS,
soresTßoils and pimp Des, eczema,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS.
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 43s 6d,
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3'- and 6/- per Box
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
*“ The Natural Hector.*’
Contains valuable Advkse and Useful Bints. Posted
One Shilling.
DEPOT i 547 George Street, Sydney.
ALSO AT HIS BBAITCIIES :
150 Bourse Street, Melbourne.
160 Qtieeti Street, Brisbane.
154 Rundle Street* Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay* Wel’ton,
:JI Perfect Food.
dsf
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK.
<^■4
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
for the Aged.
For INVALIDS.
Toh TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of miik, combined
With the nutritious and digestible
patts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked, <
I*l no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in Waten
MALTED MILK is the best fdod fbr In-
-1?1 fantSi “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 189!.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-j
I*l valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated* it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable,and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April 18,
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any cli mate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Eluott Bros, Limited, Sydney <fe Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill. LONDON. E.C.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
44 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
X nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE I
MV AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
li. G. HOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road. London.
JOURNALIST, witlf eight years’ experience
on Sydney metropolitan press, desires en-
gagement as,Sub-Editor or Reporter—or as Editor
of country paper. “Journalist,” Bulletin office.
npAI.ES Of THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
1 Price-One Shilling.
KTotloe.
HER MAJESTY’S OPERA HOUSE, BRISBANE.
The Trustees having i-esilined Possession of this
House are Prepared to LET on EASY TERMS
for Short ot Long Seasons.
For Vacant Dates, apply to George HARDEN,
Manager.
24th August, 1893.
CHE A P MUS I C.
PRINCESS MAY WALTZ, with Portrait of H.R.tt. The
Duchess of York, and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets,
fcc., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
Wv PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card-.
£49,460 worth for £l.
TUB CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
THE EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Brisbane, Queensland.
105,000 SHARES at £l.
Anyone OAn Apply !!
No Liability !!!
2403 PRIZES valued at .£105,000.
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
EirsT Prize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, Value <£30,000. Rental value,
.£l5OO a year, and other properties Valued as
Under; —
2 of £10,000; 1 of .£5000; 4 of £2500 ;6 of
£lOOO, and 2390 of from £5 to £5OO.
Clear Titles 11 No Deductions !!!
See particulars in advertisements in other issues
of this paper, or apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, of OORRIE & CO,, Queen-Street,
Brisbane.
Remember ONE SHARE (£1) may win 18
SEPARATE PRIZES, valued at £49,460.
i Okra
lit
XTOW HEADY, post 1 free
i\ IS. 6d„ THE LIFE,
ADVENTURES. AND'CON-
FESSIONS OK A SYDNEY
Baum a id,
Highly Interesting.
To be had only of And Unique.
MAOAMK PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
• • Sydney. k.
FOR KALE (Ghen^).— Qttaci-Demy Two-feeder
WHARFEDALE PRINTING PRESS, by
Uawson and Sons. lit good order. Apply
Manager, this office; or to, John Close, Engineer,
393 Kent-street, Sydney-
Amusements.
Theatre royal.
Lessee Mr. S. LAZAH.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“THE WORLD AGAINST HIM.”
Dress Circle, Ss.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ; Stalls, Is. •
Family Circle, Od.
BUs. Manager, GEORGE DULLER.
HER MAJESTY'S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
‘•OOIKriE’XTSIO 3ST.”
Mr. George Rignold as Mortimer Mumpleford.
Miss Kate Bishop as Miss Lucreatia Trioklehy.
Saturday, September 2-“ STRUCK OIL.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE,
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, Between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Mnsgrove
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS'!
of
** THE YEOMEN OT THE GUAR© "
Saturday, Sept. 2-“ THE MOUNTEBANKS-”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
QSITERION THEATRE
An Event' Ih Theatrical Annals.
BT SATiURDAY, 2nn SEPTEMBER.
Grand Production of Bui wer Lytton’s Great Historical Plav,
“ RICHELIEU.”
Cardinal 'Richelieu .. WALTER BENTLEY.
Under the Patronage of His Excellenoyithe Governor,
and in the presence of Lady Duff and Party from
Government House.
Mr. BENTLEY will be supported by the Full Strength
of his Carefully • Selected Company and Numerous
Auxiliaries.
New Scenery by Mr. W. B. SPONG, assisted by Mr. CLINT.
Beautifdl Costumes.
Superb Stage Furnishing by Wallach'Bros.
BOX PLAN NOW OPEN at NICHOLSON'S.
tag” PRICES AS USUAL.
JMPERI AL tOP ERA HOUS B
NEW DRAMATIC SEASON, ,
Grand Ue-openliig Might, SATURDAY, Sept
Special Engagement Of
Jennie Lee.
'C. IH. UTTINO, Bus. Manager.
C HO O L OF ARTS.
Lessee .. .. Mr. Gilbert J. Smith.
'Under the Management of Mr. F. E. Hisoocks.
DireetOr .. Mr. Travers-Vale.
INSTANTANEOUS AVI) UNQUALIFIED SUCCESS
of i
The WorukFamkp, Marvellous
STEENS [• Amcrlc,. n Slj sliders -{ STERNS
The Weird Wonder-Workers.
Prices.—Bi., 25., and Is. Box Pan at Paling’s.
MATINEE NEXT SATURDAY.
The Sunday newspapers may as well be
tried again in Melbourne.
Scrub-cutting for the Cobar district (N.S.
Wales) squatters is done by Chinese labour. A
batch of 25 of the yellow heathens arrived in
Cobar, indented for such work, in one tram, the
other day. The Cobar squatters who employ
these cheap contrabands have small excuse for
their bowlings, loud and persistent, as to the
“tax” imposed on them by having to dole out
rations to swagmen.
Ernest Favenc will shortly re-publish, in
London, with substantial additions, his successful
volume, “The Last of Six,” issued at a shilling
by The Bulletin Co., and everywhere regarded
as the most typically Australian series of bush
stories yet written. Victor Daley, some charming
new verses from whose pen will appear in IH®
Bulletin Xmas number, meditates publishing, in
London, a volume, nineteen-twentieths of which,
we are proud to say, will bo reprints from this
paper. It is a pity that Daley, the most graceful
of Australian literary workmen, has not long ago
been represented by a volume. Louis liecke,
another now well-known Bulletin contributor
(who writes “Challis the Doubter” in our present
issue), will also send to London a set of attractive
short stories, breaking entirely new ground.
Dear Bulletin, Mylett, drowned at
Mokihinui, near Westport, M.L., was a recent
arrival from Sydney. The unfortunate man was
delighted to get work, and rejoiced in his escape
from Australia, where he had probably forgotten
that there was such a things as regular pay. His
wife and family were to arrive by the Mawhera on
the Monday, and on the Saturday evening pre-
vious, in crossing-ft small'creek on some planking,
he stepped from a stringer and was transferred.
Strangers broke the awful news to the poor woman
on her arrival, and, by special train, she had the
melancholy satisfaction of again beholding the
still familiar remains. The diggers promptly
raised a fair sum, and I understand the widow has
been installed comfortably at Mokihinui. When
life is tolerable, Fate robs us of it; when we are
in misery, the brute makes it stick to us like a,
leech.—-Yours. Deßakkek. Nelson Creek, Maon-
land, 3/8/93.
Sir E. Notoriety Braddon’s intimation of
his retirement from the Tasmanian Agent-General-
ship and his intention to return to politics at the
impending general election, will bo unwelcome
intelligence to present and future Tasmanian poli-
ticians. Braddon was always a thorn in the side
of the legislators with whom he sat, whether on
Government or Opposition benches, and he owes
his present post to his “cussedness” when in
office as Minister for Lands and Works, which
post ho held when he was sent to England to be
out of the way.
Tho Q. State-railways are supposedly run
“on commercial principles.” Yet, on a recent
Saturday evening, a Booval (Q.) citizen entered
the Brisbane-Ipswich train and intimated to tho
guard that he desired to alight at Booval. “Is
Mr. Lewis Thomas on board?” “ I don’t know.”
“ If Mr. Thomas isn’t on the train it won’t stop
at Booval.” And the common citizen was carried
on to Btiudanhn, and given a midnight tramp of
some miles to Booval. Lewis Thomas, it may he
remarked, is tho wealthy, unlettered coal-mine
proprietor who, with tho aid of “properly-purged”
rolls, “downed ” Tom Glassey. the Labour-leader,
at the late elect inn, and who now_ votes MTlwrailh-
ian whenever his silent support is called for.


1
mri
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Sbin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping,
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
{Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.)
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
Ond the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps,
PI
&
v>?V
Will!
/I'M
mm
i
frV'.v.v
i
m
m,
Hm
*
?S*H
ii
Hil
Challis, the Doubter,
THE WHITE LADY AND THE BROWN WOMAN.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Four years had come and gone since the
day that Challis, with a dull and savage misery in
his heart had, cursing the love-madness which
once possessed him, walked out from his house
in an Australian city with an undefined and vague
purpose of going “ somewhere ” to drown his
sense of wrong and erase from his memory the
face of the woman who, his wife of not yet a year,
had played with her honour and his. So he
thought, anyhow,
* « #
You see, Challis was “ a fool ” —at least so
his pretty,,violet-eyed wife had told him that after-
noon with a bitter and contemptuous ring in her
voice when he had brought another man’s letter—
written to her —and with impulsive and jealous
haste had asked her to explain. He was a fool,
she had said, with an angry gleam in the violet
eyes, to think she could not “take care ” of her-
self. Admit receiving thart letter? Of course!
Did he think she could help other men writing
silly letters to her ? Did he not think she could
keep out of a mess? And she smiled the self-
satisfied smile of a woman conscious of many
admirers and of her own powers of intrigue.
Then Challis, with a big effort, gulping down
the rage that stirred him, made his great mistake.
He spoke of his. love for her. Fatuity ! She
laughed at him, said that as she detested women
his love was too exacting for her if it meant that
she should never be commonly friendly with any
other man.
* # #
He looked at her steadily for a few
moments, trying to smother the wild flood of
black suspicion aroused in him by the discovery
of the letter and confirmed by her sneering words,
and then said quietly but with a dangerous in-
flexion in his voice—
“Remember —you are my wife. If you have
no regard for your own reputation, you shall have
some for mine. I don’t want to entertain my
friends by thrashing R , but I’m not such a
fool as you think. And if you go further in this
direction you’ll find-me a bit of a brute.”
Again the sneering laugh—“lndeed! Some-
thing tragic will occur, I suppose?”
“No,” said Challis, grimly, “somethingdamned
prosaic—common enough to men with pretty
wives— I’ll clear out.”
“ I wish you would do that now,” said his wife,
“ I hate you quite enough.”
Of course she didn’t quite mean it. She really
liked Challis in her own small-souled way—prin-
cipally because his money had given her the social
pleasures denied her during her girlhood. With
an unmoved face and without fan well he left her,
and went to his lawyer’s.
A quarter of an hour later he arose to go, and
the lawyer asked him when he intended returning.
“ That all depends upon her. If she wants me
back again, she can write, through you, and I’ll
come—if she has conducted herself with a reason-
able amount of propriety for such a pretty woman.”
Then, with an ugly look on his face, Challis went
out.
Next day he embarked in the Lady Alicia for
a six months* cruise among the islands of the
North-west Pacific,
* » *
That was four years pgo, and to-day
Ohallis, >vho stands working at a little table set in
against an open window, hammering out a ring
from a silver coin on a marlin-spike and vyce,
whistles softly and contentedly to himself as he
raises his head and glances through the vista of
cocoanuts that surround his dwelling on this lonely
and almost forgotten island. “The devil!”
he thinks to himself, “ I must be turning into a
native. Four years ! What an ass I. was !
And I’ve never written yet that is, never
sent a letter away. Well, neither has she.
Perhaps, after all, there was little in that affair
of R ’s By God ! though, if there
was, I’ve been very good to them in leaving them
a clear field. Anyhow, she’s all right as regards
money. I’m glad I’ve done that. It’s a big prop
to a man’s conscience to feel he hasn’t done any-
thing mean ; and she likes money—most women
do. Of course I’ll go back —if she writes. If not
well, then, these sinful islands can claim me for
their own ; that is, Nalia can.”
# # #
A native boy with shaven head, save for
a long tuft on the left side, came down from the
village, and, seating himself on the gravelled
space inside the fence, gazed at the white man
with full, lustrous eyes.
“Hallo, tama,” said Challis, “whither goest
now ?”
“Pardon, Tialli. I came to look at thee making
the ring. Is it of soft silver —and for Nalia, thy
wife ? ”
“Ay, O Shaven Head, it is. Here, take this
masi and go pluck me a young nut to drink,” and
Challis threw him a ship-biscuit. Then he went
on tapping the little band of silver. He had
already forgotten the violet eyes, and was think-
ing with almost childish eagerness of the soft glow
in the black orbs of Nalia when she should see his
finished handiwork.
The boy returned with a young cocoa-nut, un-
husked. “ Behold, Tialli. This nut is a uto ga'au,
sweet husk. When thou hast drunk the juice give
it me back, that I may chew the husk which is
sweet as the sugar-cane of Samoa,” and he
squatted down again on the gravel.
• # »
Challis drank, then threw him the husk
and resumed his work. Presently the boy, tearing
off a strip of the husk with his white teeth said,
“ Tialli, how is it that there be no drinking-nuts
in thy house ?”
“ Because, O turtle-head, my wife is away ; and
there are no men in the village to-day; and
because the women of this motu have no thought
that the papalagi may be parched with thirst, and
so come not near me with a cocoanut.” This
latter in jest.
“Nay, Tialli. Not so. True it is that to-day
all the men are in the bush binding fala leaves
around the cocoa-nut trees, else do the rats steal
up and eat the buds and clusters of little nuts.
And because Nalia, thy wife, is away at the other
White Man’s house no woman cometh inside the
door.”
Challis laughed. “O evil-minded people of
Nukunono. And must I, thy papalagi , be parched
with thirst because of this?' 1
“ Faiaga oe, Tialli, thou but playest with me.
Raise thy hand and call out * I thirst !’ and every
woman in the village will run to thee, each with a
drinking-nut, and those that desire thee, but are
afraid, will give two. But to come inside when
Nalia is away would be to put shame on her,”
* # *
The white man mused. The boy’s solemn
chatter entertained him. He knew well the native
customs ; but, to torment the boy,, he commenced
again-
“O, foolish custom ! See how I trust my wife,
Nalia. Is she not even now in the house of another
whiteman?”
“True. But, then, he is old and feeble, and
thou young and strong. None but a fool desires
to eat a dried flying-fish when a fresh one may be
had.”
“O, wise man with the shaven crown,” said
Challis, with mocking good nature, “thou art full
of wisdom of the ways of women. And if I were
old and withered, would Nalia then be false to me
in the house of another and younger white man ?”
“ How could she? Would not he, too, have a
wife who would watch her ? And if he had not,
and were nofo noa (single), would he be such a
fool to steal that which he can buy —for there are
many girls without husbands as good to look on
as that Nalia of thine. And all women are alike,”
and then, hearing a woman’s voice calling his
name, he stood up.
“Farewell, 0 ulu tula poto” (Wise Bald head),
said Challis, as the boy, still chewing his sweet
husk, walked back to the native houses clustered
under the grove of pua trees.
• # *
Ere dusk Nalia came home, a slenderly-
built girl with big dreamy eyes, and a heavy
mantle of wavy hair. A white muslin gown,
fastened at the throat with a small silver brooch,
was her only garment, save the folds of the navy-
blue-and-white lava lava round her waist, which
the European-fashioned garment covered.
Challis was lying down when she came in. Two
girls who came with her carried baskets of cooked
food, presents from old Jack Kelly, Challis’s
fellow-trader. At a sign from Nalia the girls took
one of the baskets of food and went away. Then,
taking off her wide-brimmed hat of fala leaf, she
sat down beside Challis and pinched his cheek.
“ O lazy one ! To let me walk from the house
of Tiaki all alone ! ”
“ Alone ! There were three of thee.”
“Tapa! Could I talk to them; I, a white
man’s wife, must not be too familiar with every
girl; else they would seek to get presents from me
with sweet words. Besides, could I carry home
the fish and cooked fowl sent thee by old Tiaki ?
That would be unbecoming to me, even as it would
be if thou climbed a tree for a cocoa-nut ” —and the
Daughter of the Tropics laughed merrily as she
patted Challis on his sunburnt cheek.
Challis rose, and going to the little table took
from it the ring.
“See, Nalia, I am not lazy as thou sayest.
This is thine.”
The girl, with an eager Auc! took the bauble
and placed it on her finger. She made a pretty
picture, standing there in the last glow of the sun
as it sank into the ocean, her dreamy, languorous
eyes filled with a tender light.
Challis, sitting on the end of the table regarding
her with half-amused interest as does a man
watching a child with a toy, suddenly flushed
hotly, “ By God, I can’t be such a fool as to begin
to love her in reality, but yet ... come here,
Nalia,” and he drew her to him, and, turning her
face up so that he might look into her eyes, he
asked ;
“ Nalia, hast thou ever told me any lies?”
The steady depths of those dark eyes looked
back into his and she answered :
“Nay, I fear thee too much to He. Thou mightst
kill me,” _ ;
“I do but ask thee some little things, 16
matters not to me what the answer is. Yet see
that thou keepest nothing hidden from me.”
The girl, with parted lips and one hand on his,
waited.
“Before thou became my wife, Nalia, hadsfc
thou any lovers?’’
“ Yes, two—Kapua and Tafu-le-Afi,”
“And since?”
“ May I choke and perish here before thee if I
lie! None.” _ ; -
Challis, still holding her soft brown chin ip his
hand, asked her one more question—a question
that only one of his temperament would have
dared to ask a girl of the Tokelaus,
“Nalia, dost thou love me?”
“Aye, alofa tumau (everlasting love). Aral a
fool? Is there not Letia, and Miriami, and ElinS,
the daughter of old Tiaki, ready to come to this
house if I love any but thee ? Therefore my love
is like the suckers of the fa’e (octopus) in its
strength. My mother has taught me much
wisdom.” ,
A curious feeling of satisfaction possessed the
man, and next day Letia, the “ show ” girl of the
village, coming to Challis’s house to buy a tin of
salmon, saw Nalia the Lucky One seated on a mat
beneath the seaward side of the trader’s hoiise,
surrounded by a billowy pile of yellow silk,
diligently sewing.
“ Ho, dear friend of my heart ! Is that silken
dress for thee ? For the love of God, let me but
touch it. Four dollars a fathom it be priced at.
Thy husband is indeed the king of generosity.
Art thou to become a mother ?”
“Away, silly fool, and do thy buying and pes-
ter me not.”
• # *
Ohallis, coming to the corner of the house,
leant against a post, and something white showed'
in his hand. It was a letter. His letter to the
woman of violet eyes, written a week ago, in the
half-formed idea of sending it some day. He read
it through, and then paused and looked at Nalia.
She raised her head and smiled. Slowly,,piece by
piece, he tore it into tiny little squares, hfid, with
a dreamy hand-wave, threw them away. The
wind held them in mid-air for a moment, and then
carried the little white flecks to the beach, t
“ What is it?” said the bubbling voice of Letia
the Disappointed.
“ Only a piece of paper that weighed as a piece
of iron on my bosom. But it is gone now.”
“ Even so,” said Letia, smelling the gaudy label
on the tin of salmon in the anticipative ecstacV of
a true Polynesian, “ pe se mea fa’agotoimoajia (like
a thing buried deep in ocean). May God send me
a white man as generous as thee—a whole tin of
samani for nothing ! Now do I know that Nalia
will bear thee a son.”
• • *
And that is why Challis the Doubter has
never turned up again,
Sydney.
LOUIS BECKE.
“Australian rhyme is a poetry of the
horse; Canadian, of the canoe,” says a Canadian
writer.
Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocajne
Consultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)


/JrinJf
9
" V
t
ABSOLUTELY
PURE,
therefore the best.
m
mm i
\\
m
i
A
m
A
5%:
////<
yy
m
'■K
4&
1
B %i
m
c oc o^
ig
fM
m 1
*o*
%t\
c%»
The Gospel of “Vittles.”
How shall we reach the masses?—Christian llkrald.
How shall we reach the masses? Drop your
dogmas down a well;
Play a sacred hymn, my brother, on the ho y
dinner-bell; ,
Talk a little less of golden harps and lands beyoivl
the moon, _
And try the masses, brother, with the jingle of a
spoon.
Assail them with a bfead-ktlife and assault them
with a fork; i
Try roasted joint and fatted calf and duck and
jieas and pork ; . ■ • , .
Seiiie basin, bowl, arid porridge-pot, and play a
merry tune, •• i t
And start the masses singing to the jingle of a
spoon.
Such wary watch on sceptic wolves ye careful
shepherds keep
That, while ye guard the Master's fold, ye fail to
feed the sheep 5 ,
But, brothers, ’twas a saying sage, in days ere ye
were born,
“ Ev’ry sheep must have his pasture ere he cdmeth
to be shorri.”
‘‘ Some people have such little souls’’—the
glorious Goethe said, , „ ,
Arid many more (right well we know) have
mighty little head,
But a mouth and maw capacious hath each lean
and hungry loon,
And a fine ear for the music of the basin and the
spoon.
How shall we reach the masses? Take the ancient
Teacher’s plan :
Mix the sermons, loaves, and fishes— beat an
arithem on the pan » .
You’]! find there’s grace abounding, friend, in
decent clothes, and shoon,
And a mighty “ Means of Mercy ” in the music of
. the spoon. . ■
Queensland.
P. LUFTIG.
An Hon. with a tandem name discourses
in the National Review on Australia
I believe that the bonds of Victoria and Queensland are
sound, that the interest on them will continue to be paid,
and that the value of town property will be maintained.
The case is widelv different in N.S. Wales. N.S. Wales
has been brought, by the narrow-minded and sordid policy
of a succession of grasping place-hunters, to the verge
of national bankruptcy. The end cannot be much longer
delayed.
But none of this family ever knew when they were
well off. When the present writer used to sleep
under a tree in Sydney Domain, with a namesake
and relative of the aforesaid Honourable, the
relative in question used to spend an hour scrap-
ing a hole for his hip, and unless he had a skin-
ful ” he always passed the rest of the night in
cursing the honest rocks of N.S.W. for their
hardness.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Fills stir one up.
Says a bold generalise! I ,* writing to The
Bulletin
Curly hair “is prevalent amongst actors, acrobats, and,
most of all, in barbers.” [Naturally.—Ed. H.] I find it
mostly unassociated with brains, very rarely with any
business ability, and if curly-haired men are of indepen-
dent means they inherit the means, or live on a game oi
some sort. The reason working men are mostly straignt-
haired is because the whites of the human race are, for-
tunately, mainly built that way, the average being about
a hundred to one. Curly men are vain, bad-tempered,
frequently unprincipled, and always unreliable, lo see
the way they take off their hats in church or theatre, and
tuck up their hair at the back and over the ear like giddy
girls, is the keynote of their characters. They are, in a
sense, bi-sexual, having all the bad qualities of typical man
and typical woman.
Years ago, the present writer was employed by ft
man whose business acumen still stands as a pro-
verb far beyond his province, and who once said :
“ No, I artl not disposed to give any more
credit. He has cutly bait.”
It may not be generally known that a r;ird
and not by any means unpleasant flavour can be
given to new and raw whisky by soaking live or
freshly-killed centipedes in the flowing bowl—not
too many centipedes, but just enough. One de-
funct reptile to half-a-gallon of the liquor is quite
sufficient. The animal should be as nearly intact
as possiblei—not utterly sqiiashed with a spade.
There is no visible reason for this, only experience!
has shown that, while the entire centipede produ-
ces good results, the crushed one doesn’t —evidently
it is onlv the Outside of the animal that is bene-
ficial, and the inside of it isn’t. The Bulletin
doesn’t profess to know what substance it is in the
centipede that exercises a favourable influence oh
the drink, but possibly some scientific gentleman
can throw light on this point. What this paper
does know, however, is that at least onedarge
illicit distiller soaks dead centipedes in his liquor,
and when you get a threepenny whisky at any
hotel in Sydney you are sibout as likely to get his
brand as any other. For the information of
amateur distillers The Bulletin hastens to
mention that the late animal should be soaked for
about two days.
Au incident recalling an episode in Charle*
Reade’s novel of “Foul Play” occurred during
the passage of the barque Examiner, which
arrived at Sydney on Thursday last from Kaipara
(M.L.). When in lat. 34deg., 3min. spilth, long.
159 deg., 2imin. east, a small bird alighted on he*
deck, apparently wearied, and was captured.
Round its neck was tied a piece_ of linen upon
which was written —“ Vapeur Fiado, July 21,
1893, lat. 29deg., long. 154 deg., 18mm., east,
C. Bouret, Noumea via Australia.” In Toul
Play ” the hero and heroine are cast away on an
island in the Pacific, and the hero—a parson
—captures a number of wild ducks and attaches
letters to their necks. One of these is caught by
a Yankee trading captain and ultimately leads to
their rescue. The idea of utilising aquatic birds
as messengers is by no means confined to white
people. In Nuitao, one of the Ellice Group, a
native Samoan missionary some years ago trained
several katafa (men-of-war hawks —and the
swiftest of all the predatory ocean wanderers) to
carry letters to the island of Nanomaga, distant
(50 miles. The katafa would be liberated at day-
light, carry the letter to the teacher at Nanomaga,
bo given food of flying-fish nnd immcdicitoly fiy
home again, all within three hours. The katafa
is used on many islands in Polynesia as a fish
provider in the same manner as the Chinese use
the cormorant.
We read that the O.M.G-. list is full, and
that aspirants will grovel in vain, until openings
are created by the deaths of existing Companions.
Editor Bulletin, — More ‘ ‘ brightening ?”
Apropos the celebration of the anniversary of the
Fall of the Bastille, ‘ Outis,” in Sydney D.T.
The men who stormed the Bastille and the men who
defended it are now part of the same earth, and, looking
back to that time, it seems. a stupendous absmdity that
they could not have lived their little days in peace with-
out making each other’s lot harder than it need have
been That is the only way in which any of the great
saturnalias of human savagery and human stupidity
which are celebrated in most all countries as glorious
battles ever strikes me.
What next? Was it a stupendous absurdity in
those men, 25 millions in number, who, 104 years
ago thronged to the feast of pikes m the Elysian
fields, and, for eight days and more ce ebrated,
with unparalleled grandeur, the downfall of that
rock fortress, tyranny’s stronghold, the BaStille of
sir Anthonv ’ Was it a stupendous absurdity
ten "h„,«»nd Women—mothers,- Judith,
their children weeping for bread—inarched to
Versailles, amid wild October weather, and wrung
from an august Assembly and a thrice Christian
King provisions enough to sustain them m their
starving degradation and travails ? Was the
march of the black-browed Marseillaise and their
immortal hymn a stupendous absurdity ? Was
Mirabeau a stupendous absurdity ? Irnm that
evening on which, in the valley of Bethuha, the
Jewish maiden smote the drunken tyrant in his
tent, down to this, our day. when the voice of
Ireland arises from the lair of oppression, is there
nothing but a record of human savagery and
human stupidity ! The lives of Saul, of Horatius
of Coriolanus, of Rudolph of Hapsburg, Don John
of Austria, Rienzi, Hampden, are these nothing
but the records of saturnalias of human savagery
and human stupidity ? And here we have Fat
Man’s organ sitting in judgment upon .Plutarch,
and Carlyle,.and Lytton.—A. A.
Queensland’s total output of sugar this
season is reckoned at 77,000 to 80,000 tons.
From the Weekly Telegraph (owned by
a man named Levy who calls himself Lawson),
England
It is a common remark by those who know the hie ot
the Prince, that if he had been a private gentleman
instead of Prince of Wales, he would have made the most
distinguished statesman the world has seen.
If Cody’s donkey hadn’t been an ass, he’d have
been an elephant.
Purcell, of Q. nigger celebrity, tells a story
of the guilelessness of “10. the poor -black-
fellow.” The dark-skinned brother sought out a
bar-keeper in Melb. ; “You gib it beer b longer
tsispence.” He got it—in a bottle, and slid just
£is the bar-keeper found that what looked like a
“thrmnbo ” between the pennies was but a tin-
tag—that and nothing more, • The bar-keeper is
now converted to a right view of the law forbid-
ding sale of liquor to aborigines.
Epitaph in Windsor (N.S.W.) C.E. ceme-
tery i
John Cupitt , „„
died 16th Oct.j 1837. aged 38 years.
Weep not for me my babies dear
i am not dead but sleeping here
it was gods will for us to part
And left my dear wife with an along heart
he was a father dear, a husband kind
til wretched drink distressed his mind
Left me in grief for to regret
while i am on earth you I never can forget
View this stone my brothers dear
And think of me and shed a teat
I was cut of all in ray bloom
arid left my dear friends to regret my doom
OnG of the advantages of the betterment
law In Victoria for several years past a violent
agitation for a railway has been going on in the
Picola and Nathalia district, and petitions with-
out number have been presented showing that the
line must pay handsomely from the very outset.
This was in the days when a new railway meant
the resumption by the State of all land required
at- generally—from six to ten times its value.
Very recently, however, a new Act was passed
which provides —as the first instalment of the
betterment principle—that all Isind required for a
new railway must be provided at the cost of the
landowmers whose property is enhanced in Value
by the building of the line. And now a petition
has been presented from the same old crowd,
requesting the Government not to build the
Picola and Nathalia line just at present, and
stating plaintively that if built it wouldn t even
pay for wheel-grease.
This story, says ft London correspondent
of The Bulletin, is told of art Australian prima-
donna who came here a year or two ago as a
subject for managerial competition. After her
first appearance in a burlesque entertainment, a
well-known London critic wrote to the effect that
“She could neither sing nor act, her voice was
hard and her comedy wooden.” Ihe lady, ot
course, possessed a patron who endeavoured to
set things right with a champagne luncheon and
suggested to the aforesaid critic that he might
alter his opinion on a second visit. Accordingly,
the following appeared : “She can sing as well as
she can act and her comedy is as genuine as her
voice is pure.” Another instance of the nastiest
thing being said in the nicest way.
There is woe in upper “ suckles,”
And a wailing goes abroad
From the public man who truckles
In abasement to a lord,
And the personage of station
Who for fifty years has been
A big bulwark of the nation
And a-doting on his Queen,
Fairly gloating on his Queen,
With a Fatman’s holy fervour atldacraven Chinese mien.
Vain devotions, speeches sordid,
lowing back and bending knee.
They may never be regarded
With the charmed “ C.M.Q,”
Only a favoured one may pluck it
From the corpse and wear it when
Some Companion kicks the bucket.
Slim the Fatmah’s chances then,
Hopeless that nian’s chances then.
Just as well rise from their stomachs now, and move
about like men.
Men for our Republic steering,
Who at titles always scoff,
E’en may show regret on hearing
C.M.G.-ships now are ” off,”
For a change is coming that’ll
Break the boasted silken bands.
Then we’ll know Imperial cattle
By these Royal marks and brands,
By their loyal marks and brands,
When there’s only room for cloarskins on the free Aus-
tralian lands.


“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition--No. 6.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon —which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Coupons received to 23rd September,
1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps; when the
latter are sent, a penny to be added for
exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word Competition Coupon—Ho. 6.
x X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to be received, by Saturday, 23rd September, ISOS.
The cornered Parkes says he is willing to refer to a plebiscite the question o
payment of members in N.S.W. If payment of members can be settled
by a plebiscite, why not also every other vexed question 1 ? Parkes endorsement o
the plebiscite foreshadows the abolition of Party Government and the absurd English
custom of endeavouring to settle five hundred questions at one election.
Name
Address __ :
Missing Word t
The person who fids in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received — no deduction whatever being made. Should there he more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.33.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness,
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
to
cc
ZOxillotln. ” Series, ISTo. 3.
“The Last of Six”:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldrewbod.
Says the celebrated author of “ Robbery Under Arms” In these “ Tales of the Austral Tropics ” will be found the
strange romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Aus-
tralia. That they are not less true than terrible, I take it upon myself to affirm. That such is far from being the case with thf
larger proportion of literary manufacture professing to describe Australian life and character, I must distinctly assert. “ Thost
who know seldom write, and those who write don’t know,” remarks the veteran colonist witn accentuated emphasis. But this
author’s name is a household word among bushmen and bookmen from Albany to Thursday Island, from u The Gulf to the
Snowy River— .... ■-
“ Alike to him the sea, the shore,
The pen, the bridle and the oar.
To him, familiar as highways are the endless solitudes of the “ Never Never Country ”~he has tempted Desert Sphinx, gazed
upon gold matrix and opal hoards which gleamed in mockery of the exhausted wanderer. Trusted for dear life in forest glades
to a'steady eye and a true rifle. Listened in a canoe on the Coral Sea to the moaning of the approaching tempest.
Long a leading actor upon Dame Nature’s stage, he has turned scene-painter for the nonce, and limned with lifelike
effect the drama of the Waste. , XT 0 ~7 , XT , A
“ Rolf Boldrewood, Albury, N.S Wales, Nov. 10, 1892.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“Bulletin” Series, 3NTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SECOUD EIDITZOIsr
OF
“A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
It the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours-^
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
‘ the World.
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued By the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the. one completely non?
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
orusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued jFrom the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated-of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger _in the Maordand
Ranges. ■ A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication _ and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact
easily ascertainable from any postal official that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, Ihe Bul-
letin is the one most frequently, remailed from
one reader to another.
' The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mas? of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
4 artistic, and its policy the' boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed to
William Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


NOW PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX : ”
Tales or the Austral Tropics,
BT
ebttest paveuc,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
Headers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may he unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
“The Wedding Morning.”
THIS CHARMING ACADEMY PICTURE,
Or Firth's "So Glean/' or Dorothy Tennant's "Head over Tails/'
Will be sent FREE
On receipt of 25 Sunlight Soap Wrappers; with 50, Framed ; and with 100, Framed in Gilt.
ADDRESS:
LEVEE BROTHERS, LTD.,
232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
From Weldon’s Illustrated Dressmaker.
“ It is full early to remind my readers about the spring clean up, but ‘ SUNLIGHT SOAP ’
will Vie always welcome by those who take a pride in their home and surroundings, while to help
one ever the trial of washing day, and make clothes as white as snow, : SUNLIGHT SOAP ’ is
without exception the best and most economical preparation in the market. Its cleansing power
is wonderful, and yet its purity enables it being used for even the most delicate cambric or lace,
or for cleaning the most choice paint, while for washing woollen goods this soap justly deserves
the attention of those ladies wishing to keep their flannels soft and equal to new. ‘ SUNLIGI IT
SO AP,’ cleans anything and everything, is very economical, and greatly lessens household labour,
therefore what more can be needed of a soap.”
Sunlight Soap is used in Her Majesty the Queen’s Laundry.
Sole Agents for HENIIY HEATH.
"Price S 3 s. bci.
JsTOSX Ci OOlr
/|emry vjEfmfij
TRADE MA(W
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Bs. Oti.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three ndglig£ shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It ts made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
C 3-. XX. SMITH & SOUNT,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
SS* Look Out for
“THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; psr Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
True Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET. SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Macliinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies,
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tlie “ Pioneer ” Ore "Trea-ting Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
fj
b/ek^
OHf
ds
r
Know'.es’ Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT I
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip —ruraliae in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn ;|nd home what a home should
be a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc. for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your,
son may some day hold Duff’s or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. I am FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DP APERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that, is, by coining and dealing
with your humble servant, Fov. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Fov never deceives or cheats. Fov feels most proud and contented
when the* public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire ids endeavours to please. Say ! Fov' is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
# V
(Neak HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
SBqx*ja/rcs, S"STI3 INTDESY.
(Establish*!) over a Quarter of a Century.]
w
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
ar terms—ios. c«l per Pay. WctltSl SldllGy (late of Newcastle), “Prop.”
HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN HOUSE , MiLson’s Point, SYDNEY.
, •■-■■■
ir* i# . **
: jjS2
I t . -.r %
■
ss:
'
■i I l ' l * «
HP . I i
:"I • ;
Resident Medical Offioer-Dr LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M-R-C-S., Eng., etc.
Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital ; Govennn'Mit M dica. Officer, Brisbane, etc.
EXPSHIEKTCED ]\TXJR3IEra STAFF.
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYV ECOLOGICAL CASKS.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
h arbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
soinfort of patients. '
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
