

aRS
ft?
(ft
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
AITKEN’S ALE DICKENS’ WHISKY
LIFE BUOY BRAND.
THE BEST IN THE MARKET
USED BY THE LATE CHARLES DICKENS,
AND SUPPLIED TO THE PBINCIPAL CLUBS IN SYDNEY.
HARRISON & ATTWOOD, 251 Creorge-st. y Sydney, Sole Agents for New South Wales.
R. O. WATKIXS «S& CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney, 7
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, mriwiTig Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sdf
I
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
TILLAGE SETTLEMENT!
SEVEN YEARS’ LEASE, with Option of Purchase at the
priqe agreed upon at the commencement of Lease.
The SYDNEY PERMANENT
Freehold Laud A Building Co., Limited,
PITT and BATHURST STREETS, SYDNEY,
Are prepared to LEASE, with OPTION of PUR-
CHASE, in areas to suit,
McQuoid’s Grant,
On the Northern Railway, between SYDNEY and
NEWCASTLE. Prices and Areas vary.
S 3" As an illustration : —For a Block, 5 acres, at
*lO per acre, the Ist, 2nd and 3rd .years’ rent is
*1 ss. for the 5 acres —condition, l-10th to be
cleared; rents for 4th, sth, 6th and 7th years,
.£ll7s. 6d., £2 10s., £3 155., £5 —condition, l-10th
to be cleared. At end of 7th year you can pur-
chase, for Cash, the land for tile .£5O, or bn three
years’ terms. Torren’s Title.
Apply to H, KEAMEY, on the Estate; or,
ATKIN & WATKIN, 313 Pitt-street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIA.
This Great Hotel is admitted to be without a lit alia
AUstiaaa.
The maximum of comfort is secured at a verv moderate
cost.
Terras, from Twelve Sliillinsrs and Sixpence (12s. 6d.)
per day, including baths and all meals.
Special a raii,tuuias made for permanent boarders.
H. EDWIN MOORE. Manages.
r •
o*
rHt
rcj*£
r |—tsmatnig
H
u»-tncnic3Cii23iEnn^^
The Oxford ISotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORL’E
Peopkietob.
Lenten Season. Lenten SeESOD ! Lenten Season.
NEW SOUTH WALES
giesh sood and (Ice Company, fetd.
r*islx ! Fish.! Fisb.!
("AWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
v - / DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.—as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
id- P e r lb- for the most distant towns—the luxury of a
fish diet is within the reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.'s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 per cent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon—
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour- street.
Note We shall be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect our refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs-Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c,
3HC -y. DE»ei/fce s oil, Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WALKER’S WHISKY.
J OHKT WALKER, 2-St BO3XTD
iILSOPf'S ILL
STREET, SYOKTSY.
, & C. HOWARD
Sole Agents in Iffew Soutli Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Sivnttlewortli.
Compound Portable Engine, with automatic expansion
gear, steel boiler and water-heater.
'37 iMfea
» SHUIILEIIOMh VKCOLVI' 197 :: -
IM PROVED PORTABLE ~ENGI NE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes : Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.®
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
COMPOUND UNDERTYPE FIXED ENGINE
AND
LOCOMOTIVE BOILER.
JC LIGHTING ENGINES, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES.
J. & O. Howard, 280^
Eull Catalogues Of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13. - No. 682. j
[Saturday, March 11, 1893.


TALES oi tub CONVICT SYSTEM.”
!;• • 1-1. ■
—
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
BOOKS ! BOOKS! BOOKS!
Bought aud Exchanged,
LIBRARIES PURCHASED.
ONE MILLION BOOKS ALWAYS ON VIEW
DYMOCK’S BOOK ARCADE,
428 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Royal Hotel)
rj^.piegcfs-K
NO
In the
a Rup-
like Dr.
Elastic
Truss has
aads of
Springs.
Mght and Day. Perfect fitting Trusses sent by mail.
If you want the BEST, send for Pamphlet So. 1.
Address MAGNETIC ELASTIC TRUES CO. ,£an Francisco. Cal,
Or Wasliington H. Sonlife €o„ ISOPUtSt,
Sydney, or KClioK Bros., Brisbane, Agents
i;
tj
TRUSS
Vt'orld wiil Retain
ture or give Belief
Pierce’s Magnetic
This Celebrated
radically cured thous-
cases. No Iron Hoops or Steel
ibe worn with ease and comfort
SPECIAL NOTICE.—The Sydney Bulletin
Tasmanian Edition Publishers, FITZ-
GERALD BROS. Subscription (payable strictly
in advance). Six Shillings and Sixpence per quar-
ter, or One Pound per annum.
The Bulletin will be on Sale every Friday at
the Office, George Street, Launceston, or from the
Runners in the street.
ows
I
(/
• 1)
f Isold
'\EVERY*WHERE'
E 3
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
Dr.RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOK INFANTS add INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D,, F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
v.o
CKOMTYI
Whista: I
1
*
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
BEOU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
«JI . Jks " IH S -kr4L Jt~t. I*,,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
Count Cmr MATTETS
MARVELLOUS
REMEDIE S,
Cure CANCER, Anaemia, Asthma, CONSUMPTION, Diph-
theria, Drops}*, Dyspepsia, Erysipelas, ECZEMA, Fevers,
Gout, Heart Disease, Contagious and Skin Diseases,
INFLUENZA, Liver Complaints, PILES, Uterine Dis-
orders, SCROFULA, and all other Diseases.
NEURALGIA, TOOTHACHE, HEADACHE, and other
pains cured in Five Minutes.
All Medicines are Dispensed by COUNT MATTERS
Authorised Agent.
Address— The MANAGER,
Central Mattel Depot, 54 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Box 379 G.P.O.
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANQTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION 2 Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
a Trade Mark—a “ White Rose” j
BX and address in lull.
manhood.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
"i Four Weeks by the use of
X> ? ri c o jo’s
I ss£WCE-of LtF e-
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for S&s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry d: Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
For Consumption use
(OF* Sons
sdf
co^y
.A
4
it?
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory :
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
TREATMENT
SURGEON LANGSTON,
Mi
W/fiM.
■mm
..smm
mmwt/'y'V',
Wit /
~ SS
m
'.- .f
issssls
:; ■■
■ ;! -! : l
12
m
THE EXPERIENCED AND RENOWNED SPECIALIST,
Practice Established •<» Years.
Late of Imperial Forces, Army Medical Staff, Royal
Engineers, registered In England and Australia
and authorised by Act of Parliament to practise
n all the branches of Medicine and Surgery
s now permanently located at * ’
NO. 121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Being convinced that a vast deal of misery and
offering is caused by inexperienced and unqualified men
feel it my duty as a legally qualified Surgeon to publish
my address, so that all in need of medical skill may have
the benefit of my experience. Consultation is free to
all, but when £1 is enclosed, a careful diagnosis of the
case will be made, and appropriate medicine sent
My life-long experience, extending over 46
years, and practical method of treatment insure a
speedy and permanent cure in all
Special Diseases.
NEURASTHENIA or DEBILITY,
ORGANIC WEAKNESS, LACK of
ENERGY, FAILING MEMORY, PHYSICAL
DECAY,
producing some of tne following effects—Debility, Dimness
of Sight, Self-Distrust, Defective Memory, Pimples on the
sd
Face, Loss of Ambition, Lack of Confidence,
Gloominess, Despondency, Melancholy, Dys-
pepsia, Want of Energy, Palpitation, Stunted
Development, Pains'in the Back, etc., treated
with success, safely and privately. ■ ;
ELECTRIC QUADRANT
9
BLOOD AND SKIN DISEASES
ail forms, affecting Body, Nose, Throat, Skin and Bones, Blotches, Eruptions, Acne, Eczema, Old Sores, Ulcers, Painful
Swellings, from whatever cause, treated by means of Safe, Time-tested Bemertici. Stift and Swollen Joints
and Rheumatism the result of Blood Poison, CURTH. Constitutional or acquired II eaAnesses
of both Sexes treated successfully. Rupture instantly relieved and permanently cured. Surgeon Langston’s
with double compress and
. supports, price £,2. I use
only the best remedies. Every case requires specially prepared treatment. All are treated with skill in a
respectful manner ; and knowing what to do, \ o Experiments arc mart©. Home S'reatment.
Persons ailing at a distance can be successfully treated at home. Tlios© requiring* Immediate
Treatment can, by forwarding particulars of their case and £1, receive a course of treatment P°st.
Before confiding your case elsewhere, Consult the Old and Successful Specialist, SSL ROEOH
IjAiVCJ-SXoSf. Age and experience important. A friendly letter or call may save future, suffering,
and add golden years to life. In mercury or poisonous drug's used. New Edition OI my
latest work, “ Reus Sana In Corpore Sano,” 68 pages, sent free to men.
SURGEON LANGSTON, M.R.C.8., &c„
121 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
N.B.—The Only Outtliflcd Surg*eon piactising as a Specialist who has held Government
Appointments.
QST CONSULTATION FREE.
v»t
A0-.
5fY
tHM
'■ *-•
S 9*
U)mms'73i
Is .Always the- Rest
Scale of Advertising
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ... ... ... ... ... Gs. per inch per insertion, nett
Quarterly Contracts ... ... ... ... 10 per cent, discount.
Half Yearly „ ... ... ... ... 20 ~ ~ ~
One Year ~ ... ... ... ... 25 ~ ~ ~
Paragraph Advertisements ... ... ... 10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An extba discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
GROSYENOR HOTEL,
SYDNEJT.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
Visitors can avail themselves of the separate Tariff.
Single Room, 4s. - - Double Room, Bs.
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
99
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
-BY-
3ST E S T r A VEITC
With a prefatory notice by “Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm.
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian


Medical.
Assisted l)y I>r. ELMS LIE,
M.D., L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
29 York Street, Wynyard Spare,
SYDNEY.
p.o. Box 920.
ESTABLISHED in 1886.
This eminent Specialist is a graduated physician of
Harvard University, U.S., registered by the Governments
r NS W and N.Z., and has devoted Sixteen Years
the special study of the CHRONIC and SKIN
nISEASES of MEN and AVOMEN. All applying
fr, him will receive his honest opinion of their com-
nKiiits No experimenting ;no mercury used. A posi-
Ij vp cure guaranteed or forfeit £2OO. His vast experience
fells him that where there is no organic disease, and
nothing but an inorganic trouble, or, in other words, a
conglomeration of symptoms producing a certain result,
there is no reason why it cannot be removed with the
nroner remedies : therefore he guarantees. He claims to
L fhp most skilful ana successful physician in N.S.W. in
is i,articular speciality, viz., the CHRONIC DISEASES
of MEN and WOMEN.
Examination and Advice Free to all.
Omcc Hours s
10 to 12 a.m.
5 to 8 p.m.
2 to 4 aud
In consequence of the prevailing
hard times,
Dr SPEER has determined to REDUCE his FEES to
exactly ONE-HALF of those usually charged, and he
trusts that this will prove itself
GOOD NEWS INDEED
to those thousands of poor but honest sufferers, who,
though willing to pay a small fee proportionate to then-
means are quite unable to pay the enormous charges so
often made.
Dr SPEER wishes it to be distinctly understood that
iiis charge is INCLUSIVE, and that when once he takes a
curable case in hand he names a fee which includes all
advice, attendance and medicines until the patient is
completely cured. It therefore naturally becomes his
object to cure his patient as quickly as possible.
NERVOUSNESS.
CONSULT Dr. SPEER in all oases of NERVOUSNESS
and WEAKNESS, for his many years of practice with
these diseases enables him to remove all traces of them,
and to return the victims to full VIGOR and HEALTH.
N.8.--TWENTY SHILLINGS is sufficient to
send for remedies necessary for the cure of
NERVOUSNESS and WEAKNESS.
In all cases of
WEAKNESS consult Dr. SPEER.
LIVER AND KIDNEY COMPLAINTS consult Dr.
SPEER.
ASTHMA consult Dr. SPEER.
BLOOD DISORDERS consult Dr. SPEER.
SKIN DISEASES consult Dr. SPEER.
etc., etc.
Dr. SPEER will forward, post free, the following
celebrated
IPXI-iX-S.
1. AMERICAN “VIGOUR” PILLS, for Nervousness.
Weakness, &c., 55., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra
strong, 375. 6d.
2. AMERICAN PILLS, for Sores and Blood Diseases,
6a., or 21s. for five boxes. Extra strong, 375. Cd.
3. PILLS, for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s.
Dr. SPEER draws attention to his
A. EXTREMELY MODERATE CHARGES.
B. EFFECTUAL and RAPID TREATMENT.
O.—ABSOLUTE and PERMANENT CURE.
Mention this paper ivhen writing.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
w
w
E STAY at Bruto ix ’s,
nhngmoo
E STAY AT THE ROYAL.
(GOODRIDGE’S), Moss Vale.
CHILTERN, VIC.
EMoSWTNEY’S star hotel
• Is tub Bbst.
WJAC3-<3-^.
G-ive E. ATangliton
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Lake Macquarie.
£3T Under New Management.
Superior Accommodation for Families. Terms from
Bs. per Day and'£2 2s. per week.
Manager .. Geo. lly- James
(Four years’ Manager of the late Reform Club, Sydney).
ALBURY.
THE GLOBE HOTEL
(T. K. BROWN, Proprietor)
Being now under New Management, offers every
Comfort to Visitors.
Special Terms for Commercials.
S3T New Sample Room just Added.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
GRANT)
£££
MELBOORNH.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £'3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. F. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
T
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
m
%
L.R.C.S.LM.R.C.S
Legally Qualified and duly Registered by
the Medical Board.
The world-renowned Electrician, Physician, and
Surgeon, legally qualified and registered by the
Medical Board, received his medical education
at the Royal College of Physicians, where he
graduated with eclat. He then entered the Royal
College of Surgeons, where he also graduated with
highest honours. On receiving his various dip-
lomas, he completed his medical training by an
extended tour of the world, visiting all famous
hospitals, devoting special attention to the study
of diseases which afflict the young and inex-
perienced. On returning, die directed his attention
to electricity as a healer; and so proficient has he
become during the past 20 years that he is pre-
pared to guarantee to cure every accepted case,
or
MAKE HO CHARGE.
If you are subject to symptoms which you do
not understand, send for Dr. Burgoyne s Com-
plete Treatise, entitled, “Nervous and Skiu
Complaints,”
PRICE, ONE SHILLING.
This book is replete with useful hints to
sufferers, and even though you do not require
medical advice, you should send for a copy, it
solely for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Plushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, h ear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy bee -
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
. Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Pits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head .
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Pee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. Burgoyne will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. Bur-
goyne’s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The-“ Electric Girdle has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility from any cause arising.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my expen-
-1 ' ence and advice.
patients may Depend
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their Wood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. Bl RG( \NE f
Advice and Treatment; he will cure all Local
Complaints, and thus enable them to marry
honourably.
Honrs of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday-9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
ttS" Address all Communications :
Dr. J. T. BURGOYNE,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
3
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may bo eradi
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to hi 3
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send fid. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
free, a large
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
Lase. If you do not think you understand your
case' send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed: —
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STHEM\ SYDMJbiY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing/
CONSULTATION UEEE.
Shipping.
nNGL AN D VIA AMERICA
S-A in 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under: —
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £157 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSACERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government Oi
Prance, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY,
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows: —
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £63,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates
English interpreters meet through passengers for
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and accom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N.B.—Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
Eor freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Macquarie-place. ....
E. BLANC, Principal Agent,
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep;
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre, Fxtia
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
Eg. Kill Scrub Co.’s
DESTRUCTANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
m" Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South \Vales at Richmond,
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Lsq,,
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr.
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.
se’s MaiglocKchcf
mm
ustw iohw
o erum.
LOHSE’S
MAIGLOCKCHM
- LI LY OF THE V«SK
TOILET S*|
are the most fashionable
Sold by all class^erfum^r^
GUSTAV LOHSE, BERLif*
H
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
OLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
■ ■ There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments' of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
n every disease. IF YOU SUFFER. TK Y THEM Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. I ur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and 1 ots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
smirioua.
o
H.
FOR
M O U S T A C II EH
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. ISJi
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
OUlfi <t AITKFN, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
<£49,460 worth for <£l
See Amusement
Column.


BAKER'S PATENT
Boundary Rider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
vtitSsSt' W
-
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
’
i&assp ife^TOWWBB
m
m
*•
. ,—,—
ROYAL HOTEL, RANDWICK.
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated in
the best suburb of Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. RItOWN. I'ronrlctor.
BB3IEE
E
Sim& est
CLOSEST
@@/VINS I
ttiaehtnd
f
W2RLIc)
Before purchasing any other
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get yon one
FROM
JMMon&Co.,
sd
°p
>
SaSEgJS
HOME*
I
S'
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
ZX T~r /X TX/T’d
PREMIER BRAND of BOOTS & SHOES.
For Gentlemen, Youths and Boys.
Are in high favour with the public, they having completely established their claim to the title of
“PREMIER.” They stand alone for style, quality and low price. Manufactured on the spot, and
SOLD DIRECT TO THE WEARER —there is neither duty nor middleman’s profit to pay. Single
Pairs MAILED to any part of the Colony at SYDNEY WHOLESALE PRICE, Carriage Paid.
IST Try TRem.
DEPOTS—32O George Street, 141 King Street, and 200 Pitt Street,
Manufactory—37l PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
'33' al mre> «oL Q
iLthe old proverb be true.
SAPOLI ols greater fhan
foyal ly ihselp Try it I n your rrexb
house-cleaning: Grocers keep ih
DO YOU LIVE IN GREASE?
As a true patriot and citizen you should naturalize yourself
by using the best inventions of the day for removing such a charge
.To live in O-rease is utterly unnecessary when SAPOLIO is sold
m all the stores, and abolishes grease and dirt.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS. *
sif
fs
A. AND J
. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
:
Brand.
pvni
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Managsr for AtfOTRAUA-T. J- MaoWilllam, 2»7 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
THE
4 Plum’
df
the
‘Plum’
rrmis brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to tho public.
J- I’ure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a boll; set ready for use, and wo
guarantee each razor for two years. It never miuires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price / Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
ISingle Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful ease, 30s.
gislcrcd a nd gent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra.
Solo
Agents :
CRAIG &. AITKIN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
DON’T GO TO CHICAGO
WITHOUT A KODAK.
3VH A D E
—IN—
FIYE SIZES.
s
PULL the
STRING!
PRESS the
BUTTON!
We Do the Rest!
szbzbtd ;fo:r, enTiew illustbated ojlt-A-XiOG-ttb
AUE CIBGTJLAB.
BAKER and ROUSE,
375 —GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY — 375
W Directly Opposite SVdWsT An.CA.IDE.
And at 256 Collins-st., Melbourne; 69 Rundlb-st., Adelaide; 46 Queen-st, Brisbane.
SAYWELL & 00.
depot
fQr
MARVEL
T,p B A C C
" °£fO/?CE S T
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Englkieß, Boilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
<3T Write us with regard to any and description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay. '
MAKERS.
SURVEYING.' MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect.' Divided Bubbles, etc.
PHOTOGRAPHERS’ Brass Work Sundries, Flanges,'Adaptors, Rack and Rinion, etc.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock.
Illustrated Catalogues post FREE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO.,
19 Macquarie Place,
Sydn-ey,
Hairdressers and Gentlemen who Shave
Themselves, cannot do better than send ns their Razors to Grind and Set. We are the best Razor
Setters in the colony, and have the advantage over all other grinders and setters, inasmuch as we
know exactly the right edge required for shaving, as we are hail'drossers ourselves and have
gained the practical knowledge necessary,
LADIES.—Send us your scissors to grind and repair ; we can fix them up equal to new.
Craig Sz ken,
680 & 682 George Street, SYDNEY.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
13XOH
American Elevator.
Motlem'Scmitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Sfecialarrange-
meats Jor Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A fart-
me fits and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &*£., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director
‘TALES of


The Bulletin
Vol. 13— No. 682.
SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1893.
Fries, 3d-
If TRACTFBOM* NEU AUSTRALIA UAFIE i
fmy n/enjber oj flje
aqrws fo subscribe all tye n? aI J
possess Sad? subscription (o
be jaMesS
- •<£?
df
THE “NEW AUSTRALIA” SCUTTLE.
THE OLD MAN (loq.) : “ Sixty quid’s a lump, Jo,
The swag’s too big to hump, Jo,
And I don’t think we’ll jump, Jo,
To the land of Paraguay."


The Bulletin
Thg National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
terms to subscribers
(payable in advance, only).
Per A nnum £i g 0
Half yearly q / ? q
Quarterly p G 6
; ~ NOTICE. - - _
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which yon may pay by Post Office-Order, One.. Bound
-i ote, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
haie The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
m tbe hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
f e BdUor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Con cspondcnce’ column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
I eiso, Short dales or Sketches (those dealing with Aits-
Italian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal -.-The Standard and Diggers’
Neivs Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also: It. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papa s will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this ride.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, MARCH 11, 1893.
The Gratis Australian Patriots,
It is undeniable that there is a general feeling of dis-
favour towards the payment of members. It has had a
tiial, ana the results are damning.—Sydney Echo.
True, a certain number of persons—howling idiots
hanging on for beer to-day and a possible membership
‘°; , "° 1 ' row — w *?o foresaw that they might draw £3OO a
year from the State, supported payment of members : but
in a single constituency had it ever been put: “ Are vou
prepared to pay £40,000 a year when you can get at least
as good men, possibly better, for nothing?” (Cheers 1
Pilcher, M.L.C. (N.S.W.). 1 '
It appears to be definitely decided all
ovei Australia that a vigorous attempt
is to be made to secure the abolition
of the democratic principle of payment of
parliamentary representatives. The National
Ass, the “ Patriotic ” League, the Property
Defence League, and all the other organisa-
tions of Capital are solid upon this point. So
is that section of the press which is exclu-
sively devoted to the interests of Capital.
The land-grant railway thieves of Queens-
land, and the Foreign-trade party of New
South Wales—which party represents nearly
all the solid cash in the country, and
nearly all the big estates and the aggre-
gate bricks and mortar—are especially
pronounced in their desire to revert to
the old system, whereby nobody was allowed
to help in making laws for the nation unless
he was already rich enough to give his time
to the work without payment, or villainous
enough to use his position as a means of
making money by fraud. The S.M. Herald
the Sydney Telegraph, the Echo, the Mel-
bourne Argus, and many similar organs of so-
called public opinion, have, arisen to declare
that there is a general upheaval of the
national conscience against the present
nefarious policy. In Queensland, the move-
ment practically dates from the time when
the new Kanaka slave-trade and the land-
grant railway frauds begun, and the Labour-
party, which has to live on its parliamentary
salary, commenced to make damaging com-
ments on these gigantic apostacies. In
Maoriland, it dates from the beginning of
the present democratic Government. In
New South Wales, it started almost on the
day when the I oreign-trade party of lawyers,
landlords and importers were turned out of
as the first result of the new policy.
And in Victoria the agitation is feeble, but
chronic, and goes on for ever.
New South Wales is, at present, the ap-
parent centre of the agitation. That pro-
vince was the last to recognise the fact that
the public servant who is obtained for noth-
ing is usually worth nothing, and the old
race of political rowdies, buffoons, obstruc-
tionists and miscellaneous swindlers which
grew up under the gratis system has not yet
had time to die out. All the politicians who
have' lately got into gaol, and various others
who, if is freely alleged, ought to be there,
are relics of the policy to which the capi-
talistic press is so anxious to revert. All the
most vociferous larrikins of the Assembly
belong to it also. So do all the members of
the present Cabinet, and yet the same papers
which denounce them by every violent
epithet in _ the dictionary claim that the
system which produced them Avas an un-
adulterated blessing to the country. The
■’Same system was responsible tor the exist-
ence of the legislators who used to hold free
tights in the refreshment-room, the legis-
lator who partially strangled another legis-
lator on the floor of the House, the legislator
who was partially strangled, the conspicu-
ously drunken legislators, and the one who
was four times insolvent—they were all
giovvn in the good old days of the unpaid
pati’iots. So, also, was the law-maker whose
amours up dark lanes at midnight were a
matter of notoriety, the one on whose jirivate
estate many thousands of public money were
expended in making roads, the one Avho
helped himself to £lOOO out of the Treasury
to pay for his title-hunting expedition to
England, the doctor person Avho is iioav
howling for a knighthood on the door-mat of
the Colonial Office in London, the bogus
bankers and all the K. C.M. G.’s, also most
of the sectarian bigots, the men who
made secret compositions Avith their credi-
tors, and the divorces. The Legislature
of to-day is by no means a brilliant success,
but it is incomparably cleaner and more
decent than the unpaid Legislature of past
years. The improvement dates from the
first election under the new system, and, so
far, it promises to be continuous.
* * *
The plea of the capitalistic press is that
New South Wales has had about four years
of government by paid legislators, and no
particular good has eventuated. The argu-
ment, hoAvever, reads as well the other way •
the province had more than 40 years of
government by unpaid legislators, and no
good eventuated out of that system either.
The same mode of so-called reasoning is
applied to the fiscal controversy. New South
Wales has had one year of partial Protection
and the millennium hasn’t come, therefore
Protection is hopelessly evil. It had nearly
o 0 years of Freetrade, and that system also
produced no millennium, but all the same
Freetrade is entirely beneficent. When
payment of members has had 40 years
trial, as the rival system had, and
has proved an equally hopeless failure,
then it will be time to condemn it.
Meanwhile, however, the efforts of the
new class of representatives have been
mostly neutralised by the obstruction of the
old gratis nominees of the Conncil, and of
the human daddocks belonging to the
Assembly Avho were left over from the former
regime.
* » •
The capitalistic party, however, is unfor-
tunate in its principal defender. The ffilded
bloodless Pilcher, Q.C., the blusterous; loud-
mouthed legal adviser of the local hog-thief
the Chaffanbrass of the Upper House, the
chief slang-whanger of the jury-court, unwit-
tmgly gave his cause away in the one famous
diatribe of his legislative career. The griev-
ance of the much-propertied classes is
that political power is no longer their
OAvn especial monopoly. The “ howl-
ing idiot ” of the Labour-party Avho
hangs on” for beer to-day and a
“ possible membership to-morrow ” —has, to
some extent, taken the place of the howling
idiot avlio used to hang on for champagne
and fat meat yesterday—Avith, let us add, a
possible chance to-day of getting into the
Legislature and selling a piece of land to the
Government at twenty times its value as the
price of his vote. The Labour-party—which
is the visible result of payment of members
—if it has done nothing else, has systemati-
cally opposed every SAvindle, and they Avere
many, which the relics of the old, cheap
Legislature have attempted to engineer
through the House, and great is the Avrath
that has ensued. As Pilcher truthfully
avers, the neiv lawmakers who have so much
shaken up the politics of the proAunce
“would never have seen political life if it
had not been for the £3OO a year,” but
there is nothing surprising in this fact,
i ilcher himself would, never have seen
legal existence but for the fees marked
on the hind-quarters of his briefs, and for
exactly the same reason ; and the public
loathing for Pilcher because he doesn’t
work at the bar gratis is just as strong as his
loathing for the democrats avlio— not having
grown rich by fraud or otherwise—are unable
to give their time to their country Avithout
remuneration. If one is a “ howling idiot ”
hanging on for £3OO a year, the other is a
coarse driveller hanging on, at his profession,
for, probably, £BOOO, and thus matters are
about equal. The test of a good and noble
legislator, according to Pilcher, is that he
must Avork for nothing ; the fact that no
laivyer and nobody following any other
occupation gives his time for nothing has,
m Pilcher’s philosophy, no bearing Avhat-
ever on the case.
As The Bulletin has more than once
pointed out, under the party system it is the
payment of Ministers, not the payment of
members, which is at fault. Half the time
of the Legislature is wasted upon squabbles
which have for their sole object the grabbing
of certain coveted billets at £l5OO per
annum, and the existence of these billets has
utterly demoralised Parliament for many
years. If the ordinary legislator who gives
up, perhaps, six hours per diem to the work
of the nation cannot be pure-minded and con-
scientious unless his salary is exactly nothing,
then the Minister who devotes, probably,
twelve hours per diem to the tame good
cause cannot be conscientious or sincere
unless he is paid on the same scale. Hedocs,
perhaps, three times as'much work as a hard-
working private member ; consequently he
deserves just thrice the salary, and thrice
nothing is nothing. The same rule is
adapted to the Speaker, the President of (lie
Council, the Chairman of Committees in
each House, the Civil Service— if the
ordinary M.L. A. cannot be upright unless
h e . is unpaid, then the Government Statis-
tician, or the Under-Secretary of Public
Works, cannot do his work conscientiously
unless his salary is immediately abolished.
Also, a similar brand of logic applies to the
Governor—in fact, it applies equally well to
everybody. But, in reality, the immeasur-
able curse of payment of members lies
entirely in the fact that it opens the doors
of the Assembly to every man who is of
sufficient intelligence and good character, or,
if you like, sufficient artfulness and plausi-
bility, to gain the confidence bf the electdrsq
that it makes political power no longer the
monopoly of the land-thief, the legal petti-
fogger, the successful fraudulent banker, the
prosperous dummy, the fool who has married
a rich wife, the mail whose father him a
terrace of houses of ill-fame, the bloated
brewer, and others of their kind. All these
individuals have a chance of entering the
Legislature, but the monopoly which they
once enjoyed has vanished away. And,
therefore, the voice of Pilcher is heard
crying in the wilderness, and the Echo lifts
up its voice and refuses to be comforted.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Saltwater “ Tragedy.”
A FJSW clays ago a “ tragedy ” took place on
the banks of the unclean Saltwater River, near
Melbourne. So far, it is an unfinished tragedy
and is chiefly noteworthy as casting some
further light on the mysteries of evidence, and
the morbid craving to swear to something or to
somebody, or to identify some person, or to
corroborate some statement*''#: other, which
seems to be inherent in humanity. It is on
account of this craving that nobody can tell a
lie, no matter how huge, or glaring, or gratuitous,
which—so long as it contains an element
of the grotesque and the horrible—will not be
promptly corroborated on oath. The Saltwater
tragedy is divided into six chapters.as follows
(l-)Two boys informed the -police (on Sunday) that
they had seen a man on the previous Fridav night at nine
o clock drown a woman by holding her down in the Salt-
water River.
Next day the corroborative evidence began to
roll in as follows :
(2) The boys fixed the time of the alleged murder at
9 o clock on Friday night, and it appears that half-an-
hour later a man entered an hotel in Footscray, and
leaned across the counter in a very exhausted state. He
told the landlady that he lead just had a desperate
struggle with a murderer. He said ,he had seen a man
trying to drown a woman in the river. When the mur-
derer came out of the water he seized him, and, in the
struggle, the man nearly-bit his finger off. He showed a
wounded finger. (We presume that he was here invited
to take a drink).
(3) About 10 o’clock the same night, while a Mr. Dhndas
was driving along the Abattoirs-road, he says he was
accosted by a man who appeared very excited. The man
asked for a ride. He said that lie had seen a man murder
a woman by drowning her in the river. He seized the
man, and tied him to a fence while he went for the police
who took the murderer into custody. Mr. Dundas did
not give the man a ride, as he was not going any distance.
(4.) The driver of an abattoir cart, David MTu.n'nox'
also states that he was stopped by a man on the same
road at midnight. The stranger was very nervous, and
repeated the story about the murder, with the exception
that he said the man had escaped before he got back with
the police. A good description of the man was obtained
by the police, who to-day were engaged dragging the
river.
(5.) One of the boys retracted his statements, and
declared the whole story to be a fabrication. The other
boy seems to have vanished.
(6.) The same boy retracted his retraction. Also he
denies that he ever retracted at all. The murderer had
a dog with him which he called “Nell.” A man who
owns a dog called “Nell” fias been arrested. River
dragged but no body found. No news of any woman
missing. Another man arrested and identified by
M'Kinnon as the person who met him at midnight.
The above are the principal features of the case.
There are five interesting discrepancies about
the evidence as follows : (I) The boys allowed
nearly two days to elapse before they told their
story, The lady at the hotel, and the driver
of the defunct meat-cart, and the other witness
allowed three days to pass. In fact, the last
three, apparently, never moved in the matter
at all until the talc was published, and
then they rolled up to corroborate the
horror, as somebody always does roll up
to corroborate every horror. This great and
desperate calm in the case of a drowned woman
and a murderer tied to a fence seems unnatural,
and all parties concerned should be invited to
explain. (2) The average man doesn’t go about
armed with ropes for the purpose of tying up
assassins in any case. (3) The alleged 9.30
man is said to have said that he had
seen _an attempted murder. The alleged
10 o’clock man had seen a real murder,
and had handed the murderer oyer to the
police—which certainly never happened. The
alleged midnight man had got back with the
police and found the assassin gone. The police
that he got back with haven’t turned up. (4)
Nobody is reported to have found any signs of
a struggle, or any fence that seemed to have
had a homicide recently attached to it,
or any remains of any ropes or other
fastenings. Also (5) the alleged man who was
on the road on Friday night was apparently
seeking publicity, yet the man who i s now
identified as him flatly denies dverythiiu/ i
repudiates the glory of having, captured C
murderer single-handed and hitched him to tU
nearest railings. Further, no deceased ha«
been found up to the time of writing—though
one certainly will lie found sooner or later ■ th
dead woman always comes to the detective’wh°
waits by the Yarra or the Saltwater Bn
when she is found, that will prove nothing
deceaseds being always plentiful. Altogether
the Saltwater River tragedy is a thrillinw com-
mentary on tlie art and mystery of getting
evidence together. Yet dozens of people have
been hanged on testimony which—at the beom
ning—was as contradictory and as hopelesslv
mi believable as this, and dozens more will ho
hanged in the future. The evidence always
gets into shape by the time the case comes into
Court, and the discrepancies get planed down
and the yarn that was without form and void
is built up into a coherent narrative.
More Munro and Davies.
Those notable Victorians, Matthew Davies and
James Munro, ajter being a while out of the
focus of financial scandal light, have resumed
their former position as joint objects of peculiar
public interest. On Wednesday of last week
the liquidators of the Real Estate Bank pub-
lished their first annual report on the fragments
of Munro’s busted institution. This ghastly
document disclosed an amount of one million
and twenty-seven thousand pounds sterling to
the debit of profit and loss account, and offered
ample justification for the moan of a nevv-chum
creditor that it was “ the most outrageous
statement ever published since he had resided
here.” In a word, Jimmy Munro’s bank is
declared to have surpassed even the grandest of
Daviesian failures. The Real Estate business,
it appears, was inaugurated with purchases of
land from Chairman v Munro to the extent of
£lBl,OOO, “at the high prices then prevailing,”’
and the directors continued to acquire land at
high prices and a furious rate, until the
sales for the year ending June, 1891,
dropped down to \ per cent, of the
amount of the purchases, and the game was
fairly up. I rom the outset the sales were
largely visionary, and apt to terminate at the
annexation of a first deposit from the “ paper ”
buyer. To quote from the liquidator's report:
Ihe book profits on properties sold during
the whole period of the bank’s existence were
£lBO,OOO, of which about £lOO,OOO was not
realised .” “Had, moreover, the so-called
profits been realised, yet they were in the
aggregate subsequently absorbed by the charges
for interest and commission. ” The total amount
paid in dividends by the Real Estate Bank was
£104,786. Against this actual cash disburse-
ment to shareholders £73,751 has been returned
to the_ liquidators in “calls” since the bank
collapsed. Standing elearly out from the bat-
talions of figures is tlie extraordinary fact that
James Munro and his brother-speculators con-
trived to even more, than the whole of
their paid-up capital and deposits, inasmuch as;
the depositors’ dividend, which is scarcely ex-
pected to reach 3s. in the £, will be paid out of
calls realised subsequent to the stoppage! The;
entire bank, as it stood at the time of
closing its doors, has disappeared for ever.
A few hours subsequent to Munro’s bold dis-
play at the Real Estate meeting, a member of
the Victorian Assembly, Mr. Williams, called 1
upon Sir Bryan O’Loghlen to explain his
reason for altering the charge against the Mer-
cantile Bank directors, and to say whether he'
considered the change made in the indictment
was likely to facilitate the trial and advance
the ends of justice. The Crown preserved a
masterly uncommunicativeness on this delicate
subject. Mr. Williams then read, to the
manifest horror of many of Matthew Davies’s
old friends, a motion—“ That this House views
with alarm the decision of the Attorney-
General in the case submitted to him re the
prosecution of the directors of the Imperial
(T>injy-Benjy) Bank, and the subsequent change;
of indictment against the directors of the Mer-
cantile Bank, and that such decision and such
change of indictment are calculated to defeat
the ends of justice and to injure our reputation
for honest dealing both at home and abroad.”
It was not a strictly grammatical motion, but it
hit the mark. For the first time in the history
of the present ’Ouse the voice of the outside
world on the Crown’s attitude towards Davies
& Co. found an echo within its walls. Mr.
Party Government.
When ,the peach is plucked from the pumpkin-vine
and the farmer ploughs the sand,
When the seed is sown and the grass is grown on
the rocks that strew the strand,
When the politician keeps his pledge and the Press
no longer lies,
You may hope from the rule of the Moneyed Pool
a State both great and wise.
When you find the leopard change his spots and
the tiger chew the cud,
When the vampires weep in anguish deep that e’er
they tasted blood,
When the fox forgets his guileful ways and the
lawyer drops his fee,
Then the Privileged Clan will plot and plan to set
the country free.
When you clap your spurs in the mastodon—put
salt on the dodo’s tail,
When you take a ride in the eventide on the back
of a South Sea whale,
When you take the breeks off a Hielandman and
bridle a woman’s jaw,
You may find wit, too, in the curious crew who
make the country’s law.
When the streets are paved with precious pearl and
the gutters run with rum,
When the M.L.A. has ceased to bray and the
voice of the Pool is dumb,
When you find the road to Heaven as smooth as
the primrose path to hell.
You may hope and pray that Party Sway will
guide a nation well.
Queensland.
P. LUFTIG


Williams, as .presently appeared, had a con-
siderable support, and when Speaker Bent
«* llv sQuelched the question by ruling that it
was not one of “public urgency,” the faint
in .l,ii ne of groans caused the Ministry to gaze
uneasily at the ceiling. A section of the Vic-
torian Assembly has now breathed the sus-
picion that Sir Bryan O’Loghlen’s refusal to
Prosecute Benjamin Benjamin and party,
f , en in con junction with his intended method
of proceeding against Davies and his party,
mav be regarded in an unfavourable light by
People out of doors. This suspicion goes for
whit it is worth, and, perhaps, it isn’t worth
nidi Nevertheless, the Crown’s attitude
Poems' to partially account, in a roundabout
w'iv for the effrontery of James Munko, who is
evidently hoping for a speedy resurrection of
his fallen brother in greatness, Matthew
Davies. 0
w E w South Wales Minister Copeland’s
contention that to debar Chinese from the
privileges given by his new Mining Bill
would be an outrage on common-sense and
on humanity, and that the same prin-
ciple initiated the practice of slavery, is
specious enough for humanitarians who believe
in the liberty of a curse—in the liberty of a
political and social leprosy that breeds a vicious
ferment throughout a nation. The good of the
whole people means, democratically, the good of
the majority of that people’s national elements,
and necessarily includes the absolute annihila-
tion, if possible, of any demoralising re-agent
that’may corrupt the body politic. Copeland’s
attempted compromise, by his declaration of
objection to Chinese coming to Australia, with
the reservation that they, when once here, must
be treated as equally entitled with all others to
citizens’ rights and privileges, is, of itself, self-
contradictory and self - condemnatory. The
national health requires that, not only should
As atics be excluded from Australia in future,
but that those who have effected a lodgement
be furnished with every inducement to start for
home again at an early date.
That vulgar Heine says somewhere :
The Englishman loves liberty like his lawful wife ; the
Frenchman loves her like his mistress ; the German loves
her like his old grandmother. And yet, after all, no one
can tell how things may turn out. The grumpy English-
man in an ill-temper with his wife, is capable of some
day putting a rope round her neck and taking her to be
sold' at Smithfleld. The inconstant Frenchman may
become unfaithful to his adored mistress and be seen
fluttering about the Palais Royal after another. But the
German will never quite abandon his cld grandmother ;
he will always keep for her a nook by the chimney-corner,
where she can tell her fairy stories to the listening
children.
Now let us give theS.M. Herald’s bowdlerised
version (from a leading article) :
The Englishman, he said, loves liberty as his wife, and
does not treat her with too much tenderness ; the German
loves freedom as his grandmother, to prattle to children
round his fireside ; while the F renchman loves freedom as
his chosen, for whom he will fight or run into a thousand
follies, and whom he professes to worship with unbounded
affection,
♦ ——
The other day at Mossgiel (M.L.) a farmer was
charged with stacking his hay on a Sunday,
and a curious decision was arrived at. Defen-
dant pointed out that the Act permitted any
“work of necessity” to be done on the day of
rest; that heavy rains were expected—in fact,
they had been announced by the Weather
Department and all the indications pointed that
way ; and if they had come on a serious loss
would have ensued. As it happened, however,
the rain didn’t come down till Tuesday, and,
therefore, the Sunday work wasn’t quite so
urgent as it appeared. Then the bench decided
that if it had rained on Monday the defendant
would have been acquitted, but as it didn’t
they found him guilty and fined him accord-
ingly. After this, the Maoriland farmer will
understand that he must always wait till Mon-
day, and then if it rains that day he must make
a rush and get in his hay the day before. If it
doesn’t rain on Monday be must leave his hay
out the day before. Or else, if it looks threaten-
ing on Sunday be can get his crop under cover
during the previous week, unless he has done
it to-morrow, or is going to do it last month,
or feels inclined to run the risk of being ruined
last Wednesday by leaving his grain to be
carried away by a flood the previous Saturday
fortnight. (N.B. —This paragraph was written
next Thursday, and will be publishedyesterday.)
Mr. R. H. Cowan, of Leichhardt, writes as
follows:
Dear Bulletin, —The writer of the article, “ A Parson
on Politics,” in Tub Bulletin of 25th Feb., refers some-
what contemptuously to “ the shiftless Canadian,”
because, unfortunately, his average savings-bank deposit
is only 165., as against the thrifty Australian’s 84s. Allow
me to state, for the benefit of Tup. Bulletin writer, and
tlie very few of his readers who may, possibly, be as
ignorant or as prejudiced as himself, that the average
public debt per Australian inhabitant is at least £4B as
against the “shiftless” Canadian’s £lO. Also, the
national credit in London of this same shiftless Canadian
stands first among those of all the other (sic) British
colonies, because Canada, when it borrows money, applies
it usefully, pays every dollar of interest as it becomes due,
and redeems every loan as it matures. That is more than
can always be said of “thrifty” Australia. The recent
Canadian loan was, at a high price, subscribed in London
several times over. As against this, witness the repeated
ill-success, sometimes right-down failure, of hard-up,
“ thrifty ” Australia going a-begging for loans in the same
market. The Canadian, like his American cousin, is ener-
getic and enterprising. His country is one where encour-
agement is given to private enterprise, and where there is
immense scope for it, and, therefore, as soon as he becomes
the possessor of an “almighty dollar,” he immediately
finds more remunerative uses for it than by “putting it
into a bank” at a low rate of interest. He “turns his
money over” himself. The Canadian lives under good
and helpful laws, nor does his Parliament, in the making
of them, stultify itself by passionate brawls and “dis-
graceful scenes.” In conclusion, I admire the method by
which the author of a “Parson on Politics” dismisses a
number of statements, by the mere assertion that “ they
are hereby contradicted in globo.” That may be very
convincing to a fool, but it is no refutation in fact, and
may lead to the suspicion that a parson is sometimes
attacked because he is a parson.
In reply to which, The Bulletin desires to
point out (1) that Australia, as well as Canada,
has paid every cent of interest on its public
debt, and redeemed every loan as it fell due,
and Mr. Cowan’s statement to the contrary
is pure derangement or else colossal ignorance.
(2) The debt of Canada in 'proportion to revenue
is as heavy as that of Australia ; also, the debt
is now about £l3 per head instead of £lO. (3)
Canada has spent less of its borrowed money on
reproductive works and more to fill shortages in
revenue than Australia. Australia has public
works valued by Mulhall at 97| per cent, of
her indebtedness ; Canada, about 69 per cent.
(4) The aggregate wealth of Canada is £196
per head again £340 in Australia. At this rate,
Canadian “ energy ” doesn’t seem to produce
much. (5) The various Canadian Parliaments
has had some cheerful “scenes” at different
times. It isn’t every country where a Premier
is rushed off to gaol and tried for stealing the
public funds, for instance. (6) Canadian stocks
are not “ first among those of all the other (sic)
British colonies. The Cape of Good Hope,
Ceylon, and Natal are far ahead, and only a
very few months ago West Australian deben-
tures were 2 per cent, higher than Canadian,
Also, at latest advices, one Canadian stock has
successfully crawled down to 94^.
Shrimski, the Hebraic legislator of Maoriland,
complains bitterly of Premier Ballange’s
truculently-expressed resolve to admit no
Russian Israelites into that country, and is
writing vigorous, but hysterical, letters on the
subject. In one of these he asks Ballance, in
a series of angry barks : “ How many Jews are
in receipt of public charity ? How many are
in the industrial schools ? How many are in
the gaols of the colony ? How many of their
deserted wives and families are a burden on the
State ?” Shrimski altogether misses the main
issue. The great objection to his countrymen
is that they send so many other people to gaols
and charitable institutions, and*coutrive to stay
outside these places themselves. Moreover,
being in a charitable institution isn’t neces-
sarily the climax of infamy—except to a race
which regards the want of monish as the
worst of all possible disasters. For instance,
the most universally-execrated personality in
all history is the Devil, and he was never a
burden on any benevolent asylum, so far as w r e
are aware.
♦
‘ In the course of a speech at Brandenburg yesterday,
the Emperor of Germany asserted his unshaken belief
that he has been entrusted with a mission by God.”—
Cable.
It is cabled from London that “ the Orangemen
of Australia are supplying funds to the Ulster
Unionists to enable them to forcibly resist the
establishment of Home Rule in Ireland.” In-
terviewed re this by Sydney D.T., .Jawbone
Neild, the Right Worshipful Grand Master of
the “ Loyal” Orange Lodge of N.S.W., &c., is
made to say that nothing had yet been done ;
but the lodges were going to consider the
matter, and would probably send funds to the
Ulster Unionists. For an armed rebellion ?
Just consider this matter upside-down. Sup-
pose the head of the Australian Fenians if
there are any Australian Fenians —were ciicum-
stantially represented as telling a daily paper
that his gang was going carefully to consider
the advisablenpss of raising funds to start a civil
war in Ireland should the Home Rule Bill not
pass’ How the Argus, and Age, and the S.M.
Herald and Daily Telegraph and all the rest
of them would howl !
Several members of N.S.W. Legislative
Council have been badly hit in land-booming,
and it is more than probable that they will be
compelled to file.
Little Andrade, in bis Melbourne bookery,
has got on the breakers somewhat. He began life
as a red-coat boy in Cole’s Book Arcade, wolfing
all the combustibles and bumbustibles of litera-
ture. More will be heard of little A., the
anarchist, though he is under the unpleasant
necessity of dining.
J. Bull will never fail for want of touts.
Read this, from a small knot of Kanakas who
have intruded their murky carcases in Sydney
(N.S.W.), and who were manipulated by a set of
self-advertising humbugs to present a farewell
address to Gov. and Lady Jersey
Please, will you tell the Queen that we wish the British
nation and the Britishers to rule over the South Seas.
No pappycock is too transparent for Bull to
make a percentage out of. On even less solicita-
tion than this miserable fake-up, Bull has before
now burgled the country of a wretched and help-
less race—when other nations weren’t looking.
Parkes, now physically feeble and mentally
very wooden-legged indeed, stumps N.S.W. with
his old and familiar but now utterly unconvincing
whine about the “corrupt Government’’—which
only makes people think of the country editor and
his “reptile contemporary,” the more successful
fellow across the street. “ I have spent,” said he
at Narrabri, “ a long life seeking to raise the level
of my fellow-man, and I want no favour from any
man.” Two lies in one line, inasmuch as the
world knows that the amusingly egotistical old
humbug has never considered any living soul but
himself, and just now has excellent reason to be
more wolfishly hungry for office than ever.
The Colonial Office, by appointing Mr.
Duff to the “Governorship” of N.S.W., shows
that it has foolishly misunderstood The Bulletin’s
article discarding titles from these columns. We
referred exclusively to titles bestowed upon Aus-
tralians. However, the mistake evidences the
generation (good phrase) of a very proper spirit
at ’Ome, and if the Hawthorities in Hingland
can once contrive to understand that to
really please The Bulletin they mustn’t
appoint any “ governors ” at all, then a large part
of our mission is fulfilled, and Gladstone and Co.
will go right on to The Bulletin free-list.
London Daily Graphic has made giant
strides in public favour, and is now a paying pro-
perty. This is a case of patience, labour, and
expense being rewarded.
The English Navy is to be made 25 stronger
this year, which means the rattling-up of cruisers,
as other classes take two or three years to build.
The Alabama shook the world, even more than
the Merrimac and Monitor.
A Sydney Sunday paper wonders that the
R.C. clergy, rich and poor, should have been
called upon to subscribe the expenses of Cardinal
Moran’s visit to Rome. The reason is, perhaps,
that “the bhoys ” have more money than the
Cardinal, whose personal wealth is understood to
match the stone-bottle of gingerbeer which he
quaffs daily at lunch.
Up to date only one N.S. Wales M.L.A.
has made the proposed refund of 5 per cent, of Ms
salary to help the country in its difficulties, ihe
Freetrade retrenchment party, and the party that
demands the abolition of payment of members,
haven’t refunded a cent. G. H. Reid, the Oppo-
sition leader, who once refused to draw pay at all,
religiously grabs his screw ever since he got
married (?.e., ever since he has found himself, like
the Labour members, in a comparatively neces-
sitous position). Did he draw Ins back pay, Ihe
Bulletin wonders? Bruce Smith is understood
to be the only N.S.W. member who does not
accept his monthly money from the Treasury.
“Scotty the Wrinkler ” lias, apropos the
recent discussion concerning the enormous travel-
ling expenses paid to N.S.W. civil servants,
written Premier Dibbs, urging that c.s. expenses
incurred, in addition to salaries, should be drawn,
for per contingent bills on the Treasury, on printed
forms supplied for the purpose. “ Scotty sug-
gests that a guarantee of honour would be a tar
surer means of limiting the amounts than a
declaration capable of legal examination. Such is
the custom in India. At present, in Australia,
Government servants draw for their travelling
expenses without making deductions for sums not
actually expended—actually charge, in fact, even
for hospitality supplied gratis at places where,
considering the nature of their duties, they should
on no account accept favours of any kind what-
soever.
The Cootamundra Herald (N.S.W.)
publishes what purports to be a letter from Mr.
, a N.S. Wales M.P., to a friend. If the
document is authentic, then ’s literary style
is evidently borrowed from that man of misplaced
capitals and decomposed orthography, the
lamented Abigail;—
Young April 22 1892 A. T. Johnston My Deer Sir
allow Me to Express my deep Regrett at you Sad Bereve-
ment and to Say I hop you hav much Beter things In
store in future do not dewell on the memory of the past
But try and Look at the Sunny Side. I hve Been thinking
of your prospects and think you have a fare show 1 have
Writen to Bragg on the matter and am prepaired to male
you what I think you will Regard as a fine offer for half
the Mine. I will Erect a 12 Stamp Battry with all gold
Saving aplyences Complet with in 4 Month from Starting
this Would Cost me about £1,200 the payment I want is
half the Clame I would try and flote it at once in Either
Sydney or Melbourn as I am in with all the mining Men
in Both places of Cours I would Shair half the spoil with
you if it turned out and I would find all the Capital So
you would not have to pay away a Single Shilling we
would Keep Enough interest in it to pay us if it turned
out and it it did not we should have a considerable amornt
of Redy Cash think over this proposal and write me as
Soon as posabl of Cours I Should Want to try 4 or 5 tons M v
Self to See Wat it would go fathfully you. (Signed)
Parkes’ “Fifty Years” has long been
accounted, by the booksellers, a dismal failure.
Parkes, while writing the book, was garotted and
robbed by bis own colossal bump of self-esteem.
A marvellously interesting tome, a la Judge
Therry’s Reminiscences of N.S.W. and Victoria,
could be made out of the veteran, but not by
himself. “ Great Parkes ” wants a Boswell—not
a good young man like his protege, Charley
Lyne. He has told the public everything except
what the public want to know. How picturesque,
for instance, would be a free-and-easy narrative of
his desperate privations as a journalist and news-
paper pronrietor ! A man once in his employ told
us that when Parkes had his Empire office in
Hunter-street, Sydney, the future Premier and
State-incubus was so pressed for time, and. per-
haps so hard-up, that he lived on the premises and
cooked his own food—you’d see him take down a
hunk of bacon, saw off a piece with a big paper-
knife and grill it at the office-stove. The Buile-
tin wants to view Parkes in the fitful light pi the
spluttering fat of the office-stove, not in the
splendour of the drawing-rooms of foreign
princes. The fitful light of the sizzling bacon-fat
alone would be Australian history. But it is not
yet utterly too late. The old man should be
floated—taken over as a “copy’’-mine by a limited
liability co. The Bulletin will put up on the
ground" 10 head of stamps.
That godly monarch, King George of
Tonga, who was 6ft. lOin. long, has, at the
age of probably about 90 something, gone
to join the Choir Invisible. His heir, Tau-
faahau, will likely not have a rosy tune, as
there are other claimants to the throne who are
sure, now that the terror of the old king’s actual
presence is no more, to make him feel uncomfort-
able in his great-grandfather’s shoes—the which he
can never fill physically, as the departed warrior
wore (the writer has tried on a pair of the royal
canoes) a 16in. boot. Twenty years ago Jaiojai
Tubou was still an erect old fellow and something
worth looking at. As his years increased, so did
bis Christian graces, till the once grand old savage
became chock-full of cant; the self-reliant,
rigorous autocrat and usurper turned to a mere
rmndless puppet in the hands of a clever ex-mis-
sionary. It is only a few years ago since the aged
monarch founded the Free Church of Tonga, and
many of the believers in the old Church (Wes-
leyanism) faced the music in the early dawn and
died like men, and the whole land was torn and
distracted by that bloodiest of all discords —
religious hatred. Then came British interference,
the leading factor in all the trouble, the
ex-Rev. Shirley Baker, had to leave the country,
and a “happy reconciliation” [vide missionary
reports) was effected between the rival purveyors
of the Glad Tidings, only to be renewed again
when opportunity offers. The late king, in 1842,
was in a precarious state, and his throne (which he
had usurped) was only saved to him by the
action of Captain Crocker, of H.M.S. Favourite,
who backed him up by landing his men and storm-
ing the rebel position, only to lose his own life.
Years ago, on the hill at Nukualofa, was a weather-
beaten tombstone oyer the officer’s grave recording
the manner of his death. The one dreaded
rival of the late King was his daring vassal Maafu,
who, had he so chosen, could have dethroned
George, but he preferred to exploit Fiji, where he
lived in princely style, respected by the whites and
unutterably dreaded by the late Thakombau. The
old monarch has often spoken of his recollections
of the taking of the privateer Port-au-Prince, in
1804, by the chief Finau, and the captivity of one
of the survivors—Mariner, He believed he was
then about 1? or 14 years of age; if so, ho would
have been 109 at his death.
A million of soldiers in gaudy array
Cry “ Hoch ! ” to the Emperor Bill ;
A million of loafers are fooling away
The money that toilers unceasingly pay—
For such is the Heavenly will.
Whilst cannons galore, ever ready to roar
At a nervous Imperial nod,
Are shocking suggestions of triumphs in store
For the man with a mission from God,
From God,
Which might strike a heathen as odd.
A heathen might think it were almost as well
If orders to scrofulous kings
Were given by Satan, the monarch of hell—
His Nibs with the hoofs and the sulphurous smell
Might alter the order of things ;
Put soldiers on farms (converting their arms
Into ploughshares to tickle the sod)
On principle, seeing that peace hasn’t charms
For the man with a mission from God,
From God,
Who preaches the gospel of Rod,
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice mil be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Robt. Smith ” : Have sent your letter to Mr.
A. 0. Palmer, who, we trust, will recognise your hand-
writing. ..“Vinetta”: All very dull. . ....“W-V.M.”:
Thanks ... “ Breton Woode ” ; Plot artificial. Your bush-
man’s method of love-making needs revision—“ Roy
Malbin ” ; Idea and title very neat, but you should have
confined yourself to showing how she and the bailiff fell
in love. Climax too obviously built-up.J.F.S.” t
One sketch suggestion with artist. We don’t care for
“The Mate.” “ Anti-Humbug ” : Interesting informa-
tion “ Lord Protector ” : Nice album verses—good col-
lateral evidence in a breaoh-of-promise action. If you
read ’em after marrying her you’d feel like a man “ with
a head ” looking at the bottle he had emptied to get it.:..
“A. 0.”! The “Will of God” always seems to mean a
calamity of some kind.... “Molo ”: No more Duff jokes, (
thanks “R. Gay”; Ancient “T. D. Burling ”s
Thanks “11. Clifford-Diokson”: Curious that he should
eo anticipate his own fate :
“ Beneath the gloomy shadow of the oak
Did he see the angel flying
And beckoning him to come ?
Or was it that he slept and never woke?”
.... “ Signum ” : Lacks interest.... “ Warrane ” : When
we are strychnine-poisoned we will try the snake-bite
remedy. If it cures us your story will be published—not
otherwise “ Ballast ” : Good item. Thanks..... “ W.” :
We don’t care much for tales which begin with a Count
entering a boudoir “The Pauper”: Where’s the
point ? The man is mostly drunk, is stone-broke, and
lives under a gum-tree the girl is married to someone
else; and they have forgotten each other “Nap”;
Wait till you see “ Violet ” in the early morning with her
hair in papers and a duster round her neck, and you’ll be
glad your “ode” wasn’t published.E.” (Melb.);
Sorry, but we can’t spell “ bachelor” with a “ t” even to
please y0u....“ E.M.” (Sydney) : You say “ a friend who
is a good writer ” wrote the poem for you. We wouldn’t
like to be rude to you, but as it wasn’t you we have no
hesitation in saying that the “ friend ” is a very great
failure “Mary ” : Spelling and composition too dread-
fully original....“ The Whaler”: Thanks . “Rocam-
bole ” : The Wilford-Hall cure, or whatever you call it, is
already blown kite high “X 4 ” (Albury): If you won’t
give your own evidence you can’t expect us to give it.
We never swear another man’s affidavit—“ F.M.C.”
(Hamilton); Your “sketch” has already appeared in
every daily paper in Melbourne, Sydney'and Brisbane....
“ John Black ” : The accident that happened in Glasgow
20 years ago reminds us very much of a horse that fell in
1849 “ J.M.” (Brunswick); You send us two columns
about an indignation meeting and copies of resolutions,
and don’t even mention what the conviction was about..
Wanted, the facts of the case in six lines or so
“ Dingo ” : Reminds us indistinctly of the time we fell off
a ladder; our sensations when we were half-way down
were just the same as those caused by your joke “W.
Smith ’’: Sorry, but we can’t see our way to demonstrate
that your private enemy keeps a harem, and the only
decent men in the locality “are Mr. Higginson and Mr.
White.” “Bank Clerk”; Better kill the rival dude
and eat him. Ealing an enemy is the only reliable meai a
of obliteration we know. Then pound up his bones and
scatter the dust to the four winds—“Boa”(W. Sydney);
We can’t stand the girl “ with features rare.” Why were
her features so rare? Had she lost any of them in a
railway collision? “ A.S.” (Newcastle): Declined.
Tight boots aren’t a “ crown of martyrdom.” You don’t
wear a crown on your feet “Naughty Billy”: We
condense your yarn. The preacher tries to seduce the
prettiest girl of his congregation. She defends herself
with a knife and kills him. The jury find her guilty of
murder, and she thereupon falls down dead, while her
lover bangs his head against the dock railings and
becomes an idiot... “ M.S.” (Fairfield): Many thanks....
“M.H.” (Box Hill); Decent verse, but full of artificial
melancholy and glass tears and death “ The Orphan
Story of the happy couple who slept for thirty hours
hereby declined . “1.5. M.” (W T ollongong): Thanks....,
“ W.E.Gf” (Darlington): A sort of mixture of lazzarone,
dreamer, ordinary loafer and hashisch-eater “ J.W.8.”
(Bundaberg): We have been on the plantations also, and
we know all the stereotyped Kanaka talk quite as well as
you do “Father Onion”: We never print anything
beginning “And behold it came to pa 55.”....“ Vox
Populi”; We presume it arises out of original sin and
human cussedness “Hot Brick”: Write again
“E.T.W.”: Sorry, never heard of him “Milsonß. ”:
Notoriginal, therefore useless “o.”( Vic,): That you
have written for the paper in question is a bad recom-
mendation ; take our advice—never breathe another word
about it. We have no room for such long stories...
“Lakomai”: You had us that time “F. Croson ” :
The sort of story which would be written by a blood-and-
thunder actor.... “Ponte ” : “Two Message s” may pass ;
the verses belong to a Y.M.C.A. album “M.E.G.":
Yes, they are new. More, they’re going to stay new, so
far as this paper is concerned “ T.H.G.” : “ Shones,”
very correctly written but snapless “Gambit ” : Inter-
esting but unsavory....“ The Pauper”: Yes, we’ll read
it again... “ Hadji Aduf Fev ”: Not good enough.....
“Mulga Ned”: Thanks, but anticipated by Mr. Fitz-
gerald’s letter... “S.E.R.”: Thanks “Jeanie C.” :
“M. C. Park,” graphic but far too “domesticated” for
Tub Bulletin; “A Vignette," bald horror. We have
feasted unto repletion on bald horrors “Sandstone”
(Vic.): You say : “ And he fell in love with a swell young
thing, whose lips, eyes, &c., were so beautiful that they
seemed made to his own order.” “Lips, eyes, &c.,” and
all “made to his own order.” Surely a soulless tailor
hath written this “ Sans Souci” :“ A man that drives
a dray” is grammatical. “That,” unlike “ which,” can
be used for either a person or a thing. However, “a man
who” is preferable “Maori”: Your Government has
no right to subsidise the Mount Magdala Asylum if it is
not subject to State inspection, any more than N.S.W.
Government has anv right to subsidise that excellent insti-
tution, St. Vincent’s Hospital, which isnotState inspected
“Boiling Billy” : Letter foryou at Beech worth (Vic.).
P.O. .. “ R. 8.” (Melb.): “M.M.,” excellent; others re-
turned.. ... “ £.S.D.” (G.): Girly-girly, and that’s all
“C.H.” (Sydney): Sketch unavailable. On receipt of
name and address we’ll return .. ,“ J. Kelly ” : Not given
as our own opinion. The writer signed his name
“Signum”: Yes, but in future please condense
“ Winton ” : The only thing to do with such a parson is
to stop his salary.... “N.” : Stilted tragedy “ A.G.G.”
(Walgett): Allegory not original. A poor thing and a
poor copy “T. Henderson” (Rockhampton): Your
remark that the Queensland labour men “ do not mean to
quarrel even at The Bulletin’s insligation” is interest-
ing. So far as our experience goes, Hell has no fury like
a Labour delegate when an absolutely friendly paper
hints however gently, that ha has made a mistake. In
the present case, Tub Bulletin found the alleged pro-
gramme printed in a large number of papers, and repro-
duced it in good faith. “ If there was any mistake, why
did you let an erroneous version go all over the country
without correction? “S.L.” (Glebe Point): One
will pass. The other joke is too elaborate “ 8.0.8.’ :
Thanks “Spinifex”: To hand “Maud A.”; He
must wait six months after the rule 'nisi is granted
‘L. Rausch ” (Burketown): Thanks “ R.A.8.” (Papa-
kura) • The MSS. were sent from here... “ F.D.” : Now,
please don’t write “ hurriedly.” “ Easy writing is damned
hard reading.” “ Anuchs ”: It would be a matter of
evidence. But if it is once admitted that the original
written agreement was broken with the consent of both
parties it would be difficult to get the employer held by
a Court to it.... “ 0.0.” ; Slavery ? Why, black gins are
bought and sold all over West Queensland. Prizes vary
from £2 10s. to £3.
Poor Queensland is sorely pressed. _ On
the south disastrous floods ; in the west stock are
dying by thousands of drought. One station
alone, which has been rainless for over two years,
has lost quite 25,000 head of cattle.


IT LEADS THEM ALL.
THE MUTUAL LIFE *sssa? OF NEW YORK.
The results of an official and critical examination of the affairs of the Company up to, and in-
cluding, 31st DECEMBER, 1892, were as follows :
The INCOME for 1892 was £8,000,000 ; the ACCUMULATED FUNDS are
£35,900,000 ; and the SURPLUS is £3,000,000.
The extraordinary growth and popularity of this Company is due to the fact that—
IT ISSUES THE BEST AND MOST LIBERAL POLICY;
PAYS THE LARGEST DIVIDENDS ; and
SETTLES ITS LOSSES MORE PROMPTLY THAN ANY OTHER COMPANY.
Australian Department: - Z. 0. ZENMIE, General Manager.
principal (Agency—l3l §itt <§treet, Sydney, N. S.W.
Branches—47B Collins Street, Melbourne ; ... ... 223 Queen Street, Brisbane.
TKe Old Blend
Edinburgh
wills ky
of tKe
t eHorse
Cellar
DIRECT HOM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME, PUAC. MELLOW,
IWATUBEP SCOTCH HALT
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
Bth March, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Lord Jersey’s farewell levee on the day of his
departure deserves fame as one of the smallest-
attended vice-regal crushes since Guvmentouse,
Sydney, sported a powdered flunkey. Which
induces the reflection that possibly, if a Governor
arose and decreed that his subjects could claw him
in their office suits, there might be a better chance
of a mob on such occasions. It is a decided strain-
ing of loyalty to expect the common variety of
citizen, who isn’t an amateur soldier or sailor (in
which case he is only too glad of the chance to
reflect the sunshine from his brass buttons and
gleaming sword-hilt) to hoist boiled linen imme-
diately after lunch, and you can quite believe the
exasperated man who tells you that a levee is as
great a bore to him as a morning caller is to a
woman with her hair in curl-papers. By the way,
I wonder how many ivomen would jog along to
my lady’s “at home ” if they had to go V-shaped
at three p.m. ?
Lord Jersey’s (or was it Lady J.’s) letter of
thanks for the great kindness shown in the fare-
well “to Lady Jersey and myself,” which has
something “soul-stirring” in it, was certainly a
graceful curtsey from the horizon —the sort of
thing an escaping potentate knows so well how to
do. But where at the Jersey exodus were the
maidens who pelted flowers at the great showman,
Carington, as he passed beneath the Macquarie-
street balconies ? Where were the howling small
girls who hung about dolly, simpering, little Lady
Carington, and begged to be —boo-hoo—taken
aw-a-a-y with her? Alas ! times have changed.
The financial cloud is so thick in Sydney that
nobody has heart enough to shout either ave or
farewell.
By the way, people >v ho saw the departing
Jerseys pass on their way to the station, remarked
that the genial “ George ” bowed right and left, but
that “M.E.J.” sat poker-backed, and was rather
sparing of her nods. In this, however, they were
merely true to their respective natures. There
wasn’t the least pretence about either of the pair.
Lord and Lady Jersey and their eldest daughter
got away from this beastly place on Ist
March, and a “society” throng duly turned
up at the railway-station to administer a final
scare to M-E.J. The Acting-Governor, Mr. F.
Bust Darley and Mrs. Darley (who presented
Lady Jersey with a magnificent posy of leopard
lilies) were pre-eminent in their adieux, and Mr.
Burdett Smith held Lady Jersey’s Cosmopolitan
Club bouquet while she bade good-bye to the
little crowd including the Mayor of Sydney and
Mrs. Manning, the Bishop (I hear he fastens his
shapely gaiters with a button-hook), Mr. and Mrs.
Burdekin, who presented a pure white bouquet,
and other “representative” people. But the only
person I saw on the reserved platform who
showed more than conventional sorrow at the
parting was a lady in a soiled ulster over a torn
skirt and a very tipsy bonnet, who wept copiously
all over a face like a pink sponge and dried her
tears on her knuckles.
Lady Jersey travelled in a dark-blue pongee
with a white design made with a lace ruffle and a
big sash of dark-blue moire—wide black hat.
Lord Jersey left us in the same blue necktie that
has enhanced his auburnness from the first; Lady
Margaret Viiliers (who is quite grown-up now)
departed in a dark-blue serge skirt and pilot
jacket, with brass buttons, over a blouse of dark-
blue spotted in white —small black hat trimmed
with cherry-red ribbons which matched her vividly
red lips. Apropos, it was rather amusing to see
an enthusiastic lady—the same sweetly impulsive
creature who, according to legend, rushed to place
a bouquet on Lady Carington’s bed—thrusting a
huddled bunch of common or garden marguerites
into Margaret the Second’s extremely small hand.
It is to be hoped that Dr. M‘Carthy, wdio re-
vaccinated Lord and Lady Jersey and their eldest
daughter on the morning of their departure from
N.S.W.-, had the foresight to puncture them on
the left arm, or else the agonies of a farewell must
have been real indeed. The vice-regal party were
‘‘ done ” as a safeguard against small-pox, which
is raging at Hong Kong—their first port of call.
Apropos, the land of little feet and thereabouts
isn’t the safest place in the world for a pleasure-
trip, for quite a diversity of reasons. I hear of a
married lady btl tour in Japan who was so
incensed at the Ppeii captivity of her husband to a
bland and brazeii YuuPyutn that a divorce is almost
bn foot. But, more serious still (for the other
affair will probably end all right when she gets
the old mall once more into Australian waters), is
the fate of the wife and daughter of a wealthy
Australian tradesman, both of whom went for a
trip to strange Japan, and returned home with —
the leprosy ! The unfortunate ladies are now
dying by inches at the hospital lazaret. What a.
finish to a holiday tour !
I see that the plump and pleasing Lieutenant
Horace Dangar has been appointed aide-de-camp
to the acting-Governor of N.S.W., and the blonde
and lengthy Mr. H. S. Darley is to be private sec.
However, as Mr. and Mrs. Duff hope to be here
in May, it will just be long enough for Mr.
Dangar to find out whether his facings become
him or not —and Mr. Darley will have no more
than time to suit himself with a pen. By the
way, since the aoting-Governor was sworn in a
certain lady of commanding appearance has deeply
impressed the public by the gravity with which
she reads blue documents in public.
Lady Jersey left the usual stream of mementoes
in her wake as farewell gifts. Several ladies re-
ceived brooches, and one gentleman was made
happy with a scarf-pin. M. E. J. making little
eleventh-hour gifts to the “aborigines” reminds
me of the thankful missionary handing out pro-
pitiatory glass beads to the savages who are letting
him go—uneaten.
Brother Rupert No. 2 remains behind as a.d.c.
to his Excellency, Mr. Duff. Who is the lady ?
When Carington’s p.s. decided to pilot Lord
Jersey for a little it was ere his wealthy attrac-
tion had given him a plain “No”; after the
negative had fallen he packed his bag in a twink-
ling. It isn’t, you may be sure, a fellow-feeling for
Mr. Duff steering his maiden course in these trying
seas that prompts the curly Rupert to take an
a.d.c.’s interest in him. It’s simply “Who is
she?”
The open festival Fair (in aid of the flood suL
ferers) under the tegis of Sydney Cosmopolitan
Club, came off in Wynyard Square, Ist March, in
the presence of Lord and Lady Jersey and suite,
who took the Fete in on their way to the railway-
station. All the temples of rechauffe surrounding
the square were hung with lanterns and flags, and
the windows were peopled with heads —indeed,
there was much more enthusiasm outside than
inside the palings during the afternoon. To me
the fete seemed very much like the usual thing
with the roof off, except that one tent claimed to
contain “The Devil Himself ”—at which one
looked about to see what member of the committee
was missing.
At night the Fete profited by the full moon, the
lanterns and fireworks rose to the occasion, and
there were more heads at the windows, another
row of unemployed round the railings, and more
small boys spiked on top of the fence. Also there
was a grand concert at night with Madame Keller-
mann, Kowalski (President of the Club), Poussard,
and Straus to raise the programme above the level
of the commonplace. The Fete was very well
attended both afternoon and evening.
The rank and file of the survivors of the Soudan
Contingent, somewhat dissatisfied with the tone
adopted by the magnates of the corps at past
anniversary dinners, determined this year to dine
by themselves —which they did in great style at
the Australia Hotel under the presidentship of
Lieut. Shipway. Most of the officers dined else-
where—at a city restaurant.
Tiie sound of the falling ruins of the gone-flat
Imperial Institute, which was tremendously
boomed in Australia, and was wont to come up at
public banquets alongside of the silken bonds and
other Imperial properties—sets our memory on a
back tack. In my opinion a certain magnate
who helped to advertise the Institute here was
about the largest daisy in the bunch of big-wigs
who acted as evangelists of the fad. The scandal
about him is still fresh. He introduced a dis-
carded lady’s-maid of his wife’s to a certain Gov-
ernment ’Ouse as his cousin, Mrs. , and the
syren was kindly entertained at the vice-regal
country residence for a day or two. And then
everything was discovered, even that the “cousins”
had been dismissed from a Northern hotel for
weird behaviour. If the Imperial Institute is
made up of apostles like that it’s quite a wonder
the police didn’t raid it long ago.
Talking about Government House scandals, how
much truth is there in the rumour that one or two
society girls—the people whom Lady Jersey is so
glad to get away from - and their partners stole
the key of the garden gate at a V.R. festivity last
season, and let themselves into the locked-up
and deserted Botanical Gardens? People who
find Government House grounds at night too
public for their dalliance, raise a good many
suspicions in the minds of the milder sort who do
their flirting just round the corner.
In “Niobe,” at Sydney Criterion (I want here
to say that “ Niobe ” is the best and most laugh-
able and most elegant entertainment I have seen
for five years, and that I hope it will, as it
deserves, run a hundred nights), Mrs. Brough, in
the name part, is too pallid with pipe-clay in the
first act to look natural, but in the second act
when she sports a trailing robe of celeste crepe
with scarf of pale-blue satin and belt and bands of
carubia satin designed in gold and black, Niobe
looks positively charming. The expression of
innocent candour in her eyes creates an impression
that she was only born yesterday. By the way,
Mrs. Brough, in the robes of Thebes, is a far more
improving spectacle than Mrs. Brown-Potter was
in the garments of ancient Greece. Mrs. Potter,
if you remember, had a crack in her raiment going
from heel to hip—Mrs. Brough has, too, but it is
modestly caught together, altho’ the latter actress
would be far better justified in unveiling her sup-
ports than Mrs. Potter was—if one may judge
from their respective arms.
BjThe other characters are so dwarfed in the
robes of Niobe that there only seem to be two
decent dresses—Miss Temple’s second-act dress of
fawn foule, trimmed very feelingly with black
lace and a black ribbon, and Miss Halkett’s white
Empire dinner-gown, which was the most modish
frock in the farce. Brenda Gibson, as a giddy
school-girl in an oakum wig, managed her short
skirts very cleverly—much more cleverly than Mr.
Cecil Ward manages his back hair, which ought
to be carefully trained over the little cleared spot
which is beginning to show even to the eye of the
adoring d.c. maiden. By the way, Mr. Ward
only got married the other day,
Tasmania grows less and less addicted to court-
ing its Governors. Not long ago Hobart Parlia-
ment firmly ret used to raise the vice-regal salary,
and now a decided “No” has been cabled in
answer to the question if Customs and food and
light concessions will be allowed to future viceroys.
It really begins to look as if Tasmania doesn’t
want a Governor at all.
Perhaps the unpopularity of the last occupants
of Government House, Hobart, has something to
do with the matter. Society in the Tight Little
Island will never forgive the Hamiltonian aide-de-
camp who disported himself at a vice-regal costume
ball in the guise of a convict. It was too great a
compliment to some of the first families.
Cheltenham, writes a friend now in England,
has been very gay this season, and the balls, if
possible, more brilliant than ever. Australians
have been much in evidence, as usual. Mrs.
Thomas Rome generally has a large party staying
with her at her hospitable house. Amongst those
present at the New Club ball were Mr. and Mrs.
Rome, Mr. and Mrs. George Cheeke, Messrs.
George Cheeke, junior, and Willie Cheeke, Miss
Mary Cheeke, the Misses Osborne, Mr. Edwin
Osborne, of the 3rd Batt. 6th Royals (son of Mr.
Pat. Osborne, of Currandooly), Miss Kathleen
Lett, Miss Leith Hay, the Messrs. Maolachlan,
Miss,Donald, Mr. Robert Stephen, 14th Hussars
(son of Mr. S. A. Stephen), &c., &c. It may be
added that the Australian girls are the belles of
the place.
A feature of the fracas at Sydney Royal last
Saturday evening was the cool way in which the
handful of women (some of them in satin and lace)
sat it out. The hootings and yells and recrimina-
tions, even the rioting round the receipt of custom
at the foot of the circle steps, didn’t make them at
all inclined to cling to the nearest male or trip one
another in their hurry to get out first. By the
way, why did the audience clamour so for the return
of the entrance-money on the ground that the per-
formance had not taken place ? The show pro-
vided by Messrs. Howe, Baker, and Moss was
quite worth five shi'llings of anybody’s coin.
It struck me that if the recriminating lessee had -
appeared on the stage in evening dress instead of
in a cutaway coat nothing would have saved him
from an Olympian missile. A glare of laundried
linen to a god who wants his money back has
about the same effect as a red rag on a bull.
Here is the very latest objection to facilitated
divorce that I have heard advanced by a woman :
“ It’s very nice that people should be able to
dispense with one another for cruelty and deser-
tion and things like that,” she said, “ but doesn’t
it make dreadfully flat reading of the divorce-
reports?”
A Sydney newspaper-writer has discovered a
girl who earns her living as a carpenter in her
father’s shop. Probably the shavings attracted
her at first because they reminded her so of curl-
papers—but it seems that she is a carpenter by
nature and was always trying to help her father
“even if it was only to make a window-sash.”
“ This grew upon her” (sashes generally do grow
upon girls, by the way), and now she is her
father’s best hand and gets all the fancy work to
do. The world is at last gratified by the spectacle
of at least one woman who can drive a nail in
without damaging herself for life. However, I
receive the news about this girl-carpenter with
somewhat mixed feelings. If girls are to compete
with men in the carpentering industry, wages will
fall, I presume, so far that a man and his wife
working together will only get paid what the man
alone earns now. More than that, both men and
women will have to work witli their hands and
their feet and their teeth, too, as one sees the
Chinamen do in the cabinet-shops.
The recent Sydney burglar-scare led to a rather
farcical incident in a harbour suburb. Two of the
male inmates, whose rooms faced across a passage,
had both retired, full of burgling yarns, and during
the night both fancied they “heard something”
in the hall. Armed with thick sticks both crept
cautiously into the passage, and both rained blows
on the man each found there. They very nearly
succeeded in murdering each other. Bill Sikes
had his revenge that time, at any rate !
There is a clever diplomatist, pastor of a Pres-
byterian kirk in a fashionable N.S.W. inland
town. He once took a trip to Europe, and while
there a testimonial was sent him by his deserted
flock, also a largely-signed request that he would
not return to the district. In due time the Doctor
did return —preached in kurruk as calmly as if
everyone yearned for him—and next day drove to
the residence of every signatory to ask him in a
friendly spirit what were his reasons. None were
forthcoming, of course, so the good Doctor, having
wrestled in prayer with each of his rebellious
sheep, returned in triumph to the manse, which
he has occupied ever since.
I am told that on the arrival of the Ophir at
Hobart the agents did not follow the usual course
of making a small charge to visitors for the privi-
lege of inspecting the vessel, but orders were
given to a favoured few to visit the ship, whose
chief object was to obtain a glimpse of the voyaging
Jersey children.
High Sydney society in the Blue Mountains.
Hotel drawing-room. Wet day, place crowded
with women in caps. Silence unbroken save by
needles clicking, and the occasional fall of a cinder.
Mrs. Diatnondo de Pigsfoot, of the little and very
select circle around the fireplace (out pretty loud) :
“ Yes, Ido rather admire your dress, dear. It
reminds me of one that I gave 42 guineas for at
’Ome three months ago.’ Mrs. Parchment
(resenting the patronage, out very loud): “ Oh,
mine cost 54 guineas, I assure you, and I bought
three others more or less like it at the same place.
I thought ’em very reasonable.”
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Taine, of France, is dead, and so is a much
more important person—Jerry Rundle, of Sydney.
Jerry left ever so much more money than Taine.
hi vino veritas. The truth in wines is that
Linos’ Boar’s . Head Australian wines have the
largest sale in Sydney. This is owing to their
excellent quality and low price, and it enables the
most economical to enjoy wines which, for purity,
flavour and aroma, are unequalled by the finest
vintages of the old world. The Boar’s Head
brand comprises wines of all prices and qualities
—ports, clarets, muscats, hocks, and others too
numerous to specify.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s ‘‘Man to Man.”
Lyceum “Joan of Arc.”
Opera House Lyric Combination.
Criterion “ Niobe."
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Old Guard.”
Opera House Variety Show.
Fillis’ Circus and Menagerie.
On Saturday night an attractive comedy
by several local authors was staged at Sydney
Royal amid general enthusiasm. The enthusiasm
in fact, was so great that a part of the audience
declined to leave at the close of the entertainment
and had to be shifted down the stair almost by
force. The show was announced to begin at
eight, and a decent-sized audience was present.
About ten minutes later the orchestra came iii
with an unpaid expression on its countenance and
sat in profound silence with its weapons in its
hand. Then a great slab of intense stillness
ensued until the upper storey lifted up its brazen
voice and vociferated. This proceeding lasted for
twenty minutes until the gallery had apparently
emptied every yell out of its constitution. At
8.40 the orchestra girded up its trombone and
went out again, and at 8.45 Messrs. Howe and
Baker and another man appeared before the cur-
tain. The other man attempted to say a few
words, but in the new outbreak of objurgation
from the gallery his voice was blown away, so he
merely champed his jaws for two or three seconds
and retired. Mr. Howe raised his hand for
silence with a kind of heavenly gesture, but his
remarks were promptly smothered. Then Mr.
Baker lifted up a voice that could be heard over
the roar of Gabriel’s horn, and suppressed the
gallery in one act. The man who is ready and
willing to outyell 200 barrackets always gets a
hearing somehow. He explained that a certain
individual had been paying the company
with cheques that wouldn’t melt, and as the person
in question continued to be unfinancial, they
couldn’t go on. At that moment a pale man
with a black moustache appeared and endeavoured,
in a nervous voice, to contradict Mr. Baker’s
assertions, but the audience was so unfavourable
that he suddenly gathered up his hat and fled.
The gallery became louder than before, and the.
lower part of the house assumed a military aspect.
Mr. Baker, to judge by his attitude, was cheer-
fully ready to explain, or to fight, or to toss up foi
it, or all three; his one strong point was that
the enemy—who seemed to be connected in
some way with the pale man already men-
tioned—had got all the takings, and that
the company could neither refund the money
nor pay its own board-bill. Here somebody
intimated that the enemy had given orders to his
minions that Messrs. Howe and Baker should be
lifted bodily from the premises. There was a glad
smile on the face of the latter gentleman as he
heard this, and it looked as if any minions, not
exceeding six, would find him a dangerous—not to
say a murderous—object to lift. The minions
didn’t appear, however, and after holding his
ground for ten minutes more, and furnishing the
audience with the private address of the man who
was alleged to have the coin, he retired. Then
the audience partly went and was partly shoved
out, and took counsel together in the street about
the possibility of kicking big chunks off the
premises with its feet. Finally it went along, 60
strong, to the enemy’s private residence, and
shouted “ sausage one ! ” up the staircase for 30
minutes. This was understood to be partly a
reflection on his religion and partly a coarse allu-
sion to some alleged incident in his early life,
•*- * *
“ Miss Esmeralda ” is putting in her last
nights at Sydney Lyceum, and “Joan of Arc”
follows next Saturday. Lonnen does his most
successful fooling in “Joan,” but otherwise the
piece is, or used to be, chiefly remarkable for the
energy of the first act and the sudden and un-
accountable collapse of the second. Almost every
burlesque, however, looks as if the author had
been very tired by the time he got to the second
act, for which reason The Bulletin considers that,
just for once, the second act should be written
first. On the same evening a new drama, called
“ Man to Man,” will be staged at Her Majesty’s.
“Niobe,” at the Criterion, is apparently good for
almost any length of time that the firm may think
fit. Harry Rickards, at the Tivoli, is still doing
excellent business, and the “ Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay
Lament,” which has been in full blast for some-
thing like three months, gets its nightly encore
with unfailing regularity. Also, Mr. Keating’s
variety show at the Imperial Opera House has
been strengthened by the engagement of that
sweet singer and general favourite, Jennie Lee ;
and Madame Scherazade, of Dibbs-taming cele-
brity, does a snake-charming act which looks as if
it would one day result in a funeral with a
fascinating corpse on the front seat.
* # * *-
A rorty, horsey audience, amounting to
nearly ,£2OO cash, wedged itself into Melbourne
Opera House, on Saturday night, and gave the
new “Palace of Varieties” a vigorous reception.
The gentlemen who lay the odds were present in
semi-state, wearing the jewels of their order,
whilst Frank Clark came up like a flower during
the interval to express his unbounded gratitude
for the peaceful conduct of all classes of society,
especially the gallery. Such decorum in the six-
penny part, he said, had been seldom equalled,
never’ surpassed. At the conclusion of Frank’s
official address a large portion of the gathering
adjourned to get a drink, and the triumph of the
adjoining pub. was complete. The inaugural pro-
gramme of the Variety Palace proved to be more
various than palatial, but fortunately it is subject
to alteration at the discretion of the manage-
ment. If altered very early, and as often
as possible, it will probably improve on acquaint-
ance. In the meantime, the entertainment pro-
vides a person of ruminative temperament with
numerous chances to ruminate, and abounds in
temptations to wander forth into the night air and
weep bitterly. A lady whistler, described on the
bill as “La Sifleuesse,” blew sweet music on
Saturday, and a number of “old favourites” did
much the same as usual, one at a time. Some-
times two old favourites, or a bevy of celebrated
“brothers,” came on together with an evident
intention to amuse. Also, there were a


TEE IB
■NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
(ORGANISED 1845)
Is a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
On Ist January, 1892, its accumulated fund amounted to £25,915,080, and its SURPLUS
- ver all liabilities to £3,115,436, being the LARGEST Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life
_ insurance Go. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
• conclusively proving the superior excellence of its policies.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, oi to
TOST AH HOWELL General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
BURROUGHES
AND —
WATTS,
BILLIARD TABLE
MANUFACTURERS.
CATALOGUES ON APPLICATION.
kst Orders By Post receive prompt attention,
SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.
couple of incursions by a corps de ballet
. addition to which a number of black,
f-iced men, in short skirts, went through a charm
hm representation of females turning somersaults.
This last-mentioned item afforded great satis-
faction to a crowded house. One very gratifying
feature of the Palace of Varieties is found in an
announcement that “ the management will feel
obliged by attention being drawn to any departure
from good taste by the artists engaged. ” If a lady
in the circle were to yell “draw it mild!” or
reauest an artist to “cheese it! ” the management
would The Bulletin imagines, promptly throw a
brick at the cause of complaint by way of abject
apology. * * * m
“The Gondoliers,” which is not for a
season but for all time, filled Melbourne Princess’
Lain on Saturday. One of these days Australia
m , v be favoured with a really first-class perform-
L c e of “The Gondoliers,” and the effect of
that long-looked-for revelation will be stupendous.
In the present instance, there is no glaring cause
for complaint. Taking the characters in one lot,
they are supported to about the same extent as at
first * Flora Graupner is vocally on the wane, and
Clara Thompson is not the duchess that Gilbert
devised, but Lauri makes a more musical duke
than Elton did, anyway. And although Florence
Young’s improvement doesn’t advance rapidly of
late the fair damsel can now play her original
part for almost as much as it is worth. Ryley,
Bracy, Howard Vernon and Sydney Deane pre-
serve their average, while the scenery and chorus
seem to resist the ravages of time as well as can
be expected. “The Old Guard” and delirious
ballerinas on Saturday next.
* * *
Fillis’s Circus having graciously consented
to delay its departure for another week, the tent
still stands where it did. Last Saturday night an
intrepid citizen—one J. M'Millan, Esq.—entered
the lions’ den to the evident amusement of those
rollicking beasts of prey. In return for this act
of kindness Fillis was to present M‘Millan, Esq.,
with a handsome gold medal on Monday. Plenty
of small boys would cheerfully wade in and
wallop the performing Bengal tiger upon the
«ame "terms.
** * *
The Gaiety and Victoria Halls appeal to
the public as heretofore, likewise the Waxworks
claims to have struck a novelty in “silent clair-
voyance,” whereby a gentleman who says nothing
induces a lady to furnish full particulars of articles
that she can’t see. The party who languishes on
the platform, writing love-letters with his feet,
seems to feel this mystic performance very keenly.
A new cycloram a of Jerusalem is an event of the
near future, and the concert market remains
steady.
** * *
Melbourne has been somewhat shaken by
the news that a comedy, entitled “ Ihe Bauble
Shop,” was recently produced at the Criterion
Theatre, London. From this it would seem that
somebody at “home ” has stolen the story of the
missing mace, and dished it up in dramatic form.
* * *
Meston and his late partner Purcell—from
whom The Bulletin has a letter—tell widely
different stories concerning the circumstances
under which the unfortunate N.Q. aborigines, got
together for Chicago Exhibition were stranded in
Melbourne. Each of the show-promoters casts
the entire responsibility on the other.
** * *
A well-known member of the Oovent
Garden orchestra who was present on the occasion
of Florence Saville’s debut as Juliette at Brussels
told The Bulletin’s London correspondent that
she is undoubtedly an artiste of great merit, but
he does not think she will ever rival Melba, as,
though she excels the latter as an actress, she has
not the same power; in fact, her voice has not in-
creased at all in volume. Melba was also present
on the occasion and watched the performance with
much interest, occasionally smiling to herself as
much as to say, “How much better 1 can do it.”
** * *
Madame Antoinette Sterling (who, it is
announced in advance, belongs to the Y.W.O. A.)
visits Australia at the end of the London season,
’tis said. It is always the way with these people,
remarks The Bulletin’s correspondent, they
only favour you after they are played out, like
Patey. Antoinette has a strong hold still upon
English audiences of a certain old-fashioned class,
who are very loyal to ancient favourites, but she
will find to her cost when she goes to sing to a
Hew audience altogether, who are not carried
away by any traditions, that Australians will have
only the best. No worn-out singers for them,
even though the great Most-Travelled himself
wrote the newspaper puffs. About twelve or
fifteen years ago the Sterling was, no doubt, a
most capable ballad singer, who could bring tears
into the eyes of even a hardened wife-beater by
her “John Anderson, my Jo,” kind of business,
and her songs about “the baby,” but now —well,
let us drop the curtain for the sake of auld lang
syne.
At Poverty Point.
Plain Bill Holloway seems to have suffered both ways
i by being promoted to Irving’s part in “ King Lear.”
■. Whilst he was tearing the poor old monarch to tat ters,
, another actor, Frank Tyars, showed them how indif-
■ ferently Plain Bill had been treating his own particular
.character of the Earl of Kent. “In this,” says the
1 Referee, “Mr. Tyars played with a dignity and tender-
i ness most impressive to all beholders.” The Ref. charit-
i ably refrains from saying anything about the rampageous
iLear except that he had “an arduous task.”
Yet Plain Bill had more than pleased Irving by
ibis interpretation of the part of King Lear, so much so
ithat he was to alternate with Henry during the remainder
«f the run of the tragedy, and thus play the leading part
three times a w'eek.
The actions of a Melbourne society dame in the Princess
circle, one night of “ Pepita,” afforded much fun to the
gallery between the acts. The manner in which she
gushed over her male escort and gazed into his eyes was
much admired, as were also her wriggles in the seat and
the quick heaving of her copious bosom. The companion
glanced uneasily around as if afraid the lady .would
proceed to extremes, and ever and anon assumed a deter-
mined expression which was understood to mean that he
would defend his honour with his life.
It is further stated, in reference to the roaring pro-
clivities of Fillis’s lions, that they only howl before meals,
and that the interpretation of their roar is “ Fill-us
Fill-us !"
“La Roaiere,” the comic opera produced by Marie
Halton, with her verdant husband’s money, at the
Shaftesbury Theatre, London, is described as a hopelessly
feeble affair in all respects. Billy Elton, Frank Thornton,
and the rest of them can make no headway against the
inherent stupidity of music and plot.
They may possibly find a little fault with Pattie Brown
in London, on the score of her tendency to self-conscious-
ness and “ twang.”
“Fitts” Atkinson is returning to Melbourne shortly
on a brief matrimonial mission. That is to say, his stay
will be brief. Matrimony, for the most part, is a long-
enough business.
The gay and festive Clement Scott has left behind him
in London many sorrowing dames and damsels, one of
whom, a few days ago, showed to a friend of our corres-
pondent’s an itinerary in Clement’s own handwriting,
wherein Australia does not appear. Now, the question
is—is the illustrious critic having a lark with this
inamorata, or with his lecturing agent ? for it was
understood that he would tour the “ colonies ” under the
segis of the Most Travelled.
Young Justin M'Carthy is engaged to Miss Aida
Jenoure, of London Lyric Theatre. But this, says The
Bulletin’s London correspondent, doesn’t necessarily
mean that the marriage will ever come off, for stage loves
die soon.
“ More gossip. I told you a week or two back,” writes
The Bulletin’s London correspondent, “ on the faith of
a man who said he knew all about it, that Austin Brere-
ton was doing the greater part of Clement Scott’s work
on the Daily Telegraph. It is not true, and, as a matter
of fact, beyond a short ‘ par.’occasionally, the quondam
S.M. Herald critic has done nothing for the largest circu-
lation since he returned to England. Lionel Monckton is
Clement’s locum tenens, and he is a great pet of Levy
Lawson’s.”
In “ Niobe,” at Sydney Criterion, “ Petramos ” Dunn’s
catchword is, “ There’s no money in it.” Nevertheless,
there’s far more money in “Niobe ” than even in “Dr.
Bill.”
What is the state of the actor now in Melbourne? All
classes of people connected with theatres are amid the
most wretched of the unemployed. About 450 people
used to be employed at the five Melbourne theatres, one
way and another.
Cabled that “ Bob ” Cunningham, a Hobart boy
(brother of the leader of Melb. Argus staff, and of Mr.
J. E. Cunningham, of Sydney), is playing the part of the
leading tenor in “Haddon Hall,” at the Savoy Theatre,
London, with success.
Favourable accounts are to hand of Nellie Farren’s
health, which has been much benefited by a short stay in
Liverpool. She still has great hope of being able before
long to renew her acquaintance with her favourite
“boys” of the Gaiety.
What liars theatrical gossips are ! exclaims The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent. If. is not true, it is specially
announced, that Mrs. Bancroft is to receive any salary for
playing in the revival of “Diplomacy,” at the Garrick.
She is going to do it all tor the love of John Hare, whose
daughter is about to espouse her son. It’s all in the
family, you know. Samuel 8., however, will draw a nice
screw. No doubt he wants to pull back some of that
“ thou.” which General Booth got out of him. That was
about the dearest ad. the man with the eye-glass ever got.
The wisdom of securing a play from the experienced
pen of Henry Arthur Jones with which to revive the
fading fortunes of the Criterion was amply demonstrated
by the welcome accorded to “The Bauble Shop,” says our
London correspondent. Seldom has a first-night audience
been roused to such enthusiasm and never, save in the
case of “ Charley’s Aunt,” has there been such a chorus
of approval from the critics. The play’s motive is pure,
the writing full of smart dialogue and bright epigram. A
charming vein of sentiment pervades the love-story of the
plot, and there is not a line from beginning to end which
the author could wish unwritten. It is a splendid relief
to the dreadful rubbish the playgoing public has had to
endure. It is a distinct addition to the literature of the
drama—and it will long fill the treasury.
Coppin scratches his head and half fancies he will have
to turn the Royal into a music-hall. Shade of Barry
Sullivan !—and of Lyster, at the Alhambra.
Whispered that “ Paul Jones” may be seen again in
Melbourne with Nellie Stewart and Marian Burton.
Fillis is Austrian, Madame Fillis Spanish.
The author of a new play has, nowadays, to spend three
months in hunting for a catchy title which hasn’t been
used before.
George Dean’s benefit at Melbourne Royal, the other
Saturday, was largely under the patronage of the Prahran
Amateur Operatic Society. That tuneful body formed
most of the attendance on the floor of the house, and
contributed to the “Cloches de Corneville ” choruses.
Bland Holt, undeterred by the fact that there are seven
theatres, not to speak of music-halls and promenade con-
certs, going in Sydney, opens at the Lyceum in “ Human
Nature ” at Easter.
Lonnen, on his return, opens at London Strand, in
Terry’s absence, with a new burlesque company.
Could Laud’s chance have been obtained by any Aus-
tralian performer? Are there not a few' who could have
taken it? Though Lauri now' seems to be Elton’s equal,
he was nowhere in the aesthetic .donkey scene of “La
Ciirale,” where they appeared together, but, of course,
Laud didn’t act, in presence of the big little Panjandrum,
who would crush him as entirely as Miss Lethbridge did
Miss Weir—in the interest of public morality.
A Sydney Johnnie, who W'anted to see the Gaiety
Burlesque Co., met with a serious disaster the other day.
He assumed that the company was at Sydney Majesty’s, as
heretofore, and took a seat in the circle just as the curtain
rose on “ Hoodman Blind.” He was worried a good deal
about the village merry-makers, but presumed that they
were the chorus in disguise. Then George Rignold
appeared, and he applauded him vociferously under the
impression that he was Lonnen in a remarkably
o-ood impersonation of George. Next he whooped for
Lilia Wilde, believing that she was Alice Lethbridge won-
derfully disguised ; and he was just about to give a yell
of joy for Walton, taking him to be Courtneidge, when he
glanced at his programme, and his jaw fell on his knee.
Then he went downstairs and gave three cheers for him-
self as a prize idiot, and having no more money he went
and sat on the Lyceum steps for the rest of the evening.
Marie Fraser, the Edinburgh actress, just back from
Samoa, has joined her compatriot, Walter Bentley, as
lead for his Australian tour, which commences shortly in
Adelaide.
Lauvi’s racy skirt business in the second act of
“Dorothy” w r as rather warm, even tor a Melbourne
audience, but it “ fetched ” the circle every time. Toorak
even removed its eyes from the divine Charles to giggle
more comfortably.
Pat Fortescue has escaped at last to ’Frisco, several £’s
lio-hter. He sold his “Man in the Moon” song to a
Sydney publisher first for—passage money?
The Victorian Competitors’ Association (Melb.) hold
their presentation night at the Hibernian Hall on 20th
March, under the patronage of the Governor, the Mayor
and other celebrities. The feature of the evening is to be
the production of the Prize Play, a one-act drama, en-
titled “ In the Dark,” written by W. Bernard L’Espinasse
(business manager for the late Signor Majeroni during his
Eastern tour). This prize, given by Alfred Dampier, was
awarded on the judgment of Dion Boucicault, who very
favourably commended the little piece. Boucy’s judg-
ment in stage matters is rarely out of joint.
The Wild-Cat Column.
The other day it was hinted in The Bulletin
that, after all, the liability of the Bank of V.D.L. might
be unlimited. The bank trustees now send us a
copy of a letter from Robertson & Allport, the bank
solicitors, which states that “ the bank was, on Ist Dec.
1880, registered under the Companies Act, 1869, and a
Certificate of Incorporation duly obtained. The Incor-
poration was at the time considered quite in order, but a
question arose afterwards whether the bank was entitled
to the benefits of Part VII. of the Companies’ Act, and to
register with limited liability. An alteration in the law
was accordingly made by the Companies’ Act, 1883, and
by Section 6 of that Act registration irregularly effected
under the Act of 1869 was validated, and the Certificate
of Incorporation made conclusive evidence that the.
company was duly registered. This provision was
intended to, and, in our opinion, did set at rest
any question as to limitation of liability of the share-
holders of the bank.”
* # #
If every insolvent in the Victorian Assembly
were to file a candid schedule one might obtain a faint
idea as to the amount of money which Matthew Davies, in
his boom-time, poured into the House which was so loth
to prosecute him. J. L. Dow, we observe, schedules
“ £350 due to Sir M. H. Davies on promissory note.”
# # *
The official receiver in London for the English
and Australian Mortgage Bank deprecates discussion as
to criminal proceedings pending the result of the Mer-
cantile Bank trial. Also, he is “ inclined to doubt
whether the prosecution in the latter case will prove suc-
cessful.” Seeing that this official opinion was carefully
cabled to Melbourne it would have been as well for the
gentleman to advance some reasons for his theory. In
the meantime he seems rather like a far-away suggestion
of the representative Melbourne person who cries
“ Shame ! "
* * *
The A. J.S. is the only outside bank that holds
Queensland Government funds. It has £75,000 at 4 per
cent, and lends a like amount to the Brisbane Municipal
Council at 8 percent! Besides a million or two of loan
money, the Q.N. Bank has £BO,OOO of Government Savings
Bank money also !
* * *
Sydney D.T. argues that the regretable depres-
sion in the business of Hudson Bros., Ltd., Sydney, is due
to the inauguration of Protection—“ Under the last year
of Freetrade the profits amounted to £14,000, but under
the first year of Protection a deficit of over £3OOO re-
sulted.” Why doesn’t the Telegraph point out that
under Freetrade the shark land-companies and bogus
banks were paying 10 per cent, to depositors, while
under Protection they burst ?
* * »
The manager at Raub wired on Jan. 30th :
“ Battery working day and night. Have gone through
seven leaders in Raub Hole main level, South, carrying
good gold.” “Carrying good gold ”is brave news, when
one remembers how, in ’B7 or so, people in Brisbane and
Townsville bit each other in the struggle to get shares.
Bob Sefton seems to be the only one who made a punch
out of the slate and gold quarry.
• * *
Mr. Zebina Lane, manager of the Broken Hill
Block 14 mine, and leader of the managerial faction dur-
ing the late strike, has refused to fall in with the directors’
proposal to reduce his screw from £l5OO to £lOOO a year.
There is consternation amongst the other local managers,
who see an all-round reduction looming in the distance.
It is the monopolistic policy to eat its tools in detail. Mr.
Lane was recognised as the directors’ right-hand man
during the strike, and was burnt in effigy by the strikers
during the height of the excitement.
# # *
The story is revived of a miserly German, who
played a lone hand on Echunga goldfield. Penury peeped
through the rags of the half-naked children for whom his
weazened wife gladly took broken victuals from bene-
volent neighbours. A few years of this ostensible beggary
and Hans took passage for the Faderland with drafts tor
over £12,000, scraped out of his “rank duffer of a claim.”
# * *
When George Smith, over four years ago,
pegged out the Baker’s Creek mine, N.S.W., which has
since returned upwards of £200,000 in dividends, he and
his brother Bill had not between them £2O to pay the
lease-money, and they agreed to offer half the mine to
anybody who would put it up. That man was hard to
find. Several squatters declined the offer. Finally the
brothers Miller, in conjunction with the brothers MTCinley
(all Armidale men), accepted. When they had dollied out
some hundreds of ozs. Bill Neale, an Adelaide man, took
a fifth share for a small battery. The brothers Smith have
made £lOO,OOO nett out of shares and dividends; and so
did the other brothers. But the people who “ scooped
the pool” with shares at big prices were some Adelaidians
who Worked the mine and the market beautifully. By
employing upwards of 200 men on the shoot of gold the
10-head battery could be kept going with carefully-picked
clean stone which averaged lOoz. per ton. At this time
the work of erecting an additional 20-hcads was slowly
proceeding, and the natural, though by no means correct,
conclusion was jumped at that when the 30 heads were
running thecakes would be proportionately bigger, instead
of which they remained about the same. It was practi-
cally impossible to put more men in the good slopes, but
the additional heads were kept going because it was
cheaper to crush than pick stone. The Adelaide people
w'ere forewarned of this by the writer, but it was all like
pouring water on a duck’s back ; moreover, while one man
told the truth a dozen others didn’t.’ The shares nearly
touched £s—and were for months over £4 10s. Baker’s
Creek is the biggest gold-mine in N.S.W., but, like every
other good thing— Mt. Morgan and the Barrier to wit—it
has been boomed to twice its value.
# * •
Another wild whoop in Sydney D.T. about the
approaching exhaustion of the rich ore of Block 10. In
half a column a correspondent starts off by an alarm ;
then proves that the ore-body will yield just about what
the manager, six months ago, said it would. The public
has been caught too often with this sort of thing. A
year ago it was known that the shoot of rich carbonate
ore in Block 10 was very circumscribed ; hence the
continuous decline in the shares of the richest mine on
the Hill. Now that it is too late it is also known that
some of the daily papers have been innocently made play-
things for bearing and bulling Barrier scrip.
* * <■*
The writer cannot quite see where the traffic is
coming from to support the proposed railway from
Menindie to Broken Hill. The mines are the great source
of traffic in the carriage of coke, bullion, and timber, and
the mines are all pledged under an agreement with the
Silverton Tramway Co. for the next six years. If it is to
carry the produce of the proposed irrigation colony at
Lake Menindie, in the natural order of things the colony
should be first established and the produce grown.
a « »
It is cabled that Massey, of Adelaide, now in
London, urges adoption of the Glasgow’ wet process to
ensure the future of the Broken Hill mines. Well, it is
time a wet blanket were placed on some of the alleged
solutions of the’ problem which is about the biggest on
earth—viz., how to treat a compound ore, poor in silver, by
some much cheaper means than that universally adopted
for the simple carbonate ore where nature has already
done a good deal of the work. When that problem is
solved, Broken Hill will become the silver-field of the
world.
* * *
In reply to a correspondent. Col. North’s Aus-
tralian mining representative is, we are told, on his way
to England, and intends returning during the year.
* * *
The Pambula Co. has held another half-yearly
meeting. The position appears unchanged, newspaper
gush notwithstanding. £370 to credit of Co.; water in
the workings, and no means to remove it; no capital
available. Perhaps it will now be observed that some-
body has spoken truthfully of this over-boomed show.
« * *
A bill having passed to enable a syndicate to
utilise the falls of Hillgrove by working the mining plants
by electricity or water-power, it is to be hoped that there
exists some chance of the work being carried out. By
the way, what has become of the Deepwater tramway
project?
# # #
In the midst of many alleged solutions of the
sulphide problem, the Block 10 people have decided to
adopt a system recommended by Professor Sobnaebel. 1
is neither simple nor economical, but of all it seems the
most feasible.
« • •
Somebody at Newbridge (N.S.W.) has crushed
3 tons 8 owt. stone for 2ozs. Bdwts. per ton. The reef is
described as large, and the writer has only to remark that
the crushing therefrom is mighty small.
# * *
At last, after years of prospecting below 1000
feet, developments have taken place in the old Acadia
mine, Bendigo. Some 20 years back it was the richest
claim on the famous Snob’s Hill line. It paid “ big” fcr
a couple of years, endowed many men with riches and
afterwards ruined them with calls. As old shareholders
dropped out by death and insolvency others took their
places. There is no such word as duffer in the lexicon of
the Bendigo pioneers. When the Acadia got into hard
deep ground it amalgamated with two adjoining claims,
and the work of the last five years has been anxiously
watched by the shareholders of other mines along the
line. Gold, but nothing sensational, was struck in a fairly
big body of stone a few weeks ago, and up went the shares
from 6d. to ss. One man has managed it for over a
quarter of a century, and the striking of a permanent
body of half-oz rock would be a fitting reward for his per-
severance. The writer worked in and about the mine
for two years.
* # *
Bennett’s defalcations were from the E.S. and
A.C. Bank ; not, as erroneously stated in one paragraph
of last week’s Bulletin, from the London Chartered.
* * *
The New Red White and Blue is, and has
been for some time, the leading mine of Bendigo. Lansell
is said to hold half the shares. It is comparatively a
voung mine, having during the last two years produced
108,8790z5. gold ; paid £70,875 dividends, and during the
last half-year £14,625, or altogether 31s. 6d. per share.
The ore body consists of a mass of quartz spurs, to crush
which 105 heads of stamps are being erected.
* » *
Hope’s Hill Amalgamated G.M. Co., Yiigarn,
W.A., crushed 3836 tons quartz, yielding 2306 oz. gold
(worth £4 3s. 7d. per oz.), from January 1892 to January
1893. A 30-head battery has run for years on this mine,
and the water at the present time is at its worst —
carrying about 3 lbs. weight solid matter (much salt) pel
gal. They have sunk 100 feet by shafts and done 600 feet of
tunnelling, and have ore in sight that will probably go an
oz. to the ton, at the present output, for the next two
years.
* • •
The great Ormond G. M. Co. is at Stuart Town
(N.S.W.), on the old Ironbarks field. A recent report
says “ all hands raising stone.” The writer can Verify the
statement as far as two men—one a very little chap—are
concerned.
* # *
Too many penniless and inexperienced people,
failures from elsewhere, are arriving in Westralia.
# * *
Incompetence begets incompetence in the
N.S.W. Mines Department; hence the vagaries of one or
two inspectors of mines which make them a laughing-
stock amongst the best of the mining managers. Recently
one of these officials ordered a manager at Hillgrove to
divide his pump and ladder-way into two compartments—
a practical impossibility without enlargement. Of course
he declines, but should anything happen in that shaft he
quite expects to be hanged for disobeying the order of a
mining ass.
* * *
The restrictions on the carriage of explosives in
N.S.W. are so stringent that they are frequently evaded.
They should he somewhat relaxed, in the interests of
public safety. Freights, too, are so excessive that blast-
ing-powder, bought at 6d. a lb. in Sydney, is retailed as
high as Is. 6d. on some of the inland mining fields.
• * #
It is time that N.S.W. mining shareholders
brought under control the rapacity of local directors.
Several instances have come to light recently where
directors of mines long shut down have continued to draw
full fees, or the fees have been placed to the debit of the 00.
for attendance at meetings merely called to legalise the
grab. Can the Bendigo experts who get ss. for each
attendance as directors of dividend-paying mines, imagine
men in Sydney grabbing two guineas for each attendance
in connection with mines employing only a watchman?
Money wasted in incompetent, greedy Sydney manage-
ment has killed many a N.S.W. mine.
* * *
Surely there must be a Bendigo or Charters
Towers man in charge of Adelong Proprietary mine ; the
reports have not a N.S W, ring about them. In the last,
the size of the reef in the various faces is given, and where
it is poor the fact is openly stated.
# * *
The Mockford (South African) mining co.’s
have “ sensated” London. Defendant, having “perhaps”
acquired certain S.A. rights by alleged concessions from
native chiefs for £13,000, started, “in his parlour or his
kitchen,” a big co., nominal capital a million, and called
in his wife, daughters, son-in-law, and their children, and
got them to sign the articles. Not a cent was subscribed,
hut the public were lavishly taken in, and upon this
bogus foundation Mockford started five subsidiary gold-
mining co.s.
A SHARESHARK’S PSALM OF LIFE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Bore me not with pulpit speeches !
Life is but a business scheme,
And the gospel Mammon teaches
Is the modern sage’s theme.
Life was meant for making money,
Make it as the moments glide,
Scramble for earth’s milk and honey,
Whatsoever may betide.
Never lend, but freely borrow,
Do not scruple to repay,
Shrewdly act that each to-morrow
You’ll be richer than to-day.
Tongues may prate, but cannot hurt you—
Unto what does talk amount
If you’ve that essential virtue—
A substantial bank account?
In those novel incubators
Where gigantic frauds are nurst,
Be not like some speculators,
Be a boomer, boom and burst.
Let no chance go by neglected.
Rake irf rhino while you can ;
’Tis a maxim much respected—
“ Money makes the perfect man.”
Lives of rich men all remind us
How we all may wealthy get,
And, departing, leave behind us
Wills for claimants to upset:
Wills replete with legal breaches
Fossicked out by wrangling heirs—
Dupes of litigative leeches
Who absorb the fattest shares.
Let us then be up and doing—
Doing people left and right—
Stirring, struggling, scraping, screwing,
Learn to grab and hang on tight.
Melb.
M.J.T.


EESSHI
[jHfttr PENHY|
FORK lON A AUSTRALASIAS
STAMPS.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 all post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN «5c CO.,
The. Foreign Stamp Depot,
71 ELIZABETH STREET. SYDNEY
“'“YOST” Typewiitei
All Parts host Steel, and Interchangeable.
Commercial Machines take any sized paper up to 9Ain.
wide.
Brief Machines take paper up to 15in. wide, and write
a line 12in. long.
An extra NARROW Carriage (interchangeable) can also
be supplied with Brief Machines.
l&T DIRECT PRINTING.
HIT” REGULAR INKING.
The YOST TYPEWRITER 00.,
120 Bitt-st,, Sydney,; 141 Elizaheth-sh, Meldoi'KNE
NO RIBBON. PERFECT ALIGNMENT
Personal Items.
Was old man Grey the “Rangitikei, N.Z.,”
who contributed .£ll9 to the Queensland floods ?
Miss Shaw, of London Times, will, it is
understood, be the first Governor-General of
Federated Australia.
An article on recent Irish affairs appears
in last issue of Sydney Quarterly, over the signa-
ture of W. B. Dailey !
A brother of 44 John Strange Winter” was,
up to last year, a second mate in an Island trading
steamer, sailing out of Sydney.
Mayor Gray, Bourke (N.S.W.), was
elected to his aldermanic pre-eminence on his own
casting-vote. Modesty is xat Bourke.
The gentleman of the N.S.W. detective-
force is Rochaix, from France. A man who ought
to know says it is quite a pleasure to be arrested
by him.
Griffith, watching the flood, with a hole in
the ceiling of his trousers, was an undignified
spectacle that would have paid some Kodak fiend
to witness.
It is again reported that Parkes is a capi-
talist. The story is revived that the late Edward
Flood, M.L.C., left him either .£4OO or .£BOO a
year for life.
Alexander Crooks, the Y.M.C.A. saint
whose gigantic embezzlements broke up the Com-
mercial Bank of S.A., is now doing well as a
chemist at Chicago.
Martin Brennan, recently appointed Super-
intendent of Police at Tarnworth (N.S.W.), while
in the force qualified for and passed the Sydney
matriculation examination.
The members of the well-known Australian
Desailly family are said to be entitled to a fortune
estimated at £15,000,000 (?), which l>as accumulated
in Chancery since the year 1700.
Justice Boucaut, of Adelaide, will return
from his year’s leave this month. For two years,
except for a fortnight, S. A. has got on very well
with two Supreme Court Judges.
Ash, M.P. (S.A.). served in the Cape
Mounted Rifles in the Kaffir war, and was one of
the first journalists to make 44 copy” out of the
defeat of the 24th Regiment at Isandula.
R. G. Symonds, who arrived in S.A. in
Sept., 1836, and was present at the proclamation
of that province, is still actively engaged in his
profession in Adelaide. He is 83 years old.
J. S. Hately, who died lately in S.A., first
arrived in Tasmania in ’2O. He visited Portland
(Vic.) ere Victoria was proclaimed a province.
He lived in South Australia for more than half-a-
century.
W. V. Brown, who died lately at Brighton,
S.A., aged 84 years, was one of a number of
settlers on Kangaroo Island when the official
proclamation of the province of S.A. was read at
Glenelg. For 40 years he vegetated at Brighton,
and only passed the S.A. boundary once in his
life.
If Soutli Austra-
lia had to elect its
own Governor, a ma-
jority of votes would
be cast for—George
Giffen.
Tennyson, it is
alleged, never alto-
gether realised that
he was a peer, and
used to forget the fact
most of the time.
Once, speaking of the
deficiencies of the
Upper House, he re-
marked : “Now, if I
werealord— —” Then
he made a bewildered
pause. “Why, of
course, I am one.”
Daniel Evans, of
Ballarat (Vic.), was
found dead, the other
day. He was formerly
a man of much wealth
and the leading local
sharebroker, but
his money left him,
and in his old age he
made a precarious
livelihood by splitting
firewood. The mining
speculator ought al-
ways to die young.
When the Mel-
bourne doctors ad-
vised Gov. Hopetoun
not to shed the light
of. his presence on
4 Professor Richards’ ’
entertainment, that
noble youth replied
that he would patro-
nize whom he pleased.
Now that the Prof,
has practically admit-
ted his identity with
the absconder, Geis-
mardo, by paying a
composition to the
latter’s creditors, how
Hopetoun must be
kicking himself!
The Argus says the Marquis of Queens-
berry “ has grown very fat and plebeian in
appearance.” Is slimness, then, a characteristic
of the aristocrat ? How about Queen Victoria, for
instance ?
Henniker Heaton is to unveil the monu-
ment erected to Beaney’s memory with Beaney’s
money at Canterbury, Eng. Here ye dramatists !
A new statue play—Beaney comes to life with his
tongue in his cheek.
Max O’Rell, with his agent, the Most
Travelled Junior, left Sydney for the Cape, last
wfek. He will find, says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, when he returns to England, a
formidable rival in a compatriot, one Monsieur
Do Baudot, who lectures most amusingly on
“London and Londoners,” dla Max, only more
so.
Robert Louis Stevenson has had the mis-
fortune to lose by fire in an American mail train,
the concluding portion of a lately-finished work.
Had the work been another volume of poems the
fire wouldn’t have occurred.
Ebenezer Ward, M.L.C. (S. A.), was one
of G. V. Brooke’s co. when that famous tragedian
toured Australia in 1859-60. Ward still retains
his tragic powers, and thumps the table hard
when oratorically engrossed.
A well-known professional man says that
eating apples will keep a man sober, no matter
what intoxicants he imbibes. He was seen the
other day in George-street, Sydney, as drunk as
Chloe, with a bag of apples in his fist!
Millionaire W. J. Clarke and his family
were lately compelled, owing to retrenched train
accommodation, to travel from Sunbury to Mel-
bourne in a fish-car strongly redolent of stale
eels. The State gets level with the plutocrat now
and then.
But for the inscription beneath the en-
gravings in the English illustrated papers of the
children of the Duke (and Duchess) of Edinburgh,
one would swear they were Calmuck or Khirgiz.
Evidently the Teuton-Hebraic and the Tartar is
not a beauty-producing blend.
“Poetry,” says Emerson, “teaches the
enormous force of a few words, and, in proportion
to the inspiration, checks loquacity.” Let us try
by this standard the poet-orator Parkes. And :
44 It is a man’s sincerity and depth of vision,”
says Carlyle, 44 which make him a poet.”
You must not look, says The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, for Lord Augustus Loftus’
Australian experiences in the next series of his
44 Reminiscences.” They will come in good time,
but j'ou must be patient. The old diplomat, by
the way, is growing more cynical than ever.
Rider Haggard recently received, per
parcel post, the ashes of a cremated Spaniard,
with a letter from an admirer, stating that he
might possibly be able to found a story upon
them. On the same principle why not send those
Melbourne 44 severed legs ” to Fergus Hume ?
An ex-squatter, popular in all the Eastern
Australias, was, in his youthful days, one of the
best-known satellites of the Emilio Melville Co.
He is now a conductor on a North Carlton (Melb.)
tram, and many an old-time pal, male and female,
starts at the familiar voice, 44 Fares, please ! ”
The Victorians are now afflicted by an
election committee 44 pledged to return men of
moral character and respectability to Parliament.”
A couple of years ago, we would have seen Mat.
Davies, Binjy Benjy, Fink, Mirams, and Munro,
on that committee, some of them as vice-presidents.
41 It may be stated in advance that during
the Adelaide season Mr. Bentley will dine at
Government House, and that the Bishopwillattend
at least one performance at the theatre.” Bah !
A fig for the art that cannot live without the aid
of the Governor’s soup and the Bishop’s greasy
approval.
Until lately, the only public place in
Melbourne where Higinbotham’s likeness could
be seen was at the Trades’ Hall, where they had
a bust of the Chief Justice. But one day a clumsy
THE TEETOTALLER’S SUPPORT.
TEMPERANCE ORATOR : " Friend, you wouldn’t be out of work only for
the pub.”
SOAKE : “ But you would."
member of Council accidentally knocked the bust
off its pedestal, and the C.J. fell to the floor
decapitated.
Christie Murray, we are sorry to hear, has
had a narrow squeak for life, having been at
death’s door through diphtheria. He took a house
somewhere in the neighbourhood of St. John’s
Wood, London, which proved a regular death-
trap, as he, his wife, and servants were all laid
low by bad drainage.
The just-deceased Matthew Lang, although
thrice Mayor of Melbourne, escaped knighthood.
Benjamin Benjamin, the treble Mayor immediately
in front of him, obtained the “ distinction,” and a
careful comparison of Lang with Benjamin gives
a fair idea of what the “ Sir ” in front of a fat
man’s name really means.
A TRIFLING FIT
Of indigestion is a small matter, but it is apt to
end in dyspepsia. Do not wait, but take Wolfe’s
Schnapps.
Take Ayer’s Pills and be cured. Misery is a
mild word to describe the sufferings of body and
mind, caused by habitual constipation. A
moderate use of Ayer’s Pills will invariably regu-
late the bowels.
An historic journalist has just passed away
at Wedderburn (Vie.) in the person of Samuel
Goode, who, in 1840, was publisher of the Port
Phillip Gazette, and, later on, was associated
with John Pascoe Fawkner in the production of
the Patriot. Goode assisted to set up the first
copy of the Argus. He was 75 years of age at his
death.
“King” Tawhiao, of Maoriland, has this
notice on his front gate :
Notice.—Honourable travellers are respectfully re-
quested to close and securely fasten this gate. Unprin-
cipled roughs trespassing and neglecting to do so will be
proceeded against criminally by law.
Nearly everybody shuts Tawhiao’s front gate after
reading this.
“ Little Patterson, the Melbourne artist,
who has been mistaken for a Scotchman in Lon-
don, has taken a studio for a time at Hampstead
or thereabouts,” says The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, “and is passing the time away
until the exhibitions begin. He is very much
liked. You should have heard the way he took
down old W. B. Tegetmeier’s number when the
latter happened to quote the Argus as an
authority for the statement that Australian men
are wanting in good manners and courtesy to
ladies.”
“Sir Horace”
Tozer. That’s his
little game !
The deceased
Hawley Smart, that
awful writer of horse
and dog novels, had
a narrow escape
from death some
seven years ago.
His rooms were
directly over those
of an Indian major
with a diseased
liver, and one day
the major’s liver-
medicine blew up
and drove Smart
head-first into the
ceiling. Why the
medicine blew up,
and why Hawley
wasn’t killed, in-
stead of being spared
to afflict the world
with his dreadful
romances, are two
points which remain
unsettled to this
day.
E. M. Long,
the well-known
Mackay (Q) planter,
now en route to
Maoriland on a
health trip, was one
of the first men to
recognise that the
Northern labour
problem could only
be solved by the
central-mill system,
under which many
“little” men grow
cane, and the “ big”
men buy it at a fair
price and manufac-
ture from the raw
material. He has for
years offered farmers
every inducement
to settle oh his
estate, and now be-
tween forty and fifty
prosperous farmers
grow cane for him.
A very distinguished 11. A., in course of
conversation with our London correspondent, said
that he considered Phil May far and away above
any other living artist in his own line. He added
that more than one Academician had expressed
regret that an Associateship could not be earned
by his class of work, for were it so Phil would
most certainly be elected.
Gladstone’s memory is apparently failing.
When Carington visited him, the other day, he
quite forgot that he hadn’t appointed that glorified
Smith to the viceroyalty, and gently reproached
him for not being at his post in Dublin. As
Carington has been rending his hair for months
past over that same billet, it was an awkward
mistake, and they both changed the subject
hurriedly.
One of the funniest sights possible, writes
an old Sydney hand from Nice, is to see Henniker
Heaton at the tables at Monte Carlo. A short
while ago, when he happened by some strange
chance to win a small sum he thought the croupier
had not paid him enough. “ Nong, nong,” said
he, “ vous navvey donney moi assey de larjong.
Jay mettey doo louis sur le noyre, et jay gagney
plus oue ca.”
When Phil May went to a children’s ball
at London Mansion House the other day, a lady
dropped half-a-crown into his hand, and suggested
that he should sketch her children. At last year’s
ball, which he also sketched for an illustrated
paper, half-a-sov. was pressed on him, and on
another occasion he had a gift of vases of the
most approved city pattern, which he promptly
consigned to his kitchen.
A certain Australian political medico has
so groat a professional reputation that scores of
patients are, during the recess, to be seen waiting
to catch him for consultation in an interval of
sobriety. As such intervals are few and far
between the accumulation of sufferers is quite out
of proportion to the time between “ bursts,” and
several enterprising doctors have opened close at
hand to catch the overflow.
The irrepressible Pritchard Morgan, erst
of North Queensland, finding the search for gold
in Welsh mountains unprofitable, has just quali-
fied himself as an English solicitor, and intends to
proceed higher—to the bar. He is a man of many
admirable traits; of keen intellect, a profound
student of human nature, a humourist, musician,
an unrivalled raconteur of Australianisms, and one
of the most generous and plucky men who ever
lived.
Bateman, of Ballarat Courier, took
more pains over his leaders than any man on
record. They said the next day’s leader was
excogitated during the night, and all the day he
employed in tickling and polishing it up with
mosaic work, ala Balzac. This work was in two
acts, and the entr'acte was Bateman going to the
restaurant, where he devoured two dinners at
once—says tradition. Bateman would not have
“ put his foot in it,” as did the writer of that Mace
article the other day. v
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Is most palatable, being inoffensive to the smell
and grateful to the taste, and often sought by
patients because of its aromatic properties.
People are already commencing ( wr :f
The Bulletin’s London correspondent bv i
mail) to talk about Lord Jersey’s successor . j
the name of a very big swell indeed Ins’/ 11 '
mentioned as the future N.S.W. Governor r
would be difficult to find a really bWer
socially, than Jersey, who belongs to the
elusive set in England; a set into which s ,!j
people as the Caringtons are not welcomed. There
are several grades of swells in the Peerage, and
sue i as, say, Lord Salisbury s, isopen only to
ttle ' a creme, except, of course, at bis
semi-official functions, when even ambitious Au<f
tralians may now and then be seen. us "
. Tll ™ lts ‘0 being of Hibernian <■ distw
tion,” J. F. Hogan has had the good fortune t
get from T. P. O’Connor a five-column notice f
“ The Life of Lord Sherbrooke,” as the “Book of
the Week,’’in London Weekly Sun. This means
a big ad. Patchett Martin is naturally furious at
being forestalled, but he has only himself to blame
Whilst he was slow and indolent, Hogan was
alert and active. Martin had the advantage of
having access to all Lowe’s papers, whereas Hogan
had to get his facts (or fiction) anywhere and
everywhere. Henniker Heaton gave him the run
of his books, of which he made good use. Tins
has angered Patchett a great deal.
THE MISSING WORD.
STREET PREACHER: “What does St. Paul say on this pint —? I
repeat, me brethren, what does St. Paul say —(with a yell ) —
What are the words of St. Paul?”—
POLICEMAN (interrupting); “Sorr, I’d have ye remember that missin’
word competitions is illaygal.”
Isidore Wertheimer, whose name was
mixed up so conspicuously with that of Belle
Bilton (the present' Lady Olanoarty) some time
since, died a few days ago, at the early age of 21),
writes Theßulletin’s London correspondent. He
had a short life, but a merry one, and few young
men have ever managed to cram into a brief exist-
ence so varied an experience of fast life about
town. He was at heart, I believe, a good-
natured fellow, but (chough accomplished and
brainy) displayed in his amours an amount of
folly quite inconsistent with his Semitic descent.
Ho certainly stuck to Lady Dunlo like a brick,
and swore his very hardest to save her from being
divorced. Perhaps for this many of his other
peccadilloes will have been blotted out by the
Recording Angel.
Apropos the late King George’s (of Tonga)
pre-eminence in feet. About ’73 he had built for
him, in Sydney, as a yacht, a big brigantine,
which cost him <£3ooo, and proved a bad sailer
and a white elephant. He'took in her, as sailing-
master, an ex-naval man, afterwards in the black-
birding trade. When the Taufaahau arrived at
Nukualofa, the King gave audience to this gentle-
man, who, the moment he saw the mighty feet,
exclaimed, to the horror of the other white men
present captains, missionaries, traders, and
Dutchmen —“ Good God, what a hoof to get a lift
with ! ” In his mild way the King asked for a
translation of “ hoof ” and “lift.” No one volun-
teered, but, all the same, the gentleman got his
lift soon enough, for he was immediately lifted
out of his billet, and transferred to a little 20-ton
schooner, the Jaoijai Yuna. But withal old King
George had much human feeling until he was
pumped full of bigotry, hatred and all uneharit-
ableness by the godly crew who, in his latter days,
turned Tonga into a hell of discord.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Messrs. Charlemont are glad to find that the
appreciation of their Plati'notype Photographs
gains rapidly. The new process possesses all the
merits claimed for it, is absolutely permanent, and
will without doubt establish itself very soon as
one of the favourite processes in the beautiful art of
Photography. ROYAL ARCADE, SYDNEY.
PEMELL’S
GOLDEN
MEAL.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Produces healthy stimulation of the kidneys
and bladder, what they need when inactive. It is
gentle, soothing and prompt in its action.
PERSONS IN THE DECLINE.
Of life, all classes of invalids whose ailments induce
exhaustion, may use Wolfe’s Schnapps with
advantage.
At Redtern you can buy G N U N Darlings.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1*
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &0.
33 tV 34 Clarcuee-strcct,
SYDNEY.
R
ARTESIAN
act at
Drill-
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Bigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24 r/j
Clarence St., Sydney. yjffipV-
POLITICAL
POINTS
M L. A.—Mighty Little Account.
About one-twelfth of S.A. land values are
owned by eight absentees.
Wonder if Paraguay Lane ever read Kip-
ling’s “ Man who would be King ?”
What the Panama Canal is to the French
the Land Grant jobs are to Queensland politics.
No weather will be hot enough to dissolve
N S.W. Parliament if the workers stand to their
People wonder who, or which party, is
finding the money for Parkes’s stump-tour through
Northern N.S.W.? „ . _ _
How about “ law n order in Ireland (
The Australian Property press tacitly favours
the projected insurrection in Ulster,
The N.S.W. “ Country party ” did not ask
Crick and'Willis to join, because it reckoned that
no party could contain the pair and live.
NS W. is utterly sick of the rows,
so babbies, law-suits, and loud blather of the
Wiilis-Crick-J. D. Young political clique.
Lord Knutsford is “ gratified to find that
the desire for separation, which had formerly been
expressed by the kawlinies, has now passed away!”
Whispered that Premier Downer hopes by
the defeat of Rounsevell and Grayson at the polls
to strengthen his Ministry by the inclusion of
Holder and Cockburn.
It may be accident, of course, but it is a
subject of remark in London that all the Sydney
telegrams emanating from Reuter seem tinged
with prejudice against Dibbs.
“The workers must suffer till they learn
to trust the church.”—Melbourne clerical utter-
ance. Yet, when the poor workers go to church
they are offered—an empty plate.
G. H. Reid, ex-N.S.W. Civil servant,
champion of the N.S.W. Civil Service, couldn’t
retrench the N.S.W. Civil Service. Retrench'
ii ent must be done with an axe.
S.A. electors are unanimous on one point:
“Out with the drunks!” At every political
meeting members are questioned closely re their
connection with alcoholic Parliamentary brawls.
S.A. National Ass opposes an increased
land-tax “ because it would ruin the farmers.” A
mere deception. For 43 taxpayers (mostly absen-
tees) pay more than one-eighth of the present half-
penny tax !
The postponement of the Kara Kara (Vic.)
elections, allegedly to save a member’s sillary
during recess, looks like a gross job to keep the
seat vacant till Dow has got bis insolvency cer-
tificate.
Kingston, Q.C., has offended the S.A.
Labour-party by refusing to run with their
nominee for West Adelaide against Works
Minister Grayson, bis old colleague. He prefers
to i lay a lone hand.
The great Freetrade awakening doesn’t
seem to have reached Canada as yet. A motion
tor the reduction of Customs duties has just been
bounced out of the Dominion Legislature by a
majority of 54 votes.
Let the N.S.W. Democratic party listen.
Jacob, M.L.C.—“ I hope a dissolution may
be brought about, in order that some of that element
(labour) may be eliminated from the other branch
of the Legislature.”
Macintosh, M.L.C., says that ordinary
wages in N.S.W. are hot more than 4s. to 4s. 6d.
per day. And the body to''“which Macintosh
Delongs imagines that prosperity would follow a
greater reduction.
The Yic. Government abandons its Village
Settlement Bill, which bad been “orueHed”by
the Upper House. The land-gluttons have sud-
denly become anxious that Crown lands be not
injudiciously disposed of.
The Japanese imported to work on North-
ern plantations-,give great satisfaction. Though
far more expensive than kanakas, they work
better and give less trouble. The laws concerning
Chows do not apply to Japs.
Andrew Wilson, writing in the Investors’
Review, says N.S.W. can’t run an average of
more than one sheep to 10 acres. As Sydney
D.T. points out, she has 00,000,000 sheep to a
total of less than 200,000,000 acres.
The defeat (in the interests of the asso-
ciated local ratepayers’ scheme) of the various
proposals to grant electric lighting pqwers in the
city of Sydney to private syndicates and public
companies is a great socialistic victory.
Purification of the Electoral Rolls in Mel-
bourne is being conducted on such free-and-easy
principles that there will soon be no Rolls left to
deal with. Meanwhile the electoral quartern and
cottage loaves remain as unpurified as ever.
The head of a Government department up
south [not a Jew) lends money to his rank and file
at usury, through a junior. If the rank and filers
don’t pay up lie has ’em sued, and retains as
solicitor the son of his ministerial head. Nasty !
After his recent tour iu the west, Glassey
asserted that almost every Unionist leader he met
was a prospective New Australian. Which
sounds to The Bulletin like cocktail. There’s
not much fight in the man who thinks about run-
ning.
The N.S.W. Council not only defeated,
“ on the voices,” the second reading of the Agree-
ments Validating Act Repeal Bill —passed in the
Assembly on the voices—but also took the
extreme course of discharging it from the business
paper!
Chief Justice Darley was, the other day,
sworn-in as Acting-Governor of N.S.W., amid
much bogus splendour, including the thunder of
many guns. Which loud and expensive mummery
was as convincing as would have been the silent
squirting of treacle into a gin-bottle.
Jawbone Neild is right : every appoint-
ment to the Civil Service should be immediately
gazetted, with a statement of the officer’s duties,
his rate of pay, his perquisites and his privileges.
And whenever a gaol-sentence is commuted that
should be gazetted too—with the reasons.
An unsuccessful foreign-trade candidate at
last N.S.W. general election evidently believes
that a dissolution of Parliament is not far off.
Last week he sent exactly half an apple each to
the children in the infants’ class of the principal
school in his (alas ! not his yet) electorate,
“ Titles are the toys of the childhood of
humanity, and will be gradually dropped as the
race outgrows them ; let them die out, no repub-
lican assuming one either by creation or inheri-
tance, and they will go where have gone the
children’s last year’s dolls.” —Annie Besant.
At latest advices the N.S.W. Freetraders
are bus'y pointing out to their bleeding country
that if the tea duty, and one or two other imposts,
are re-imposed, “ there will be no need for taxa-
tion.” The fact that his blessed tea duty is taxa-
tion never seems tcP'oocur to the “Freetrade”
man.
There’s a melancholy moral in the rumored
Royal intention to make a baronet of Duff before
he leaves Hingland. One can almost hear Lord
Chamberlain Caringbon murmuring, “ They must
have a title of some kind,” to Bertie, who replies,
“Ach Hiramel! yes, I’ll speak to Her Majesty
aboud it.”
Molb. Trades Hall Council recently de-
cided that it was necessary for Government to
proceed with the erection of the new police courts,
“in order to provide employment.’’’ Next it was
decided to aslc Government to insist upon union
wages being paid on all Government contracts.
Then the Council sat down to consider whether
they should “ sack” their secretary, replacing him
with a job man at ill a week, or simply knock
25 per cent, off his salary.
oiliPI
sd
All the recent rumpus about the
appointment by the N.S.W. Ministry of an ex-
convict, “ the Silver King,” to a fat billet in
N.S.W. Civil Service, was the result of anonymous
letters sent as a practical joke to several prominent
enemies of the Government. They “ bit ” raven-
ously.
* John Eelsnake Davies, M.L.O. (N.S. W.):
“ I regret voting for payment of members: it lias
demoralised public life.” John Davies publicly
moralising on political demoralisation ! We have
witnessed nothing more lovely since, in the silent
wilderness, we saw an iguana crawl out of the
carcase of a dead bullock.
The father of Premier Downer, Q.C.
(S.A.), once kept the Blenheim Hotel, Adelaide;
Lands Minister Howe is an ex-publican ; Treas.
Rounsevell is director of a brewing co., and
Works Minister Grayson runs a Temperance
Coffee Palace. Net the Temperance Alliance
hopes to get favours from the Ministry.
The editorial “we ” of Sydney Daily
Telegraph has a dual personality. The sub-leader
matter, by Dr. Jekyll, is generally logical, consis-
tent, able ; the leader, from the pen of Mr. Hyde,
does nothing but gnash its teeth and veer all round
the v political compass. The D.T. is run by
Balaam arid his ass —the National Ass.
Emperor of Germany asserts that he has a
mission from God :
Gov. Jersey’s real reason for resignation
is said to be caused by Gladstone’s proposed dis-
establishment of the Welsh Church. As a pre-
liminary, Gladstone has suspended further
ecclesiastical appointments, and Jersey, with
several “ livings ” at his disposal, views this as an
infringement of his rights, and returns to protect
them.
Jacob, M.L.C., states that the N.S.W.
Ministry allows bills to pass the Assembly without
offering opposition that would make them un-
popular, knowing that the measures will be rejected
in the Upper House. Precisely, and that is one of
The Bulletin’s arguments against a second cham-
ber: it furnishes Conservative administrations
with a mask of bogus Radicalism.
It seems pretty certain that Moll wraith
has completed negotiations for the introduction
of Indian coolies to clinch his land-grant politi-
cal villainy. On the map the proposed system of
lines aims indirectly, but clearly, at consummating
the old transcontinental game. By the way, who
owns all the land arouijj Point-Packer for mules
and miles ? &
Significant that the N.S.W. National Ass,
which brayed assiduously for the keeping in power
of Dibbs & Co. over the Broken Hill trouble, now
does its best to kick him out. A manifest proof
that Labour should have gone to the country on
the former occasion, and should now, having lost
its chance, sit back and lie low till another chance
comes up.
Gem from Dr. Sly’s speech, in opening the
case for the prosecution of the Sec. of Sydney Boot-
makers’Union, for alleged conspiracy: “Theprice
for this work had originally been 4s. a dozen. Ihe
firm, however, decided to reduce it to 2s. a dozen,
and it was out of this small thing the whole
matter had arisen.” Just offer a lawyer two
guineas when he wants four.
Dear Bulletin,— Carping critics of Lane
and the “New Australia’’ movement will find
some information that they do not possess in an
article by Theodore Child, in Harper's Monthlv
for July, 1891, “ Republic of Paraguay.” I have
nothing to do with Lane or the movement, but if
I were on the move I would make for Paraguay.
J.M. Gympie, 27th Feb.
Private bills in Australian Parliaments are
often piloted, on the floor of the House, by paid
lawyers who happen to be M.sP. this should
not be permitted. If a member gets fees to steer
a bill —and where is the lawyer who would steer
a bill for nothing?—his hired arguments should
be addressed to the House from the Bar at which
other hired advocates are heard.
“ The Mongols have the courage of lions,
the endurance of dogs, the prudence of cranes, the
cunning of foxes, the farsightedness of ravens, the
rapacity of wolves, the keenness for fighting of
cooks, the tenderness for their offspring of hens
(hero is one redeeming feature), the wiliness of
cats in approaching, and the impetuosity of boars
in overthrowing their prey.”— Scottish Review.
The strength of the new Victorian Cabinet
lies in its fads. Patterson commands the Orange
and teetotal votes. O’Loghlen is solid for the
Irish vote. The A.N.A. props up Isaacs, and the
publican interest supports Carter. The im-
per i alls t crowd props up the lot. ine social
purity vote is about the only thing left for Leiry
nowadays. And when one remembers that little
Geelong affair
The current number of the Idler contains
an interview with John Burns, the Socialist
leader. In a London Punch, of 1886, there is a
spirited picture of Burns and Hyndman being
hanged on a gallows as dangerous and despicable
rebels. It is not John Burns that has changed ;
it is the worlckthat has moved on. The rebel of 86,
for whom hanging was too good, is the honoured
philanthropist of to-day.
A motion to reduce the wages of the ‘Vic-
torian Governor by .£3OOO was lost by one vote in
the House last week. Patterson considered the
time was “notyet ripe,” and theothers who voted
against the motion did so because they had “a
great admiration for the present Governor,” an
irrelevant circumstance, anyhow, as the reduction
was not to come into operation till after the
departure of Hopetoun.
Old bullocky Palmer and Chief Justice
Lilley (Q.) got their Imperial baubles together.
Palmer was made a K.C.M.G., but .Lilley a K.B.
only. A delay about the latter being accepted
was ascribed to the republicanism of the C.J., but
turned out afterwards to have been spent in
parleying for the tag the old man has flashed ever
since- Lilley may be a Democrat or he may not,
but this isn’t the democracy of Higinbotham.
The latest phase of the Samoan question
is that Robert Louis Stevenson has been acting as
a self-constituted mediator between the brainless
puppet Malietoa and the sulky Mataafa. Which
reminds us that speaking of this gentleman a
chief of Manono remarked : “ Ua esele alii Tusi
Tala, e fa'afiapoto ma fa'alialiavale-," the which
being interpreted mildly meaneth : “ The writer of
stories takes the cake for ‘ putting on side ’ and
med dlesomeness.
Ex-Judge Manning, M.L.C., would not
condescend to address N.S.W. Council when there
were so few members (11, all told) in the chamber.
One overlooks the vanity implied to recognise the
good accomplishable by encouraging the idea that
a member of either House could not becomingly
address less than a certain number of members—
said number to be ever so much more than a legal
quorum. It would then rest with members them-
selves to cut down jawsome harangues.
The annexation of Hawaii by the U.S. is
being brought about thus : Prior to the M'Kinley
Act sugar raised in Hawaii entered the States
free, under treaty, while all foreign sugar paid
two cents duty. The Hawaiian planters—nearly all
Yankees—waxed fat, but the cast-iron protection
of the M'Kinley regime burst them up. If they
can induce Uncle Sam to make Hawaii partof the
Union, their sugar will, of course, enter Yankee-
land on its old profitable footing.
the teeth and their conservation.
We desire to call attention to the dental practice of Mr.
J. I. Marshall in the King-street Arcade (George-street
entrance). He is the author of that popular treatise on
“The Teeth,” and his is also the only large firm in Aus-
tralia that is practising High-class Dentistry at Reform
Fees. Artificial Teeth are set on gold, silver, platinum,
vulcanite, zyonite, &c., from £5 the full set. Consulta-
tions are free. Teeth are extracted under pure nitrous
oxide gas or cocaine, daily. Only address—Mr. J. I.
. Marshall, dental surgeon, King-street Arcade (George-
street entrance).*
Included in the instructions to Hindmarsh,
the first Governor of South Australia, was this
That you do not raise the price of waste land unless it
should appear to you that there is a deficiency in the
supply of labourers for hire.
This, of course, was entirely in the interests of the
governing and moneyed classes, inasmuch as it
created a wider and wider gap between the land-
lords and wage-earners.
Walter Besant argues, in contradiction to
Heinemann, that “ the author is not an employe
paid a certain wage by the publisher,” but “a
producer employing a creature called a publisher
to sell his wares.” Further, that for the latter to
talk as if he were a factor in production is much as
if the organ-blower were to claim credit for the
music. If Besant be right, and logic is on his
side, then all employers are more or less “crea-
tures ” who sell wares of other men’s making. The
man who recognises the verity of the statement is
a Socialist; he who disputes it, an Individualist.
At Waverley you can buy G N U N Darlings.
The Co-opekative News (Eng.) estimates
the total annual income of Great Britain at
.£1,200,000,000; of which ground-rents absorb
.£200,000,000; interest on national debt takes
■£25,000,000; =£575,000,000 go to profits ; and only
.£400,000,000 are divided between 8,000,000 men
and 8,000,000 women wage-earners, who have to
support, besides themselves, about 14,000,000
children. In other words, only one-third of
British total income goes to the millions of
workers.
Liver complaint is the cause of many pains
and aches which some people consider are separate
and distinct complaints. Headaches, palpitation,
indigestion, flatulence, &c., are symptoms of a
disordered liver and stomach. Many are the
quack nostrums sold as cures for “ indigestion
but surely the world is getting sufficiently en-
lightened to see through the quackery which is so
prevalent in this country. There are broken-down
pi ambers, painters, plasterers, and printers selling
iV medicines ” to cure diseases of which these
people do not even know the symptoms, to say
nothing of the therapeutics. Such is not the case
with Dr. Fletcher’s Pills. These are the prescrip-
tion of one of England’s most eminent physicians
and pathologists, and have been used most
successfully by him for the last thirty years in
private and hospital practice. They have ever
been found effectual in all bilious, stomach and
liver complaints, and can be used by both sexes
with the utmost confidence. They are sold by all
medicine vendors, and F. M. Clements, Newtown,
Sydney, post free, thirteen penny stamps. Mr.
H. Downing, chemist, Brisbane, writes referring
to these Pills :
“Since taking Dr. Fletchef’s Pills my health
has wonderfully improved. I have discarded
all others, and I consider these worth .£lOO a box.
“ HENRY DOWNING.”
Doubtless, William, and that mission
Is to teaoh the people much
Grim contempt for kings and princelets,
And for emperors and such.
The Drink Habit.
It is needless to moralise on the direful effects of
intoxicating liquors when used to excess. Moral-
ists have written thousands of books, philan-
thropists have founded asylums and reformatories,
physicians have laboured and expostulated, wives
and mothers have tearfully pleaded, yet the dire-
ful fact remains that the curse is more rampant
than ever. What is to be done? Legislation has
proved unavailing. So far as it goes, law is right,
but appetite cannot bo controlled by the statute
book. We must treat the drink habit intelligently
and and when we claim thajt it
is a disease, and should be treated as such,; we
believe we have come near the method by which
the problem can be solved. Arguments, threats
and punishment have proved futile. Let us now
try reason and common sense. Drunkenness is
the outcome of a nervous disease, either acquired
or inherited. The patient, in the great majority
of cases, is willing, nay anxious, to be cured. His
will-power, however, has become paralysed, and
he must have all the aid obtainable to renew the
battle for the recovery of his manhood, and main-
tain it successfully. Such an aid is found in
Warner’s Safe Nervine and Warner’s Safe Cure.
The former quiets the nerves, and secures the
needed rest and sleep, while the latter carries the
poisonous and irritating inflammatory matter out
of the system, aids digestion and assists in making
pure, rich blood. These medicines, together with
diet, bathing and exercise, will accomplish the
result aimed at. It is not necessary for the
patient to isolate himself from his family or
friends by going to a high-priced so-called cure,
thus advertising himself as incurable by other
methods and bringing public attention to his case,
and corresponding shame to his friends. To a
person of sensitive nature such a course is almost
as bad as death itself.
We have briefly pointed out a course which can
be pursued quietly, systematically, and success-
fully, and which we leave to the intelligent reader
to avail himself of.
Note the experience of Mr. William Patterson,
of Cairns, Queensland, under date 7th December,
1892, he writes I commenced the use of your
Safe Cure some years ago when it was first intro-
duced into the colonies. I was a very heavy-
drinker in my early days, and with the excessive
use of spirits my brain became softened and my
reason nearly gone. I became alarmed at the
state I was in, and would gladly have taken any-
thing that I thought would do me any good.
I had a wife and family to support and was m a
fair way of business, but could not attend to it as
formerly. Heading oiie day something about
Warner’s Safe Cure, I determined to give it a
trial.- I managed, after some difficulty, to pro-
cure a few bottles and commenced its use, keeping
strictly to the directions and not taking any
strong drink in the meantime. After using a few
bottles my brain became clear, and I felt
altogether a new man.


„ H rvu*rs wai snxw
TofJiCH T #
I [ WANT NO fAVC.I
raoM
ANV MANf"
f
y fry
; &OBART, Sunday.—The Loyal Orange
Lodgo of Tasmania donfirms the cable meg-
,(Bga,s*ating thtft Australian Orangemen were
supporting the Ulster opposition to th >
Home Rule Bill. The Irish Soyalist .os i
that when the Gladstonian Ministry took’ -
office a cable dispatch was sent, promts! >g
men and money for resistance totheftov t
.Rule, Bill. (This week the secretary for*
warded a document, under seal of the,
t'arious lodges of tlffi institution, expressing
sympathy and congratulations on the great;
(Jeffipnstration recently held at Ulster-hall,'’
Belfast, and repeating promise of prompt
support.
■C"><
%
fs
s.
Pol*) I^o l3 l*>o W£o w*
dp<; °- rr 7,u -
81//ek to rifted jere
Xo)- "refrepcfyed *
f^ T
M -Mte 5
//■S h? AwLuiy for Cm Strltf/cg-
-7
C R -fa
/fr Sauce, So T sufrcsc
7 r pu S f-7afr
'fan
tbte new governor.
• The Premier yesterday received a cable
message from the Agent-General stating that
Mr. Guff would leave England for Sydney on
-April 14, by the P. and O. R.M.S. Parre_
jmatta. The steamer is due in Sydney cn
May 29.
c 3 <?
■sf£ -s ' N >
\o^
<5- --S'
'X-x: S^T
CU <Vt_o
t_0
here iifr
TM
The Soudan CoirmraENT.— The seventh
annual dinner of officers who formed part of
the Now South Wales contingent to the
Soudan (which left Sydney on March 3) was
»held at Gunsler’s last night. About 15
-were present. The usual toasts were
honored, including “ Deported Comrades. '*
\
Puff' tj-)
Hjt byt; l5
Soul't?
Wa-lej ? y
WHAT IS A * GLOVE ” CONTEST 1 <2 J/^y
QcC//o/* £ '^/ a y / V >or y> / 9 <^ ) /7a-/oer-
y# <s?orr Chpfaf tyy KS /tff/efc.Jbobceprp. apJ
/n/’/pjfars &/ q# 7# «?><? <2 Cf/fise /prarfcTptf OA pyrf' cfay &
j' //pyuej7 /fe/r us c< £arcC<?/* or>r. /7
I
'%h% X%. %
■¥*Wvs
H\\\*
(yf/a/y/y /?&/'/
at/cf eapcKfa /s ex fry .
Q aSsrpors, & a A//
/ffr/fi /fry*
IN SYDNEY—CHIEFLY.


In To.dclock..
Book.'i'nccket'— “ lci-rille %a.il a ivCtMie*?^
Clci-k (disfusUaj J.'Hour can jsaolsle ejahe'cf ihe. fc ao afxeadl
. -V.fr tlvcr A ovvl^bell 1 " J >
' 'M : Clotting'at i\\e- Truth —„ s
Police (mve i-v^murde r ca&e).^our
Johnny caTvyow- look u.s U'v tfve.
txixcl s {at car y'bu-T''-<vw'n-t~"
"been* IcU'my lies?'
Small evtrj£>^
-ily of- terror )—
Vo-o-oi': ■*
W 3ftnK» S'
M i million I
( J iM'
Jimmj" !^|unßo{aVi tit]
lljls isll\c,
cor\splra*e.f t 0 Lllel ■mt f j
Wo W| a.ttdt" _ a.'tf'nve. J
"Uri 11 Co'**'-'- <J.'
1111 ii
I
£.flW
toU* r&
Mr. PATTERSON submitted that this case was
Hot a proper one to be discussed in the House. In
the first place the matter was nub judtee ; in the
second place to answer the question would
be calculated to prejudice a fair trial, apd
ilt was not urgent business. (Cheers,
and cries of Oh.) The case was pending,
and the directors had yet to bo put on trial, and co
■ discuss the question at that stage would be highly
; Improper. The Attorney-General would not answer
such a question or take part in any discussion con-
nected with it. The Government was not going te
start the trial of these men with public clamor.
O'iofklen
"Vo cl am. ai" urkvl€*llv<„
'lt’ial ifc Iproc.ce d'nx cT. a.c cjULitk Si you
of\vcv\L c'kjuA. •fen ' cveclit" Jl- 'ti've. airutvCTvYj ’Vi'U/lT
(I « n\o^“ urlse*
T\\C I<X,*wr fG. i* % «.
-twill •
W*sT*rr^ c Y
df
s
j [e.a.s-e. "fo okser/*.
loanA'M ut ■fll'2-
-fot-e ® a ' 4
<^lo-^-
\
%
V
V-
nj
11 fsny
tte state should compel these settlers either
to pay up arrears or resume possession ot the
land, and «h e it to others who would he glad
to pay up. «•
letfc,r
\-c[u. t>'!
R Dismcvohf
*ur i H\a
dli^erence
LORD 1
£looo
Mr. BEAZLEY moved—
That the salary attached to the office of Governor
of this colonv shall, when, appointment is
made, be reduced to £7,000.” He jja not lt
could be argued that the quality of the man
sent to us depended on the salary paid, for
they had had some very good Governors in
the other the lower salary |.a«i s .
mm
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


. The Coining Colony is West Australia.
Population increasing by thousands. Revenue
'Cturns show wonderful expansion. Sensational
gold finds at Murchison, &c. Splendid returns
gold crushings, Yilgarn. Two million pounds for
public works. Warehouses, shops,dwellings, going
'P all over Perth. The colony is coining along.
NOW is the Time to Buy, NOW.
C 35 (FROM) CITY LOTS, PERTH.
SUBURBAN BLOCKS, PERTH, from £lO
CIS (FROM) ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Small Deposit. Easy Terms. Perfect Title.
Write or call for marked plans and all information
to
Che Intercolonial Investment Company, Ltd.
(Estab. 1.885), ;!(»!> I’ill-sl, Sydney, N.S.W.
W. J. DOUGLAS, Manager,
(ranch Office: ST. GEORG E'S TERRACE, PERTH, W.A.
Vitality and colour are restored to weak and
gray hair, by the use of Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Through its cleansing and healing qualities, it
prevents the accumulation of dandruff and cures
all scalp diseases.
We are a happy family because father smokes
G N U N Darlings.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
BOSE J S
LIME JUICE CORDIAL
Delicious, Wholesome and Refreshing.
T H B B E S T D If INK F OK A L L
Prepared from the finest West Indian Lime
Fruit.
Sold l»y a'l Storekeepers, etc.
General Agents:
JULES RENARD «Sc CO.,
KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Society
It is amusing to read the lies that have
b 'en circulated outside about the Brisbane floods.
For instance, “ 4) feet in the Courier buildings ”
includes 38 feet of cellars. And when Reuter’s
agency’s chairman cables for a list of the drowned
a good many people begin to think the thing has
gone rather too far.
A Cairns (N.Q.)
story is that a
Southern firm testi-
monialised a Cairns
man with a horse,
saddle and bridle.
The recipient grate-
fully acknowledged
the gift, but added —
“ As I am at present
insolvent, let it be
understood that the
horse and belongings
are yours, for fear
my creditors seize
them.'* 1 This seemed
fair enough, and the
Southern firm con-
sented to become a
party to the duplicity.
Nemesis followed
speedily, in sections.
First, a bill of 7s. for
shoeing; then ac-
counts for corn, chaff,
new bridle, martin-
gale, spurs, crupper
and saddle-cloth;
more shoes and more
harness; turps, condi-
tion-powders, embro-
cations, &c. At long
last, on e of the
Southern firm went
up North, and called
incidentally to seethe
wonderful moke, ex-
pecting to find him
glossy, sleek and roll-
ing fat, and bedizened
with shiny new har-
ness. In sorrow, he
mounted a gaunt
framework of knobs,
having to use a bridle
largely made up of
greenhide and boot-
laces. The Cairns
man suggested that it
was time the Southern
firm purchased a new
equine outfit, but the
climax was reached
when, a week later,
the visiting donor
received the following
memo. : “To hi r e
of my horse, 17s.
fid,”
The Brisbane floods touched top on tho
Sunday appointed for harvest thanksgiving in all
tho churches! Sheol!!
» # *
It is now reported that Lord Jersey only
engaged his servants for three years when coming
to Sydney. This looks as if the “sudden call
’Ome on urgent private business” was a pre-
meditated affair. How was it that the Jerseys
were so desperately interested in newsboys and
South Sea island niggers ? Simply because they
couldn’t suffer the collection of gilded toe-raggers
that nowadays pose as Sydney society. A nigger
or a newsboy could be patr mised with safety,
because he could be dropped at anytime, but to
“make friends” with the Sydney society vul-
garians meant laying up a store of trouble for
future years, which the Jerseys were wise enough
to avoid.
* * *
The printed rumour that Lord Jersey’s
resignation was caused by Premier Dibbs’
strictures upon his frequent absences from the seat
of Government caused much surprise in the
“ upper circles,” where it was believed that they
were sworn friends (says our London corres-
pondent). It was Gov. Jersey’s introductions
quite as much as the Premier’s public position,
which got the Dibbs into the very highest social
swim in England, where no other Australian has
ever been admitted. Premier Dibbs is the most
loyal man in the world to his friends, and it is the
general belief that Reuter’s cablegram is either a
lie or has been misread.
# # «
In Sydney last week the members of the
Soudan Contingent held their annual dinner to
celebrate the departure from N.S.W. to Africa of
that historical gang of brigands. Ecom year to year
the ranks thin—and in the process of nature there
may come a day when one toothless‘veteran will
mumble over tbe last dinner that he cannot eat.
But the very last survivor of the returned Soudan
Contingent will not be a man. It will be the
Soudan donkey. Donkeys are immortal. And in
this ease the fittest will live longest.
* # *
Melbourne’s detectives have a monopoly
of the belief (?) that the missing mace was stolen
by one of the Parliament House employes. It is
instructive to hear these “experts” wind up a
preposterously illogical argument with a fervid
address in defence of Parliamentary honour.
Their violent respect for the ’Gusein the abstract
is, however, quite out of harmony with the yarns
they were wont to tell in the public-house bars
about individual members until the mace “shak-
ing” became a public scandal. Then limy became
as missionaries preaching to pressmen the gospel
of legislative purity with seemingly inspired
tongues.
• * #
There is no gainsaying the smartness of
Melbourne detectives. Several of them are
appearing in new suits although they haven’t
found the mace.
MORE THRIFT.
OLD MEATWORKS: “ What you doin’?”
KING BILLY : “Wash’m!”
OLD M. : “ Why, yon black swine, you use more soap in one go than I
would in two—years.”
There is an opening just now for some
Melbourne paper to get the biggest “ad.” of the
day. Let the proprietor import agood Sydney, or
Adelaide, or Maoriland private detective and find
the missing mace ; it’s no use having a Melbourne
man—he wouldn’t dare to find anything. Then
let him publish a lurid account of how the mace
was found, and where it was found, and how it
got there, if that can be sufficiently demonstrated,
and the portrait of the woman who had it, and all
the other particulars. And the day his paper
comes out let him have a “contents bill ” the size
of a young cathedral on the front of his office, an-
nouncing that all these facts are to be found
within, and let the mace itself be hanged by a
clothes-line from the top window —hanced by the
neck till ib is dead ; and a dozen flags can be
hoisted on the roof, and the woman who had the
mace might be kept on view inside, and a brass
band might play appropriate airs in front of tho
office. The Ballarat editor who was so violently
treated for making a few remarks about the lost
object had better take up this idea, and thereby
wreak a fearful vengeance on his enemies.
The average daily sum received by the three
chief Melbourne funds for Brisbane Flood Relief
purposes daring the last fortnight is about £4—
an eloquent commentary on union of the provinces.
But then Federation’s in the air, you know—not
in the water. If the subs, were for a gift to a
Governor—
# # #
At the present moment N.S.W., Victoria,
and South Australia are all of them struggling
along without the said-to-be “indispensable”
presence of a Governor’s wife to “ take the lead in
social functions.
* # *
A certain Australian Governor is said to be
sorely troubled by his countess’s constitutional
objection to ordering handsome dresses. Many
poorer husbands are much better off in this
respect.
Parson Boyce points
out the black and horrid
“ fact ” that N.S. Wales
last year spent £4,775,359
on drink. It will pro-
bably cheer Mr. Boyce
up, however, when he
recollects that the pro-
vince didn’t really spend
the above amount in
drink after all; fully a
million and a quarter of
it went in Customs
duties, for instance, and
a whole more was
really spent in mashing
the pretty barmaid. If
drink is abolished, or if
barmaids are abolished,
the siren will probably
go and sell stamps at a
suburban post office, and
then her worshippers will
bankrupt there instead,
and Parson Boyce will
write to the papers to
point out that postage-
stamps are a brief mad-
ness and a thing that
steals away man’s brains.
Men could get drunk on
stamps u nder certain
circumstances a go< d-
lo iking girl being revc r d
of the circumstances.
• # #
The latest sign of
1 nous activity in Mel-
bourne is tiie placing
of printed texts in the
advertising spaces of tho
tram-cars. The printer’s
instructions for the
printing of one of them
recently read ; “ ‘ Christ
died,' upside down, ‘for
our s ns, ’the right way
Up.”
Melbourne Y.M.C,A. arc snatching tho
Unemployed as brands from the burning. One of
their signs reads: “This is the Y.M.C.A.
Welcome for Strangers. Work for Christians.”
A new-ohum applied for assistance at the hall,
one morning last week. “ Are you a true
Christian ?” “Yes.” “Well, there’s a man
wanted at B—’s, helping to build stone fences.
'Twelve shillings a week and ” “See you
damned first !” Exit the new-chum.
* « #
There was quite a scene in N.S.W. Banco
Court during the hearing of the Puckeridge
Criminal Appeal. It all arose over the question
as to the corroboration of the evidence of the
principal witness—a child of nine years who was
not sworn. Windeyer, J. held there was corrobora-
tion. Foster, J. sided with him, while M. H.
Stephen, J. held there was no corroboration and
that the accused should be discharged. Windeyer
was truculent, as usual, Foster mild and benignant,
while Stephens fairly boiled over. It is but fair
to Judge Stephen to say that the majority of the
lawyers were with him in his judgment. The
accused has no further right of appeal unless to
tho Phvy Council.
* # #
On Friday last a well-known Sydney soli-
citor appeared before the N.S.W. Full Court to
prosecute a criminal appeal. The bar-table was
surrounded with barristers, mostly briefless and
having no business there. When the case was
called on, the Court said, “ who appears in this
case?” “I represent the Crown, Y’ honour.”
“Anyone for the prisoner?” “I do, your
honour,” said the attorney, standing in the gang-
way. The Court looked the very incarnation of
contempt. That a common attorney, even in pur-
suanoe_ of his legal rights, should dare to appear
before it! The hairy people at the counsel’s table
had not even the courtesy to make room, and the
attorney could not even find a chair until a judge’s
tipstaff—whose business it was not—hunted up a
seat and gave it to the attorney. Even then he was
not allowed near the table.
# * #
It is alleg-ed that most of the people who
came to see and attempted to identify Southern, the
man with the lost memory, were hash-house
keepers. When the poor hash-house keeper hears
that anybody has been found or captured or
drowned, she at once concludes that it must be
one of her boarders who didn’t pay up, and she
rushes off to see if her hill can be settled out of
the effects. A hash-woman in a large way of
business is always looking for her escaped lodgers
in the morgue or the hospital. She would even
attend hangings and floggings, if she were
allowed, to see if the convict once boarded with
her under an assumed name, and skipped by the
light of the moon.
* * *
Another love-story : The other day an
engaged Queensland girl cancelled her betrothal.
The jilted man in his agony hunted up the local
parson (a widower over GO) and implored him to
intercede. The parson did intercede and—
married the lady himself. Moral as usual.
* # #
A certain very big Queensland ecclesiastical
dignitary is never content, so say his flocks, unless
we almost blush to write it —unless his arms are
around the waist of one of the beauties of the
fold, and her face humbly and reverently lifted up
into his to receive the ecclesiastical kiss of peace.
The local nukissable maids, &e., are organising a
rebellion.
Mayor Willcox, of Adelaide, is a wealthy
chaff merchant, but is also extremely thrifty.
His tardiness in calling a public- meeting re the
Queensland flood funds, and subsequent munificent
contribution of ,£lO thereto, have caused much local
comment.
# # *
«
S.A. Advertiser’s peulady lately visited
Glenelg, the fashionable seaside settlement, and
took a bath. Writing in a recent issue she says :
“It was the greatest treat I have had for some
time.”
* * m
A short love-story. Nearly half a century
ago a young man fell in love with a girl in
England, but she was courted by a richer rival
who married her. In course of time ho died and
the widow, left wealthy, came to South Australia
to look for her old flame, who, at last accounts,
was still a bachelor. She traced him to a lunatic
asylum, and found he had just died after being an
inmate there for forty years.
MABEL SUSAN GREENUP Marricksille, Sydney.
THE PRIZE BABY. Aged 11 months, weight [?]
Tl to solid chunk of infantile innocence, on
this page, is the champion baby, Mabel Susan
Greenup, of Raudall-st., Marrickville. In addi-
tion to securing the championship prize, at Mel-
bourne, she was awarded the first prize in her
especial class; “But,” Mr. Greenup says, “the
money we received for the champion urize is all
that was paid, as the show-promoters have left
the exhibitors lamenting.” The little girl's weight
at the age of 11 months was 3st. 21b., but even the
awe-inspiring Mabel would have looked rather a
poor sort of child beside a, brother, who at the age
of 12 months weighed 4st. 01b. Three of Mr. and
Mrs. Greenup’s babies have secured seven prizes,
Tho photo is by Alexander, of Enmore, Sydney.
We have received from MissJ. S. Wearne,
of Sydney, 10s., Mr. H. Clifford Dixon, Brookong,
Tirana, N.S.W., £l, Mr. O. B. Jackson, of Gis-
borne, Maoriland, IQs., Mr. Edmund Fisher
(Melb.) 10s., and from Mr. Harry Morant
(Warrego, Q.) £l, towards the proposed memo-
rial to the late Barer oft H. Boake, the young
native-born poet so well-known to readers of The
Bulletin, and who lately came to so sad an end.
The Bulletin has now a few pounds In hand
towards this object, but funds grow slowly.
However, we don’t propose to raise the necessary
money in an artificial way : it is intended that the
simple memorial which it is designed to erect
JERSEY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The beacon Figurehead, the prow
Of New South Wales —the Fiery Sneeze !
Has gone !
We crossed the Rubicon ; quits now !
The Ruby-conk has crossed the seas.
Ochone!
No more the deadbeat, stonebroke, cronk,
Who hath no match upon his pants
To strike,
Can borrow that vice-regal conk
To meet his needy, weedy wants,
Belike.
Aurora Nosey disappears ;
Our night crows dark ; our voice is husk
In croon ;
We sandwich sighs between the tears
The whiles he luminates the dusk
Saloon.
Not ineffectual were his fires,
With phosphorescence ever free,
They shed
A ginger radiance of desires ;
But, now, the glowworm’s jealousy
Is dead.
New peoples now enjoy the strange,
Still glow that fortvard throws its ivake ;
Enough !
Our stove must stay unlit; we change
Sweet milk of Jersey but to take
To Duff! -
GI.
HOW TO bE CUDDLED, THOUGH MARRIED.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Under I lie pillow, when she sleeps,
My wife the cellar door-key keeps
Lest I should touch the beer !
Within her waist-belt all the day
The magic key is hid away
Till dinner-time draws near.
At night I stroke her golden hair
And ’neath the pillow search with care
To find that magic key ;
Search tho’ 1 may, I’ve always miss’d,
For tight within her little fist
The blessed thing would be.
Parched with the mid-day heat I haste
To place ray arm afbund her waist
The hiding place to win,
But woman’s waist at will expands
And nothing meets my wand’ring hands
Except a beastly pin.
Folks say, forsooth, it’s good to see
Old married folks like Belle and me
So constantly embrace !
Belle only smiles the more I squeeze
And laughing whispers, “ Jack, the key’s
In a safe resting place ! ”
ALLAN BURNSIDE.


New Australia—Paragualia !
None better—G NUN Darlings.
EYESIGHT PRESERVED.
“SPECTACLES: their Use, when Required,
and how to Purchase.”
A useful little treatise, issued free, which should be
read by all who value their eyesight. A new method of
testing the sight is enclosed with it, by means of which
those residing at a distance can gauge their vision, and
obtain glasses as accurately as those living in Sydney.
We are thoroughly qualilicd Opticians, and shall be
most happy to test the sight and give advice to all who
wish it, and forward, free of charge to any address, the
pamphlet above-mentioned and full price list.
Frost & Shipham,
Oculists’ Opticians,
462. 474 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
Is no nostrum, but .a genuine source of strength
and a means of fortifying the system against
oncoming disease. Buy whole bottles.
In your buggy, smoke G N XT N Darlings.
BUSINESS MEN
Whose minds are wearied and whose health is
impaired by the tension of gigantic projects should
use such a cordial as Wolfe’s Schnapps.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 2.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within five weeks from Saturday, 25th Feb.,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition, particulars
of which will duly appear.-
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 2.
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, Ist April,
ms.
The assumption of Premier G. Republican
Dibbs that the name of the new Governor of
N.S. Wales would be submitted to him in
advance for approval has proved erroneous.
The haughty stand taken by the Colonial
Office in this matter, even after the sharp
lesson given it by MTlwraith in the Blake
affair, is a logical consequence of the ex-
Republioan’s in accepting a
title while intoxicated with the glamour of
the Court.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received— no deduction whatever
being MADE, Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N. 15. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
/~\N a dear night
count every star
in the heavens. Do
this for 76 clear
nights and you have
counted the number
of Estey Organs
that have been sold
W.H. PALING & CO.
(LIMITED).
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY & SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL & LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, Boosey’s BAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, Sydney.
shall, as far as possible, really and truly repre-
sent the voluntary appreciation of the deceased’s
literary admirers.
* * •
At Invercargill (M.L.), the other day, the
Anglican parson was ill, so a brewer and a lemon-
ade maker were pressed into the service ; one read
the lessons, and the other a printed sermon.
“Shandygaff gospel,” said an irreverent bagman.
* * *
The new mansion of a Melbourne magnate,
who has survived the boom, possesses a front-door
mat bearing the unique advice, “ Wipe your feet.”
The encaustic tiles for the entrance hall with the
inscription, “ Don’t spit on the floor,” did not, we
presume, arrive in time.
* * »
Melted maces tell no tales.
* # *
Way v. Way, a Victorian divorce-case.
The parting of the Ways !
# * *
Depression scheme ; When the Pacific
cable is established, put a tax on lies.
* * *
Up on Monaro there lives an old free
selector, a great character, who says little, but
always talks to the point. He has about nine
children, and the other day some sort of epidemic
struck the family. The eldest son died, and the
second was very ill. Just at this time, going into
Coomaone day, he met a friend. “Good day,”
says the friend, “I am sorry to hear the bad news.
I hear the Lord has taken Michael.” “Yes,”
replied the old man, “ the Lord has taken
Michael; rest his sowl!” “ I hear Patsy is very
bad, too !” said the friend. “ Yes,” said the old
man, “Patsy is very bad.” “I’ll tell you what
it is,” he continued, in a burst of candour, “If
the Lord takes Patsy, He can take the blessed
lot.”
* * *
The latest N.S. W. scandal appears to con-
cern a young married man, who is averred to have
set up a harem in another man’s suburban resi-
dence during the temporary absence of the owner
and family up the Mountains. The gentleman of
Eastern tastes and the absent owner’s pretty
housemaid have been served with divorce petitions.
Certain reporters who had taken notes of
the Broken Hill strike-leaders’ speeches subse-
quently gave evidence at the conspiracy trial at
Deniliquin which was distinctly at variance with
the detectives’ version of the alleged seditious
utterances. The directors of the Broken Hill
Associated Mines have since that time persis-
tently refused to allow the offending pressmen
down any of the mines controlled by the Associa-
tion. The black-listed reporters are thus denied
an opportunity of earning a living on the Barrier.
* # *
The Bulletin is pleased to see that at
last a correspondent has arisen in the daily press
to endorse and develop? the views propounded by
it concerning the action of the N.S.W. National
Gallery trustees in purchasing for an enormous
sum that hunk of wooden gorgeousness, “The
•Queen of Sheba at the Court of King Solomon.”
Where the value is shown for the sum given for the
picture is akin to the same kind of mystery that surrounds
the purchase of those flawed and damaged marble lamp-
posts in front of Sydney General Post-office, which would
be dear as works of art if they were perfect at £6Cj or £7O
each, but which we have purchased at £5OO apiece ! Is it
not time that some one with a real knowledge of art and
the true value of art productions was employed to govern
the vagaries of those who control the funds devoted to
such purchases as these ?
Yes, it is time. A lot of the N.S.W. State
purchases of art-objects seem to reek of jobbery,
w * »
Mr. Justice Innes (a most innesent per-
sonage, apparently) made a shocking discovery on
circuit recently. For particulars, which are
utterly unfit for publication, apply to the junior
Bar.
* * *
The “by appointment” Sydney trades-
people will not flaunt the legend—“ By appoint-
ment to his Excellency, Mr. Duff,” as they have
“ to his Excellency, the Earl of Jersey.”
“ Chiefly for recreation purposes ” was
the explanation given by the Wesleyan Conference
President, in Melbourne, last week, for the fur-
loughs of sundry pastors. You never see a steam-
boat passenger-list without the Rev. Tunbelly
Gorgibuster, out “chiefly for recreation purposes,”
with a willow-pattern plate, loaded up with sove-
reigns.
# * #
There is a steady demand on the part of
scientific men in England, and elsewhere, for the
skeletons of Australian blacks. Every aborigine
who dies at an Australian hospital of any size, is
dug-up, body-snatched, resurrected, or whatever
you like to call it, and exported.
# * #
The other day a Melbourne citizen was
reading The Bulletin, standing the while on the
Argus office steps. As he stood he was accosted
by a burly fat man with a moustache, who re-
marked, “ We don’t allow anybody to read that
paper on our steps.” Very natural. It too
painfully reminds that fat man of the decadence
of the once-suprerae Argus weekly.
# # «
A new fashion at funerals in this horsey
country is to send mourning floral emblems in the
shape of horseshoes, and inscribed with the motto,
“ Good Luck,”
Victorian Shire Council amenities. First
Councillor : “ Councillor Mane is beside himself.”
Second ditto: “No, sir, I’m beside an ass.”
First ditto : “ At length we agree.”
* * *
The Picturesque Atlas trouble has taken
a new form in Maoriland. A publican who sub-
scribed a year or two ago, and who srot the volume
the other day, threatens to sue the co. for damages
on the ground that the book is so excellent that
he has suffered much mental loss and injury
through not having received it earlier. As the
co. can’t well put up a lawyer to deny the excel-
lence of its own book it had probably better pay
and say no more about it.
* » #
In Rockhampton people are invariably
invited to attend the “funeral of the deceased
beloved.”
# # *
When Granville (Sydney) R.C. Church was
being built, the priest used to visit the works
every morning, and, seating himself on a bench,
would say his prayers, calling a blessing on each
individual brick, and on the building collectively.
One morning, some heretic of a carpenter drove a
nail in the seat with its working end upwards, and
when the good priest
• * *
There are in S.A. 708 hotels and 1050
churches.
* * #
Adelaide General Cemetery is admittedly
the most neglected necropolis still in use in Aus-
tralia.
* * *
The latest West Australian advt. ;
T CHARLES RICHIE, most solemnly declare that I am
•*-, not the man who was found under a certain female’s
bed at tha latter end of last week.—CHARLES RICHIE.
Feb. 11, 1893.
Woman’scraving for
a bustle and a new
bonnet is fully matched
by man’s yearning after a
uniform. It is the uni-
form which keeps the
Foresters and Druids
and twenty other
“ secret ” societies to-
gether, also the Per-
manent Artillery and Sal-
vation Army ; and which
elevates the policeman,
and the railway official,
and the barrister, and
the flunkey, and every
other liveried insect in
creation. In Maoriland
even the fire - brigades
are mostly unpaid, and
live entirely on the uni-
form and the blastiferous
brass helmet. Recently,
at Auckland, the most
gorgeous fireman of the
lot—the one with the
reddest uniform and the
howlingest helmet —jilted
the girl he was engaged
to, and offered his heart
to another. In England
the injured maiden would
have sued him for breach
of promise ; in Italy one
of her relatives would
have knifed him the first
dark night. But she
knew a more horrible
device than either. She
got into his house during
his absence, and soaked
his helmet in the tank,
and wiped up the garden
for two whole hours with
his beloved uniform.
Next week he fled the
district. His heart was
broken.
The Sydney “ dis-
tressed lady” and “ poor
young widow ” advertis-
ing game is bearing some
fruit at last. On Satur-
day last a tobacconist
told his tale to Mr.
Smithers, P.M. A lovely
three-aliased widow had,
so he said, got over =6lOO
out of him.
A Maoriland gum-digger lately reported
to the Auckland police that for nine successive
years he had tried to reach the city with Ins
cheque at Christmas time, and each time he was
wrecked at the same public-house on the road and
drank the lot. At the tenth attempt he got to
the city, and was cleaned out by two spielers, ihe
only result of his great moral victory was that he
had about 22 miles further to walk back.
* * *
The Rev. Ralph Brown, accused at South
Melbourne of tampering with a little girl, is the
clergyman who assisted out of the world tram-
conductor Wilson, the murderer of his sweet-
heart. He is well known as a hypnotic healer and
drunk-curer in his district.
# * *
A Melbourne suicide was found, by the
family doctor, to have killed himself in “a
moment of impulsive insanity.” This is a com-
plaint permissible only in oases of self-destruction.
If a man went down to the stable to murder some-
body else, the mere fact of his “ deliberately
going to the stable would be considered a sufficient
qualification for the gallows.
# * *
The president of the Wesleyan Methodist
Conference in Smelbourne diplomatically observed
that “it was not for him to. enlarge on the causes
which had brought about the depression.” Wise
shepherd. The less that he says about godly
land-booming and finance the better.
* * *
The Vic. Railway Commissioners now
provide brass bands to accompany cheap excursion
trains. That alone was needed to complete the
picnic.
Ugo Catani, the artist, has established
himself as a society photographer of the high
aesthetic school at The Studio, adjacent to Nichol-
son’s on Melbourne “Block.” Ladies have ever
adored Catani in his painter capacity, so the usual
exhortation to “look pleasant ” while they pose
for a photo, is quite superfluous in this case.
* # •
About 50 years ago, the Patriot, Johnny
Fawkner’s paper, was merged into the Argus,
and the latter exults over the change wrought.
True ; there’s nothing of the patriot about it now.
# # »
The long-pending London society divorce-
case, wherein Lord Howard De Walden (lovely
London Jouknalkse name!) and his wife are
each suing for divorce (the wife on the ground of
cruelty, the husband on that of adultery), has, it
is cabled, come into court at last. “There is a
difference of 30 years in the ages of the pair.
After this it is really needless to go into evidence.
She says he is a drunkard. Naturally—he is past
the woman, and gone into the wine age. And
she—well, he avers that she likes a count and a
captain, which, under the circumstances, would be
only very natural and very feminine.
Patti son, the Shepparbon (Vic.) farmer,
wlio brained his three children with an axe last
week, when asked why he did the deed, replied :
“ I don’t know. I got up to light the fire and
something came over me.”
AN EXPERT.
STIPENDIARY SAINT (to wicked boy who has just said “ Dammit” on
losing a fish off his line): “Don’t you know ‘damn’ is
swearing, ray boy ? ”
Boy : “Of course I do, Mister. Don’t you imagine that you can
teach me swearing ! ”
The Pope expresses his hope for England’s
conversion. They go on getting the ’verts of
wealth, but don’t impinge on the masses, any
more than do the Protestants. What either side
needs to catch is a John Burns, Tom Mann, or
Ben Tillett, and, per contra, Lord Nozoo goes for
nil.
Walter Besant calls T. P. O’Connor’s
emasculation of books in London Weekly Sun,
“larcenous criticism.” Tay Pay admits that he
does “go it a bit strong,” but maintains that his
“Book of the Week,” so far from injuring the
sale of good books, really helps. But the pub-
lishers don’t say so—and they are right, for look
at what the extended Australian notices did for
poor old Parkes’ book! Literary piracy is more
rife than ever, and not the least sinned-against
paper is The Bulletin.
Dear Bulletin,—l was surprised to notice
a paragraph of yours a few weeks back stating that
AVhyte Melville, as a.writer, was as much superior
to Hawley Smart as the latter was to Surtees, of
Jorrocks’ celebrity. In my humble judgment,
Surtees was a long way above Hawley Smart, any-
how you like to take them. One could read
dozens of Smart’s books, without their leaving the
slightest impression upon the mind. A vague
idea of a hard-riding captain, a beautiful heiress,
and a long, low, racy-looking bay mare is the only
result one gets from reading Smart’s books. But
“ Jorrocks” is a creation ; there is a distinct reality
about Jorrocks and his wonderful huntsman,
James Pigg, and his horse Artaxerxes. Some of
the humour in this book is simply splendid, and
anyone who would throw aside old Jorrocks to
read one of Hawley Smart’s washy narratives is
like a man who would lay aside a pipe to smoke
cigarettes. The recent republication of Surtees’
books, at popular prices, looks as if they were
going to live a while yet.—The Banjo.
“Let us leave the priests and return to
the Divinity.”— Robespierre.
Miss Shaw, of The Times, in proof of her
assertions that Kanakas in Queensland are next
door to beatitude, instances that every nigger gets
twelve dozen bananas weekly. She means, pro-
bably, that he can see that number growing.
Sketch is the title of the new illustrated
weekly to appear this month from Illustrated
London News office. It will be a sort of dignified
Pick-me-up, and will be in size something like
Truth. A strong staff of the cleverest artists has
been retained, including Phil May and Dudley
Hardy, who does some brilliant work. It was
just a question, however, when the mail left,
whether Phil would be allowed to join the new
paper, as he had an agreement with the Graphic
to tour Japan and China and other Eastern parts
on behalf of that paper. This would open out a
new field, for Japan has never yet been pictorially
treated from the humorous side. Phil’s descrip-
tive matter will be good, too, for he is clever with
his pen. It is quite on the cards that his round,
if taken, will not be completed without a visit to
Sydney.
TO MY SHILLING.
Go ! insignificant yet potent disc,
Upon a single word thy fate I risk.
Seek thou the pocket of some hungry sinner,
And spread for him a good, substantial dinner.
Or, should grim thirst some torrid gullet sear,
Assuage its torments with cool draughts of beer.
When lovely woman stoops to speeches
Her public feelings to betray,
Her gentle lord, who wears the breeches,
Must wish he wasn’t built that way.
Dear Bulletin, — Your correspondent,
“ G.F.K.,” in referring to spinifex, should remem-
ber that there is spinifex and spinifex. He speaks
of that “growing thickly in sandy soil.” This is
a much softer and less aggressive kind than the
“old man” stuff that grows on the rocky, stony
ridges of the Western Australian desert. “Famine-
stricken sheep and cattle” will eat the bark off the
trees, so it is quite possible that they may eat
green spinifex when very young; but no beast
would ever tackle the real Simon Pure. The
article you commented on speaks of it as a fatten-
ing plant. I must also remark that I never saw
dewy nights during a drought in Central Austra-
lia.
DELCOMYN.


IDEAL."
The NEW MODEL “ HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS: Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type Instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper; 42 styles of Type,
er" light. jar” compact. portable. durable.
The greatest success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars on the Mimeograph or Cyclostile,.on account of no Backing, no Folding, no Cracks and no Varnish Kir ,
Typewriters-SIMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials. ’ ’ Py 011161
P. B. THOMAS. Anstralasian Agent, Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY; and 101 Swanston Street MELBOURNE
TATTERSALL’S
irl O’W Xj Jt! Y M! X Xji£j llawkeslmry, March 18, 1893.
10,000 at 10 10,000
SY O IST 3E5 Y OXT X* Randwieh, April 3, 1493.
50,000 at 10 50,000
only ADDRESS:
I „ “ tatteksall.”
c/o Geo. Adams (Owner).Tatter,
sail’s Hotel &01dClub Premises
[ Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W '
Sporting.
5. EACH.
*4
:
is.
5. EACH-
[m ons t^
3SSSPS2 5
dfs
ON THB
Sydney G-old Oup.
April 3, 1893.
At 5 each 20,000 At 5 each
First .. .. 1500
Second j. .. 600
Third '250
S. (d.) .. .. 600
N.S. (d.) .. .. 400
Other prizes see circulars.
345 EXTRA 345
Every 1 invested will have a chance of 16 separate prizes.
Address to “ GALA,” c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Ifi
(SONSTERI
CASH PRIZE
Consultations:*
Care “MANDEES,” ALBURY, N-S-W-
-NOW OPEN ON
Sydney Gold Cup. 3rd April. 10,000 at 5.
Albnry Cup. March 16. 1000 at 5 each.
Birthday Clip, Adelaide. May 24. 5000 at 5 each.
Birthday Cup, Sydney. May 24. 5000 at 5.
Grand National Hurdle. May 24. 10,000 at 5.
Grand yat tonal Steeple. May 24. 10,000 at 5.
“ Robin Hood ”
Is still doin<? business at Albury, N.S.W. Letters and
P.O. Orders for 5 and upwards promptly acknowledged.
Note Addrets Carefully:
“Robin Hood,” c/o. Manders’ Telegram Agency,
DEAN STREET, ALBURY, N.S.W.
ADA.M BEDF.
The Original Promoter.
Over SO Years before the Public of N .Z. and N.S.W.
EVENTS NOW OPEN:
SYDNEY 4.OLD CUP.
DIKTII !> a Y CII P.
OT
00001
Be sure and register your letters and take care of
registration form until you receive our reply.
Our Only
Address
“ ADAM BEDE,” c/o. Abbott,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY.
Programmes Sent on Application.
df
MONSTER
LASH PRIZE
CONSULTATIONS'
CAEE
Manors’ Telegram Agency
Dean-st., Albury, N.S.W.
These are no bogus or bubble schemes,
but legitimate enterprises.
NOW OPEN
ON AIL
EVENTS.
5. EACH.
r i
5. EACH.
IMON£
3fw5E5!51
sd
for horses oktly
on the
ROWLEY MILE at Hawkesbury, March 18.
5 each 4000 5 each
FIRST, 300; SECOND, 200 ; THIRD, 100 ; S. and N.S. to
divide equally 400. Less 10 per cent.
At the request of a large number of Subscribers, GALA
has decided to promote the above, which, as will be seen
is Fur Horses Only, and is already largely subscribed to.
As the Drawing will take place as soon as filled, it is
requested that immediate application be made.
Address: “GALA,”c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N/S.W.
A~ CARD.
.To Merchants, Mine Owners, Captains, Pearlers and
Dealers in Pearls and Precious Stones.
ISI DOR BRAUN,
17 Hatton Garden, London, E.C.
Broker in Pearls and Precious Stones (Established, 1872)
wishes to receive direct consignments of all kinds of
Pearls and Precious Stones, rough or cut. Commission
2% on parcels over £lOO. Advances made on London
valuation. Speciality, Pearls and Opal-Ore.
GOLD ! GOLD < GOLD ! Western Australian
Goldfields afford to Investors and others a certain
opportunity of recouping all recent losses. Information
can be obtained by applying to THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
MINING SYNDICATE, Salisbury Buildings, Bourke
Street West, MELBOUNRE.
IALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
Sporting.
“ Southern Cross ”
GENUINE
PRIZE CONSULTATIONS.
RELIABLE DRAWING AND PROMPT PAYMENT.
Efficient Guarantees Given for These.
m- NOW OPEN -e*
on the
SYDNEY GOLD CUP
(3rd April).
10,000 at 5 15$ 10,000
as follows:
First ... 1000
SeoODd 300
Third loO
S. (d.) 100
N.S. (d.) ... ISO
20 at 20 400
20 at 10 200
20 at 5 100
50 at 1 50
Less 10 per cent.
In the event of Consultation not filling, the prizes
will be pro rata.
In the event of the Consultation not filling to the
extent of one-half, the 50 Prizes at 1 will not be
allotted, but 10 extra 5 Prizes will be allotted pro
rata in their place.
SPECIAL PLEDGE.
We undertake that each Consultation will be
conducted by a committee of disinterested gentle-
men under “ The Sportsman ” Cheek List System,
which renders fraud impossible. For further par-
ticulars of this, send for prospectus, or see Sports-
man of January 4, 1893.
State clearly the amount enclosed, and send two
unattached stamps with addressed envelopes—one
for reply and the other for result. Make sure and
register your letters, and retain your receipts
until you receive a reply.
NOTE 1
the J-
Ad dress J
SOUTHERN CROSS,’’
Care of J. S. WINTER,
P. 0., All.my,
Medical.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
/ sa ®\
X
&3T The only thoronghlj
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS.
BRONCHITIS
AMD
INFLUENZA.
It can not? be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
I!ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale Elliott Brothers. Limited
HAT IT IS MADE OF.
It is simply the most wonderful remedy the
world has ever seen for the immediate relief and
cure of rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful
diseases. Its remarkable action has mystified
doctors, delighted sufferers, and dispelled the
doubts of the most incredulous. Its virtues are
praised by thousands all over the land, who have
been rescued from years of suffering and torture
with every species of disease, and granted a new
lease of health and activity. When physicians
have certified to their inability to cure rheumatism,
neuralgia, and other very painful disorders, by
giving up their patients to the stubborn claims of
protracted disease and possible death itself, the
St. Jacobs Oil, by its unpretentious merit, has
gained in every instance yet greater fame from its
almost magical influence over these diseases. This
remedy has no uncertain or miraculous history;
its decided power resides in a peculiar volatile oil,
carefully distilled from thePiNUS Sylvestris, and
has been used and distributed for hundreds of
years by the inhabitants of the Black Forest, a
mountainous and densely-wooded region in Baden
and Wnrtembmg, Germany. The introduction of
the St. Jacobs Oil into Australia has been attended
with the same distinguished results as have ever
characterised its employment in America and
Europe ; and its adoption as the national remedy
for rheumatism, neuralgia, and all painful diseases
is assured. When it is considered that this won-
derful pain-banisher and health-restorer can be
had at all drug-stores for such a small sum, it
appears as a matter of duty to every sufferer with
rheumatism, neuralgia, or kindred complaints to
seek the relief which St. Jacobs Oil cannot fail to
give. Try it and you will be convinced. It can
be obtained from all chemists and druggists.
CHRONIC, NERVOUS and SKIN DISEASES.
Dr. Alexr. Paterson,
201 Macquarie Street, Sydney.
Daily from 3 to 5 p.m.
m
i
<1
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
1 Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M-hn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
<£49,460 worthfor <£l.
See Amusement
Column.
Special Advertisements.
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia.
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA .
Cures
Indigestion
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
for Ladies,
Infants,
And
Invalids.
All Chemists.
Williams’s Australian Yeast
Powder.
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS’S
WILLIAMS'S
WILLIAMS’S
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN TEAST POWDER
AUSTRALIAN YEAST POWDER
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
FOURPENCE the HALF-POUND.
Kruse’s Insecticide.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE
Renders Life
Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
Clears the House,
the Conservatory, and
the Garden
of All Insect Pests.
Preserves Eurs from
the Moth.
Cleanses
Domestic Pets
of Parasites.
ECZEMA,
SALT-HHEUM,
Will quickly leave its Victim, when
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Head the following 1 testimonial from Mr. R. H.
Stahl, a respectable citizen of Des Moines, lowa,
U.S.A. He says : “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. We tried A, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great change for the
better was noticeable. We continned the treat-
ment, and a thorough cure was the result.”
“My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheum,
was completely cured by the use of Ayer’s Sarsap-
arilla.”—Maria R. dr Rins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Go., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Hae cured others, will cure you.
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
the remedy taken is
uA\
SPORTING NOTIONS.
in Tmf appearance of so many time-honoured names
in the list of the coming Australian cricket team baa
Bm S r e F d r.w’ a Ce r l ' ta n amount of disappointment, says Thf
Bulletin s London correspondent. We have heard S
“ lllchof Call ? Wi and other provincialwonders, thathones
were entertained that some of them might come. As it
Si.iWn “ lf C, ; f i ket in Australia had been at a stand
st 1! for 10 years. Of course, the old hands will be popular
but one wonders why Trott has been selected. He has an
unfortunate habit of seldom coming off in a big match
hasn’t r h quired u The / irls want t 0 kriow why BonS
hasn t been chosen. He would undoubtedly be a great
draw, though with a big hitter like Lyons in the team
he would hardly be wanted, except as an ornament r
* * #
. The Wander enquiry pends during the mental
abeuation of the trainer. Meanwhile, the individual
v lefly concerned in the investigation is allowed to pursue-
the even tenner of his lay. ue
t( . * * *
ta- g'liboi'n the beat horse ever imported to
India. —Calcutta Englishman.
» # *
A recent obituary in S.M. Herald stated that
deceased met his death by a fall from a horse aged 52
years. Good old horse !
* * #
The mishap to the racehorse, Prime Minister is
not likely to cause much sorrow to any but those con-
nected with him, as the public have “fallen in ” over him
occasionally. One individual connected with the stable
on being asked some time back if the horse was any good’
replied, “ No, he is only being kept for manure." Which
seems likely enough to come true.
* * m
Those old cricket identities know how to “ cut
it thick.” At the M.C.C. luncheon, last week, aMr
Thornton, who claims to have played for Victoria in 1859*
said he would walk 60 miles any dav to see a good match’
It reminds you of the corpulent successful trader whose
fortune has grown with the growth of the city. “I
would run round for orders again, if necessary.” But it
isn’t necessary.
* # #
At the late’Griffo-Marshall fight, in Sydney .
“ the talent,” as usual, rushed the door and got in free!
Not satisfied with this they made a charge for the ten'-
shilling seats and established themselves there—whicb
also is usual enough. But when they came to pulling
out people who had paid ten-shillings/ and taking their
seats from them, it was a little too much. However, no-
one dared make a fuss, as with the Rocks push, the Liver
push (Abbatoir slaughterers), the Silent push (those latter-
biff you and don’t say anything), and the Black-reds about,
discretion was certainly the better part of valour.
# * *
Slab of modesty uttered by “ Affy ” Jarvis of
the Australian Eleven: “Spofforth always said he pre.
ferred me behind wickets than any other wicketkeeper.”
• * #
In a letter to a Brisbane paper, Coningbami
modestly hints that it was a fortunate thing for the Aus-
tralian Eleven that he was not omitted. The estimate of
Coningham’s admirers isn’t a patch on his estimate of
himself.
• * *
The deaths of the boxers Stewart and Lewis,
just after leaving the prize-ring, coupled with the brutal
riot at the Griffo-Marshall fight, should just about put a
stop to glove-fighting in Sydney. It is a pity that the
savage gang of toughs who assembled at Darlinghurst
rink on the night of the last-named contest and wrecked
the furniture can’t be “lagged" to New Caledonia.
“ Another way” would be for the authorities to promote
a champion fight at the rink, and send along as an order-
guard all the police on the black-list—the fellow’s who get
drunk, and smash people’s heads with batons, and jump
on prisoners in the cells, and conspire to commit perjury.
Then a dynamite mine should be sprung under the build-
ing, and all the scum of Sydney—the convict slime of the
Rocks and Woolloomooloo, and all the dirty turf touts
and hawk-beaked cigar-shop loafers and police-disgraces
sent to glory. And if the explosion incidentally happened
to burst up the big gaol over the road, it wouldn’t much
matter.
* # *
“ British fair play.” Bah! The example set:
at the Miller-Poley fight in Sydney some years ago has
been sown in fertile soil, and has been as fecund as rabbits'
or Bathurst burrs. The prize-ring now is an utterly dis-
graced and discredited institution in Australia. It is the-
sport of pimps and thieves, and is as low as professional!
sculling or foot-racing.
• * •
Marshall fought for a fall from the moment lie'
put his hands up. The building rang with filthy epithets-
hurled at the black by the assembled blackguardom, and!
the writer really believes that had Marshall been getting-
the better of Griffo, the crowd would have kicked and!
trampled him to death. Marshall fought a cowed man,,
and when the referee gave the fight to Griffo on a foul no>
man was better pleased than the darkey, who lost no
time in getting to a place of safety. Men who have
witnessed every encounter about Sydney for the past
quarter of a century say they have seen their last glove-
fight, and if the authorities do.allow any more contests'
in the future, the “pushes” will have the show all to them-
selves. Nothing could keep order save a battery of
artillerv.
v
No attempt was made by the hall people to
keep the roughs in check, but in any case their efforts
would not have been of any avail. Sydney has seen but
one man who can keep the local tough “ where he be-
longs,” and that man is Larry Foley.
• # •
Joe Goddard, of the Barrier, the gamest of the
game, met his-first defeat at the hands of “Denver”
Smith, on March 4, at New Orleans. The mill lasted 13
rounds, “ and was long an even one, but in the result
Goddard was terribly punished.” The fight for the
championship has thus settled down to a meeting between
Jackson and Corbett. The longer it is delayed the worse
for Jackson and the better for Corbett, the dandy bank-
clerk. The stars in their courses appear to he fighting
for Pompadour “ Jim,” who parts his hair in the middle.
» * #
The last defunct-pugilist case in Sydney should
finally abolish the lying theory that glove-fights are in any
degree more humane or less dangerous than fights with
the naked fists. The glove-fight, in reality, is the more
violent assault and battery of the two. The gloves are
worn, not to protect the person hit, but to save the hands
of the hitter, so that he may last longer and pound the
THE DYING PLG.
“ My gal, I’m late and know it.
’Twas a tough mill—too tough, blow it 5
Twenty rounds of punchin’ seems a lot
To do for four-pounds-ten ;
But the toffs will have no schlinters,
So we have to knock out splinters
And if we don’t have give and take,
Might never go again.
Sure, it’s all for you, my honey,
I’ve brought you all the money ;
No, I don’t care much for supper—
I’ve a pain here now and then.
God !—oh, lift me !! It’s the last round—
Time, don’t you hear the gong sound !’’
Slugged stiff for four-pounds-ten.


axjstraliaikt mutual
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Dirpotors —The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L. A., Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; J. R. HILL, Esq.; A.
u ' MEEKS, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A.
Accumulated Funds; Ten and a-Half Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1891 amounted to £489,828, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over ONE MILLION STERLING.
J£ead Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
Kaiser William smokes GNUN Darlings.
Here at Last!
Some seven years ago a strange thing happened to the lady
whose photo, appeals herewith, whereby she became
ik MIYSTBRY
Which no one can explain or account for so far, not even her
husband. How it happened was this ; She lay dying of a compli-
cation of diseases ; often she would faint off, and lie unconscious
as long as 30 hours at a stretch —frigid as a corpse and apparently
dead. The leading medical men of Melbourne were in attendance,
often at a cost of Five Guineas a day, yet she sank lower and
lower. Everything that medical science could suggest was tried ;
even morphia failed to give enough ease for two hours’ sleep
daily. At last, in desperation, some said, “ Try Mesmerism.”
Mr. Harle, as a Mesmerist,
Had been very successful on the public platform, and had also
saved life by private magnetic treatment; but Mrs. Harle, being
a lady of very pronounced opinions and strong mind of her own,
never could see anything in it but a hobby of his, and so, when
urged to try it, she ridiculed the very idea ; but they said, “ Try
it for sleep only -you will go mad for want of rest.” For a long
time she could not bring her mind to submit; at last, aftermuch
prayer to God for guidance and help, she was willing to try 7.
After about half an hour’s mesmeric influence and passes, she
went ff into a peaceful hypnotic state, which lasted, as was
intended, from eight at night till ten next morning; and she
awoke rested and refreshed. The experiment was repeated, when
Lo! Everyone was Startled Mrs. J. N. HARLE.
To find that, whilst to all intents and purposes she was asleep, yet in another sense, the mind was far more awake,
and she commenced talking about what the servant was doing on the ground floor, what an acquaintance was doing a
mile away, what was happening in the home of a dear friend some few blocks away, and so forth. Then she vyas
requested to look into her own body ; this she did, and was surprised herself, and surprised everyone else, by tracing
the cause of her trouble, which proved to be mainly an internal cancer. She then told them how to cure her.
Crowds of Friends Came to See Her,
tor she had a large and influential circle of acquaintances. She astounded all by her marvellous powers of vision
to see into their bodies as if they were made of transparent glass, to see the members of their families, to know all
about their commercial affairs, seemed quite easy to her ; England, America, New Zealand, etc., seemed just like next
door.
The Sensation was Immense!
Drawing-room, Sitting-room, Dining-room and Bedroom were crowded with inquisitive people, and the invalid became
a phenomenon. The doctors were nonplussed with their patient —she gave directions how’ to soften the cancer to the
lancing slate: this was done ; then, as they dare not give chloroform on account of her heart, Mr. Harle put her under
mesmerism, whilst Drs. Teague, of Collins Street, lanced it. She awoke without having felt anything that had hap-
pened. Everyone said : “ Start and use your powers for doing good, you can
Save Lives by Thousands.”
But her health was too low. First, she cured herself —in three months’ time she was again taking her accustomed
drives on the Esplanade, in her phaeton, to the astonishment of the whole district. To properly tone the system a
change of climate was needed, and she came to N.S. Wales'. For a short time she resided in Maitland ; her retreat
was known by 7 those who were aware of her powers, and she got no peace till she agreedto start practice. Five years
ago Mrs. Harle opened in Newcastle ; three years out of the five have been spent travelling in the Northern district,
and away in the bush discovering gold mines, and she seems to be able to find gold as easy as trace disease.
Seven Thousand People Have Consulted Her
In her mesmeric state ; some about business, but most about their health. Not one can say: “I am worse for your
treatment,” whilst all who have followed the advice and treatment, rejoice in restored health. Mrs. Harle describes
each diseased organ, finds the cause of every trouble, and prescribes remedies and treatment. Her wonderful mental
vision or clear sight enables her to see just what medicine, and how long it will take to cure it, often giving the
medicine three months ahead, and never changing a bottle.
Warning!
H you wish to mortally offend Mrs. Harle, just class her along with the card-reading, palm-scanning, fortune-telling
crowd, and the task is done. No such rubbish ! Mrs. Harle is mesmerised by her husband, and when in the hypnotic
state, she sees with her mind. She cannot open her eyes, yet she hears, talks, asks and answers questions, etc. When
the mesmerism is undone, she awakes, and knows no more of what has happened, than if she had been chloroformed
or dead.
It Causes a Terrible Mental Strain,
Therefore, Mr. Harle reserves the right to say when she has done enough, and may refuse any or all at such times.
The Fee is half-a-guinea for bodily examination, and a guinea tor business advice. The half-guinea, includes a
complete tracing of your case, and a full statement of how to cure you. Business men have voluntarily paid as high as
£5, and even £l5, for the arrangement of a business tangle. She guarantees in all cases a full value in the treatment,
and more satisfaction all round than can possibly be obtained by any other means whatever. Special medicine is
prepared for each case treated. Mrs. Harle is prepared to work with the family physician or any qualified medical
man, if her suggestions are carried out. She is prepared to treat any case that can be cured, but insists upon only
using her Eclectic Botanic Remedies - she has no faith in mineral medicines. It is desirable to make appointments or
come early in the day, whilst her brain power is fresh. Outdoor visits must also be arranged.
Simple cases send £1; Complicated Cases send £s—with age, sex, occupation, all symptoms, particularly state of
bowels, how long suffering, and a Photo,, if you have one (we will return it) and you will receive post or rail free a
course of Mrs. Hade’s latest marvellous remedies and her personal care of your case—with full advice on diet and
exercise, &c.
P.S.—Mrs. Hade’s chief reason for visiting Sydney for some six months is to introduce her Remedies to the
Public, and open a Dispensary where people may call and see her or write for the Remedies or call for them.
SYDNEY ADDRESS -200 PITT-STREET, SYDNEY (between Market and Park-Streets).
One minute from O. P. Office. HOURS: —IO to 12 a.m. ; 2to 4, and 7to 9 p.m.
Newcastle Address: HARLE’S BOTANIC HALL, Tram Terminus “(City), Newcastle.
Wholesale and Retail Botanic Remedies, and all Druggists’ Sundries.
siiltiiii
V
Miscellaneous.
BROOME’S:MUSIC
Full Uluslc Size and Guaranteed Correct,
I m
fs
yTRl
or
13 Copies, 3s.
Catalogues
Post Free.
No.
411.
463.
577.
567.
569.
585.
6 »2.
618.
619.
527.
564.
571.
572.
580.
584.
SONGS.
Song that Reached My Heart.
What arc the Wild Waves Saying
(Duet). [in G. 579 in B,
An Old Sweet Greeting, in F. 578
Diver in E flat. 568. Diver, in F.
Maggie Murphy’s Home.
The Reason Why,in B. 586 in O.
Aileen Aroon, in B flat. 603 in F.
Remember now thy Creator.
Consider the Lilies.
PIANOFORTE.
Old Gold Polka (very pretty).
American Lancers (pop. melodies
March of the Goblins Blue, lively
Dear Old Chums Polka (just pub-
lished). [Gautier.)
An Old Sweet Greeting Waltz (L.
The country wedding Barn Dance
W. H. BROOME,
15 Holborn, London, E.C. ENGLAND.
Every class of Music and Musical Instruments in Stock-
How to Learn “ The Banjo in 8 Easy Lessons.” Post free, Is-
JEst. 1845] TRADE SUPPLIED. [Est. 1845
Can also be obtained from any local music store or
bookseller.
df
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
Dre ss Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM Si MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
pppg
©
POWDER
•ft*
\ &
mTW
m
m
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He: “No!”
She ; “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY
40 Miles from Sydney.
The First Section Comprising 1000 Acres,
subdivided into from
5 TO 20 ACRES HORTICULTURAL BLOCKS,
is now ready for Sale.
Five Years’ Terms. Torrens Title.
Every Acre has a water right attached under the
provisions of the Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
£7 Per Acre Deposit.
Apply to the Manager, Mulgoa; or the Sydney Agents,
133 PITT STREET.
MULGOA IRRIGATION COLONY.
THE TOWNSHIP.
Every Lot can now be Supplied with Water.
£25 PER LOT £25
with water rights attached under the provisions of the
Mulgoa Irrigation Act.
Two Years’ Terms. Torrens Title
A Visit to the Irrigation Colony may be made in
ONE DAY,
Sydney Agents: HARDIE and GORMAN,
133 PITT STREET.
Q P E R A HOUSE-
Lessee and Manager .. Mr. R. F. Keating.
SATURDAY NIGHT (March 11) and EVERY EVENING,
Mr. SLADE MURRAY’S
NEW LYRIC COMBINATION.
Every Artist a Star.
Miss JENNIE LEE—Australia’s Favourite. Madame
AEADE, the Lion Queen and Intrepid Snake
Charmer. A Magnificent Combination.
MILLION PRICES —2s., Is. and SIXPENCE.
Amusements.
Tivoli theatre
(Late the GARRICK) Oastlereagh Street.
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT! TO-NIGHT!
j Mr. MARK! It ICKA R »» S (
And his New Tivoli Minstrel and Specialty Company.
49 REAL GENUINE ARTISTS 49
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS ,
Arthur Jones and W. Barrett’s Famous Play,
“HOODMAN B LIN D.”
SATURDAY, March 11—“ MAN TO MAN.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE
£49,460 worth for £l.
Monster freehold property
DISTRIBUTION amongst Shareholders
in the EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue —
105,000 Shares at £l.
BALLOT, according to rules, on May 20, in the
Presence of His Worship the Mayor, Brisbane.
COMMITTEE: Hon. B. B. Moreton, Hon.
John Donaldson, M.L.A., J. J. Kings-
bury, Esq., M.A., James Hipwood, Esq.,
Acheson Overend, Esq., C.E.
SOLICITOR ; Hon. A. J. Thynne, M.L.C.
BANKERS: Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney.
2,403 PRIZES valued as under.
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking Cham-
bers, corner of Albert and Adelaide-streets,
superbly fitted up (Banking Chambers occupied
by the Queensland Deposit Bank) at cost J 630,000;
rental value, =61,500.
Nos. 2 to 2,403. —Residences, Shops, &c., and
picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of £ 10,000
1 of ,£5,000
4 of .£2,500
5 of .£l,OOO
5 of =£soo
100 of
100 of <£2s
125 of £2O
1.000 of <£lo
1.000 of =£s
Total, <£105,000, no deduction of any kind.
APPLY to SECRETARY, Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, Brisbane.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
stamped addressed envelopes ; register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £43*460 worth*
sd
READ THIS OFFER.
Violins, all sizes, 255., £2 10s., £3 155., best
make, £5. Accordeons, 12s. Cd., 155., 215., 235.
6d., 335. 6d., 425., and 455. Concertinas, 10s.,
15s. Cd., 18s. Cd., steel reeds, 215., and 235. 6d.
Anglos, best kind, 355., rosewood, 475. Cd., steel
notes, 555. Piccolos and Fifes, 7s. Cd. ; four
keys, best make, 155., and 255. Flutes, (Concert',
£2 155., £3 155., and £5 ss. Guitars, 255.,
machine head, £2 10s., £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Banjos, 355., £2 155., £3 15s. £4 10s., and £5 ss.
Mandolines, 355., 555., 755., 955., and £7 10s.
Autoharp-Zithers, 355., 555., 755. and £5 ss. Cornets,
t‘2 10s., £3 155., excellent quality £5 55., and £7 10s.
TERMS Cash or terms to suit any purchaser in town or
country. Piano-vamping learned in five minutes with
ALBERT’S (copyrighted) VAMPING CARD—immediate
■mccess guaranteed. Price, Is. “Dr.” Hall Hygienic
Cure book. The secret out. No pledge of honour de-
manded. Price, Is. post free. J. ALBERT & SON,
108 King-street, Sydney. Illustrated catalogues posted
FREE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-streefc, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Will amson and Musgrove.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
A. C. Torr and Horace Mills’ Burlesque,
“Miss Esmeralda.”
SATURDAY, March 11—“ JOAN OF ARC.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman
CRITERION THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
ENORMOUS SUCCESS ! ENORMOUS SUCCESS !
of
Harry and Edward Paulton’s Modern Comedy,
“ KTIOBE.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, March 7, 1893.
r I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22.
Bridge, Bogan River, at Stone Crossing, road
Cannonbar to Girilambone
Wrought-iron Pipes, &c., for Crossing Bridge at
Nowra, for Nowra Water Supply
Bridge, Morton’s Creek, road Beechvvood to Ennis
Additions Lands Office, Raymond Terrace
Bridge, Ten-mile Creek at Germanton. Fresh
tenders
Manufacture within the Colony of Twelve Water
Jib Cranes —Railway Construction
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.
Bridge, Farmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to Wal
lerawang, at Cooerwull.
Bridge, Deep Creek, road Port Macquarie to
Arrnidale
Bridge, Namoi River, at Walgett
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19.
Bridge, Back Creek, at Marsden-road, Marsden
to Lake Cowal
Construction of Hand-geared Timber Punt for
Tabulam, Clarence River
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
other man more desperately. In other words, the dif-
ference between the man who bangs another man with
gloves, and the man who does it without these weapons,
is just the same as that between the humane and scientific
person who kicks you with large boots, and the one who
kicks you with his naked feet. According to the logic of
the “athletic ” hall, the kicking of the former ought to
rank as a scientific exhibition, and that of the latter as
pure brutality, but, all the same, it is much safer to be
kicked with the naked foot, for when the assailant’s
toe gives out he has to stop. The glove-fighter is
in the same category as the person who bangs you on the
head with a stick because he is too kind-hearted to use
his naked fist. His weapon is a good deal harder than
any ordinary human hand, and is really a hybrid between
a sand-bag and a knuckle-duster. If glove-fighting is
allowed, then there is no visible reason why two pugilists
shouldn’t be permitted to assault each other with ham-
mers for £2OO a side, or to fight with bricks at short
range, or to throw encyclopaedias and dictionaries at each
other,'or to up-end each other when opportunity allows,
the head of the man underneath to be banged against the
floor. This would add variety to the business, and the
loser would get there just the same. Where he would get
to is a theological question into which The Bulletin
doesn’t care to enter.
# * #
The New York World’s description of the
Goddard-Maher prize-fight is written in a vigorous strain.
The World evidently put its most brilliant man on the
job. According to him, “ Goddard’s eyes were set in a
steely glare.” “They clinched and the shook of their
great torsos was terrific. They hit, and the dull, bruising
blows landed with a sickening sound as though of snap-
ping bones.” Later on “ the blows sounded like the roll
of muffled drums also, “Goddard’s eyes glared with a
green flame and he seemed like a being chipped from the
lowest depths of Dante’s Inferno.” Finally, Maher went
down, and “around him the wild-eyed thousands bel-
lowed and thundered, while over him, clothed in a red
mantle of blood, stood his grim conqueror.” It reads
like Satan pounding a gory steak for dinner in Gehenna.
# * *
Culloden was just “right” on Saturday, as fit
as it is possible for careful training and good luck to get
a horse on any particular day.
* # *
Benefit shows generally end in the recipient
getting little else than public attention drawn to his
blank bank account. Take the benefit race-meeting
given to Mr. Wicks, the clever amateur Sydney rider who
lately lose a leg. In the room all promised to give
their services with a great show of philanthropy—
but when the accounts came in nearly everybody sent
along his little hill for services rendered. The £5OO which
ultimately readied Mr. Wicks wgs mainly got together by
private subscription.
# * #
Adelaide cricketers now admit that Walter
Giffen is a second-rater, and is far below first-class form.
# # #
Corbett says he will fight only once more before
retiring from the ring. He is spoiling for a match with
Mitchell, now in gaol. Remarks an English writer;—
There is really something laughable about the Yankee’s
statement. He claims the championship by virtue of a
defeat of Sullivan. As everyone knows, Sullivan was a
beaten old man before entering the ring ; we have since
been informed that ho was suffering from heart-disease.
Kilrain was grossly out of condition, according to all
accounts, when he met Corbett, and Jackson had a
sprained ankle. C irbett may he the best man in the
world, but he has not proved it, and vvsen the long series
of victories of proven fighters such as Slavin and Jackson
are taken into consideration, Corbett has literally no
record at all.
What has become of England’s athletic prestige’
Her professional scullers have been beaten by Austra-
lians, as have her pugilists. Her crack amateur rowers
have been defeated by both Dutch and Frenchmen, and
her runners have had to strike their colours to the
Yankees. Now comes the last blow of all when the
amateur billiard championship has been won by one of
Salisbury’s “niggers,” a Parsee named Vahid, who beat
both young Sidney Fry, who has spent a fortune in
lessons from Roberts, but hasn’t the heart of a mouse,
and Christy, the holder of Orme’s “all in” amateur
trophy.
* * *
After the Admiral had won the Essendon
Stakes, on Saturday, it was carefully noised abroad that
Mr. Sam Cook didn’t intend to let his horse over-exert
himself, with 9st. lOlbs. up, for the Australian Cup.
• • «
At N.S.W. up-country cricket-match. The best
bat of his side bowled first ball by the pedagogue from
the neighbouring township. Hurling his' bat away, and
peeling off his singlet, he confronts the astonished bowler:
“You bowled me, you , but you blanky well can’t
fight me !” Fact.
* * #
The Colonial Office, to render titles popular
with young Australia, should recognise merit in the
cricket-field. Among the next birthday honours there
should be included K.O.M.G.s for Alec. Bannerman, Jack
Blaokham, and George Giffen, with C.M.G.s for Turner,
Bruce, and Lyons, and something pleasant for Walter
Giffen.
* * *
Tom Williams, of Australia, found more than
his match recently in an amateur, one Speed, who knocked
him out in three rounds at the London National Sport-
ing Club. Tom was giving away a great deal of
weight. He fought so pluckily that a purse of £5O was
made up for him on the spot by the sports present.
# # #
No one who wishes well to athletics will regret
to hear that the Manhattan (N.Y.) Club is about to dis-
solve. This quasi “club” has for years done its best to
ruin pedestrianism, by scouring the world in search of
champions, who were hired to run in the club colours.
In this way they succeeded in claiming almost every
record. They sent Myers to England as an amateur to wipe
out the English representatives, and he did it. Since then
they have borrowed most of the famous English runners
to perform in America. The injury already done to sport
will take long to wipe out.
# * *
“Boy Politician” Caulfield, who is running the
Grand Hotel, Perth, at present, has been fined for
exhibiting a placard of a sweep on the Newmarket
Handicap.
* # #
A Sydney Saturday print ridicules The Bulle-
tin’s idea of J.H. taking a hand in a sweepstakes for Che
trotting and pacing championship. It may surprise the
writer of the par. in question to now hear that J.H. can
be backed for a substantial stake against Mr. Palfrey’s
Rita.
# # *
Although the value of English racing stakes has
enormously increased of late years, no blood sire has
beaten the record of Stockwell, whose progeny won
£61,000 during the season of 1866. Until last year, when
St. Simon’s “get” netted £56,000 in 47 races, there
hadn’t been a total to approach Stockwell’s, and as a
wholesale transmitter of speed the wonderful old horse
still stands quite alone. He was the happy father of 571
winners in six years, his most successful imitator having
been Hermit, with an aggregate of 393 winners within a
like period.


MEDICAL.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
MEDICAL.
CELEBRATED BLOOD and NERVE REMEDIES.
Alfaline Vitality Fills
(registered)
Cures the Nerves & Weakness.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
pENTE^
&
&
DECERNEE
&
ski
Wi
i&jr
SV£
GOLD MEDAL.
THE ALFALINE
Herbal Remedies
—awarded—
GOLD MTEOAL!
SYDNEY and PARIS.
AST CURED 100,000.
.vP
Mp
0.
*
o
PRESENTED?©
*
m
@r
Esq
h.R Rasmussen
<c
&
o
—>■ BOTAN/ST
o
2
oAsaTOKEN ofCRATITUDE
c
FromNINEofms PATIENTS ™
MHaving Restored Then A
I
O
£HSEPjS
53SSSS
REMEDIES SENT DUTY FREE.
A.LFA.LIKTE LOCK PILLS
(registered)
CURES THE BLOOD.
Boxes, 6/- and 12/- (posted).
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6 (posted).
100,000 Testimonials
“ What higher aim can man attain
Than conquest over human pain ?”
Indisputable Evidence
fs
GOLD MEDAL.
Cured Patrons
Testifying to Genuine and Wonderful Cures effected.
Sworn Testimonials.
Statutory
df
Declaration.
ITHOS. MUDIMAN, Master Tailor, of 515 George Street,
, Sydney, in the colony of New Soutli Wales, do hereby
solemnly and sincerely declare as follows :
Whereas, I suffered severely from a very troublesome
affection of the Nerves, which affected me so much that
I was quite unable to attend to my business. I tried several
Doctors and many Remedies, but all of no avail. Whereas,
I, as a last hope, obtained some of Herr Rassmussen’s
PURELY HERBAL “UNIVERSAL ALFALINE
PILLS,” which I hereby solemnly and sincerely declare
COMPLETELY CURED ME within a few weeks, and
although this is oter five years ago, I have remained well ever
since.
THE ALFALINE PILLS also cured my wife, and I make
this solemn declaration, conscientiously believing the same to
be true.
THOS. MUDIMAN.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney, this 23rd day of
November, 1891, before me,
S. T. Whiddon, Justice of the Peace.
Also witnessed by A. Baly, Esq., a Commissioner oi the
Supreme Court of New South Wales and Victoria.
To Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure to inform you
that your wonderful Herbal Remedies cured me of a most
obstinate case of Nervousness of 22 years standing, after
trying several Doctors and all other known remedies. 1 shall
always feel grateful to you, and will always recommend your
remedies to my friends, and I am willing at any time to
be interviewed by any person who doubts this Testimonial. —
Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road, Ultimo, Sydney.
To Herr Rassmussen, Danish Herbalist. —Dear Sir and
Benefactor, —It gives me great pleasure to testify to your won-
derful skill in the treatment of disease. Your remedies cured
me of a terrible complaint after the doctors gave me up,
and, although it f!s four years since, I am as well as ever. 1
shall recommend .your remedies to all. —Yours gratefully, R.
Albuky, 64 Wasbington-st., Sydney.
Herr Rasswussen’s remedies saved my son after many
doctors failed to do him any good.— John F. Anderson, Port
Campbell, Victoria.
Herr Rassmussen.—l have much pleasure in informing you
that your Alfalino Pills completely cured me of a very obstinate
case of nervousness, wind biliousness of several years standing.
They also cured several friends whom I recommended to try
your wonderful remedies.— A. Harris, Tobacco Merchant, ICO
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Complexion Beantifier.
A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy for curing Pimples
and Freckles, and wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Universal Alfaline Pills.
A guaranteed cure and a universal remedy for Blood and
Nervous Diseases, Piles, Costiveness, and all Irregularities of the
System, a guaranteed preventative against disease of any kind.
Ordinary course, 235. 6d. posted. Special powerful double course,
13s. 6d. posted. Boxes at Is. 6d., 35., 6s. and 125., posted.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
A wonderful Herbal Remedy for Asthma, Coughs, Bronchitis
«id Colds. Boxes, posted, 35., 65., and 235. Cd.
Alfaline Lock Pills
CURES THE BLOOD.
Ordinary Course, 23/0 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/G.
Alfaline Vitality Pills
EIJUE3 THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/G; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
r#
t
A?
HERR RASSMUBSEN,
i In 1 Celebrated Danish Herbalist, Sole Proprietor of “ The Alkaline
Remedies.” Author of “The Natural Doctor.” Awarded Gold Medal,
I’ai is and Sydney; Honorary Member of the Inventors’ Academy, Paris;
honourably mentioned in the “Centennial History of New South Wales”
for Herbal Discoveries.
Discoverer & Proprietor
OF Tire CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
&I.FAI.INE REMEDIES,
Mich have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers for the
BLOOD & NERVES,
And which are recommended by the Faculty, praised by the Press, and
Patronised by Sufferers throughout the World.
Rassmnssen’s Oifsloixia,
OTIHB Q
EIFFh
Mica i
■NIFFM
... * *'
m
m s.
m
-_ ■
fL
i e
ft&TftCITE
JScaniqde
L jii
fj
3*l
EPVBLIOVE PROTEGE L 2 TRAVAIL
INDUSTRIALS etEXPOSANTS %
WiteigMyi ®w hi Minn
2)«w ocovtjCaM tJlaMmaseTi
AVEC LE TURK DE
t> t -6 J 3 /
V> lPa A
Opinions of tlie Press.
Proving the Wonderful ALFALINE REMEDIES to
be Genuine.
“Herr Rasmussen’s, the celebrated Danish Herbalist,
well-known Herbal Remedies have been the means of per-
forming many great cures during the last few years, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary Testimonials which he has received certifying to
important cures effected by his remedies.”- —Sydney Evening
News.
“Herr Rassmussen counts the cures effected by his
Remedies by thousands, has already acquired an Australian
Reputation, and has secured the respect and gratitude of
numerous patients whom his Remedies have restored to
Health and Happiness.'’—“ Centennial History of N.S.W,”
“We have been shown some excellent Testimonials of
the great cures performed by Herr Rassmussen, the Cele-
brated Danish Herbalist’s remedies.” — Australian Star.
“Herr Rassmussen is too well and favourably known to
the Australian public to require any additional praise from
Truth. His Herbal Remedies are unequalled.” — Truth.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist, holds the highest place in the Colonies, and enjoys
the confidence of many of the leading people of N.S. Wales,
Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktown Courier (Q.),
“ It may not bo cut of place to mention that Herr
Rassmussen has now been established in the colonies for
nearly 10 years.”—Sydney Sunday Times.
“Herr Rassmussen’s press notices in all the other
colonies agree in regard to the skill he possesses as a Herba-
list, and the hona fidcs of his testimonials appear to be well
established.”— S. A. Register, Adelaide.
Herr Rassmussen has achieved a high reputation for
his skill in botanical treatment of disease.” — Evening
Journal, Adelaide.
Testimonials.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen, —Dear Sir,—l can truthfully assert
that since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I
have experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of
my constituents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear
complaining of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain yours truly,
E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr Rassmussen,—Dear Sir,—Your Alfaline Vitality
Pills have completely cured me of a terrible case of Debility,
which was considered incurable.— Wm. H. BISHOP, New
Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, South Australia.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of
the Sydney Bulletin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to Herr Rass-
mussen. —Dear Sir,—l think it my duty to inform
you that a course of your A.lfaline Vitality Pills acted
very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in
consequence, I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured bytheir use.—Very
truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
HERBAL REMEDIES.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the Hair turning
Grey and falling off. Posted. 3s. and 6s. Also good for pro-
ducing rapidly boards and moi. (aches.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills
An infallible Herbal Remedy for all kinds of Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Neuralgia and Stiff Joints. Boxes, posted, 35., 6s.
and 235. 6d.
Alfaline Vitality Fills
CURES THE NERVES.
Ordinary Course, 23/G ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6
Alfaline Lock Fills
CURES THE KLOOH.
Ordinary Course, 23/6 ; Special Powerful Course, 43/6.
Alii PACKETS SENT lINOKSEKTEB.
“ TJbe KTatural Doctor.”
A valuable Herbal Work, by Herr Rassmusskn, which contains much valuable advice and useful hints.
Price, One Shilling (posted).
Important.
Make all Cheques and P.O. Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN. Register all letters containing money
All Correspondence Strictly Confidential, and all Packets sent Unobserved.
Beware of Imitations !
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S GENUINE HERBAL REMEDIES CAN ONLY BE OBTAINED FROM HIS OWN ESTABLISHMENTS AS
FOLLOWS:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT:
150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT;
160 Queen-street, Brisbane.
S. AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT;
154 Rundle-street, Adelaide.
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S HEAD DEPOT and CHIEF LABORATORY:
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
*


“1 inherit some tendency to
pepsia from my mother. I suffered
two years in this way ; consulted a
number of doctors. They did me
no good. I then used
your August Flower
and It was just two
When I felt great relief. I soon
got so that I could sleep and eat, and
1 felt that I was well. That was
three years ago, and I am still first-
class. I am never
’. without a bottle, and
if I feel constipated
the least particle a dose or two of
August Flower does the work. The
beauty of the medicine is, that you
can stop the use of it without any bad
effects on the system.
While I was sick I
felt everything it
seemed to me a man could feel. I
was„of all men most miserable, I can
say,' in conclusion, that I believe
August Flower will cure anyone of
indigestion, if
with judgment. A,
M. Weed, 229 Belle-
fontaineSt., Indianapolis, Ind.” @
Relieved in
Two Days.
Constipation
Life of Misery
EstABUSWfD 1876^
ASTHMA
CURE
' WR
I
Write
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ASTHMA,
FOR
Q
«**»
Agents:
Melbourne
Rocke.TompsitM*.
Sydn eY: Elliott Bros
w' is b an e rTIfiott Prosit?
MELAIDE F.ri.fauldingar^
NZ, Shar!and&ff.
- Auckland : Sharland * (? . sas,
UGH send Treatise end Testimonials free.
Jgnn/4ddres£,
4-
c>£ & L/j
EBY
K'-t
from
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
Of any Chem ist or
Perfumer.
•B*»
‘
stre^.
v° v
Beivare of imitations. The genuine is signed
TBADE MARK:- M USK DEER
DOCTORS RECOMMEND REACTS PATENT
INVICDRAThr
w
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OP SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says :—“ I think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“ SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give groat relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly. L.R.C.P., Edin., says be be-
lieves it is the best invention of tbe kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without tbe injurious effects of tbe ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes; insist on.
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
tOlaremont, Hastings, England.
At Coogee you can buy G N U N Darlings.
At Manly you can buy G N IT N Darlings.
PEMELL’S
A.B.C.
GRANULATED WHEAT MEAL.
Is
Itching Skin Humors
Torturing, Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospitals, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and irri-
tated surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cuticura
Soap, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces.
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. Hence, the
Cuticura Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
“ How to Cure Diseases of the Skin and Blood, ”64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illus-
trations, roo-Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
Pimply Skin
red, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails
are prevented and cured by Cuticura Soap, in -
comparably the greatest of skin purifiers and bcautifiers.
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps*
The only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin, and simple humors of infants.
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.
ORIGINAL and BEST TONIC. OFTEN IMITATED. NEVER EQUALLED.
Captain Fisher, Stipendiary Magistrate, writes “ I have used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and I am convinced that it is a valuable therapeutical agent possessed of excellent Tonic properties.”
Captain Heselton, J.P., Chairman Port Jackson Steamship Company, writes For many years I have
used MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE, and I can therefore personally testify to its many excel eat strengthening
properties. I may say that I have also, on many occasions, presented it to the employees of Ihe company, and always
with the most beneficial results. I conscientiously consider it to be a most invaluable Nerve and Brain restorative, a
thing which even the robust sometimes require. I gladlv subscribe my name to endorse the merits of a remedy like
MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE.”
J. M'Farlane, Esq., M.L.A., writes “ Having been a great Sufferer from INDIGESTION for a number of
years, and having use.l a number of remedies without relief, 1 was persuaded to try MARSHALL’S TONIC NERVINE,
and after three weeks’ use all symptoms of Indigestion have vanished, and in my case all that is claimed for your
Tonic has been fully borne out, and I can confidently recommend it to all those similarly afflicted.”
N.B.—Want of space precludes hundreds of similar testimonials from being published.
N.8.-MARSHALL'S TONIC NERVINE is warranted to he absolutely free from all Injurious Drugs.
On Sale Every where at 2s. and 3s, Od. a llottle.
TVT A ttsstt AT-T. BROS., Sole nCaxxufacturers.
NEWTON & LAMB,
IMPORTERS Sc MANUFACTURERS OF OFFICE FURNITURE.
LIBRARY and OFFICE FURNITURE. REVOLVING BOOK
CASES. LETTER FILING CABINETS. HAT STANDS.
ENCLOSED WASHSTANDS. COPYING PRESSES, &c.
s
fs
FALL FRONT PEDESTAL WRITING TABLES IN OAK,
WALNUT, &c. FLAT TOP WRITING TABLES.
STANDING DESKS. REVOLVING CHAIRS and STOOLS.
THE LARGEST and MOST VARIED STOCK in AUSTRALIA.
BOARD-ROOMS and OFFICES FITTED UP. DESIGNS and ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
NEWTON & L-A-lVtlO,
SPRING AND O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
Lancet.
(THE CEL
L 't&a
Wt
3 SWEET)
VO jk
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C.
c£49,460 worth for d£l.
See Amusement
Column.
ASK FOR
Schweppe’s
Table
Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
HER MAJESTY the QUEEN
lALES OP THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price—One Shilling.
Advts. in Verse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LITTLE while ago I started to supplement my
meagre journalistic income by writing advts. in
verse, and accordingly arranged with a fool-can-
vasser to divide profits, the bargain being that I
should write the advts. and that he should sell
them. For a few months things went well and
we halved many guineas (I always write advts. for
guineas—not pounds).
Success at last turned the head of my canvasser,
who began doing the whole business himself. But
he made the mistake of believing that all lines—
especially hardware, blue metal, and red paint—
could be advertised in verse, and this belief caused
his fail.
His first mistake was in the case of a piano-
manufacturing firm. He had led them to believe
that he was an advertising expert, and they signed
a fat contract and told him to draft the advts. for
the first issue. Imagine the horror of this con-
servative firm when it read the following in the
dailies of a few days later :—
Shout, Hosanna ! Loud, Hosanna !
Sharp and Flatty’s New Pianna
Has become the rage ;
Frame is made in newest manner—
Fifty pounds the price, Hosanna !
Wonder of the Age.
Of course, the piano firm cancelled their contract.
But his real punishment was to come. You
must know that Melbourne City Council sell the
blood-product of the municipal abattoirs as a soil-
fertilizer. What then does this lunatic do but
send to the Town-Clerk the doggerel quoted
below, accompanied by a proposal for advertising!
Here is what the ex-canvasser described in his
letter as a poem :—
If you want to raise tomatoes of gargantuan size, or
wheat.
Or the multifarious fruits and grains that men and women
eat;
If you want to raise a hog who’ll turn the scale at fifty
stone,
If you want to be a millionaire and a million farmsteads
own,
Use blood!
Try blood !
The produce of the bullock who falls down with a thud,
Berlud!
Berlud!
It will sweeten all your pastures so your cows can chew
the cud.
When you reap in golden autumn the pumpkins from the
vine,
Remember that the blood-manure grows pasture for the
kine;
When you gather in the vernal spring the ’taters from the
tree.
Don’t disregard the fact that blood manure’s the best
for ye.
Use blood!
Blue blood
Of the «mf-ooratic heifer who once chewed the clover
cud.
Ho! blood !
Blue blood 1
When your pasture or your garden’s barren, try our
blood !
The Council did want to try the ex-canvasser’s
blood. But they couldn’t legally get it, so they
did the next best thing—they gaoled him for
attempting to obtain money by means of false
pretences.
I was curious to know in what the “ false pre-
tences ” consisted, and have just discovered that
my ex-canvasser tried to pass off his blood-verse
as having come from the pen of that great poet,
ex-To 'ii Clerk FitzGibbon. It would have passed
musier, too, had a junior clerk, a University
student, not remarked that it had really been
written by Parkes, Then enquiries were insti-
tuted, and the real poet is now sitting in Mel-
bourne gaol vainly trying to think of something
to rhyme with “ three months.” But you can no
more rhyme with “months” than you can with
“ orange.”
I now enjoy the sole monopoly of writing Mel-
bourne advertisements in verse. [P.S. —This is
an advt.—Ed. B.]
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
A correspondent of the N.S. W. Forestry-
Department has been enquiring about “the barley
tree.” The officials conjecture that he means “ the
barley bree.” They ought to know.
Curiosities of N.S.W. municipal elections.
(1) At Plattsburg, extraordinary election :
Win. Hestelow 191
C. Trubody 185
Informal 55
Fifty-five informal votes with only two candi-
dates! (21 At Tighe’s Hill: —
Two candidates— equal votes ; informal one.
(3) A mayor elected by a quorum majority, which
was not a majority of the council. Is not
such illegal ? (4) A candidate, taught by experi-
ence, had several pairs of spectacles waiting for
those ratepayers who “forgot their glasses.”
Dear Bulletin. —l was reminded the
other day of “ Clancy of the Overflow,” and other
sweet songs, mostly by “The Banjo,” about the
pleasures of the bush, and the camp-fire, and the
stars, and so on. This was what I saw. It was a
cold, wet morning ; the rain was not coming down
in drops but in slabs, and everything was sodden,
muddy, and horribly desolate. Two men, one
woman and a dog were fording a swollen stream.
They went across arm-in-arm in order to bear up
against the rush of the water, and the spectacle
was as follows. On the right, an elderly man
with a big cotton umbrella, a very ancient and
weather-beaten bell-topper, and a frock-coat green
with old age, the tails thereof trailing in the
water. He wore spectacles and was trying to
smoke a sodden cigar, and he carried his boots
and socks over one shoulder and a pillow-case with
some in it over the other. Next
the lady, with her boots in her hand. She had a
poke-bonnet and a man’s coat, and her stockings
were shoved into the pocket of the coat. Her
skirt was hoisted up under her arm to keep dry
and revealed two feet six inches of a rather attrac-
tive pair of legs. The tails of the coat floated in
the water. She dragged the dog behind her at the
end of a boot-lace, and the wet animal kept getting
between her legs. It was found necessary to stop in
the middle of the stream and castigate the squashy
brute with a boot, else it would probably have
capsized the whole party. _ Then came the other
man holding up the lady with one hand. His pants
were badly split in various places, and as he had
his boots in his other hand he held the tail of his
long coat between his teeth to keep it out of the
stream. When they got across the party sat down
in the slush to haul their boots and stockings on,
and the old father dropped his cigar into the mud.
He picked it up again quite calmly and put it
between his teeth, as if nothing had happened.
Then they disappeared among the trees, and it
kept on raining as before. If the “Banjo” likes
to make a poem about this incident it is at his
service.—Yours, &c.,
TITUS SALT.


Out for a stroll, smoke G N U N Darlings.
The OALIG-RAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
'The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Cali&rraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, Lyndhurst
Chambers, Elizabcth-street; Melbourne, C. S. Cunning:
ham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street ; Brisbane,
Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S. Wigg & Son,
Bundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
Royal agricultural society
of N.S.W.
Great Exhibition, Moore Park, Sydney.
I0T" 29th MARCH to 4th APRIL.
Complete Prize Schedule. Horses, Cattle, Sheep, Pigs.
Wine, Poultry. Dogs, Canaries. Horticulture. Dairy
and Farm Produce. Implements and Machinery. Hun-
ters’ Plates. Water jumps. High jumps. Pony jumps.
Special Prizes in Every Section. Entries close Saturday,
11th March. Prize schedules, &c., f.’om F. WEBSTER,
Secretary, Tattersall’s-buildings, Hunter-st., Sydney.
CARTER & C??
9W
PUAITTABIjE
(Non « REVERSIBLtV
EPHIS Ingeniously Constructed KILLIABB DIMVt-
TABLE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentleexercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—2S to Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 CeJJlat'St, Uelbourai. Ftetory, Ualnrsity-St.
“TAKEN BY THE FORELOCK.”
If the aid of Wolfe’s Schnapps be sought in the
early stage of disease, it will prove an immediate
cure, but in any stage will afford relief.
Heal enjoyable smoke, GNUN Darlings
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS.
Is the purest as well as the most popular of in-
vigorants, anti-dyspeptics, and diuretics, and is
pronounced to be so by physicians.
The most reliable aperient is, undoubtedly
Ayer’s Cathartic Pills. Except in ex-
treme cases, physicians have abandoned the
use of drastic purgatives, and recommend a
milder, but no less effective medicine. The
favorite is
g
Ayer's Pills
the superior virtues of which
have been certified to under the
official seals of state chemists,
as well as by hosts of eminent
doctors and pharmacists. No
other Pill so well supplies the
demand of the general public
for a
Safe, Certain, Agreeable
family medicine. If you suffer from consti-
pation, sick headache, dyspepsia, jaundice,
liver complaint, or biliousness, take Ayer’s
Pills, which are unequalled. Though prompt
and thorough in operation, their effect is to
strengthen the bowels and restore regular
and natural action.
Prepared by Dr. J.C. Ayer&Co., Lowell, Mass.,
V, 8. A. Sold by Druggists and MedicineVenclora
Every Dose Effective
ROWLANDS’
OOONTO
A pure and scientifically prepared tooth powder,
antacid, anti-parasitic and slightly alkaline, it
penetrates to the hidden flaws and crevices of
the teeth where decay originates, removes
tartar, polishes and preserves the enamel,
prevents and arrests decay and sweetens the
breath ; is free from acid or gritty ingredients.
Price 2s. 9 d. per box.
ROWLANDS’ ESSENCE OF TYRE
dyes red or grey hair a permanent Brown or
Black, 4s. Ask any dealer in perfumery for
Rowlands’ articles,of 20,Hatton Garden,Lon don.
3)
EASIEST, QUICKEST, CHEAPEST, AND
BEST BLACK LEAD in the WORLD.
N
In HALF the TIME and with HALF the I
you can produce more polish with TWO
of the “RISING SUN" than with HALF
Packets of ordinary ISlacklead.
jABOUR
Packets
DOZEN
B
mm
Sir
PRODUCES A MIRROR-LIKE BRIGHTNESS.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria:
T. H. MATE & Co, Ld,,
Mbnry, Sydney, and Melbourne.
Barry’s Tricopheroos
ns
JVt
FOR THE
HAIR ah°SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, g- ay hair, and dandruff. Makes
the h.ur grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
i Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York.
dfs
Reuter’s Little Puts
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate hut hy their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes*
'-on. The smallest and easiest to take, - Forty in a phial.
J 1 Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
df
sdf
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
vniiAi
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is trade from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick 1)
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’'
— Lancet , April 4, r Bgr.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
— British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep Indefinitely In any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Eu.iott Bros , Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW HILL, LONDON. E.C.
A thousand men are unemployed at Broken
Hill.
The N.S.W. Foreign-trade Association has
diplomatically suppressed Cleveland’s answer to
their gushful felicitations on the “great Free-
trade victory.”
The demand for Australian wines is in-
creasing greatly of late years, and the quality is
improving as the market grows wider. Messrs.
Innes and Co., of 11 Little George-street, Sydney,
are one of the most prosperous firms in the trade.
It is often the custom to describe as “colonial
wine ” only the cheapest and commonest article at
sixpence or thereabouts per bottle, but at Messrs.
Innes’ premises can be found the local duplicate of
almost every wine produced between the Mediter-
ranean and the Baltic, generally better than the
original, and at about half the price. Their hock,
burgundy, port, madeira, sherry, and shiraz are
above criticism. Also their verdeilho is a lovely
white wine with a grand bouquet, and the muscats
are of the highest quality. The fact that Innes
and Co. have agencies in Spain, Portugal and
France suggests that a good deal of their product
goes to these countries to be ultimately passed off
on the credulous Bull as the expensive liquor in
which his soul delights.
“ Sound and Solid."
Mr. George Sullivan, Ranclaned-st., Merewether,
Newcastle, New South Wales, writes on January
13th, 1893 : —I am a miner, and let me tell you of
some of the complaints from which I have suffered
during the past five years. First of all I had
aches and pains extending from the shoulders
down to the kidneys, then followed the derange-
ment of the liver (at least, that is what the doctors
told me I was suffering from), a bitter taste in the
mouth in the morning, a foul breath, and finally a
complete loss of energy and appetite. Many a
morning I went to my work in the mines with the
prediction of my neighbours that I would never
come home alive. My wife had almost given me
up on more than one occasion, and nobody but my
fellow-workmen can tell the pain I put up with
when at work in the pit. Coal cutting compels a
miner to work in a stooping position, and on one
occasion when in that position the pain was so
severe that I was unable to rise until assistance
arrived from another quarter of the mine. No-
body but my fellow-workmen can imagine what I
suffered during that period, and I am at a loss to
know how to thank the miner working in the next
lead to me who told me of the great cures effected
by Clements Tonic. I need not tell you I rushed
it, and now find myself, after taking eight bottles,
an entirely new man. This will show that
Clements Tonic performed a cure when all medical
men failed. My experience of the doctors of this
district has extended over a considerable period,
and- having suffered from the ailments mentioned
above, I should say that I am in a position to
know what I am talking about. It was acci-
dental, as I said before, that I heard of Clements
Tonic, but when I was told of its many good
{qualities you can depend I lost no time in giving
it a trial. Every dose I swallowed appeared to
improve, and to-day I am as sound and as solid as
a prize bullock at Smithfield. If my language is
plain you will have to excuse me, Mr. Clements,
for when I say that your Clements Tonic is a
wonderful medicine I am repeating what a grate-
ful heart bids me to do. I will also recommend
Clements Tonic to my friends. —Your sincerely,
George Sullivan, miner, Ranclaned-street, Mere-
wether, Newcastle, New South Wales.
The Gratis Portrait Industry.
Some few years ago there arose somewhere in
Australia a tailoring philanthropist who gave
away an allotment of land gratis with every suit
of clothes ! The allotments were worth something
like 10s. each on a rough estimate—their exact
value was never ascertained —and the only charge
was the customary £3 3s. for the title. A Hebraic
solicitor supplied these at wholesale rates, and
made a reduction —to the tailor—of something
over 20s. for each deed ; in other words, he and
the benefactor went shares. Therefore, the bene-
ficent pauts-dealer got about twice as much for
his land by giving it away as he would have done
if he had sold it; and did a greatly-increased
business besides.
# # #
A somewhat similar variety of benevolence has
lately risen up in the photographic business; it is
not, strictly speaking, a swindle, nor a three-card
trick, nor a confidence dodge, nor any other recog-
nisable offence, but it gets there all the same.
The operators are scattered over Australia under
various names and designations, such as the
“Imperial Bromide Enlargement C 0.,” which
hangs out somewhere in Sydney. There is no
double entendre in the statement that the company
“ hangs ”at the above address. This institution
has flooded New South Wales with circulars which
read as follows :
Dear Sir, —In order to introduce our matchless Portrait
Enlargements into your district, we make you the follow-
ing offer, viz.: If you will send a photograph of yourself
or any member of your family, we will make you, from it,
an exquisite life-size portrait, free of charge ; the only
consideration desired of you will be that you have it
framed in harmony with the portrait, so that the work
will show to advantage ; also that you exhibit it to your
friends, and thereby assist us in securing orders.
In the place of spending a large sum of money in news-
paper advertising, we take this method of sending into
each district a certain number of free portraits to desirable
patrons, as we find that by this system we obtain better
value for our outlay, since everyone who possesses one of
our pictures invariably recommends us to their friends
and acquaintances; and we are assured that one of our
soft and lovely portraits placed in your home will be of
mutual advantage, and that its recommendation will
become more profitable to us than through other means
of advertising.
We employ a large staff of first-class artists. Our work
adorns the walls of many of the best homes in Australia,
and to the best of our belief there is not another firm that
employs in photography nearly as many artists, or who
are like ours, equally competent to work in crayon, pastel,
monochrome or Indian ink, on opal, opal paper, or canvas
from any photo., whether carte, cabinet, tin-type, com-
mon glass or copper-plate.
The regular charge for this kind of work is forty-five
shillings (455.) per portrait without frame, but as stated
this offer is made as an advertisement and must be
accepted by you, or someone known to you, within one
month. If an extra picture is required it will be charged
according to our price list. We reserve the right to
check the supply of free portraits at any time, and will
only recognise bona-fide residents.
Kindly write your name and full address on the back of
the photo, you wish done, which will be returned to you.
Should you desire any alteration or improvement made
in the clothes, position or expression of the picture, please
state so distinctly on the back of the order form. —Yours
faithfully, , Manager.
• « •
The announcements of the various firms in the
trade are so much alike that the above may fairly
do duty for the lot. The offer it contains looks so
munificent that the average credulous individual
sends in his own, or his wife’s, or some other
relative’s portrait to be enlarged without delay.
He presently receives an acknowledgment which
convinces him that he has successfully passed the
inspection of the bowelless company, and has
proved to be just the kind of “ desirable
patron” that it was looking for. The cus-
tomer has probably never been regarded as
“desirable” before, and the sensation is gratifying.
He explains the “alterations in clothes, position
or expression ” which he wants, and the company,
apparently, is willing to do anything—even to put
an entire fresh suit on the portrait, and insert
hair, if it happens to be bald. The reply generally
begins something like this :
Dear Sir, —We hereby acknowledge receipt of your
photo, which will make a splendid enlargement
The ordinary victim takes this, not as a circular,
but as a private and personal compliment. Even
the broken-nosed man with the expression of a
hangman is gratified when he learns that he will
make a splendid enlargement, to say nothing of
the fact that he is, at the same time, a “ desirable
patron.” Along with the above comes something
like this: —
We shall be glad if you will now kindly choose your
frame according to agreement, and forward remittance
for same, so that we can at once finish and forward the
picture well framed, &c.
Also a slab of literary beauty like the following is
usually added :
We do not like to send out our delicate portraits un-
framed, as, unless protected by frames, they incur much
risk of becoming spoiled through being rubbed or
scratched while in transit, and, aside from such risk of
injury and consequent loss both to yourself and us, we
greatly prefer to frame all our own portraits before for-
warding them, so that we may be assured that each pic-
ture has been mounted and framed in a manner which at
once harmonises with the tints and accords with the
character of the likeness, since frames which are not thus
in unison in every detail with the portrait, although per-
chance they may he needlessly costly and very excellent
in themselves, only serve to detract from, instead of
increasing, the beauty of the picture. Your portrait is
done on hot pressed paper, head and bust, varnishing in
a soft cloud-rift background, and will he set in a pale
cream, gold-bordered, oval cut mount, which again will
be set in the highly-finished moulding, and the whole will
be excellently finished and highly polished throughout by
experienced and careful workmen. It will also he packed
with straw in a strong case, and shipped without extra
charge. Awaiting your reply, we beg to remain.
« • •
The situation is, therefore, somewhat as fol-
lows : The enlarged photo., as expressly stipu-
lated in the circular, is to be framed in a manner
worthy of its surpassing beauty. The only kind
of frame that is at all equal to the occasion can be
obtained from the company and from no one else
under heaven. The portrait is free, but the frame
isn’t, and if the frame isn’t bought and paid for
there won’t be any portrait. Also, the original
photo.—which may, perhaps, be the only existing
memento of a deceased friend—is in the company’s
hands. That unholy embodiment of original sin
also sends along its price-list of frames for the
purchaser to choose from. The frames on the list
now before us vary in price from 255. fid. to £2
10s. The latter article is described with much flow
of soul as follows :
A richly-chased three-inch Reeded Oak, neatly carved,
carefully stained and polished, with one-inch steep gilt
lining, making a very choice four-inch frame, showing the
picture to .the best possible advantage, with a deep-sunk
gold bevelled mat, finished ready for hanging. This frame
will match any furniture. Size, 24 x 21.
# # #
When the portrait arrives there is nothing about
it to justify all the enthusiasm that slops over so
profusely in the company’s circular. It is as
cheap, as commonplace, and as ordinary as any-
thing in the portrait line well can be. It is impos-
sible for the uninitiated person to absolutely
assert that the “ regular charge ” may not be 455.,
as stated, but nothing can hide the common, three-
and-ninepenny expression which glares forth from
every separate inch of the alleged work of art.
Also, the frame is own brother to the portrait, and
the two combined are worth some indefinite
amount under 20s. At the lowest estimate it is
safe to assert that the company makes twice as
much profit out of the gratis photograph and the
frame as the ordinary artist does out of the por-
trait and frame which he supplies in the customary
straightforward way at trade prices. The in-
sufferable assumption of conferring a special
favour on the individual who receives the cheap
object is thrown in without any extra charge what-
ever. This assumption, however, does enormous
service to the company. The average customer
rushes for the portrait as everybody always does
rush for whatever is to be obtained gratis. Then,
simply because the portrait is gratia, he lacks the
courage to throw the “ contract ” at the miserable
vendor’s head when the revelation concerning the
frame is sprung upon him. But even if he should
do so the photographic genius incurs no loss. That
individual’s real business consists solely in trading
off his wooden frame, and he does nothing until the
money for that article comes to hand. If it comes,
the portrait is perpetrated like any other crime ;
if it does not arrive, neither time nor labour has
been wasted.
* « •
In the circular above quoted, the company sets
forth that it “ reserves the right to check the
supply of free portraits at any time.” Up to
date, it is gratifying to note that it hasn’t, so far
as can be ascertained, exercised this right. In
England and the United States, however, the
supply of free portraits has lately been checked
somewhat by the police. The circular also
states that “only bona-fide residents” will be
recognised, but, so far, the free portrait men
have cheerfully recognised everybody, so long
as the frame was paid for. The business is
apparently as utterly devoid of conscience as
the bill-of-sale trade ; it is not highway robbery
in the strict sense of the term, neither does it come
under the head of bushranging, but it is a kind of
poor and watery relation to both of them. It is
only another aspect of the great art of cultivating
the field of human credulity. Nine-tenths of the
human race never learns, and apparently never
will learn, that nothing is ever given for nothing,
and that every new individual who proposes to
give something for .nothing is only some new
variety of a liar and a humbug. Even the
gospel isn’t free; there is invariably a col-
lection at the door. The world has had a
lengthy experience of the artist who sells
purses containing alleged half-crowns for six-
pences, of the confidence-man, and the person
who gives away a work of art with every pound
of tea, and the bogus-bank man, and the three-
card man, and the fortune-teller, and the church
bazaar, and many things of the same order, but it
never learns anything. It has been swindled
every time, but it is always ready to be swindled
again, and always willing to believe that a busi-
ness firm can live by giving away its goods gratis,
and that it is quite likely to make the attempt.
# # #
Recently an advertisement was inserted in the
daily papers inviting anybody who had had “un-
satisfactory dealings ” with the free-portrait fiends
of Australia to send in particulars of his experi-
ence. The replies arrived in shoals, and all the
varied dealings of the many writers were unsatis-
factory. Up to date no person has been heard
from whose dealings were otherwise than unsatis-
factory. The accursed picture frame of the
various companies engaged in the free-portrait
business seems to be weighing on the chest of the
entire population. Under these circumstances, it
is high time the authorities took action. In the
United States the law has exploded the trade by
the simple process of blocking all letters addressed
to the gladsome photographers, and if it were not
that Australia is the Paradise of all sorts and
varieties of quacks, a similar method would
speedily put an end to it in this country also.
Pi’emier Dihbs says he “ never attends a
glove-contest or a hanging.” We can understand
him never attending a hanging—after the Mount
Rennie affair.
Acting-Governor Madden was in full fig at
the Parliamentary Prorogation. The Governor’s
coach, plastered phlunkies, Mr. and Mrs. Mad-
den looking out of the windows, and bowing to
their loyal subjects, escort of a troop of Hussars,
and Hartley Williams grindinghis teeth—-at home.
One step towards the manufacture of our own
Duff. Apropos, Hartley Williams now smokes
the Havannah of peace, and figured at the Mel-
bourne Club banquet to Chief Justice Madden.
Cowper’s patent “Kill Scrub,” sold by
the Kill Scrub Co., of Victoria Arcade, Sydney,
is the latest idea for clearing land. This lotion is
mixed with water and sprayed on to the vegeta-
tion, and is guaranteed to utterly destroy prickly
pear, Bathurst burr, brushwood, thorns, scrub,
and weeds of all kinds; also, it is fatal to white
ants and other kinds of ants, and makes the cock-
roach and the locust give up the ghost, and kills
caterpillars and all other varieties of insect life.
At the same time it does no injury to grass. It is
strongly recommended for use indoors as well as
out, especially in old houses where animal life is
plentiful.
In August, 'B2, an Adelaide man insured
his life with the Australian Mutual Provident
Society (Table A) for ,£750, but ceased paying
premiums in Feb., ’B7, up to when he had paid
only \\ years’ premiums, in all £7B 15s. He died
in June, ’92, when his widow found on application
at the office that owing to the annual distribution
of profits, the large bonuses declared each year,
and the liberal surrender value allowed, the opera-
tion of the non-forfeiture regulation had prevented
the policy from becoming void, and that, although
no premiums had been paid for 5| years, the assu-
rance was still in force, and she was entitled to
receive an amount greater than the original sum
assured. The case is thus summarised
Original sum assured £750 0 0
Bonus additions 215 8 0
£965 8 0
Less premiums advanced lor 5} years
with interest 131 0 7
Amount paid to widow .. £834 7 5
The amount over and above the sum assured paid
to widow exceeds the actual premiums paid.
GLADSTONE AND THE L.O.L.
Ten thousand Orangemen went o’er to try to bluff old
Bill,
Assured him they would have to break the peace,
Unless he stopped his wicked game. “0, that’s all
right,” smiled Will,
“ I’l send you o’er a dozen more police.”
R.S.


Pure Havana fillers—G NUN Darlings.
Be a swell and smoke G N XI N Darlings.
In the train, smoke G N U N Darlings.
A home comfort—G NUN Darlings.
<£49,460 worth for <£l,
G N U N Darlings. G N U N Darlings.
Darlings.
See Amusement
Column.
Beware—This Water is Poisoned.
Potts Pointers delight in G N II N Darlings.
At Woollahrayou can buy G N U N Darlings.
PEMELL’S
SNOW-WHITE
ROLLER FLOUR.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON:
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking*, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is- 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, Sc c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS —Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney ; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide ; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co,,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Marion Lee.
[ FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
To “The Wanderer’s Rest,” at the foot of the
Rise,
Where the ranges grow purple when evening
dies, . ,
Came troopers, hard-riding, all dusty and brown,
On the trail of a bushranger, hunting him down.
And they carelessly talked as they went in to sup
About riding again when the moon should be up ;
And they spoke of their errand whilst sipping
their tea
To the inn-keeper’s daughter, to Marion Lee.
With lips that grew white she pretended to smile,
Yet she stilled the wild beat of her heart all the
while,
Then she stole from the room and she stole from
the house,
With the speed of a bird and the tread of a mouse.
For the man whom they sought with a price on
his head
In days that were gone she had promised to wed,
And criminal though now, alas ! he might be,
Btill true to her lover was Marion Leo.
She knew where ho lay, not a mile from them
then,
In a cave in the hills, like a fox in his den,
And to warn him of danger while yet there was
time,
The spur of the ranges she started to climb.
Through the black bush she hurried, a phantom
in white,
Till the cave-mouth was reached where it yawned
to the night.
There in fever’s delirium tossing was he,
And he babbled a name—it was Marion Lee!
“They will take him ?’’ she cried, as she trembled
with fear,
‘“lf they find him unarmed and insensible here.”
And she thought of their words, as they went in
to sup,
About riding again when the moon should be up.
But with danger Loye’s ready resources awoke,
She wrapped herself round in the bushranger’s
cloak!
But liis hat on her head, loosed his horse from a
tree,
And away to the ranges rode Marion Lee !
When the bush in the moonlight grew ghostly and
gray,
The troopers rode out on the trail of their prey.
In silence their road at a gallop they took,
And never drew rein till their leader cried,
“ Look ! ”
On the crest of the rise where the sheoaks are
bare,
Was the bushranger riding his coaly-black mare ;
By the star on her forehead they knew it was she,
But they guessed not the rider was Marion Lee !
Ere a shot could be fired the figure was gone,
And the echo of hoofs on the night-wind was
borne.
With a shout of dismay and a volley to boot,
Up the slope went the troopers in angry pursuit,
And there was the bushranger, riding full speed,
In his cloak and slouch hat, on his coaly-black
steed ;
But the mare had a start and once galloping free,
“Let him catch us who can ! ” whispered Marion
L°e.
Not a shot did they fire, that resolute five,
For "twas double reward if they took him alive;
So they rode with set teeth, and they spurred
with a will,
And the mare and her rider ahead of them still!
Through the tanglefoot scrub, by the misty
lagoon,
Through the shadowy bush in the light of the
moon.
On, on, to the hills that look out to the sea,
Her work all but ended, sped Marion Lee.
For at length, when the dawn broke across the
Divide,
And the horses ran lame with that terrible ride,
When decoyed by a woman, true-hearted and
brave,
The troopers were miles from the bushranger’s
cave,
One, cursing, drew trigger—alas ! he aimed well,
For she reeled in her saddle an instant, then fell.
When they sprang from their horses their pris’ner
to see—
They looked on the dead face of Marion Lee !
So the story is told of that terrible ride ;
How a bushranger’s sweetheart, in saving him,
died.
And they say that he vanished, like mist from the
ground,
And that never again was a trace of him found.
Bat the bushmen who live in the ranges declare
That a figure is seen on a coaly-black mare
Of a night, when the moon is up, galloping free,
And they say ’tis the ghost of poor Marion Lee.
BERNARD L’ESPINASSE.
Melbourne.
Lady Gore is a third shareholder in Bris"
baile Courier. Gailey; the architect, and Buza"
cott, its editor, are the other members of the Co.
Editor Bulletin, —lt is pretty well
authenticated that Cooley, the last man to suffer
the death-penalty, in Tasmania, was hung, not
by the Sheriff, but by a man named Smith who,
at the time, was serving a term for brutally
assaulting a constable, and was rewarded for the
man-butchery by having a pretty substantial
period of his servitude remitted. —Yours, F.L.
Among other Northern potentates, multi"
millionaire Tyson was interviewed by Miss Shaw,
of the Times, in her Queensland quest. The
Times representative invited James to share her
engaged carriage on one of the Queensland lines;
he acquiesced, and supplied information anent
tilings pastoral, classing the land laws of N.S.W.
as the worst, and those of Queensland as the most
progressive in the Australias. Some time after
Tyson described the Times penlady as “a fine,
clever, outspoken (sic) girl of about forty.” One
item which excited his admiration was the fact
that Miss Shaw’s luggage consisted solely of a
portable hand-bag. “I am the simplest man in
Australia!” said the cattle-king, concluding the
interview. That word simple is an ambiguous
adjective.
Poisoned Water.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
They were “scabs,” and Dick told them so,
straight. They were camped in an old, deserted,
boundary-rider’s hut in the N.S.W. back-blocks
when Dick and I rode up. We hobbled our nags
and put the billy on—at least I did while Dick
conferred with them. He used moral suasion at
first and spoke to them asmen,butwhenoneof them
relegated the Shearers’ Union to Tophet, Dick used
language as reported above, besides making re-
marks such as you hear at prize-fights. He also
mentioned that he could knock more wool off with
a stick than they could shear, and finally explained
that he could supply them in two rounds with
enough misery to last them a fortnight. But they
evidently didn’t want any more misery, so he
came and sat down to his tea.
These fellows were terribly hard-up—for black-
legs. They had old bags for blankets, and only a
billy of water and a johnny-cake each for supper.
We would teach them a lesson. We had just cut
out at a shed and had plenty of money, and con-
sequently plenty of .tucker, _ which we, spread out
temptingly right under their greedy eye's. What
few luxuries we had, we didn’t hide under a
bushel. No, we sat down and ate and drank, and
never asked those two blacklegs to have a bite. I
don’t know how we did it, but we did. It was
the hardest thing I ever did, I have performed
some tough jobs.
While we were eating, one of them suddenly
clapped his hand to his mouth, ran out of the hut
violently sick, and the other followed suit. Dick
was going out to sarcastically warn them against
eating so many luxuries in future, but I wouldn’t
have it, they seemed so very ill.
After tea, Dick took his gun and went down to
the water-hole after ducks, while I stayed in the
hut, utterly ashamed of myself for having treated
those poor devils so badly. Of course, it was
drinking that greasy water unboiled that had
made them ill. While I thus ruminated, Dick
entered the hut with a face ghostly white, and
fairly dragged me down to the waterhole. “My
God !” he yelled, pointing across to the other side.
“ Why didn’t we see that before ?”
I looked and saw these words in big black
letters on a board nailed to a tree :
In five minutes we had our horses up and saddled
ready to take a blackleg each into the nearest
town twelve miles away. I’ll never forget the
look of those fellows when we told them the water
was poisoned. One of them seemed to have great
presence of mind, though, considering his posi-
tion. “No,” he said, “it will be —ooh !-quicker
for you two to go into the town and send a doctor
out as soon as you can. If we all go—ooh ! —we
might all peg out. I couldn’t —ooh ! —sit a horse
now, and perhaps—ooh ! ooh !—you might get ill
afore you get that far. God bless you, mates, but
go quick or—ooh ! —you’ll never see us again alive.”
We never have. Also, we haven’t seen them
dead. We were both very sick when we reached
town, but the doctor, who owned the station, told
us we were not poisoned, and neither was the
water, as there wasn’t a rabbit within a hundred
miles. When we got back to the hut we found
two bag-swags and a bottle with some black ink in
it just below the signboard. Two or three back
tracks came into that waterhole, and those fellows
knew them well. Also, all our tucker and blan-
kets and Dick’s gun had evaporated.
A man wants to keep more than one eye open
on the track in Australia.
BOILING BILLY.
“Jim Toohey,” ex-M.P. of Sydney, is
said to be going to the Pope’s Jubilee, with pean
in his boots. When pilgrim James arrives
‘at the Vatican, and the Pope says, “Here’s
To’ee,”the big brewer will realise that advertising
is not in vain. By the way, ere Mr. Toohey
departs for Rome, he had better hand a <£looo
douceur to the newspaper-man, or whoever it was,
responsible for the invention of the now celebrated
trade-gag aforesaid--as valuable a property in its
way as Tiger Inglis’ trade-mark, “ Billy Tea.”
Scene—Coonabarabran (N.S.W.) Police-
court in the Seventies. Police-magistrate hearing
charge of sheep-stealing preferred by one selector
against another. Enter local medico and bush-
lawyer, drunk as usual, who states intention of
defending accused ; argues hotly with P.M., and,
becoming personal, is sent to one of the adjacent
log cells. Case proceeds ; canny Scotch witness,
pressed as to identity of certain pet lambs* is pre-
pared to swear to them by facial marks in addi-
tion to recognised brands, &c. Medico, who has
found a chink in the wall big enough to view and
hear the proceedings, witheringly to witness :
“ Perhaps you’ll tell this corrupt Court you’re the
uncle of those lambs in your arms, you wretched,
old Scotch haggis !” Silence in the Court whilst
the force adjourns medico to O’Elaherty’s potato-
patch at the rear.
Dear Bulletin, —“ Price Waning,” in
his eloquent letter to Toby Barton, alludes- to the
“ fame ”of Parkes and Griffith. He surely can-
not mean the Australian variety of fame, for these
two bebavfcled impostors are too well known and
watched to permit of their annexing any. such
national property. The inference is that he is
alluding to fame in England, for I suppose nobody,
not even the most insane Imperialist, imagines
that the hairy revenue-tariffist has ever been heard
of “on the continent.” It is just this exagger-
ated notion of their importance in Hingland
(which importance they regard, no doubt, as pay
for their adhesion to the interests of that country)
which makes so many of our “great” men Im-
perialists. Parkes, the picturesque humbug, to
clean-shave whom would be to solve the political
difficulties of N.S.W., is the only one who is
accorded any degree at all of notice by the Lon-
don press, and even he very rarely. As a matter
of fact, one seldom or never hears of them. Stead
has of late years been trying to boom them, but
even Stead appears to be afflicted only with a
vague kind of notion that Parkes and other
necessary evils are representative of a country
which, since it is a valuable customer, it would be
desirable to conciliate, and he reckons the best
available means of conciliation to be the puffing of
the aforesaid Parkes, and in a less degree the
puffing of Parkes’ fellow aneurism on the aorta of
Democracy, Mr. Samuel Griffith. Is this fame?—
Yours truly, Prom England.


The S.A. Rechabites have 6037 male, 1749
female, and 3682 juvenile members, while their
funds amount to £80,046 13s. Id.
PEMELT/S
VVHBATENA.
The Germ of Wheat. A Breakfast Gem.
All tobacconists sell G N U N Darlings.
Never be without aGNUN Darling.
Pro bono publico. GN U N Darlings.
Cool, mild and sweet. Gr NIT N Darlings.
PAIR WHITE HANES.
BRIGHT CLEAR COMPLEXION.
SOPT HEALTHPUL SKIN.
ears
”■ Soap.
TOILET & NURSERY.
Specially Prepared for the delicate skin of Ladies and Children and
others sensitive to the weather (winter or summer). Redness,
Roughness and Chapping prevented.
)..(
TIESTIIMIOZN'ILA.IjS »
B tf. LANGTRY.
“ I have much pleasure in stating that I have
used your Soap for some time, and prefer it to any
other. ”
(Signed) LILLIE LANGTRY".
Miss MARY ANDERSON.
" I have used it two years with the greatest
satisfaction, for I find it the very best. ”
(Signed) MARY ANDERSON.
Mdme. MARIE ROZE MAPLESON.
“For preserving the complexion, keeping the
skin soft, free from redness and roughness, and
the hands in nice condition, it is the finest Soap
in the world.”
(Signed) MARIE ROZE
Mdme. ADELINA PATTI.
“I have found it matchless for the hands and
complexion. "
(Signed) ADELINA PATTI.
Rov. A. WARD BEECHER.
“If cleanliness is next to godliness, soap must
be considered as a means of grace, and a clergy-
man who recommends - moral things should be
willing to recommend soap. lam told that my
commendation of Pears’ Soap has opened for it
a large sale in the United States. I am willing
to stand by every word in favour of it that I ever
uttered. A man must be fastidious indeed who
is not satisfied with it.”
(Signed) HENRY WARD BEECHER,
Sir ERASMUS WILSON, F.R.S.
(Late President of the Royal College of Surgeons of
England,.)
Writes in the Journal of Cutaneous Medicine :
“ The use of a good soap is certainly calculated
to preserve the skin in health, to maintain its
complexion and tone, and prevent its falling into
wrinkles . . . PEARS is a name engraven on
the memory of the oldest inhabitant; and Pears’
Transparent Soap is an article of the nicest and
most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable of balms for the skin.”
m.
life
2*
—*
I
s«
)
i
IS
il
Sam Chee.
A ROMANCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sam Chee he hailed from China, whioh was his
native shore,
His eyes were bright and narrow, a long pigtail
he wore ;
Quite foreign were his garments, and, I regret to
tell,
Sam Chee he had about him a most peculiar smell,
The same, I’ve heard it mentioned, was rumoured
to arise
From his dislike to water, and eating puppy pies ;
He doted on the latter, he was a heathen wight,
And ways ive think unchristian he reckoned were
“ all light.”
For instance, in his morals he was a trifle free,
And used to visit places unfit for you or me.
Sam Chee he liked to gamble, but it is well to
note,
The manner of his error was not by way of “tote”;
Fan-tan, it was his fancy, indeed, he made a bit
By fleecing foolish white men who tried to win
at it.
For be it well remembered that at such games as
these,
The white can’t hold a candle to John, the bland
Chinese.
He does not take to boxing, and “ cliket ” he dis-
likes ;
He’s handicapped in running—his boots won’t
carry spikes.
Our football quite upsets him, and boating makes
him ill.
He does not take to water—he’d sooner take a pill.
But when at “playing ’possum,” his energies are
set, •
His more athletic brother is out of it, yon bet.
However, to my story—Sam Chee was hand-and-
glove
With little Cupid always, and so he fell in love ;
And, breaking through the custom he’d followed
all his life,
He took unto his bosom a Eulopean wife.
Now, Mrs. Chee was handsome, and might have
married well,
But women fancy Chinkies, the why I cannot tell;
There is a strange tradition relating to this taste,
Not fit for publication, so let us onward haste.
Sam Chee had “plenty money,” and his missis,
by and bye,
Began in female fashion to make the latter fly.
She held convivial parties—the talk of all the
street,
Whereat there was much liquor and overmuch to
eat;
Ah Lee, Jim Duck (and lady), Hop Chow, Ah
Sick, Chum Kow,
Smell Fat, Ah Kat, Mick War Hat, How Doo,
Shoon Drunk Chow Chow,
On Leo, Kate Chuck (and sweetheart), Hart Kee,
Go Way, and all
The bon ton of the alley you’d find at rout and ball
Where Mrs. Sam Chee figured as hostess free and
fair,
Amidst the flowT and fashion she had assembled
there.
Sam dice at first protested, but being weak and
slim,
He found he’d caught a Tartar, who proved too
much for him ;
And in his woe remembered the people from the
West
Before had conquered China, and, sighing, gave it
best.
So Mrs. Chee went romping along the path of life,
Her spouse in silence cursing his “Eulopean” wife
’Tis true he was not jealous, at least there was, so
far,
No outward cause to make him as husbands some-
times are.
For Mrs. Chee, though frisky, was otherwise as
free,
From ways we call “immoral ” as—well, as Mrs.
Chee !
Chuck Duck was tall and handsome—of course, my
friend, you’ve guessed,
From such a plain beginning, or think you have—
the rest.
Your practised mind suggests it, as well as I
could do;
And though I’m very sorry, I must admit ’twas
true.
Sam Chee became suspicious, and as he watched
one night
The woman of his choice, discovered things were
n >t “ all light.”
Straightway he bought a dagger—his mind was
out of joint—
And ground the deadly weapon unto a cruel
point.
Forthwith his plans concocted and bland of
manner he
Went out and met his rival and asked him in to
tea !
The unsuspecting victim he tied his pigtail up,
And went to Sam Chee’s mansion where roasted
pig and pup
And dishes strange and foreign and comfits queer
and sweet
Were laid upon the table for all the three to eat.
They stuffed themselves in silence, Sam Chee was
watching close,
He saw beneath the table her foot upon his toes,
He saw their secret glances, he smiled upon his
wife,
And asking, “Please excuse me!” he went and
got his knife! !! !
“Ha, ha, thou perjured villain!” he shouted in
Chinese—
Chuck Duck perceived the dagger and fell upon
his knees,.
While Missus Chee, in anguish I would not dare
to paint,
One fearful shriek emitted and fell into a faint!
Sain Chee he caught his victim—the reader please
will note —
He did not grasp his pigtail, he held him by the
throat;
Then high the knife he lifted above that victim’s
head,
And in a tone of hatred, of deadly kind, he said :
“You plully China luffian, look here, so help me
Joss !
No allee same you take her, I cut you tloat
acloss ”!! !
Chuck Duck, I guess he “savveed,” at any rate
Sam Chee
Is still unhung and also is fat as fat can be.
On pots and pots of money they say of late he’s
struck,
Nor doth his partner “ blue it,” for she is Mrs.
Duck !!
EDWIN J. BRADY.
Love, Wife, and.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Already I hate her! What am Itodo ? How
shall I live with her?’’
They had been married less than twelve hours.
No wonder I was startled.
“ What do you mean?”
“ Just that.”
“ But, in the name of God, why then did you
doit?”
“ Name of God ! Devil rather, for he only
knows. I could not stop short of this even had I
wished—and I don’t know that I wished.”
And what of her? She found it true, soon
enough. For, though never physically ill-using
her, he could hardly have treated her worse, had
they been ill-mated for years.
He had told her that she was his second—
victim. I had almost said “love.” Perhaps he
was right, but
Therefore she could not hope his love to be all
she might expect. But she was the only woman
he then “loved.”
And of this first love ? Dead. Found drowned-
They were not to be married. He didn’t wish it-
The second? His wife? Dead, too. Desertion,
broken heart, or— — Well, dead, at any rate.
And the end is nob yet. For he, in a few days,
is to be again married. And number three?
Yes, she knows all. But she will go on. Says
she has no choice. Fascinated ?
Brute or maniac? Well, I don’t know, but to
me and others (these things alone excepted) he has
been brother and true friend.
SIGMA.
Ten to one that every second occupant of
a cab you meet in Brisbane, nowadays, is an
officer of the Flood Relief bureau. Watch the
item, “ Cab-hire,” when they publish the balance-
sheet.
Curious that, speaking generally, doctors
and lawyers, whose professions are the two most
rigidly protected and most securely fenced round
with privilege, profess to be Freetraders from
conviction.
Sidelights on French legal customs abound
in the Panama trials. The Judge handled the
prisoners, in cross-examination, with the utmost
freedom, and every now and again broke into
apostrophe ; “ Ah ! the newspapers were bribed ;
but, gentlemen of the jury, that is not peculiar to
France —the newspapers are bribed everywhere.”
All this, not in summing up, but in the midst of
the evidence.
Dear Bulletin, —The gold found on
Campbell’s run, in Victoria, in the forties, was
not sold to Frederick Walsh’s father, but to a
Melbourne jeweller named Brentani. Mr. Sabel-
berg, the Melbourne attorney, who is Brentani’s
son-in-law, will confirm this, and all the histories
agree upon the point.—J.L.E.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
A certain N.S.W. stuttering, sportinn
Anglican parson was lately approached and ton’
aered half-a-crown in the presence of a crowd b„
«4r e S P lder >” , a , local lightweight celebrity
W-w-what is th-that f-fuf-for, ra-my
man?’ asked the sporting parson. “Oh th
ensnen’, yer know. Young Arty, Mr. S- .>>
W-w-wen m-myfuf-fee is fuf-five sh-shilling s '«
* 0h > S—? Well, you see that £f-
crown? Y-yes, I sus-sus-see it.” “Well tint
goes in there ’’ said “The Spider,” striking an
attitude and slipping the coin into his moleskin
pants. “ Good day, Mr. S .” HkUl
“Andy” Kelly, M.L.A., recently re-
marked, in N.S.W. Assembly, that if the Govern
inent endeavoured to pass the Ten Commandments
the Opposition would proceed to stonewall the
measure. As everybody was already aware of the
fact, Mr. Kelly’s remark was not nearly so
original as it looked. With the ear of faith The
Bulletin can hear the House discussing, i n com-
mittee, No. 7 Commandment, “Thou shalt not
commit adultery,” and a monotonous, sepulchral
voice from the Opposition benches droning out
something like this ;
Mr. Speaker, it is well-known I have a duty to perform
n this House—a sacred and solemn duty, sometimes sir
a melancholy, often a painful one—a duty I owe to mv
, country and the great party I have the honour to lead
(Cheers, while the orator fixes one eye on Parkes
and the other on the press gallery). I cannot heln
remarking that the hon. members opposite have
in the introduction of this measure, gone back on
their whole history and traditions—(Opposition cheers!
that is if they can be said to possess a history or a
tradition. (Ironical Opposition laughter.) Why, from time
immemorial, this measure, which they have stolen from
us, has been a favourite measure on our side of the House
(dissent)—well, with a great many of ns (loud and pro-
longed cheering)—and would certainly have been one of
our first measures if we had occupied the benches now
disgraced by these (pointing to Ihe Government) political
pirates (cheers), these miserable miscreants. But sir I
say fearlessly, that this measure, if carried, wilVgi’ve
offence to a great number cf the highest and best people
in this country. It wi'l strike a blow at freedom, and will
wound the tenderest feelings of many of the best men on
both sides of this chamber. (Cheers.) I say that the
time is inopportune for the introduction of such a
measure. (Hear, hear.) And I say furtlnr, that, the time
never will be opportune while »e, Mr. Speaker, are kept
on this side, and they on that. (Enthusiastic Opposition
cheers and Government cries of “ Question.”) This is the
question. (Renewed cheering.) The time is inoppor-
tune. Public sentiment is not yet ripe for such a drastic
and revolutionary change, as the records of our divorce
courts—the highest in the land, Mr. Speaker—will easily
show. Where is the agitation in its favour? Where are
the petitions from public bodies? (Hear, hear.) Where
are the public meetings demanding it? (Cheers.) They’re
absent, sir! and I venture to tell my honourable friends
opposite, whom I will yit help to drag to their doom at
the hands of the enraged and infuriated electors—l ven-
ture, I say, Mr. Speaker, to (ell my honourable friends
that it they succeed in passing this measure through the
House it will be thrown out in the Upper House, whose
vested interests are at stake. (Opposition shrieks.)
Knowing that high-minded assemblage, I look with con-
fidence for that justice which I cannot expect to obtain
from those opposite me, and I await with confidence (heir
decision upon this new inroad upon the liberties and
privileges of a free people. (Free fight.)
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, heating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Ei:calyptc Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. I®''“' For external use try Colkmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory. Oootamundra, N.S,W


——
UPON
Drapery.
SEEING THIS TRADE MARK.
$
RraW
Dr. Jaeger’s
-GAUZE-
UNDEKVESTS.
Cool and Comfortable and
still a Perfect Protection
against Chill.
To be had at all High-class Drapery Establishments.
Dr. Jaeger’s Sanitary Woollen System 00., Limited,
SYDNEY - LONDON - MELBOURNE.
Miscellaneous.
Ho Kicking*.
Easy Shooting, Far-killing, Strong and Well-Finished
Bre@c3h.-lci aiders.
All prices to suit Purchasers, supplied by
Cowles & Dunn,
Gunmakers,
107 GEOEGE STEEET, SYDNEY. s.ndiorti.t
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
BY
“PRICE WARUNG.”
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
HOT ISfEATHER
A.T IEI-A-IFt
T HE AMERICAN STRAW,
Beautifully Light and Cool.
3s. 6cL. & 5s Oca..
■4l
&
?
1
>5
3s. oca.. & Ss. oca.
G. H. SMITH & SON, SOLE AGENTS.
GK EC. SMITBC & S ON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
DEAF
'NESS & HEAD NOISES CURED
by Peck's InrisibU Tubular Ear Cushion*
Whispers heard. Bucceesiul when all
remedies fail. Write lor book of proof*
A.M. NAST,
♦9 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
[FREE.
WATSON's
Jt
s
/
sarey—»
■
Best ©n Earth
Sole Agents
Allt’s Brewing Sc Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
LADIES!
OLD, YOUNG and MIDDLE-AGED, consult
Dr. SPEER
The SPECIALIST, in your Complaints.
HE TREATS WITH GREAT SUCCESS.
He gives honest advice and the best of medicines.
FEMALE PILLS (guaranteed) 103. and 20s. per box
post free.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
—BY—
‘ Price Warmxg,’
Erom The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Posted to any English address for Is. lOd.
in stamps.
, } <
Hotel.
the imperial arcade hotel
(From Pltt-street to
Castlcreagh-slreet),
Between King & Market Sts.
SYDNEY,
m ■■■■;• mk
I
1
w>
xsss.
&
few
BP" IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
a la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SSWS Managßit,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CliA
%
&
PATENT
PILLS.
%
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
jufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable]
as a lew doses oT them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no "medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
srgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are FACTS testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
Asa remedv for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Auction? Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &o these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense ot oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly depnve the
patient of rest. Let any person, give BKEW.vMsCoail
Phils a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
I short time be removed.
Prepared onlv, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd." (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. ~9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere. . , ,
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
E PPS ’ S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
cromaß'!
i
niimu—— mu mu
m
m |||
wms
Wislsy: 11
I
CJEENIiESBBOTmBS [Cjf
01 \SCO* LOWJON m iV
ARtiYLEShIKS 1 ,Vj
i ' «■" r<l\A
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOB
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
Whisky
drink
“HU
SCOTTII"
WHISKY.
Acknowledged to
be the Finest in the
Market.
Sole Agent!
i T. L. Henderson,
58 Margaret St.,
SIDSETf.
A Golden Shinty
PEICE: TWO SHILLINGS.
Neatly Bound in Cloth, post paid, to any of
the Australasian colonies.
Tasmania. Messrs, fitzgerald
BROS., Launceston, Sole Wholesale Agents
for the sale of The Bulletin and A Golden
Shanty,” Price, One Shilling; Postage 3d. extra.
Medical.
MdMSSm&M
DR. LUTHER B. TYSON’S
VEGETABLE CURE
FOR
DRUNkeW"
AND
NEURASTHENIA.
Cures Guaranteed. The Only Remedy which
can betak'en at Home with Certainty of Success.
SANATORIUM TREATMENT
if desired, every comfort and Privacy. No padded
rooms, locked doors or restriction.
PRIVATE TREATMENT.
Our visiting physicians • call at patients’ own homes
and give regular treatment. No publicity.
HOME TREATMENT.
For the convenience of patients living at a distance
we furnish Home or Self-Treatment, sent to any
address free from observation.
In all forms of treatment we place no restraint upon,
the patient, he is permitted to keep on using liquor
but the treatment Stops the Alcoholic Crave or
Desire in from 6 to 24 hours.
BOOK giving full particulars and colonial references
posted free. Address (Secretary,'—
H. Franltli ml,
Scott Chambers, 96 Pitt-street, Sydney .
No Chloride of Gold or Hypodermic
. Injections Given.
rpHIS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
1 and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post Ss. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
—THE—
IMPROVES CHAMPION INCUBATORS
(SELF-REGULATING)
vi rl Foster Mothers.
MANUFACTURED by I). M. HADKINS.
FACTORY: Elizabeth Street, REDFERN,
Showrooms; 84 Bathurst Struct, SYDNEY.
m
\\\
G
THE ONLY
msm
Business Announcements.
A
PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS will now be REDUCED from
21s. to 15s. 6d. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN’S PORPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for thu
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street-Send pTq.O. and Pair will be sen!
to any Address.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, ana
suffer from bashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &o., snouia
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It,will
describe their case most minutely, and point.out,
with unerring accuracy, the. best means of rapid ana
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
K’thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen's Ho pital
Ship " Dre~J-
nought,"
Greenwich
Invites every investi-
gation as to
Us
Qualifica-
tions,
Or.
R
I.
A
&c
Legally Qualified
w Registered it
and
Send for
Drt PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
’Glandular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat* d of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his pathnts with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the Cody. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.tn. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
NERVOUS MEN.
EUREKA
\S
ELECTRIC BELT;
- -V :
%
\
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEK.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Be.t will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Bains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those hilts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a cintmuous,
mild soothing current of electricity through a.l the weak-
ened’parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cu; ed in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any othei Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paving for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a ~d. stamp
for postage.
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 9X6, G.P.0., Sydney.
o
•V
c
•o
-5©
c
O
dfs
•s*
\
r*
The bank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Liability
£900,000
1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.


Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
I ree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
■VTOTICE. Advertisements for Current Week
TUESDAY* be received LATER than 1 p.m, on
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Wlilslcy.
SO GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents:
-0
CURCIER, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Box 1034, Cr.P.O.
Telephone 073.
MAMMATT & SONS
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
-AND—
J.
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD,
Show Rooms s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOUBNE.
ATOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST OE SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EEILEST PAVEITC,
With a prefatory notice by
“ROLF BOLDREWOOD.”
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
iddress, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Put Street, Sydney.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
T he
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Brighton of Mew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, ‘Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O’CLOCK.
gILMI3XTSTER~°~ Proprietress.
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
zxj
n
4>
So
o
o
o
■f
<?•
<KAckArocK>
o
o
C
o
o
4
V
It. A.
Hervcy, Agent, 144 t'lar
euce
///
//
%
!
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
T 1. I T J-. . , ~ •*
Look at me ! I drink nothing else !
£S?“ Coupon with Every Case.
Huntington Hill.
•BBS
Knowles’ Pump*.
PARKE & LACY GO.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEERS
AND
GENERAL MACHINERY MERCHANTS,
&o.
187 & 189 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY, 3XT.S.W.
And SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA.
(LIMITED).
Bock Breakers.
Westlnghousc Engines*
TANGYES “COLONIAL”
Wood Burning Boilers.
1
tjt:
SISES.—4 to 25 H.P. nominal.
WORKING PRESURE.—BO lbs. per square inch.
BEST MILD STEEL PLATES.
Special Features.
Fire boxes will take logs from
4 feet to 7 feet long.
F itted with DOMES and
ANTI-PRIMING Pipes
Double Fire Doors. Double
Rivetted. Manholes.
Hay-street Sydney.
Collins-street, Melbourne.
r
wROO
Wolfe-street, Newcastle.
--vm -f'l? - '-
Queen-street, Auckland.
m
m
: ;
i ■■i
: 11' ' ' i
illiilijliliilfiliii
