

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST,
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS 5 EACH.
Slimmer Cup, Eandwick, December • 10,000 at 5 each-
Register Letters and Address to "GALA,” c o H. Alexander.,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
fg
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
\%
<RAC^gi,
o
p
''tx
It. A. iiervey, Agem, gs I'itt-ai , Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. VV., Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Carixoton, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS, ETC.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price,
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
TT
tl
n.
- <r
-a. j
■
o !{
THE
The Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE
Proprietor.
THE-i
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED*
FOR
VIMS
MtEAII ..
II K
lii ME It
I'lSll
t; a v i: ..
roii.ntv
SM.nTUV, ,tc. .
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
Tlie Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exqu.site.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUIiURRS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD' DAILY to ail
parts of the Colony;—
milk, ice, butter,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, aE=*a.s-ti*3r, etc.
If. I* M ESON,
Ist July, 1893. Manager.
df
J. & d. H O'W A R 33.
SoI«> A.sexxta in New South Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Simttieworth.
JtivMwvWo ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, winnowers, rakes,
harvesters, reapers.
CL.AY.TQti.It SHU IT «.* OMH UHCOUiV.
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Ele\atois; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
■■ -
immM
m
• t
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC., ETC.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINI-.S, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES.
Eull Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & O. Howard, 2802 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol. 13.—N0. 721. j
[Saturday, December 9, 1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The 33righton of KTew Sovith Wales.
A most Comfortable High-olass Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Dishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
o
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &e., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTBR ° Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
gd
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia —TC*. J. 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
F. C. IF* .A. S S 3 A XT
HAVING succeeded to the Business of LAZARUS A CO., and their Scientific System of SIGHT-TESTING and
SPECTACLE-MAKING, CORRECTS the most DIFFICULT CASES of DEFECTIVE VISION.
A Practical Optician employed on the premises for Cases of Compound Astigmatism.
Agents of the late Firm supplied with “ Specialite ” Goods at Reduced Prices.
All Rights and Trade-Marks covered. Unauthorised persons are hereby cautioned against any infringement of same.
FRED. c. passau,
OCULIST OPTICIAN. 494 George Street, SYDNEY.
BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4 C per Pair. Oculists’ Prescriptions executed in Dioptric measure.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
tr APPLY FOE,
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
GEATEF DL—COMFORTING
COCO A
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes n> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nkw Oxkord-ST., London, Fur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street. London, they are
sourious
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
The sweetest of all sweet odours. The
original and only true Essence is
Atkinson’s. Beware of Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
When of good quality Eaude Cologne
is one of the most refreshing Perfumes.
Atkinson’s English make is uni-
versally acknowledged as the finest.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E, ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTiOH I -Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark-a “ White Hose"
and address in lull
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
.‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Pibssb,
M.R.C.S., F. 0.5., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DE. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON. ENGLAND.
Miscellaneous.
Sole A gents for HENRY HEATH.
&S 3. fc*Cl.
STO#T CCOOIr
ijENRY
.TRADE MAR*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price ©s. 6dl.
A Splendid Hat for Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three migligb shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
Gr. HE. SMITH & SOW,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
;>>>:
WHAT I
C’jpio
:V$L.
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.''
Price, 1/0 ; post free.
“ Blush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
16 ; by post, 2 -
Zola’s Works, 1 0 each ;
by post, 2 - Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2 - ; by
post, 2,6. Secrets of
Nature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
- Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, coniah is 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 30; by post, 4 - Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art, of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Ur. Foote, post
free 76. Mrs. Beiant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 12.
Aristotle, complete, 3,6, post 4/-. Maria Monk, 16, post
1/9. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should be, by
Annie Besant, 1/-, by post 1,2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 16. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 16. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 1/6.
‘ The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1 6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Holliok, M. D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post tree. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTOREi
hi Four I Geeks by the use of
t)S R'ICORpV
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important dements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry if; Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
Tales of the convict system.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
BALDNESS
Cured and Prevented with
“ ;E3 .A. XT H O IX 3XT.”
It removes the cause, viz.: Congestion of the Follicles,
and provides food for the hair. 5 - per Bottle.
fg
GREY HAIR,
Wbiskcrs. Eyebrows, Ac.,
Quickly resume their own rich natural
colour with
Horn’s ‘* A cesma, ”
Non-poisonous, free from grease and
smell, does not stain the skin.
2/6 and 5/.
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
Horn’s Hair Solvent ’ (Reg.)
Leaves no mark.
2 6 and 5 - per Bottle.
Testimonials from Medical Mm Clergy-
men. and analytical reports and press
opinions with each bottle. These will con-
i in.ee the most sceptical. Prepared by
Dr. O. E. HORN, Hair Specialist,
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grimwade and Co., Melbourne,
and the New Zealand Drug Co., Wellington, Christchurch,
Auckland, and of Elliott Bros., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane,
or for 1/6 extra from the Proprietor. A valuable Treatise
on “Tub Human Haie” (illustrated), post free for Six
stamps.
NERVOUS MEN.
k
%
4
k
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTfV
>V^.V
h
H
Nj\
m
s.
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory 'Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what v- e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage. ■
Address :-VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney*
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
CiM
PATENT
PILLS
&
*
*3
4$
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain m
the stomach, sick he id-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals;
dizz'ness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveiress, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
Bleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. xne
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes, averv
jufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, an
bring about all that is required. No female sou
be without them. There is no medicine to be oun
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. H ta en
cording to the directions given with each box t ey wi
soon restore females of all ages to sound an ro
health. This has been proved by thousands w o av
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorder
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses
be found to work wonders upon the * t ,f en the
organs in the human machine, ibey strej,
whole muscular system, restore the long-losti c P aO .
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and aro nhvsical
tion with the ROSEBUD of health thei whole
energy of the human frame. These are *AL■ . an( j
continually by members of all classes of s JjiAated
one of the best guarantees to the nervous an tcM t
is, Beecham's Pills have the largest sale of any paten
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills-
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, ®J^ htn g S9
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of ’these Pills
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, jJ ered to the
stand unrivalled. They are the best - o{ o pp reS sion
public and will speedily remove that deprive the
and difficulty of breathing which " e bkbcuam’s Conan
patient of rest. Let any person, g,, - _ h w ;u in a
PilljS a trial and the most Molen
short time be removed. the
Prepared only, and sold
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. ’ D UIs), and at
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing bb
...a p.«. -««« ■■>«“"*
"KS direction, .re *lveo with >»«■ _
HP ALES of the convict system.
j Price —One Shilhng-
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy .
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly. , ■
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System —one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
tlfe other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is nob
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
witli the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress ; it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clahns of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aerainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red coveris equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres,
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public. (
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and, Sixpence per Quarter , or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to he addressed t >
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi
alions to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
K
112 PHILLIP ST SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales. •
Professor of Electro-Medicine 2s Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous& Skin Complaints,’
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions:—Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
-or Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons ha,ve wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. vin^s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
test them free,
°u W i^ r *kem one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
juay be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
**P° n Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
wealmess, should write to Dr. J. for Advice
ail u A reatment ; will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably..
Honrs Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
•Saturday— 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL YINIiIS,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
please quote this paper when writing
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. aiBBOSTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and comnleted his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXJJXTG}- TUEZESUXT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing ; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in maldng you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed, by Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
Locked Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
“(pe (Sydney feoffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young's Crescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &o.
DESCRIPTIVE,
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardena.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
Xsoft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
A'ith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening'.' Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Bating Powder.
ABSOLUTELY ITHH.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE,
53
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. C. ZEXiIDIRaiIDa-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Medical.
HXTo Cure, ZKT o Pay.
rn
m
belt
fV
'n
rrnis is the ONE and ONLY Electric Bell which will
x cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE CURED!
Dr. Pierce’* Celebrated Mag*
netic Elastic Truss is curing
oases of rupture in all parts of the
world and givingrelief to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
could befllUdwithletterslikeihese:
A Resident of London.
Mb. J ohn KiNQ.of N o. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’s Estate, S.E.,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Truss I
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. Itfitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have goto
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses.! can j ump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; it holds everything firm and sure.”
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mr. J. Tomaselli, of the Government House, under date
of December 9,1892, writes"On thellth of last April 1 got
one of your trusses and it has already nearly cured me of a
very bad rupture of about 26 years’ standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your Truss has
done what doctors and trusses have not been able to do in
26years. You may publish my letter for the good of the
afflicted.
Latest from New Zealand.
Mb. T. W. Narbet, of Akaroa, Canterbury, in aletterdated
Feb. 21,1893, says: “I received theTrussin good orderand am
glad to say itfits me like a glove, I can ride with ease, lift,in fact,
do anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses for me while I can get one of yours.”
or write to-day for our free "111 ust. Pamphlet No.
I,” and please mention this taper. Address the Australian
agents.Messrs.W.H.SonlACo..lsBPittSt..Sydney' Elliott
Bros., Brisbane; or, the Magnetic Elastic True B Co.,
*fo. 704 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Cal., U. S. A
Deafness Completely Cured t Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &0., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Write. Prof. HER.
MANN, French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East. MELB.
lERjCE’S
Shipping.
E
N GLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
1 assengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land ;
_ SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES_MARITIMES~
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
Government, calling a t MELBOURNE.
ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers* luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
16 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
os e
i
9
'
Impatient Housewife (to messenger) : “ What
Baking Powder is this you have
brought me ? ”
Messenger : “ That’s what was given me.”
Impatient Housewife (excitedly) : “ Then
take it hack, and ask for—
BATHO’S Powder, for, you know,
That other brands deceive them
With “ ads ” and jokes that pass as smokes,
They tempt you to believe them.
Bub oft my thoughts again repeat,
That BATHOS’ Powder is the best,
And I know it can’t be heat.”
(Soldene.)
«omart«
v.o
WARTY
Whisty
GREENLEES BROTHERS
OUSCOW UWOON MO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
QU, FOB A MOUSTAOHBII
Capillarine!
Tint Lightnirg Mottstachb Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, an<|
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Caplllarlne—lOs. 6d., Post Free. /
CRAIG «t 4ITKKV, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.


Business Announcements.
"CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing.
Recommended by the Medical Faculty.
A Positive Safeguard against Chills.
Make for Spring and Summer.
EORU COTTON SINGLETS (Half Sleeves), 4s. 6d-
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS (Long Sleeves), ss.
ECRU COTTON UNDERPANTS, ss.
Tills Line recommended as being easily washed,
Unshrinkable, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas, Braces, Belts
and Hosiery.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, and include in Remittance, amount to Prepay
Carriage.
Price-lists, pamphlets and full particulars, post free
from the Sole Agents:
BRAHAM & MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
fJULES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—Is.; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Business Announcements.
manufacture
WMt H-AT.SI
merc£R^L
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at oucc
PROCLAIM
THE
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
Worlcl-reno wned.!
And have taken i’l izes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s),
AND 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
0
TREADLE
AND
NEW NATIONAL HAND
Sewing Machines
BEST on EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent,
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat-
alogue with full
particulars.
5^
€IUu
6
4
Put
%
♦ <** *
o'*
Q>°
Ar <s?
y&P
*^> v
<j*
Oil,
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
SELF THREADING SHUTTLE
FOR THE
NEW HOME and NEW NATIONAL
SIMPLICITY ITSELF!
BAKER’S ENGLISH SHEFFIELD RAZOR
It recommends itself. Try one. 6/- cacli, post free throughout Australasia.
W. JNO. BAKER, CUTLER, 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWTON & LAMB
Have now Displayed,
in their well-known
and commodious
Warerooms, a
Large and Varied
STOCK
FURNITURE
Suitable for the Summer.
Verandah, Lawn and Deck Chairs, Seats and Lounges,
in Rattan, Willow, Cane, etc., in infinite variety, at
LOWEST PRICES.
GARDEN SEATS, with Rustic Cast-Iron Standards, 6ft. long,
14/6, 19/-, 25/-, 30/- each.
. A Very LARGE SELECTION of the NEW
Rush & Pith, Cane & Plaited Straw
PXJRKTITURE.
NOVEL in DESIGN, LIGHT in STRUCTURE and COOL in
APPEARANCE and USE, comprising
Occasional Chairs, Armchairs, Mocking Chairs, Easels,
Tables, Fire Screens and Settees.
These being of Sydney Manufacture, SUITES or SINGLE ARTICLES
can be supplied to order.
JAPANESE BLINDS, best (skin) quality, fitted with Lines and Pulleys, complete, ready for fixing,
6xB BxB 9xB 10 x 8 12 x 8 12x10
ICE CHESTS and REFRIGERATORS, in all sizes and best makes, at WHOLESALE PRICES.
SPEIITG
NEWTON & LAMB,
& O’OOZUrZDTZEIILIIL STIEaiEIBTS, SITZDZCT-ETSr.,
iVS
P
IK
3T;
ft
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, G-aa lHugin.es,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
JMT Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Medical.
Teeth.-a complete set, one
GUINEA. —THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, "painlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost hy other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way. and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able, to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer, ’ ’
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post fr :e on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeto tea
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &e.
Sold "by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BV
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
SNAKEBITE ANTIDOTE POCKET CASES
(Made of Strong Polished Metal, lined with
Silk Velvet).
For Dr. MUELLER’S suc-
cessful treatment of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
jection of strychnine, con-
taining patent poison
sucker, best hypodermic
syringe, two hypodermic
needles, glass mortar and
pestle, two tubes of strych-
nine tabloids, which will
keep for years, and full
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
Price, complete, —Postage paid to all parts of
Australia.
L- BRUOK, 13 Castlereagh-si, Sydney
nw
Banking.
—THE—
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON, Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head Office!—GEOßGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital .. £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital .. 1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,010 000
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
James R. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq.
James Milson, Esq.
Thomas Cadell, Esq.
Robert C. Close, Esq.
Auditors:
Alfred G. Milson, Esq. James S. Harrison, Esq
Loudon Office s-OLD BBOAD STREET.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India, and the East,
the United States, Hamburg, and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the Agency Of other Banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes, and letters of credit; and conducts all customary
Banking busier s ;.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the continents of Europe and America,
Or in India and the East.
GEORGE MILLER. General Manager.
Hotel
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SIDNEY, N.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or A • Ss. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney,
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
Board, and Residence at Moderate Charges,
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
■
3
| }
■
'
It! |
m
!
INCL US IV E Or SEPAIt A FE TA R IFF, A S I) EB l RED.
Luncheon, A la Carta, firom 12.15 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D'llote , „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s.
iS" Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may always rely upon
getting a First-class Meal.
J, CURTIN, Proprietor.


The Bulletin
JiC.nfr.r rt 1 the hriiernl Post o,[h’re, Spdnrp, for h'dnswihsion hy / oat (is a Ncvisyiaper.
V*l. 13-R0.'721*
SATU KDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1893.
Pric*. 6d.
mrrmy 9mrn f
<W°s?r//vc,
'fame,
'JI/Cfttyr
'Wm*
/f/m/w
MLBMitfit:
fUf ■/
y
ifcfitn
/Ao/ftffrj
ftjfalOljs
'£K*ri
r v#r
J^Kf
S tty
r±m 1 hi
“THOU ART THE MAN!”—WANTED, A CENSORSHIP.
R IGH T-THINKING EDIR OR: "But , sureiy to goodness, you don't ho ld papers like ours-the Respectable Press-res ponsible for the prevalenc e of gambling!"
LAW: "Wot I say is, that the printing of sueh stuff as this does more to keep alive the gambling mania than all the sweeps ever published.
editou, oin, and all your sporting news and advts, and there will be no more horse-racing"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £1 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... ... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tub Bulletin Office Twenty
khillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which yon may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city Tire Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
vi the hands of our carriers, ivilh whom we do not ivish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor tv ill carefully rend and acknowledge in the
I Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A its-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptablej.
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the Dntish
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, K.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also ; - B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d,
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid, There tvill be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1893.
The Failure of Protection.
Among all the preparations for the coming
New South Wales election it is notable that
the Protectionist party —presumably the
party in power—is the one least heard of.
The Single-tax party is much in evidence ;
so are the Labour-party, the Teetotal-party
and—though in a less degree —the old
Foreign-trade party, which still suffers from
occasional upheavals, though they are weaker
than of old, and few and far between.
But the Protectionist party, chiefly by
reason of the incubus of Dibbs, which weighs
like a mountain upon its chest, is at a worse
disadvantage than any of them. It is be-
coming every day more and more question-
able if Premier Dibbs ever was a Pro-
tectionist by conviction—or by anything
else. His tariff is only a half-hearted and
mongrel imitation at the best, but because it
goes by the name of Protection the party
which advocates that policy has to bear the
obloquy of its deficiencies. Under the
system of Government by Contradiction the
Protectionists have no reliable method by
which to get rid of their incubus without
bringing their opponents into power ; the
alternative lies between Reid, the Foreign-
trader, and Dibbs, who is neither Foreign-
trader nor Protectionist nor anything else of
a definite nature, save the old-established
Jonah of New South Wales. The one great
misfortune of the Protectionist party is its
K.C.M.G.’d leader. And, by a curious
coincidence, the worst misfortune of the
Foreign-trade party is its leader also. Two
more disastrous politicians than Reid and
Dibbs it would be hard to find.
« • •
Owing to the utter want of sincerity in its
nominal head, Protection has never got to
be firmly established in New South Wales,
and its prospects in the next Parliament are
exceedingly indefinite. Probably the best
thing that could happen to it—the thing
above all others that would speedily make it
a permanent institution—would- be another
three years, of Foreign-trade supremacy.
Hitherto the luck lias been mostly xvith the
Foreign-traders. They look back proudly to
the old boom days—the days when the popu-
lation was increasing by leaps and bounds,
and money was comparatively plentiful, and
work was abundant, and the unemployed
difficulty had hardly begun, and land
was continuously rising in value, and
there was an aspect of gaudy pros-
perity in the land. Most of the adult
population of the province can remem-
ber these good old loan-days, which now
look better than they ever were in reality
by reason of their distance, and remember
that the Foreign-trade apostles were in power
then, and Protection had hardly even com-
menced to be seriously advocated. And the
Foreign-trade orators point to that epoch
with exultation, and claim that all that
is wanted to bring about its return is
the resurrection of the grand old shoddy
system, and the dumping down of vast stacks
of cheap imports on Circular Quay, Sydney,
Their whole faith consists of two proposi-
tions : New South Wales was, in a certain
sense, prosperous during part, at least, of the
Foreign-trade regime. Therefore Foreign-
trade was the cause of that prosperity, and
is capable of bringing about similar prosperity
again at the shortest notice.
* # #
The worst thing that could happen for
Foreign-trade and the best thing that could
happen for Protection would be a three years’
trial nojv of the old policy in its entirety. In
the boom-days that are gone, the land reve*
nue reached as high as £5,300,000 in one
year; now it hardly ever gets to half that
figure, and unless the Foreign-trade poli-
ticians can find another province to sell that
source of prosperity will never amount to
much again. Then the country was spend-
ing three or four borrowed millions annually
on public works ; the old loans hadn’t begun
to fall due then, and the annual interest
hadn’t yet become a serious burden, and
the Bnt sh raoney-’ender was still com-
plaisant. Now the British money-lender is
difficult to approach ; the 3V millions or so
per annum have ceased to come in, and, in-
stead there is a constant demand for repay-
ment, and the country has to find something
approaching £2,000,000 per annum in in-
terest, and to bear the bu den of a vast un-
employed population which used to find
work and wages out of the loan funds.. The
gold industry was more prosperous then, and
wool fetched twice its present value, and the
banks were just entering upon that riotous
career which lately ended in general re-
construction, and the province had only
begun to suffer from the curse of
foreign capital. The Foreign-trade system
lives on the garishness of that past era,
though it had no more to do with it
than it had to do with the Bulgarian insur-
rection which happened about the same
period, and it could no more resurrect its
faded glories than Parkes could put back
the universe. If Foreign-trade is going to
recall these vanished orgies, then G. H. Reid
and his followers must first be able to borrow
all the old loans over again, and sell the
already-sold public estate a second time, and
dig up again the gold that has been dug up
and spent, and generally go back and be
born once more.
* • •
Nevertheless there is a reasonable possi-
bility that the exploded nostrum will get
another short lease of life after next general
election. The reasoning process of the
average inhabitant is of a primitive order.
Ten or twenty years ago New South Wales
was a Freetrade province, and the loan
moneys then came in by millions, and almost
everybody who wanted it could find employ-
ment at fair wages on Government works,
and wool fetched better prices then, and
gold was more abundant, and the land-
revenue almost entirely obviated the
necessity for taxation—therefore, Freetrade
was good. To-day New South Wales is, in
some small measure at least, a Protectionist
provjpce, but the loan moneys don’t come in,
and wool is low, and gold is scarce, and the
land-revenue has faded because the State
cannot sell what is already sold—therefore
Protection is utterly nefarious. This is the
logic of the Foreign-trade leaders, and there
are signs that it finds considerable favour
with the country. The case against the
Dibbs Government is twofold. The Pro-
tectionists object to that remarkable com-
bination because its policy is half-hearted
and miserably uncertain. And the Foreign-
traders profess to object to it because it
hasn’t put the world back to the seventies,
and started to live the last 20 years over
again,
# • •
Yet, with all the shortcomings of the
Ministry, Protection, even in its present
rudimentary form, has done more good to
New South Wales in two years than Foreign-
trade accomplished in half-a-century. The
number of persons employed in manufac-
tures has increased, and is now higher than
at any previous time in the history of
the province, and agriculture has made
remarkable progress. Also, the cost of
living remains at least as cheap as it
was under the Foreign-trade regime, and
the appalling rise in food-prices which,
according to all Freetrade theories, was
to follow the advent of the new tariff,
has not yet even begun to make its appear-
ance. Instead, by that strangely contradic-
tory process which upsets so much valuable
Freetrade logic, the prices of many articles
which, as B. R. Wise and other theorists are
still busily demonstrating, must be vastly
increased by the new tariff, are actually
lower than before. The country’s indict-
luent against the financial policy of the
Dibbs Government, however, still holds
good. Its sin is not that it has
diminished work or increased prices, for it
has done neither. But it has failed to put
back the hands on the dial of time and to
resurrect the days of ten or twenty years
ago—it hasn’t borrowed the old loans a
second time, or sold the lands again that
were sold long ago, or made the banks as
they were before they burst, or ground up
Parkes and made him a generation younger,
and the country, which had a vague hope
that all these things ought to happen, is dis-
appointed accordingly.
The Contingent Vote.—A Reply.
Dear Bulletin, —Balaam’s phenomenal failure
as a maledictionist pales before “R.T. ’s” attempt
to curse the Contingent Vote in the name of
Democracy. A few of the statements which he
advances as reasons why it should be thus con-
demned are certainly facts, but facts which
argue with telling force in favour of the pro-
posal. His other statements are either wholly
false or incapable of proof.
* # *
It is true that the Contingent Vote, if
generally used, would be disastrous to ex-
tremists. The “ Wingen ” Abbott; the tem-
perance hog who wishes to root up the vine-
yards ; the other hog who wants to run the
country for the sole sake of Bung; the advo-
cate of general confiscation of property ; the
“ frenzist ” of every cause —be it Labour,
Capital, Drink or Social Purity —will be “left”
in the well-deserved lurch. But that is just
the virtue of the Contingent Vote. It will
effectually prevent, in the much-candidated
constituency, the greengrocer with his small
block-vote of creditors and no other claim to
support, or the fanatic with his ring of wor-
shippers, limited in numbers but not in idolatry,
from sneaking in on a split vote.
* • *
That is not to say that the true progressionist
will suffer from its operation. Which leads me
up to “R.T.’s” strongest misstatement—that
the Contingent Vote will overwhelm the Labour
Party. He arrives at this conclusion by taking
at the outset an utterly false premiss—“ That
no voters who prefer fiscalism to the cause of
Democracy will countenance a Labour candi-
date.” There are thousands of sincere Demo-
crats who are at the same time fiscalists—-
following the scientific Protectionist or the
Freetrade and Land Reform banner. These
men would all give their Contingent Votes to
Labour. In my opinion, unless Labour does
get such aid from this vote, it will go under in
nearly every Sydney city constituency at next
election. At the last general New South
Wales ballot Labour won simply because it
took people by surprise and struck the workers
while they were hot over the iniquities of
Parkes. No such element of chance will again
favour its cause ; nor can any heated
indignation at the misdeeds of old
parties be relied upon, since both
those parties (who, between them, own
and control the daily press) are wooing with all
the sweetness of a sucking dove and all the
strength of a lion the worker electors. These
latter show much favour to the wooing, and
that many more Labour voters will have been,
and many more will be, seduced from the
“ straight ticket ” is an unblinkable fact. But,
like the damsel who is prepared to return to
virtue if but her present lover would begone,
these electors would be prepared to give their
second love—their contingent vote —to the
Labour cause.
• * #
An example in point. In constituency A,
there are 1000 voters and three candidates—
Freetrade, Protectionist, and Labour. Free-
trade has 400 adherents, Protection, 350,
Labour 250. Of the Freetrade voters probably
three-fourths would be of Democratic ten-
dencies, willing to vote for Labour rather than
Protection as a second love. The same remark
applies to the Protectionist section. Labour
voters would presumably have no second love,
or, at any rate, if well organised would not use
the contingent vote. The result of polling
would be then that Labour, in addition to its
comparatively small direct vote, would obtain
a contingent vote of 500, sufficient to win for it
the election. If the Labour man were an
extremist of most aggravated type, he certainly
could not thus obtain the Contingent Vote ; but
I am arguing on the assumption that the
average labour candidate will be a fairly
thoughtful man, calculated to win the sym-
pathies of all who believe, however feebly, in
reform. And that should be the type of labour
candidate put forward. I have in this taken
an extremely unfavourable instance. But my
contention is that where the direct vote cannot
carry in a labour candidate, the Contingent
Vote can do so, particularly if the labour
voters plumped for their man, which, if sincere,
they would do.
# * *
The result of the Contingent Vote will be
that not the man who is the most popular with
a certain number of the electors, but he who on
the whole is least objectionable to an absolute
majority, will be returned. The man whom
700 out of 1000 electors can with equanimity
view as their representative is at any rate far
better than the man who is looked upon with
love and idolatry by, say, 150 or even 400
voters, but cordially hated and despised by all
the rest.
# # #
Dissenting altogether from the statements in
“R.T.’s” two last paragraphs, for lack of
space I will not attempt to refute them. It
may be pointed out, however, that it is only
strong party organisation which prevents a
multiplicity of candidates in England and
America. N.S. Wales, without sternly repres-
sive measures, will be always cursed with a
plethora of patriots. “ If Parkes, John
Davies, Garrard, Hutchison, and a host of
others have been able to live by politics, why
should not I?” That keynote of the paltriness
of local political life and the cry' oft almost
every alderman, hard-up parson, la both - -league
official, and progress-committee secretary in
New South Wales, will take years to die out.
Until it does die New South Wales wants the
contingent vote as the simplest and, at the
same time, most effective way of securing
really representative members of Assembly.—
Yours,
F.R.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The U.S. Railway Fetich.
The Victorian Government is again hankering
after that American railway “ expert” who is
to work a miracle with its unprofitable lines,
and it seems likely that the U.S. fetich
will be imported next year. One of the most
touching circumstances on record is the Aug.
tralian’s simple faith in the American expert
who is to put everything right. He is to make
all the political railways pay a dividend—the
railways which run through waste places where
there are neither freight nor passengers nor popu-
lation. He is to satisfy every politician who
wants a line for his constituency, and to agree
with every deputation, and to make the express
stop everywhere without diminishing its
velocity, and to fix up the differential rates and
all the other rates, so as to give complete satis-
faction, and to make the old rolling-stock new,
and the heavy gradients light, and to create
traffic where there is none, and to reduce all
fares, and put on more trains, and keep
wages and working hours at their present
level, and yet to grind out a dividend at
the end of every year with absolute regularity.
Whenever anything goes wrong Victoria is
firmly convinced that an American railway
expert is all that is wanted to put it right.
Yet there is no visible reason for this super-
stition ; in fact, the probabilities are that the
U.S. railway man will prove a vast amount
worse than the Australian article. All the
circumstances which conduce to his success in
his own country are absent. The art of rail-
roading, especially in the lands west of the
Mississippi—the region which most nearly
approaches to the conditions of Australia—
consists first in getting the land gratis ; and if
the State supplies an Australian railway depart-
ment with the land on these terms it is simply
taking money out of one pocket and putting it
into another. The second essential is to
negotiate a; big laud-grant or cash subsidy or
both, and these things are also impossible in
Australia, for the State can make no profit by
subsidising itself. Then it is the correct thing
to run the line right ahead through towns and
cities, uufenced and with no bridges or costly
earthworks or tunnels—to run it straight
through the streets if need be, and if a dozen
people are run over occasionally, that is mainly
their own look-out. An Australian jury, how-
ever, has a bad habit of giving damages to the
relatives of people squashed under such circum-
stances, and this takes the gilt off the profits.
Then there is no chance in Australia to make a
pool of half -a - dozen competing lines and
straightway double the rates by mutual
agreement, for the people who pay the
rates also own the lines and raise a
hideous dust in Parliament when their privi-
leges are interfered with. There is no capital
to water, no weak stockholders to freeze out,
no small adjacent lines to absorb on favourable
terms, no railway kings to get control of the
local law-courts and fix things so that it is im-
possible to get a verdict against the co., and
the railways can’t default and make a composi-
tion with their bondholders. In fact, there is
no scope for any of the things in which the
U.S. railway expert is most proficient. And, in
the mere matter of management, apart from all
these trimmings, it is impossible to get away
from the dismal fact that the U.S. railways,
with all their State assistance, cost more, and
charge fully 30 per cent, higher passenger fares,
and pay smaller dividends than those of Aus-
tralia. The American railroad expert, in short,
is only a fetish. So, for that matter, is the
British expert in the great majority of cases.
G-od and Mammon.
A grotesque act, perpetrated the other day by
the New South Wales Attorney-General and the
Minister for Justice, is memorable as showing
the latitude allowed to lawyer-politicians. At
the present time an action is pending between
Proudfoot & Co., contractors, and the New
South Wales Railway Commissioners. The
amount at stake is something like £1,000,000
sterling probably the largest claim ever
brought by a sane litigant into any Australian
law-court—and it plaintiffs win their case this
sum must come out of the New South Wales
Treasury. Therefore, though the Railway
Commissioners are the nominal defendants, the
real defendants are the Government as the
representatives of the people. Under these
circumstances it is something more than re-
markable that the Attorney-General and the
Minister for Justice should have accepted briefs
for the plaintiffs. These gentlemen receive large
salaries as the legal advisers of the Government,
and they proposed, without any damage to their
dignity as gentlemen by Act of Parliament and
otherwise, to keep on drawing these salaries
while they appeared against their employers.
They are hired by the nation to protect its
legal interests, and yet they agreed, for a
cash consideration, to look after the hostile
interests of Proudfoot and Co. — on the pre-
text that the State, which pays them £2OOO
and £l5OO a year respectively, doesn’t thereby
retain their whole services. In their Mini-
sterial capacity they are virtually defen-,
dants in the case, and in taking a brief
for the plaintiffs they proposed, in a
sense, to represent both sides, and to collect
money from both parties. Their explanation
of this proceeding was that they are free to
appear on whichever side they please in any
case where the State is not the actual defen-
dant ; but as the Stale must pay the verdict
and costs in the event of failure, it
difficult to see that it is not the defendant
in every sense of the term. The party which
takes the entire risk, and pays the bill is cer-
tainly much more deeply interested than the
Commissioners, who are absolutely unaffected
whether the case is won or lost; and seeing


that the former also pays the handsome salaries
of Messrs. Barton and O’Connor, their con-
duct, though it might be strictly professional,
looks to the common lay mind like exceedingly
sharp practice mixed with hog-like ingratitude.
The hog-like ingratitude of the thing is, indeed,
the best guarantee that it is strictly profes-
sional. The case is remarkable in many ways,
but it is principally remarkable as show-
ing what may be done by a lawyer-politician.
Still, it is gratifying to learn that most of the
legal element in the House approved of the
attitude of the two gentlemen who were paid by
both sides, and considered it perfectly in accord-
ance with legal etiquette. In fact, there are
very few things which a common outside person
would revolt at which do not appear to be more
or less in accordance with legal etiquette. Even
Messrs. Barton and O’Connor’s final with-
drawal from the case, in the face of a storm of
public execration, was strictly according to
etiquette. They did not retire because their
position was altogether disgraceful, but owing
to some obscure and wholly irrelevant side issue
concerning a revenue-stamp.
Bookmakers and Betting.
When some member of Parliament brings in a
bill to abolish public horse-racing, then, and
then only, can the great question of Turf
gambling be fairly and honestly discussed.
Bookmakers bet on horse-races, and as long as
Derbies, Cups, Free Handicaps, and Stakes
named after vice-regal persons are allowed to be
contested for by blood-stock, so long will the
betting proceed somehow. The law “puts
down ” roulette tables as instruments' of
gambling. Racecourses are instruments used
for similar purposes, and a racing-club which
invites men to enter their horses for a sweep-
stake is open to the same objection as the book-
maker who invites them to bet on their chances
of finding the winner. Up to now there has
been no serious proposal to destroy the root of
the turf evil or even to chop away the chief
branches. The “reformers” are trying, or
pretending to try, to suppress betting, without
dealing with the game that incites it. They are
not even honest in such action as they take, for
whilst these good people would prohibit book-
makers from calling the odds in public they don’t
ask for legislation against newspapers doing the
same thing. Racing clubs are the parents of
bookmakers, but the Press may be said to pro-
vide the growing family with most of its daily
bread. The horse game would be only a small
matter, confined to a small circle of sporting
men and professional gamblers, were it not for
“Sporting Intelligence.” Casual interest in
horses, and occasional betting by the general
p iblic, is created wholly and solely by news-
papers. They are allowed to publish racing
advts., direct and indirect—programmes of
meetings, latest “ quotations,” training reports,
entries and acceptances for forthcoming events,
scratchings, and' sporting notes, each one of
these items being an ingredient in the book-
maker’s life’s blood. Make it illegal for any
horse-racing news of any kind to be printed
and circulated by anybody whatsoever and
there would soon be no need to talk
about the evils of the Turf. The Turf
would wither, and the money now lost
by outsiders at the racing game would be lost
almost as freely at the gold-mining, which is
also a game of chance, wherein the players take
long odds, or back favourites, and “hedge”
when their fancy investment comes up in the
market. But that by the way. The argument
that the turf is no worse an institution than the
Stock Exchange is neither sound nor to the
point. The question is simply as to the hum-
bug (or otherwise) of propounding new theories
for the destruction of turf gambling, whilst the
horse-race itself continues to be legalised and
licensed and even smiled upon by the State
and its magnates. An owner cannot enter his
horse for a stake without publicly gambling.
The owner “who doesn’t bet” is a fiction.
His entrance fee is a bet, his first acceptance is
another bet, and his final acceptance for a race
like the Melbourne Cup is a big wager. Con-
sider the inherent weakness of the law that
attacks “ Tattersall ” and leaves the V.R.C.
and A.J.C. to get up sweeps all the year round !
The Maoriland Elections.
The one absolutely certain result of the Maori-
land elections up to date is that the Demo-
cratic Government has come back to office with
a far larger majority than it ever possessed
before. As for the Conservative-party, it has
uiet with the most awful downfall recorded in
all its chequered history. Even its leader,
“Dismal William” Rolleston, has been
unable to find a seat, and his headless faction
can only count on something like 10 or 12 votes
m a House of 74 members. The female vote,
seemingly, went almost solid for Liberalism. It
is also claimed that it went almost solid for the
teetotal, social purity, and aggravatingly pious
element in the Liberal-party, and that when
the House meets it will at once proceed to
abolish drink, tobacco, and sin generally, but
until the House meets this is mere conjecture.
I ully
one-third of the Legislature consists of
uew members, and if these new members
orm a solid Cold Tea-party there will pre-
sently be a great thirst in Maoriland. Also,
there are rumours and allegations to the
effect that Premier Seddon will presently be
deposed by his party to make room for
Robert Stout, the beautiful lemonade
atheist and ex-land-grant railway man, who
■will be practically the representative of the
woman voters of Maoriland. But even allow-
lne | 01 ’ all the possible internal dissensions
which may arise in the Democratic ranks out of
cold tea and sectarian troubles, and the desire
to raise the age of consent to 120 or thereabouts,
fcner* 6 is still no prospect of another Tory Minis-
try during the time of the present Parlia-
inent. The few ancient fogies who remain out
l the old Rolleston following are a mere
lauclful of toothless visionaries crying dismally
ni the wilderness. As a race of political pro-
phets theMaorilandTories haveproved a failure,
ter many months past they have beaten their
'b um to a dreary wail about the ruin of the
country through the policy which Ballanoe
inaugurated, the “departure of capital,” the
last-approaching revolt of the nation, the utter
failure of the new land policy, and the alleged
disorganisation of everything. And considering
that, under the system of Government by Con-
tradiction, the most solid majority seldom lasts
more than one Parliament, and the Ministry
which came in amid general enthusiasm almost
always goes out three years later amid general
execration, there seemed to be a certain amount
of probability in their story of the coming
Conservative victory. It is rarely that the
party which had a large majority at one election
gets even a small one at the next ; in fact, the
one fixed principle of the whole nefarious sys-
tem is that the country gets tired of both
parties turn-about, and only returns one to
power because it can’t reject both of them at
once. But for a Government which came into
office with a large majority to be returned at
the next election with a vastly larger one is
almost unprecedented, and the achievement of
this result is a proof that Democratic sentiment
is very real and very deep-rooted in Maoriland.
By five to two the N.S.W, Supreme Court
Judges and by 29 to 7 the members of N.S.W.
Legislative Assembly have determined that an
accused person’s refusal to testify on his own
behalf may be cited by the Judge as a fact
against him. Such a case as this may, there-
fore, happen under the law : A man keeping an
illicit appointment in another’s house may be
discovered and charged with burglary. The
accused person in this case will, if he swears
himself innocent of burglary, be subjected to
cross-examination as to his presence in the
house, which cross-examination will, unless he
confesses an offence of which he is not accused,
destroy the value of his protestation. On the
other hand, if he does not testify the Judge
will charge that as an admission of the burglary.
The worst and most experienced ruffian would
often make the best witness for himself ; the
innocent man, who had never before seen a
dock, might, and often would, as he saw
adverse circumstances close around him, exhibit
a trepidation easily construable as the con-
sciousness of guilt. There are but few Judges
on the bench whose temperament fits them to be
entrusted with the tremendous powers which, in
the first place, were in this matter inadvertently
and not deliberately entrusted to the Bench by
the Legislature. The practical establishment of
the principle that the silence of an accused man
is to be evidence of his guilt is, under all the
circumstances, a mere reinstitution of the
ancient system of trial by torture.
Writes “ C.H.S.” on the Contingent Vote :
Dear Bulletin, — “ R.T.,” in his zealous antagonism to
the Queensland Electoral scheme, fails to arm himself
with two necessary weapons—accuracy of detail and
comprehension of the scheme. In the first place, Sam.
Griffith did not conceive, or even initiate from another’s
conception the Contingent Vote—the idea emanated
from the present Queensland Lands Minister, Barlow.
Secondly, the manipulation of the Contingent Vote does
not lend itself to the ousting of Labour-candidates. An
ounce of fact is worth a ton of talk, and the large Labour
gain in seats at the last general election in Nigger-land is
a fair criterion. Again, “R.T.’s” illustrations should be
more complete. For, supposing the candidates are;
Frbbtrade, A.
Protectionist, B.
Labour, C.
Independent, D.
and no absolute majority of over 50 per cent, of the
primary votes is obtained by any one of the three, the
two candidates to whose benefit the secondary votes are
to be taken must be those scoring the highest number of
primary votes—whereby Labour, 0, has so far as good
a chance as either A, or B, or D. C’s party will pro-
bably (Queensland precedent, anyway) plump for 0, and
show the secondary vote the whole way. D’s friends may
be reckoned on to do much the same, whilst the feud
between the A and B cohorts will result in their sup-
porters availing themselves of the opportunity to “ paste ’*
the opposition candidate on the dog-in-the-manger plan
of “ If our man’s beaten you shan’t win,” by showering
down secondary votes to the credit of C and D. But,
leaving probabilities and possibilities out of the question,
the fact that Queensland Labour men scored
heavily at last election.
Melbourne Age, in one of its outbreaks of
loyalty to the Throne and Person, recently
published a leader on the universal failure of
the federal Republican system. It began the
catalogue of woe with the ancient Republic of
Switzerland, and pointed out how the seeds of
disruption were in its vitals, and it must,
sooner or later, burst asunder. Next it dealt
with theU.S. and its great civil war, and its
coming dissolution; and went on to direct a
bony finger of admonition at these awful
examples—Argentina, Brazil, Peru, the Central
American States, ajid a few others. The lesson
it deduced was that nothing on this earth is
stable, except a monarchy, and the small, faded
circumstance that the whole earth is strewn
with the wrecks of burst-up monarchies, and
that history reeks with tales of murdered and
disembowelled and dethroned kings, wasn’t
even touched upon. Then the Age finished up
by casting a stone at the Mexican Republic,
and pointing out how Iturbide drove out the
French in the sixties, and straightway proved
the weakness of Republican institutions by
making himself Dictator. Which, considering
that poor old Iturbide had then been moulder-
ing for 40 years in the tomb to which he was
hurried by his loving subjects, and even the
inscription on the stone above his grey head
was worn * out, looks as if David Syme was
taking a mean advantage of the dead man in
his anxiety to boom the cause of monarchy.
Moreover, Iturbide was a monarch and used
to call himself Augustin 1., which makes it
difficult to see why he of all men should be
dragged from his grave to prove that Repub-
licanism is a failure.
Leprosy.
Dear Bulletin,— “ Medi-cuss ” never stated
that there were 500 lepers in N.S. Wales, nor
Australia ; nor is he trying to organise a “leprosy-
scare.” The contention raised was that the experts
employed by N.S.W. Govt, had not had sufficient
clinical experience of leprosy to justify the in-
carceration of any subject on their bare opinion.
“H.M.D.” states that only 73 cases of leprosy
have been officially recorded on this continent
during the past 10 years ; where, then, have the
experts obtained their experience• of leprosy?
Does “H.M.D.” really think it just that any
citizen should be locked up for life as a leper on
the testimony of a gentleman to
the evidence of “H.M.D.” himself—could not
possibly hay© seen 100 cases of leprosy ? “H.M.
D.” further insinuates that leprosy is as easily
diagnosed as measles. The foolishness of such an as-
sertion is apparent, yet I will ask “H.M.D.” to ex»
plain how it comes that the Newcastle lolly-vendor,
several times an inmate of the local hospital—
where he was operated on for gangrene !—so long
escaped recognition as a leper? “ H.M.D.” says
“ the Maoris do not believe leprosy to be con-
tagious or hereditary nathless, immediately
above this statement he says—quoting a Maori—
My father was the worst of them. He destroyed num-
bers by giving them ngerengere. His plan was to make
his enemy a present of a mat, or some other article of
clothing that had been worn by a ngerengere , and the
disease was sure to follow ,
Yet “ the Maoris do not believe the disease to be
contagious! ” Ye gods ! The writer does
not for a moment question the medical skill
of Dr. Ashburton Thompson in general
practice. But, if only 73 cases of leprosy have
been “officially recorded” on this continent
during the last ten years (?) where did
Dr. T. get his clinical knowledge of the
disease? “H.M.D.” further insinuates that “all”
the Chinese camps of the province were visited
last year by medical experts in search of leprosy.
This the writer flatly denies. Not dozens, bub
scores, of Chinese camps were left unvisited, aa
the discovery of new cases of leprosy almost
weekly proves. In conclusion, “Medi-cuss”
again stoutly asserts that leprosy is often
extremely difficult to diagnose, and he repeats his
belief that it is a gross injustice that people
should be locked up for life at the dictum of
officials who have had so little experience as that
with which “H.M.D.” credits the present N.S.
Wales leprosy experts. Further, nearer 173 than
73 cases of leprosy have been discovered in
Australia during the past five years. The
surgeons at Little Bay Hospital evidently fear
that leprosy is contagious. All visitors are
warned against touching patients, and before
leaving are asked to wash their hands in a disin-
fectant lotion, and their umbrellas and walking-
sticks are sprinkled with disinfectant. When
“H.M.D.” asserts that only 73 lepers have been
found in Australia during the past 10 years he
shows gross ignorance of the subject, for in N.S.
Wales alone more than that number of lepers
have been discovered.
MEDI-CUSS.
“The Bulletin” Missing: Word Com-
petition, No. 8.
The above Competition closed with exactly 2600
subscribers. The missing word was “ CAPRI-
CIOUS,” and the 29 subscribers who guessed it
receive a dividend of £4 9s. Bd. apiece. The
principal run was upon the words “enfranchised ”
and “political,” and there was likewise a con-
siderable demand for “brainless,” “frivolous,”
and other terms of opprobrium. Also one sub-
scriber sent a shilling and a blank coupon—the
name, address, and missing word being all omitted
together ; and another gentleman, who will doubt-
less grow up to be a comfort to his relatives,
opined that the missing adjective was a certain
aboriginal cuss - expression The vastness of
this idea is something too great to be expressed in
words. The following are the successful com-
petitors :
M. Shillington, Stuart Town, N.S.W.
William Dorothy, P. 0., Walgett, N.S.W.
A. Attwood, c/o W. Laidley and Co., Sydney.
Duncan Cameron, Boramhil Station, Forbes, N.S.W.
R. S. P. Claye, Nyngan, N.S.W.
Miss P. Holman, Rutherglen, Victoria.
Lily May Woolcook, Grubbs S.M. Co., Zeehan, Tas.
W. K. Archer, 21 Landale-st., Launceston, Tas.
A. Hay, o/o Wright, Heaton and Co., Bourke, N.S.W,
D. Rogers, U.S.S. Co., Hobart, Tas.
Harry Middleton, Opunake, Taranaki, M.L.
W. P. Hendry, 11 Upper William-st., Darlinghurst,
N.S.W.
Miss Lucy Baker, Hillston, N.S.W.
D. G. M'Dougall, Hillston, N.S.W.
Mary Larkin, Forest Road, Hurslville, N.S.W.
J. M. Ginniskin, Goyura P. 0., via Warracknabeal, Vie.
A. Scott, Garfield-st., Richmond, Melbourne.
Jas. Hartt, Beechworth, Victoria.
F. J. Burgess, Blende-st., S. Broken Hill.
R. C. Cook, Hillston.
W. O. Russell, Hay.
C. Murray, Gurwood-st., Wagga.
John Fitzgerald, Western Advocate, Orange.
Carrie Moffatt, Primrose Villa, Chuter-st., N. Sydney,
John Hore, Junee.
Miss Winifred Boyle, Minnesota, Boyce-st., Glebe Point.
W. Carroll, 296 Sussex st.
B. H. Juergens, Tenterlield.
M. Lazarus, Temora.
Particulars of Missing Word Competition, No.
9, will be found on the red cover at end of this
issue.
An ex-schoolmistress, in Melbourne, boldly
advertises a new social departure. Her establish-
ment is for girls, of country parentage, who have
left school, and she will do her best to get them
good matches by introducing them into desirable
society. This is a common line in England, as
evidenced by recent cablegrams, and by Lord
Teynham’s complaint in the Times.
Review of Reviews (Australian edition)
speaks of Melb. Bulletin as the “ forerunner of
Australian society papers.” As the Review has
kindly alluded to this journal as a “society paper”
(despite the fact that “society” always hides it
under the sofa when it hears Anybody coming) we
take the above-quoted phrase to mean that the
establishment of Melb. Bulletin (long since
amalgamated with Punch aforesaid) preceded the
first issue of this paper. As a matter of fact
Melb. Bulletin was a miserably abortive imita-
tion of the Sydney paper from which it took
its name. It gob worse as time went on, and
was full of such things as : “ Why was Joe look-
ing over the fence at Lizzie on Thursday night ? ”
Melb. Bulletin met a fitting fate when it was
buried in Punch’s stomach without benefit of
clergy.
When the Melbourne Jury returned a
verdict of “ guilty ” against Mrs. Knorr, the
baby-farmer and infanticide woman, she fell back
weeping bitterly and crying “God help my poor
baby.” Mrs. Makin, the baby-Thug of Sydney,
made almost exactly the same remark under
exactly the same circumstances. It is a curious
thing, this development of the maternal instinct
in the woman who has lived by child-
murder ; somehow, the woman whose back-yard
is full of deceased infants almost always exhibits
deep affection, of a certain tigerish variety,
towards her own offspring. Louisa Collins, who
was hanged in Sydney for arseniously extirpating
“the old man,” also showed the same tenderness
in her last hours, and so do most other women who
end on the gallows or in its near vicinity. Mrs.
Knorr’s fate is still undecided, bub it is safe to
draw an inference from Premier Patterson’s
lower jaw she is most likely to be hanged.
Apart from Patterson’s under-jaw, and its close
resemblance to the fire-box of a locomotive, she
should have a fair prospect of a reprieve, as the
law somehow looks with a lenient eye on infanti-
cide. The woman who is quite sure to be hanged
is the one like Louisa Collins, who deliberately
murders her husband. Her action is not only
murder, bub revolt against her legal owner, and
she is hanged partly out of deference to the
Mosaic law, but mostly in defence of the interests
of Property.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ko notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
Can't say; but if ever we allow
ourselves to be hypnotised we will know we have sold our
soul to the devil. . “Owdo”: Glad to hear from you
again... “E.H.M.” (Nar.) : Thanks... “ 0.H.R,” (Tas.);
No climax to tin-story “F.“; Flat . “E.H.M.”
(M.H,): Thanks. Write again “Don”! Write them
in her album ...“A.S.”: Indian ink, the whitest of
paper and drawing-pens “Olo”; We don’t want to
hear what went through the wires. Anyone who divulges
the secrets of the telegraph-office ought to get two years
in gaol “Zip": There are three kinds of men named
William._ One is the dignified individual who is always
called William. Another is the coarse, masterful person
called Bill. The third is the joyous, simple-minded
ass known as Willie. An indefinite sub-species is
described as Billy “ Ratcliffe (Sydney); “Twelve brief
moons” don’t “come and go” with our permission;
likewise, the “workhouse” is not yet quite acclimatised
in Australia ...“0.A.C.” (Broken Hill, N.S.W.): A
spiritless tragedy and lame denouement “ Tableland ”
(Q ): You recommend “a good drunk” as a preventive
against Blanternising the girl you love but who doesn’t
love you, and you sign yourself—“ One who missed the
fallows through a drunk.”,... “C.H.R.” (Inveresk, Tas.):
our humour is too strained, and spoils a fertile drunken
incident. The Irishman and the Chinee swapped graves,
and Tim’s bones were mistakenly carried to China
“R. E. Evenden ” (Melb.): You urge the “national-
ising” of money-lending, but your arguments are too
involved for common apprehension. We extract one
gem, however: “ The great difficulty is the
blasted roguery that permeates every one of us.”
“ One M.S.” : A dismally crude idea. Only remarkable
for Rs perky cooksureness “Utah” (Townsville):
Poor’s Manual will supply a lot of the information you
want....“ Brummagem ”: Idea new to us, anyhow ...
“T.L.G.”; You want a cure for a jealous wife. Intro-
duce all your best-looking male friends to her. Then
turn jealous yourself... “Samuel Tanser”: We strongly
suspect the good faith of the correspondent who sends no
address... “ Anti-Shicer ” (Dunedin): There are too
many brewers in Parliament already, and it is pleasing to
hear that there will presently be one less. The colonial
beer politician is a horror.... “Neptune ”; A poor old
chestnut. Goodness only knows how many hundred tales
and dramas have been built on that one bald idea.:..
“ J.R.” (Milton): Two lines are as much as an infuriated
nation will stand :
“ O men and 0 women, O have you not read
Of the parson who blew off the roof of his head ?”
The balance is stupidity and loose swearing “W. Jay-
tee " : Your humour is of the primitive order, like that of
man’s original naked ancestor before his tail was worn off
through sitting down and writing to the editor...,
“F.J.”; We don’t want any more mere dogmatisms on
the mirage question. Read Mr. W. B. Christie’s letter on
the subject....“ 0.N.” : A neat idea, but “Ten years
before the might of Time’s strong arm lay low”—wouldn’t
do. We substitute a verse “ Vinegar Hill ” : Thanks.
“Y.P.”: There have been many hangings in Bathurst
(N.S.W.), but Glasson’s was the first in the present gaol
there....“ L. de Bakker”: A common fate, barring the
“ wife attracting a wealthy eye,” and the suicide. Every-
one born poor is deeply wronged from the start—and so
is nearly everyone born very rich.... “ W.J.8.” ! Verses
about the unspeakable Turk and Russia all astray...
“G.8.X.”: No demand for “joyous sheen” born of
“showers and sun” in blank verse. Otherwise, your
sentimenls do you infinite credit “ One of the Daisy-
Push ” (Melb.): Declined.A. M‘D.” (Sydney'): You
mistake. Tub Bulletin advocates adult woman-
suffrage, on logical and equitable grounds; it only ridi-
cules the Dear Nuisance who Won’t Keep Still and wants
to reform Sin after her own fashion .. “ C. 8.” (Brisbane,
Q-): No, sir, we will not now “state her exact age;” a
lady is any age she chooses to be. We call her 17 years,
3 months, and 5 days, when we feel like it .. “E.HJ). ” :
Noted “Ranter”: Old; twice sent to W.P.B. this
week “R. Fairly”: Cleverly written and humorous,
but climaxless verse... “G. O. Longson ”: Thanks
“Aboriginal” (Q.): See a doctor. That is our advice
“ Carl Villiers ” : Mosquito humour rather thin. The
mosquito lie is an overdone curse in any case “Sydney
Cove ” (Euroa): May publish “ Hugh M’D.” : You say
you want us to explain “ before you make a bigger fool of
yourself than usual.” Well, we are too tired this week,
being all broken up through getting Xmas number ready.
So ycu will just have to make a bigger fool of
yourself. . “ Farmer Cornstalk ” : Are keeping a haggard
eye on your poem ...“Shear-blade”; Declined....
“Vengis”; Only' an uninteresting bullock-driver “sas-
sing” the Almighty from underneath a dray
“Cardoness”: We are glad your hero perished. The bad
young man who is shipped out to the “Kawlinies”
because rubbish may be shot here makes a good funeral.
.. .“Benjy”: Ten lines of inferior tale surrounded by a
column of misplaced eloquence. It reminds us of a rusty
pig we once saw looking out of the window of a cathedral,
and managing to convey the idea that he was there first
and the cathedral had been built round him “Mud ”
(Broken Hill): No demand for Russian war scares just
now “George Henry”: A distressing variety
of humour and a very poor brand of pathos
“Domino”: Language fails us, but you are hereby pre-
sented, in the spirit that is, with a cat nine days dead and
a bag of mud as an expression of the paper’s sentiments
to wards y0u.... “Slim Jim”: Don’t write on both sides
of the paper. Don’t write on either side, in fact
“E.8.H.”; Wailful little poem, but the rhythm gets
wearisome somehow “Mary Ann”: You* ask how
woman’s suffrage will affect the relations of the “ missus”
and the domestic Bridget. Just the same way, probably,
as man’s suffrage affects the relations of the male em-
ployer and the he-Bridget “D. AUGuire”: Your
suggestion that summary flogging should be substituted
for fine and imprisonment in police-court cases—applying.
The Bulletin presumes, to men and women equally—is
worthy of a hangman or a corpse-eater or anything
equally loathsome “ Frank M.” (Ballarat): One good.
The other—the liver-chewing shriek—too full of blood
and rags and dash language “Q ” (Launceston): A
yarn that wanders round and round in vast circles., ..
“ Molly Malone ” (Top attic, Wynyard Square) ”: To cut
it short. There are no blinds on the house opposite. The
rest may be imagined by any overfed person
“ Fitful ”: M.S. looks as if written with a pot hat dipped
in gamboge. We have too much regard for our eyesight
to attempt reading it.
“A fool calls his mistakes experience.”
Some practical joker or woolly-headed
crank has been amusing himself by sending an
infernal machine to the Emperor of Germany, per
post from Orleans. “An explosion prevented,’’
says the cable idiot. If emperors were in the
habit of taking in their own parcels at the front
door and then throwing them down on the step to
see whether they were likely to explode, there
might have been a horrible catastrophe in this
case.
The English law-courts are now trying
their teeth on one of the most remarkable cases in
history. The story begins many years ago. Some
time in the early sixties a woman named Rachel
Cullena, having realised that this world is a
cold globe for any female who has to earn her own
living, disguised herself as a man and remained
that way ever afterwards. In 1866 she married
another woman named Sophia Newland, and they
had four children. Now some property which
would otherwise have gone to the children is being
claimed by the next heir an the ground that
the family can't be legitimate. The only possible
defence, of course, is that they are legitimate
and the case seems to hang on three possibilities :
(1) Rachel Cullena may have been a man disguised
as a woman in the first place, so that when she
afterwards became a woman disguised as a man
she was only resuming her proper sex : (2) Rachel
may have been a woman and her wife, Sonina
Newland, may have been a man ; (;i) they may
have both been women as alleged, and the case
may simply be another evidence that no one
really knows what a woman can do when she
tries. Meanwhile, the law seems to have got a
tolerably massive contract on hand.


Matrimonial (£2000). —Gentleman (2R),
fair, good-looking, superior-birth and edu-
cation, excellent Government position, possessed
of above means, desires to meet with a Thorough
Lady in every sense whose antecedents are above
reproach, with equivalent financial status. Bona-
fides and photographs exchanged. Absolute dis-
cretion. Triflers disregarded. Correspondence
invited. Thoroughly genuine.
“ IVYDENE,’ Bathurst (N.S.W.).
“Be Traist.” What does it mean?
Messrs. Times and Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Head brand of Wines, inform ue that it is old
Sax6n, and means “be true,” As such, it is very
appropriate to,their fine Australian Wines, which
are sold at all grocers’, from Is. per bottle up-
wards. Their invalid Port, at 3s. Od., is a won-
derful wine, full of health-giving properties.*
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or BY EG LASSES,
5 - per Pair.
Ihe celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Facility, IO C per Pair.
DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS,
Jkwku-ery Showrooms,
IS UUNTKK STREET, SYBM K¥.
FI!()SS.\ I!! >'S SWISS.
A. Grood. and Ciioap Cigar,
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
mi* s
V- ' * -
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CG
UN K (Sw llzerl ami i.
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They an; IpngWy.bfetfccr filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, ami you,know, yqn get the genuine
article, by seeing nur Name and Trade Mark round each bundle. ,/
: %!l£J '• • ' '*v •
Edinburgh
jr'* ariiwvai
The OidBleacl
WMsky
pinctn «ao* cm'LLiea
«*" M VftUSKeESW -«r
[?]
<G6 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
December 6, 1833.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Tlie Italian Opera Co. has certainly been an
artistic treat fur Sydney, and the managerial
policy of giving a comprehensive sketch of the
story on the programmes reduced the widespread
Australian ignorance of the Roman tongue to an
absurdity. Anyhow, a foreign language doesn’t
make much difference in opera—for even when the
characters are expressing themselves in plain Eng-
lish “no single tvord is ever heard when singers
sing in chorus.” The most unconvincing aspect
of the co. was the liberties the principals took in
front. You would see Giraud in the circle, or the
box, or meet him on the top of the steps as you
went o.ut; and the fascinating Del Torre frequently
sped through the circle and down behind (after
the part was over) in a tight-fitting bine jacket
and a hat with three long ostrich feathers stand-
ing on end.
A very charming member of the Italian Opera
Co. lately administered an electric shock to the
occupants of the billiard-room of her hotel.
Half-a-dozen men were lounging round when an
eldritch shriek arose, and when they rushed to the
door in a bunch there was a Signora, olad in a
gauzy garment, hoisted almost to Blue Ballet
pitch, racing along the corridor ; whereupon the
bravest man in the company kissed bis hand to
the retreating vision—who disappeared to a door-
bang accompaniment. Cause of the trouble—a
huge black beetle had camped on the lady’s
pillow and she had fled incontinently. What
would have happened had a mouse got into her
hath is a matter for speculation.
I sat out the Blue Ballet (for the fourth time)
a id was more allured than ever with Bartho’a
t listledown daintiness and indescribable charm
—a feeling that some other admirers tangibly ex-
pressed with an immense scarlet-and-white giant
bouquet and three beautiful floral baskets—the
first flowers I have seen go over the floats this
season. “ Turquoisette ”is an enthralling spec-
tacle from D’Argo’s first scientific twitlings (you
can’t help thinking how difficult it is whenD’Argo
dances), to the line of small cerulean infants who
wave to and fro as people move who are passing
buckets at a fire ; and if some of the ballet music
isn’t as new as it used to be, it is perhaps old
enough to be unfamilar to most people. But still
I have a little pebble to throw at “Turquoisette.”
A study in blue is all very well, but when it comes
to shaded blue hair on the shapely damsels who
spin Trenchers on sticks, as it were, I consider
that the thing is in danger of being overdone.
And, discussing—for probably the last time—
the Blue Ballet, a new and unpleasant feature is
that the bewitched, but hopelessly inartistic-souled
house bursts in with its noisy applause on to
Bartho’s dreamy floatings. High-class dancing
demands a quiet house just as much as singing
does. To my mfnd you lose half the soulfulness
of the noiseless waitings about the stage if you
break the spell with the ferrule of your umbrella.
The share-and-share-alike spirit visible among
the Italians is a beautiful lesson to any leading
la ly who orders the soubrette’s bouquets round to
the back—and when Del Torre claws out for
Musgrove on one side and Oaruson fishes for
Guerrera on t’other, you feel that here at last is a
band that wishes to go whacks in everything—at
least in the encores.
But the climax was reached on Saturday when,
at the first curtain after everybody had mercifully
forgotten the prolonged violin solo, a weird man
flourishing a fiddle in evening dress (I mean the
man was) got hooked on to the string of artists
and bowed his terrified “ acknowledgements ”
side by side with Del Torre 1 If this sort of thing
couples on, what guarantee have we that George
Rignold won’t be coming on hand-in-hand with
the limelight-man ?
“L’Amico Fritz” ought to be nicknamed the
Opera,” for it is simply an object-
lesson m how to catch a husband for the girl
whom you are interested in “settling.” Del
Torre, whose matrimonial future seems to prey
on the village priest for no satisfactory reason,
wore a pink aceordeon-pleated skirt and brown
velvet corselet, white muslin sleeves, and a
nurse’s bonnet. It suited the Signora to a point,
but I shouldn’t advise the fancy-dress girl to go as
“ Suzel ” next season.
The plump Olga Mettler made a hopelessly-
feminine he-gipsy in brown velveteen and a red
vest, but her make-up was too pale for a Romany.
Furthermore, no woman with a typically-German-
*llaped face should wear her hair on her shoulders
unless she wants to look like a soup-plate hung
with seaweed. Giraud, as the coy hero, wore a
singularly unheroic wig which behaved in moments
of fervour as if strung on wires—also his ruby
velvet coat, sprinkled with brass buttons like a
coster’s, and distinctly red stockings were a blow
in the eye, as the French say. Caruson, as the
Rabbi, was too spick-and-span for a stage Chris-
tian, but his Lisle-thread hose accentuated the
fact that ho has the best-turned ankle in the
whole company. I objected also to the Rabhi’s
umbrella a new brolly made in pea-green silk !
One couldn’t help yearning for the old order of
stage padre with the spotty handkerchief and the
faded cotton gamp.
Do you think many men wear pink silk socks?
I don’t —but I want to. I saw a rich Sydney man
dismounting from his carriage outside a Block
sh. j) the other day, and, as he stretched out to
reach the pavement—“Oh 1 ’e ain’t got no socks
on !’’ said a fearless critic in the gutter. But the
worst of it was that the hero rushed into the shop
quite as confused as if he had been sailing under
jury-masts, so to speak, for ease and comfort this
hot weather.
Which reminds me of a lively Sydney matron
who went to a mask ball (in her “bachelor ” days)
as a character with open-work socks in it. The
skirts came to the knee, and the socks were very
short, and between the two stretched a fairly
a-tonishing vista of flesh-pink limb. Of course,
there was a furious rush of partners, until some-
body discovered that she had pink silk stockings
<m 1 Any belle who wants to break the record in
filling her programme is advised to try the above
recipe at the very next costume-ball.
Talking of stockings, I mustn’t forget to warn
the engaged young man that the correct gift for the
up-to-date _ lover to lay on the shrine of Ins
inamorata is as many pairs of silk hose as he feels
inclined to run to. The charm of the thing is
that he has to steal a stocking first (the tit of
silken hose is half the beauty). By the way, I
heard of one Romeo who filched his pattern from
the damsel’s sewing- basket and sat back and
thought hard for an hour when he got it home and
saw what a big hole Juliet had let run to seed in
the heel.
Here is a perfectly true story illustrative of
what a perfect old-man-of-the-sea any habit
becomes if you only do it often enough—and what
incongruity it leads to sometimes, A certain
Sydney man had gone in for regular family prayer
of an evening ever since'he started housekeeping,
and never allowed anything to interfere with the
general devotions. On a recent evening they all
oame home from the theatre—the Blue Ballet—
and sat round listening to pa’s supplications in
Y-shaped frocks or swallow-tails, but the climax
was reached one night when the whole family
attended a costume-ball !
The head of the house had gone as a “ Clown,”
and the family of seven numbered a “Folly,”
“Harlequin,” “Irishman,” and “Dorothy.”
When they reached home towards the very small
hours, and Pa went solemnly in his baggy panta-
loons, with his toes turned in from force of habit
contracted at the ball, to fetch the book of common
prayer, the spectacle was—most devotional. But
when they were all ranged round the room and
Pa, with a chalked face and roosters on his cloth-
ing, .began to put up supplications for his motley
audience, the situation became overwhelming.
Anyhow, “Folly” got bread-and-water for a
week for too obviously realising the humour of the
position.
To beauty—it seems—all things are possible.
Tliat . Madonna-faced, smooth-haired Sydney
lyoman, whose husband divorced her under cir-
cumstances that didn’t leave a loop-hole of ex-
tenuation and whose platonic and other prefer-
ences ranged from puffy aide-de-carnp to husky
actor, has achieved another real live husband in
London ! The story goes that an English Major-
General fell in love with her portrait in a fashion-
able picture-shop—sought out the original and
married her! N.B.—This stril;-* yours decorously
as being as good as a three-volume sermon on the
folly of marriage per photograph—at the same
time, ere you venture into aphorisms on the subject,
it would be just as well to know what sort of a
record the Major-General has put up 1
I have received from Mr. James Parker (who
sends in a purely impersonal spirit, lam sure) a
bottle of Australian Hair Preserver, which pro-
bably means that the pale mixture only restores
hair grown on this continent, and which satisfac-
torily accounts for the Prince of Wales remaining
as bald as a badger even in the teeth of this self-
praising bottle. The shortest way to test the
virtue of the A.H.P, would be to give it to
“ Goody ” and let him send a boy round the front
stalls at the Lyceum with a sponge and a bottle
when the Blue Ballet comes on. He might gently
anoint the habitues, who could enjoy the Ballet
and test the restorer without waste of time.
I have received from the composer, Mr. G. do
Cairos Rego, a copy of his bright and catchy
impromptu polka, “En Route.” It is both
rhythmic and tuneful, and though polkas are such
a facile form of musical expression that the
market is glutted with two-four time, still I
don’t doubt the success of “ En Route ” as an easy
and original dance. Waltzes, however, are more
fashionable now. The dashing “Heather ” waltz,
by Miss Maud Pitz-Stubbs, has reached its ninth
edition, and Melbourne papers now speak of its
wonderful success. Miss Fitz-Stubbs was born in
Melbourne, by the way.
I was honestly sorry to miss the concert organ-
ised by Miss Pedley in aid of the deserving Thirl-
mere Hospital, and which came off at Sydney
Town Hall last Saturday, but, at the same time,
I cannot help thinking that the date was in-
auspicious. Saturday is a bad night for a “ good”
concert at any time—and when there la an operatic
pr&mihre billed for the same date the thing is
simply flying in the face of Providence.
A brand-new Sydney phase of matrimonial
horror:—
/TENT. (30), slightly deformed, wishes to meet Lady
the same ; genuine. C.S., Crown-street, P.O.
Two hare lips with but a single thought—two
humps tliat ourve as one ! The attention of freak-
speculators and monstrosity mongers is respect-
fully directed to this probably interesting pair.
Sydney’s richest baebelette had rather fan
unusual experience the other day—even fur a
millionaire j. A totally strange man demised
and left 1.-ur in his will his widow and three
children. Miss Croesus—fascinated, I suppose, by
the complete novelty of having these people coolly
handed over to her—good-naturedly decided to
accept the bequest, and subsequently paid their
passagt-s back to England. Anyhow, tier living
legacies cost her .£3OO ere she saw the last of them.
N.B.—Jam led to believe that bequests of well-
preserved widows with seven grown-up sons and
daughters will not be entertained after this date.
Also, that any moribund female who mentions in
the codicil that she leaves her bald-headed and
inconsolable widower,as a funeral-gift to the kind-
hearted lady aforesaid may take warning that her
last wishes won’t be respected.
Melbourne fashions arc generally attractive in
the main, but one I sincerely hope will be primage-
duty’d on the N.S. W. border, and that is what
ought to be called the’fashion of the Pewter Pot.
I was in a swagger Melbourne cafe at lunch-time
during Cup week when a stylish society spinster
made what theatricals call “a good entrance”—
sat down at a table, ordered half-a pint of heeah
“m a pewtah,” and drank it witli a scientific turn
of the wrist and a manner of blowing off the froth
a-top that would have completely hypnotised a
brewer’s man. Then she rose, comprehended, and
appeared to appreciate the admiring glances of
the hundred assembled feeders, and strode out
on to the Block. The circus was over.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK,
Her Majesty’s. .. “Man to Man.”
Lyceum Italian Opera Co.
Theatre Royai». “ Evidence.**
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMINO WEEK.
Princess's ~ Italian Opera.
Buou . “Charley’s Aunt.”
Ai.uambra Variety Show.
“ L’Amico Fritz,” a fitful two-nights’ pro-
duction by the Macoajroiu troupe at Sydney
Lyceum, proved to be three actlettes of unmeaning
row witli here and there a vocal oasis, a cheery
duet, the intermezzo before the third act, Suzel’s
short love-song in the last act, and the taking
little chant of “Rebecca at the Well” —all of
which the audience applauded with the uproar of
a crowd who are determined to be pleased even if
they have to pile live rounds of solid cheering on
to an item that would only get half a volley in
other company. The story of Fritz is reminiscent
of the plot of “Over the Garden Wall.” The
heroine ingenuously trips up a step-ladder to pick
real cherries (four pounds a shilling), so, of course,
she mashes the hitherto-misogymslic margrave
(it’s a German environment) who hasn’t a chance
of escape—with a priest and a woman both deter-
mined he shall run in double tackle.
f’ • #
Caruson played the match-making Rabbi
witli a visage painted like the ’orrid warning on
the back of a temperance tract. The Rabbi has
an interminable singing part without one ounce
of “ frit,” and the aitiste who lias to argue out the
question “ is marriage a failure I” at the top of
his voice for three acts becomes a brawling
weariness before long. Giraud was welcome
as Fritz, because Ins acting wasn’t so colicky
as it was the first time in the season, and
he hadn’t painted a melodramatic wrinkle on his
Roman brow ; also, his cast-iron tenor attacked
the high score as though every quaver was a per-
sonal enemy to be “downed’’with violence, so
you had a complacent feeling that the composer
had met his match, anyhow. As Fritz, Giraud
makes love to Del Torre like a man-eating jaguar
—-there is a snarl, a doubled-up rush, a lobster-
grip, and the blushing maiden falls into his arms
with the effect of an early Christian succumbing
to a tiger.
* # #
Italia del Torre simulated “Suzel ” with
much histrionic success, and if every actress could
send thp dignified glance of reproof which she fired
at the gallery for sniggering at her efforts to
water a stage garden with a dry watering-pot the
property-man wouldn’t go bald so early. Vocally,
Suzel is not a kind pare. The plump Olga Mettler
was in good form for the gipsy Beppe, and her
song gained an encore, more for the way she said
it than for the worth of the music—but the long,
drawn-out fiddle serenade in the first act was ex-
tremely realistic. All the old longings to throw a
brick at the itinerant Remenyi surged over the
audience as the gipsy turned up outside. A trio
of local warblers was tiie rest of the brief cast,
and served to show that acting isn’t second nature
in Australia as it is in the land of vermicelli.
“Friend Fritz” was neatly staged-no over-
whelming glories, certainly, but no shabbinesses |
the drop in the orchard-scene being like a glimpse
of ri ver'scenery in Tasmania. All the glitter and
glare centred in the Blue Ballet, which sent the
audience home to dream pyrotechnic and other
dreams as usual. “I Pagliacci” and “Faust,”
with Del Torre as Marguerite, end the opera
season this (Thursday) night, and on Friday (Bth)
the ever-welcome Nellie Stewart commences
a twelve-night season as Mabel in the “ Pirates,”
*m » *
It is some 10 or 12 years since “The
Danites” was last played in Sydney, and the missing
piece, as produced at the Royal this week, is the
same unconvincing story as of old. It consists
principally of two Destroying Angels, who are
ultimately seized by the diggers and hanged some-
where among the side scenes; a Chinese washer-
man who has_ no visible connection with tire
narrative, and is introduced principally that he may
be found expectorating on a shirt at the beginning
of act 4; the usual big, noble, muddle-headed
digger, played by Augustus Clover in a stupen-
dous voice ; and Maggie Moure disguised in boy’s
clothes. The Mormons—principally the one in
the faded frock-coat—are oil Maggie’s track
and they shoot her and spill her down a
deep precipice into a torrent. Then, being con-
vinced that she is dead, they still keep pursuing
her to make assurance doubly sure by spilling her
down some more, precipices. They have a tragic
fashion of identifying women in a hoarse voice by
lantern-light at late hours, when they might do it
more conveniently by day; and they go looking
mysteriously through windows where their big
round hats give them away by blotting out the,
light. Iho big digger, who has vowed to tear
these two Mormons asunder at sight, leans up
against them affably in the bar at Howling Dog
or some such place, for over a year, and never
interferes. Also, the “Jedge” grows wearisome
with Ins one observation about the “glorious
climate o’ California.”
* * *
Maggie Moore’s song, “ Two little girls in
blue, with a boiling-coffee accompaniment by the
‘Jedge, ; , is the brightest feature in “The
IMnites, and the next brightest feature is Mr,
Lb t norow’s Chinaman, though he merely washes
socks in the middle distance, and says “ hoo-lay ’
in times of festivity. As for the large and noble-
hearted digger, lie has become a weariness, and
even Mr. Glover’s ability can’t make him other-
wise. Ihe Bulletin moves that he should be
sold and two small diggers bought with the
money,
** * *
Man to Man is still all that George
Rignold’s fancy painted it, and it looks good
enough to last out the rest of the year. The rail-
way-accident shows no sign of decay ; in fact, it
grows upon the public more and more every day
as a chaste and elevated smash and a really grati-
fying demolition. The writer speaks on the sub-
ject of railway-accidents as one having authority,
and not as the scribes ; many years ago his uncle
just missed a train which afterwards came to grief
on a bridge.
* * * ik
Last week s comments upon “ Charley’s
Aunt’' were led astray by the rascally compositor.
He falsely represented the plot of that farcical
comedy to be “ exciting ” instead of “ wrexcitingt”
aun thou tho ficurl substituted u dr()wiiitit( ” foi
“clowning.” “ The idea of his (Thornton) being
an Oxford chappie, forced into impromptu drown-
mg, is never before the audience,” ran the notice
as it appeared in print. Let us hasten io explain
that no impromptu drowning is attempted.
* • #
“Charley’s Aunt” flourishes fairly at
Melbourne Bijou. Hie huge Loudon success of
the same story, better interpreted, can be under-
stood without any assistance from the aggressive
new-chuin who persists in pointing out faults in
the present performance. A pretty little
love - passage, in the second act, between
Mr. A. E, Matthews and Miss Agnes
Kmgbt, is roughly treated by the actor to begin
with, after which the lady murders it outright.
Mi ss Knights histrionic career has evidently been
maimed by her belief that she is a second Mrs.
Bernard Beere. She flaunts the artificial Beere ■
smile from first to last of “ Cbarley’s Aunt*”
Also, she tries to talk, walk and look like the
emotional actress in question, and the result of
this full turning-on of the Beere tap is dreadfully
frothy. Miss Dot Frederic and Percy Brough are
another two lovers who carry an air of unreality
about with them. Miss Blanch© Carlyle—as a
romantic ingenue, enamoured of Thornton,
yet quite unable to see through his female
disguise falls very short of requirements.
Mrs. Walter Hill has softened and improved her
sketch of the real aunt from Brazil. A slim,
elderly baronet is a satisfactory character, whilst
the part of a dreadful old guardian, with secret
tendencies to giddiness, would give Harwood a
chance to strengthen the company if called upon
to do so Indeed it is sad to see the veteran look-
ing after things in front of the house when lie
might be so valuable upon the stage. Thornton
plays his 75 per cent, of the fun with a humour
that increases as he grows accustomed to his blaek-
satin dress, and by the time “ Charley’s Aunt”
gets to Sydney it may be worked up to a boom.
Meanwhile they have another fortnight for ixiakirg
hay at the Bijou,
** * *
Saturday’s revival of “Diplomacy,” at the
Princess’, was interesting on account of changes
in the cast of that iiigenious row about nothing.
“Diplomacy ” itself is a hollow attempt to mag-
nify the importance of embassy papers. The
plotting of those people who are either for or agiix
the Russian Government is as deep and crafty as
an old melodrama detective. For acting purposes
it is a great play, nevertheless. Boucicaiilt’s
Baron Stein is a fine, picturesque strategist of the
Guy Fawkes type, deputed to scowl ominously
in the service of the Czar. Perhaps there
are such men in the world of diplomacy
—which is a world of sassiety affectation
and semi-military frill—but in commercial circles
Stein would be reckoned a darned fool of an afclr-
decejver. You can see the fellow plotting with
his shaggy eyebrows a mile away. Mrs. Brough's
attempt to manufacture a British brand of
Countess Zioka, the woman who always Knows-
where to put her hand on a paper, must be written-
down a failure, utter and complete, but Cecil
Watd, as Captain Beauclerc, was undeniably
strong when he didn’t talk too loudly or go right
off mto hysterics. Miss Henrietta Watson rose
to the height of a triumph in her indignation.
She thrilled the audience with the' passion of her-
“don’t touch me!” and her 1 subsequent illogical


New York Life Insurance Company.
ESTABLISHED 1815.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... J 528,292,016
Surplus, Ist January, 1893 ... ... ... ••• 3,457,808
Progress of the Company in. 1892.
INCREASE in benefits to policy-holders .. .. .. .. urn,no
INCREASE in ASSETS .. .. •• •• •• •• •• 2.310.035
INCREASE in SUPLUS .. .. •• .. .. .. .. 342,371
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN .. •• •• •• •• 4.308,0«0
INCREASE in INSURANCE IN FORCE •• •• ■■ 1‘2,370,722
The increase during the year in amount of insurance’ in force is larger, l»y over *6$.(•00,000, than
' ln gain of any other Company in the vot’d.
JOSIAH lIlWEiiTi, General Manager. Department of Australasia.
Chirf (tfljrr ; linud Street (fimnhrrs, .
Your Xmas Shopping*!
DO IT WITH ITS.
Whether you live at the uttermost ends of Australia nr reside next door makes no difference
it will pay you to get ' *
finery
YOUR XMAS TUCKER ! ITOXJXFt XMAS
A PRESENT FOK IOUIt BEST tiIKJL;
TOYS for the KIDDIES, and TOBACCOS for the Hale members of the Flock, from
OUR WONDERFUL STORE!
ALL WE ASK IS
SFOT CA RTT .
In return for which we pass over, in any of the world’s commodities required more bv SevssH
five per cent, than any other firm m Australia. It’s a fact, Boss; ask ’you? lady 7 if*™ 7
Country Orders for Xmas supplies should reach us as early in December as possible.
Our Onry Address j TT
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
li t IMZ I /(/»/•;/' (ONLY). Si nXEr,
U IST X VERBAL PBO VID IE JR, Q
(Close to the Railway Station.)
grief when she found that her husband, having
obeyed instructions, had left her to shudder alone.
For the rest, Brough, as Orloff, was still wearing
the chocolate-coloured pants that he has unhappily
identified with the character.
*****
The Alhambra variety show goes on vary-
ing in a satisfactory manner. The Gaiety is open
every night of the week, including Sundays, and
the prosperity of Exhibition Concerts remains
Unabated. Also f itzgerald Bros, are paralysing
the more polite of Melbourne’s suburbs with circus
and menagerie, it being their intention to camp
around the outskirts of the city and draw crowded
tents for another fortnight, after which they move
to Adelaide. The lion-tamer, who was so much
devoured by the king of beas’s, has recently left
the show. A new tamer is taking on the job, and
Up to the present he hasn’t lost more than two
ounces of flesh altogether. The two ounces re-
ferred to were eaten by the lions off their master’s
hand—a striking evidence of docility.
** * *
To-night (Thursday), the B. and B, com-
pany give orle successive performance of “ Dandy
Dick ” ; to-morrow, they farewell to Melbourne
in a great programme. On Saturday the Italians
Come back to tho Princess’ for the purpose of
singing “Pagliacci” and “Gavalleria” at one
pop. Tiiat is to say, the two operas will be hence-
forth presented on the one evening, without (alas !)
any Blue Ballet whatsoever.
At Poverty Point.
A fascinatin'? barrister and Guvmentouse-voung-man
who has long yearned to face tlie footlights, has now’
determined upon the expedient, returned all his briefs
and may at any moment startle the world. Unrequited
fove ?
Dear Bulletin, —That drinkingsongin “ Caval. Rusti.”
fills its place in the scheme of the opera, and why call it a
“palpably weak spot?’’ It is tinklv, but bright, and
Strictly original. You wouldn’t surely have a grand,
full-bodied song in praise of Sicilian wine ! The composer
Suits his melody to his subject.—Yours, Liquorini.
W. Carlton Dawe, “an Australian novelist and poet,”
figures as author of a farcical comedy at Terry’s Theatre
recently. Mr. Dawe,- it seems, has published two Aus-
tralian Stories,- “Mount Desolation” and “The Emu’s
Head,” both of which he threatens to dramatise. Who iff
Mr. Dawe ?
“Besides ‘The Tempter,” Haddon Chambers ha*
finished a new play intended for America,” says Melb-
Standard. And besides “Pagliacei ” Gilbert and'Suliivan
have written a new comic opera for the Savoy Theatre.
The author of “The Tempter” is Henry Arthur Jones.
A mild sensation was rippled in the Melb. theatrical
world the other day, by Ih ■ auctioning of Edwin Palmer’s
wardrobe—“ retiring from business,” as per advt. The
wonder was that any pro. should have so many props,
these times.
Mark Lemon’s son earns to Me’b. as a humble member
of Garner’s cr.fli'dy 00., including Fred. Marshall-
Poor Lenion, who siuck another “m” in his name, acted
the flunkey in “Friends.”
Once the pantos, are fairly launched, J. C. Williamson
goes to Europe in search of novelties.
Jennie L e is to he principal boy at the Princess panto.,
to Violet Varley’s girl.
A Dramatic School of Art was opened on Saturday
afternoon at the Austral Salon (Melb.), under the chair-
nit ship of Dr. Neild, The usual Crowd dismissed prob-
lematical nothings. Til heradge, Cat heart, and Maud
Williauuon recited, and Rev. “Jack ” Stretch, in a happy
little speech, proved himself the possessor of elocutionary
gifts which might, with advantage, be cultivate d by many
of his brother-clergy.- No mention was made of starting a
horats for impecunious actors.
Mis. Brough is generous, resigning her part of Dora,
in “Diplomacy,” to Henrietta Watson, and contenting
herself with Zk-ka. No one can say B, and 8., as managers,
thrust (herns-rives into parts. They arc like Yates’s
father, at the Adelphi. He used to' take whatever part
required filling, with prodigious versatility.
That act of the amateur jock., in moleskin pants, who
rode Dolphin home third on V.R.C. Steeplechase Day,
would make a grand central incident for George Darrell’s
ten-act racing drama. The Melb. Cup—efforts to nobble
the favourite fail. The villain on the Lawn in a frock-
coat sends his two minions to the abattoirs to wait. The
hero tells (he stand full of people that, with God’s help,
he Will prove his innocence. “They’re off.’ The favourite
leads when the minions jump out and knock off the
jo;k with a fence-rail. “My God! I’m ruined!” But the
faithful funny-man on the Flat climbs on and canters
home an easy winner in lOmin, 50seo. Curtain. What
price that ?
The “ Much-Travelled,” it would seem, si ill writes his
own pars. The latest is in the British Australasian, in
which he (or somebody very like him) boldly avers that
11 Sarapte, Paderewski, Trehelli, Arbes, and other musical
celebrities, have not succeeded in charming the ear of
Mr. R. S. Smythe. The veteran concert-manager seems
nowadays to prefer the talking-bird to the singing-bird,
and has persuaded ” (persuaded is a good word) “ Mrs.
Annie B' svnt to visit Australia next autumn.”
Charming Frances Saville, writes The Bulletin’s
London correspondent, at one of the promenade concerts,
on the occasion of Farley Sinkins’ benefit, was mani-
festly very nervous (the natural result of being fussed by
injudicious friends), added to which she was suffering
from a severe cold. She should, under the circumstances,
not have sung at all. She stuck to her work bravely
under the adverse conditions, and, though compari-
sons were drawn between herself and Melba, there
is no doubt she created a very favourable impression.
Members of the orchestra are usually very good judges,
and one of the leaders says he is convinced she will
devtlope into a great artiste. Her next appearance is
awaited with pleasurable anticipation, for the mad-scene
from “Lucia,” sung on a concert stage, was hardly a fair
test of merit.
Demncratic and depressed Melbourne is visible in the
dress-circle of a fashionable theatre where, in Boom-time,
dress-suits were once imperative. Now, two on any even-
lng are a rarity. Even decorous black is not by any
means a certain alternative. Plaids and dingy-greys are
most common. But the most horrifying incident occurred
recently when two Chinese noblemen in tweeds occupied
front^ seats. Eye-glassed society was stricken to its
heart’s core. But the Celestials had paid in good brass
for their tickets, and they were serenely unconscious.
Two ladies are now playing nightly in David Cope’*
orchestra at Melb. Bijou theatre. They manipulate the
seraphina. This is the English concertina re-named.
Wheatstone’s instrument costs £25. The bastard-Oerman-
street-corner imitation comes as low as 10». 6d. Cope has
been the first to import the former into Australia, and it
‘knocks spots off ” the best lung-bursting wind instru-
ment.
No criticism on the latest Gilbert-Sullivan opera is in
accord with any other criticism. There is the same
variety of opinion about Jones’s “The Tempter."
Fillis’ Circus playing to large audiences at Hobart.
Local clergy loudly complaining of empty plates.
Dear Bulletin, —“Roscius” in his memories of Harwood
practically gives him but scant praise. What was the
matter with his clever impersonations, in comic opera,
Count Della Volta, Kin)? Laurent, etc., and ia Uncle
Catter mole to be omitted from any aeries exemplifying his
versatility ? —Dick.
Barney Levy, advance-agent for Dan. Barry, ia believed
to be the champion billiard-player of the Australian
“perfesh.”
Whitoombe and Goghlan, Joint-autbors of “ Recon*
struction," “The Goal Sneak ” and “The Ambassador ’’
(the last was played at Johnny Wallace’s benefit, Melb.),
have skeletonised two more farces. W. and C. are press-
men by necessity.
Cunningham, of Melb. Lyric Club, clears about
£7O by his benefit at the Alexandra. The club will give
another performance of “ Les Cinches de Corneville ’* on
Bth Dfco. For the benefit of starving pro.'s?
In Paling’s window, Sydney, six big photographs of
Oiraud in “ Pagliacci.” Assorted variety of squirms and
griinnc s. Omitted descriptions herewith supplied.
Please compare: 1. “The coming stieeze.’’ 2. “Corse
that cucumber I " 3. “What is that missing word?”
4. “Cramp in the leg.” 5. “Next morning. ‘What a
head I’ve got on me !’ ” 6. “Got ’em again I ”
Melb. Sun on Miss Graoie Noble, of the B. and B. Co.:
“ The girl remained in the convent for six years, and it
was probably during this period tier latent and inherent
talent and liking for the drama grew deeper," How the
dickens does the drama grow in a convent?
There is no truth in the statement, circulated in some
newspapers, that murderer Glasson was at one time a
member of a theatrical company travelling in Maoriland.
A certain semi-amateur professional lady who lately
took an abortive “ benefit, ” (say in Maoriland) was so in-
censed at the way in which her manager worked it that
she sent him a letter containing this :—“ I hope God will
strike you stone-blind, deaf and dumb, for all this trouble
and misery, and upsetting our household as you have
done.”
In the “ Cloches de Corneville,” by the Amateur Lyrics,
in Melb., the eight parts of the eight hussars had to be
presented by fair Toorakians, who dressed them in long
bnttoned-up coats, with top-boots, cd-i nondescripts.
Why not go the whole hog? The audience came on the
job, and were positively defrauded.
“Cavalleria Rusticana” and “ Pagliacci ” on the same
night will be an attraction of the farewell Italian Opera
season, Melbourne.
Williamson and Musgrove have bought “ Utopia.”
They don’t squirm at the price, but the cost of mounting,
Which may be double that of any of the others-.
The Wild Cat Column.
At least several of the Sydney Banks issued a
circular to the effect that any officer making nasty re-
marks about any rival bank will be “sever ' dealt with.”
#9O
Two banks have a pick of nearly all the “ good •*
Melbourne accounts nowadays* and are pretty careful in
picking from them.
• 99
The Bank of N.S.W. has already received
£455,000 of new capital out of the million offered. As the
million was to be paid by six half-yearly instalments, this
means that the cash is coining in more than three times
as fast as it is wanted, and the demand for new shares is
largely in excess of the supply.
« « •
Last Friday reconstructed bank deposits were
quoted, for the first time, on Melh. Slock Exchange.
Colonials were sold at 12s. 6d. in the £; E.S. and A. at
13s. 9d. to lis. ; London, 14*. 9d. ; Victoria. 14s. 6d. to
14s. 9d. ; City of Melbourne, 15s. to 15s. 3d. ; National and
Commercial of Australia, about 16s. fid.
# * #
In South Australia it is ukased that no Govern-
ment business shall go to a reconstructed bank.
« * •
Who is Mr. Henry Crossley, plaintiff in the
action against one or more Sydney banks for the publica-
tion of alleged imperfect abstracts of assets? And what
is the name of the man who took similar action against a
Melb. bank?
* # «
St. Joseph’s Building Society (Sydney) has suc-
cessfully reconstructed for the second time. It has paid
to depositors only one of the six annual instalments pro-
vided for under the old arrangement, and even that seems
to have been dene with considerable difficulty. Under the
new arrangement the balance will be payable in nine sepa-
rate efforts instead of five, and the final settlement isn’t
due until 1902. Still there seems to be a reasonable pro-
spect of the society getting through.
« « •
That mysterious institution, the Mutual Free-
hold Property Distribution Society of Sj dney, reappears
with the name of R. Hoi e Atkinson once more at-
the foot of the document. Owing perhaps to the many
reflections cast upon the “ first prize,” the public is now
informed that (iialics ours) “ should the owm rs fail to
transfer the First Prize if called upon, the winning share-
holder may receive the purchase money in cash.” Going
by the strictly grammatical sense of the words, this could he
read as conveying also that he may not receive it in cash. It
doesn’t really commit the society to anything, any more
than would the statement that the winning shareholder
may break his neck, and it shows in a tolerably definite
manner that neither Mr. Atkinson nor the “society”
owns the prize at present. Now that the “ Manager ”
has disappeared and Mr. A. has turned up again in his
stead some people would like to know whether Mr.
Atkinson is the said “Manager,” and, if he isn’t, wtio
and where is “the Manager?” Also, is there any
“society” at all, or is the whole affair only one man,
and, if so, is that one man Mr. Atkinson or the
“ Manager?”
# • •
Dalgefcy & 00. (Limited) show a nett profit of
£85,383 for the past disastrous year, and pay a div. of 8
per cent., which absorbs £BO,OOO. The balance-sheet looks
sufficiently satisfactory. The co. takes no deposits, and
thus avoids the rock on which most other institutions
have split. It owes about £1,900,000 ou interminable
debentures, most of them at 4 per cent.—a liability which
can never fall due at unsuitable perioda—and about
£900,000 on terminable debentures, an item which is being
steadily reduced. The reserve-fund of £130,000 is invested
in British consols, and there is also a further sum of
£20,738 in Govt, securities, cash on hand £44,000, over
half a million in bills receivable, and about £360,000 in
other easily realisable investments.
# • «
An auction sale of Melbourne suburban land,
under novel conditions, was attempted last week. Holders
of certain reconstructed banks’ and building societies*
deposit-receipts were informed that their paper would
count as cash up to its full face value, a £lOO receipt
being available for the purchase of 100 feet of land at an
upset price of 20s. per foot. The auction proved a dire
failure. Reconstructed depositors know too well that
their money has already been '• tied up ” by the banks in
unsaleable blocks, and they would sooner leave the
deposit where it is, with a chance of getting paid, than
sw*p it away for an outward and visible piece of land
which has next to no realisable value whatever.
The auctioneer who presided over this enterprise,
was visibly disconcerted by his defeat. The result,
instead of going to “restore confidence.” showed
th it these Melbourne land-boom suburbs are barely worth
having at a gift. Time enough for depositors to take soil
when the banks tell them, in so many words, that they
must accept it in lieu of their coin. For the present they
will live on hope and the doubtful chance of getting
interest.
Ihe latest; alleged big southern defaulter was
also a respected member of his church. There is a grow-
ing feeling in Melbourne that the various relidous bodies
should take steps to clear themselves of the suspicion that
every layman interested in religious work has been guilty
of “irregularities.” Unfortunately this feeling grows
only amongst the unregenerate, who avoid all tabernacles.
Church and chapel-goers seem to be handed together in
one great oily conspiracy to ignore the crimes of the pious.
They refuse to know anything about brethren's backslid-
ing*. When one of the elect gets into Pentridge (through
the laws inability to keep him out), all the others
assume that he has gone there as a missionary. “The
IjO'd hath called him to jail,” is the way iu which they
put it.
• • •- ,
.Matthias Larkin’s building society will not, it is
said, yield more than Is. to Is. 6 I. in the £ to depositors.
Shareholders get nothing, of course, hut they may draw
a little emaciation from the thought that Larkin was a
respected member of his church.
• • •
An elaborate enquiry is being made, by order
of the Court, into the alleged unfitness of ex Manager
Priest y for the position of Federal Bank liquidator. A
Victorian judge has long since learned that five-sixths,
or more, of the creditors would like to have another man
i* l ®lr. Priestly’s place. Liquidation in Sidney and
Adelaide has gone on satisfactorily, whilst the Melbourne
liquidation—well, the less said about it the better. The
shareholders of a solvent bank could soon change a
manager if they wanted to. It’s another matter when
the creditors of a busted hank are dissatisfied with the
person appointed to collect the assets.
* • •
Another appeal against the Standard Bank
reconstruction, supported by arguments taken from even
the friendly r-port of investigator Lyell. There is no
perceptible exeu :■> for not winding-up the Standard, save
only tnelaw’s dread of shocking revelations when the in-
evitable daylight is let into that moribund concern.
Better to tackle the scandal at once.
* * »
The wildest boom traditions of Melbourne In-
solvency Court were knocked kite-high by the
narrative of George Black, coach-builder. Black" repre-
sented himself as a partner who paid the firm’s receipts'
into his own private account and kept no record of the
money. He made a practice, so he su’d, of selling the
stock by auction, unknown to the other fellow, and he
always absorbed the proceeds. He couldn’t, under
examination, say whether the firm, who had “deprived
hun of the control of all moneys,” knew about anything
that happened in the business, he was innocent of ‘know’-
edge concerning stock sheets, he knew nothing save that
he used .to gather in the cash for his private account. As
for the partner who had patiently endured these alleged
eccentneili s, he was mostly engaged in signing cheques
which the aforesold Bla/*k paid into the ctipicious private
account without understanding the purposes they were
drawn for.
* * #
N.S.W. Govt, has decided to charge a rent as
well 3.3 a royalty for all future 0031 leases granted n p ar or
under Port Jackson. An incidental effect of this will, of
course, he to entrench the Cremorne people’s monopoly.
* • #
Tiie new Manly Ferry Service ought to succeed.
Unlike its rival, the r Id co.—which is loaded with the in-
terest on whan es and land purchased at, high prices to
embastion its mminpoly-that new co. stands absolutely
free. All that it now has to do to ensure success is to
attend to its business and be civil.
• * #
Mr. Muntz, committed for trial in the Mercan-
tile has filed his schedule. Among his causes of
insolvency he includes “expenses incurred in defending
hims If against charges made in connection with the
balance-sheet of the Mercantile Bank, and l. gsof business
through inability to attend to same during the protracted
hearing of such charges.”
* • *
That portion of Neild’a N.S. W. Bankruptcy
Act Amendment Bill which relates to the granting of cer-
tificates of discharge touches a big evil. As soon as hank-
-1 tpt intention to apply for a certificate becomes known,
n.s old creditors, who were buried with his schedule,
come bank to life, and one by one declare that, if not
squared,” they will appear to object. Neild’s Bill does
not prevent a creditor objecting, but empowers the
Registrar to impose costs on the opponent in the case of
frivolous or merely revengeful objections.
# # #
The Eastern promoters of W.A. “wild-cats”
having worked out the “largely over-applied for” dodge
have started on another. The latest is to produce a
letter, stating that the vendor is absolutely frantic at
patting with the property at so low a figure, and wauls it
back at any prh'e, hut that the promoters are forcing him
complete the sale. One lot of W.A. syndicators recently
withdrew a property which “had been largely over-
applied for,** stating that they hardly considered it had
been opened out enough, but that they-the syndicators
wopld open it further at their own expense, and then
offer it again. Just fancy !
•. • #
The City Bank of Sydney has voted ,£lOO a
year for 15 years to Mrs. Phillips, widow of the murdered
manager of the Carcoar branch.
• * #
“On Wednesday afternoon last,” says Waloha
(N.S.W.) Witness, “Mr. Derrington, by hypnotism, put
some of onr local townsmen on to some likely reefs in
this district, by which it is estimated they can make ex-
cellent wages.” Nothing now remains but to hypnotise
the public.
• • •
The moment for winding up Blackborne’s mine,
W.A., had arrived in Adelaide, when manager Pleilner
was able to report finding a rich body of stone, re which
various accounts are since to hand. Work will now pro-
bably go ahead. Pleitner was formerly manager of Baker’s
Creek.
• • #
One of the most level-headed of the Broken Hill
“crowd ” is up to his neck in the Cremorne Coal Co., of
which he has been elected a director.
• * •
First meeting Bayley’s Reward claim in Melb,
last week. £30.600, or £1 ss. 6d. per share, paid already
in divs. ; two adjoining leases have been bought ; 5000 oz.
still in hand for further divs. Stone crushed to date less
than 20 tons. Hill End was a fool to this. Shares,
£l2 10s. buyers, no sellers. Market-value of mine nearly
£ 30J.000. J
* # #
A rather strange feature of the Bayley’s Reward
Co. medinar, in Melb. last week, was the absence of
Messrs. Bay ley and Ford, both of whom are supposed to be
in or about the city. Lorrie, who took up No. 1 South, was
also absent.
An esteemed correspondent writes from Cool-
gardie: “ Bay ley’s weekly crushing of only one ton gav«
5000z5.; expeetationisnow centred in the drive going
from the bottom of the main shoot to out the reef at a
greater depth. Should the reef prove as rich here as above,
what price Bayley’s shares then ? The rush away N.N.VV.
of Coolgardie has disappointed hundreds: lienee the name
given, Siberia. Many lives have been imperilled in get-
ting back. However, other patches of alluvial have been
found in the vicinity, so a reaction has taken place, and
many are returning to Siberia; others are making tracks
back to Hannan’s, despite the small local water supply.,
VV e have had a pretty steady rain which benefited the
soaks and rock-holes, but not much the tanks. The first
landsale of Coolgardie Township sites yieldtd big prizes
beyond the Govt, upset values. Great attention is now
bet ig paid to the reefs, in spite of the general exemption,
ending 31st Jan.”- By Wire.—“A big reef has Just been
exposed on the ‘Ritanita’ lease. It carries heavy gold,
and a big sample of stone lias been forwarded to Sydney.’’
• # •
The meeting of Mount Byell Co., last week, was
livelier than the avenge. As most of the replies given
by chairman Bowes Kelly were sternly epigrammatic,, it
was concluded that somebody’s liver was out of order.
* • »
At Mount Lyell meeting aforesaid, the chair-
man, Mr. Bowes Kelly, sorrowfully admitted that Knox’s
mission had failed ; since balance w»s issued, manager
reported a £lO,OOO find of ore. Thereupon, several share-
holders urged the marketing of 150.000 shares at once.
I/ist week’s output from Mt. Lyell—42 tons, estimated by
th> manager to contain 40,000nz. silver! The London
smarties may yet bite their finger-nails over the Mount.
• # #
Mills United, Charters Towers, last fortnight:
1835 tons, 1718oz$. It is now the tonnage quartz-mine of,
Australia.
• #■ *
Another payable ore-body reported from the
Magdala mine, Staweil, Vic. It would seem, now that the
shaft, where tens of thousands were spent in sinking, just
missed several reefs which have made the fortune of those
who come afterwards.
* # #
Victory, Charters Towers: 364 tons, 6130z5,
good enough for a respectable div. on the old capital, but
not enough to pay a penny on the new. Some bigger
cakes may lie expected when the mine gets on to the body
of rich ore left on the Brilliant boundary.
* * *
A pitiful sight in Coolgardie district : the
horses dying of thirst. The desperate efforts thev make
looking for water in empty buckets and dishes, an enough
to break a mm’s heart. Already scores have perished.
# # •
Nicholas, manager of the Hero silver mine,
wires, that he has started inland from Townsville with 84
tons plant. Some of the shareholders have "been heroes
and deserve a div. mine for their reward. The most
awful contemplation is the fail in silv. r. Already it has
made a dif. of over £3,000,000 in Barrier profits. What
will it do with the little Hero?
• # •
Mount Gahan (Pambula) last fortnight’s run of
a 20-head battery 60oz: tonnage net stat' d as usual in
N.S.W. Well, a 20-head battery should crush easily 400
tons a fortnight, and 60oz. into 400 tons goes Sdwls.
What about the “ usual monthly div.”?
• * *
A 3ft. reef, bearing specimens as rich as those
in Bayley’s, is said to have been struck in Egan’s claim
Hannan’s rush.
* * *
The output of the Metropolitan Coal Co. is sai l
to have not increas'd since the coal explosion on board
ship in Sydney harbour. A had pointer fir Cremorne and
other proposed deep coal mines, as dangerous gases are
liberated from deep coals owing to pressure,
• • •
More attention is now being paid to the Peal:
Hill formations, the stimulus being the steady bigwoik
of the Proprietary, which now runs 35 heads 011 half-07,
ore.
• * •
Reef struck at Shepherd’s alluvial mine, near
Adelong, a few tons of which went nearly 3ozs. If the
source of Shepherd's alluvial, it is a big thing.
* * *
Star of the East, 1968 tons, 6500z5. What a
falling off is here! Shares and shareholders very sick
but all mines must have an end.
* • «
; Baker’s Creek, 419 tons, 850ozs. : 33ud div. of
£5OOO. Total divs., over £200,000.
* * #
The richest specimens ever found in the mine
were raised from Baker’s Creek last we< k. Wonderful how
that ill-defined series of irregular veins, misnamed a lode
continues to go down carrying rich gold in a shoot tie rlv
200 ft. long. It has upset the calculations of many a
mining man, who would not give it life beyond what
could be s»en. Yet the chances are 100 to i that the
meeting of any hard body of diorite or granite would kill
the little veins.
# # #
Some well-known Sydney mining men are mov
mg to acquire several Coolgardie leases on which what
are believed to be dividend-paying gold reefs are bein>'
worked. A responsible representative of the party leaves
to inspect this week.
• • •
S.M. Herald gives the wild blast of a leading
article to the Coolgardie gold-boom, and thereby shocks
some of its old readers, who want to know what is comiu"
over the Herald.
• # •
All the recent Coolgardie floats are selling in
Adelaide above par.
• * #
Sunlight Co. has resumed big crushings • 40
heads now go continuously. Mine reported as looking
well; hut the appearance of a large per centage of anti
mony in one part of the lode is not welcome.
• * #
Mitchell Creek freehold, near Wellington
N.S.W’., for fortnight: 230 tons, 1900 z., including fret
and pyrites gold. Writer heard a month ago that thei
had struck 3oz. ore. If so, where is it?
* * *
Shoalhaven Consolidated is cleaning up, and
has started on a new face which prospects well Ii
looks as the result of the first 75,000 yards will be ven
sick. Question—can the methods in use save the fin*’
flaky, impalpable gold of the river drift?
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 13.)


5 &
Go to HELL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell (he Set of 14, unused, for Is. 6d.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
oralis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
N.S.VV.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Compe-
tition No. !) closes on Wednesday, Dec. 27..
i» M \kV ui / .i . 'I
i.iii.i'W A \M
S!
IttM
2lwmi»W^II«lllll
iSittii
Nervous sufferers will Unci it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
t 7 of this issue.
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED. SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition,
Balchin, Johnston & Co., S Bridge-st., Sydney.
(Ui-US
ifxoiadcicJiv
Ctiuj Ac / i-d ftiiJ
ty/lcdixCL; i/CT
Personal Items.
Lady Bowen was wonderfully like Bishop
Perry—just as much of a lady.
Mrs, Glasson will shortly leave Sydney
and hopes to continue her study of music abroad.
Stead, in the preliminary hotice (about
2600 words) of his new daily paper, uses the pro-
noun “ I ” 124 times.
Graham Berry found his aitches in Lon-
don —of all places in the world. He used to drop
hem as badly as Parkes;
A. G. Taylor, after twelve months’ re-
Urement, has returned to Sydney and resumed
the editorship of a Weekly paper.
A Hobart society leader, and wife Of all
eX-Cabinet Minister, has publicly joined the Sat-
iation Army—to the joy of that body.
A lady—Mrs: Yates -has been elected
Mayor of Onehunga (M.L.). If she isn’t a widow;
her husband will probably be Mayoress ?
Pastor I)e Witt Talmage comes to Aus-
tralia to lecture for R. S. Smythe. Talmage can
talk more Hell than any other man on the earth’s
skill.
xiev. J. Lenzer, late of Sydney Synagogue,
had ins premises burgled lately, and was left
nothing but one old suit of clothes in which to
face tile world. ■
So long ago as 1848 George Coppin built a
theatre at Port Adelaide. It was in the year that
Ludwig Leichardt set out to cross'Australia from
Brisbane to Perth.
Two S.A. Judges have been drowned-
Jeffcott, in ’37, at the Murray Mouth, Encounter
Bay ; Wearing, by the Wreck of the Gothenburg
in Torres Straits, Feb. 25, 1875;
Stated that plaintiff Proudfodt, who is
Suing N.S.W. Railway Commissioners for heavy
damages for alleged breach of contract, has
retained rio fewer than 17 barristers.
Edward Fairfax is back in Sydney. He is
a lucky man. Daring boom time he sold out his
share of the S. M. Herald at a price, the mere
mention of which would make you gasp.
Rev. Bunning, the Baptist clergyman,
who suicided in the Yarra, is comparable to Hugh
Miller. Bunning was one of Spurgeon’s favourite
pupils, though just about the same age;
An increase in weight in a criminal while
awaiting his doom, in circumstances such as Glas-
son’s, is taken by almost all “mad ” doctors as a
strong indication of mental irregularity.
The ennobbled Henry Ayers lias presided
over S.A. Legislative Council for 12 years, been
3i years in Parliament, Premier seven times, and
Cabinet Minister 11 times. He is nearing 73
years, and proposes to retire.
Building Society Hunt, President of Tee-
total Alliance, began life as a blne-shirted boy,
carrying out kegs of beer, at a Richmond, Melb.
(brewery), and, strange to say, the brewer’s son,- a
journalist, also become a teetotaller.
The will of the late John M‘Donald, J.P.
(who: will live in history as the stiff-backed magis-
trate of the first Matthew Davies case), has been
sworn in Victoria at =£32,780, consisting of
.£16,905 realty, and £15,875 personalty.
Bryan O’Loghlen was seized with in-
fluenza just after Matthew Davies was “ com-
mitted.” Chief Justice Madden took ill on the
Bench, too, only a few days later. Thus far,
nothing has happened to Panton, P.M.
Medway Day’s Single-tax paper, The
Voice, lost £9 a week during the first year of its
existence;- and, at a recent meeting, friends were
asked to subscribe another £5OO. There appears
to be a coolness between the Labour-party and the
paper.
The verdict in Speight v, Syme will pro*-
bably turn upon the six days’ cross-examination
of Richard Speight by the defendant’s counsel.
Which way will it turn? Long cross-examina-
tions in cases of this sort are dangerous things for
both sides.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs, in the midst of a
recent martially-delivered harangue on the wicked-
nesses of the general newspaper press, pulled him-
self up to formally exclude from the scope of his
condemnation the London Times and S.M.
Herald.
Under-Secretary Fraser, of N.S.W. Jus-
tice Department, qualified himself at various
periods of his life tor an army commission, as a
civil engineer, as a chartered accountant, as a sur-
veyor, for a mastership of modern languages, and
for the duties of a solicitor.
The case of the S.A. Parliamentarian, de-
nounced as a bigamist by his own son, somewhat
recalls a Melb. incident wherein a prosperous manu-
facturer, with a wife and grown-up daughters,
was prosecuted by a son from England. The up-
shot was that the father, a worthy and respected
citizen, got two years for bigamy.
Premier Dibbs was scarcely discreet in
stating, in his place in N.S.W. Parliament, that
Want, Salomons, and Cecil Stephen are the three
oest men at N.S.W. Bar. Two of them are good
lawyers beyond a doubt, and all three able advo-
cates, but they don’t constitute a trinity of all the
sxeeliences of the Supreme Court table.
Harding Cox, th,e gay and rich proprietor
cf the Field, the Queen, and other wealthy
London papers, now looks after “Mr. Jersey’s”
racing-stud. By the way, poor Freddy Gvbhardt,
Lily Langtry’s American dude, has departed this
life. He was rich when he met her, and was next
:loor to a pauper when he died. ’Tvvas ever thus.
Why has Robert Herbert undertaken
the duties of Agent General for Tasmania ? Does
it portend some new change in the status of
Agents? Herbert, despite the fact that he is a
swell of the creme de la creme order, still hankers
after titles, and was much disgusted when a
peerage was not given him on his retirement from
the Colonial Office.
Truth is indeed stranger than fiction.
Murderer Glasson, in writing a letter to his
unborn child, struck a startlingly original idea.
What noble opportunities for the finished cynic
m the verge of eternity are there suggested !
Just imagine Thomas Griffiths Wainwright on
the subject ! The Bulletin almost feels inclined
to use the subject as a text for a literary compe-
ition.
A certain rlotqus politician makes his ap-
pearance in Maoriland Parliament as the result
of the recent election. In the town where he resides
people generally know when he is at home, by hear-
ing the window smash at dinner-time and seeing
the leg of mutton and the vegetables shoot wildly
through the aperture. This is his little way of in-
timating that he isn’t altogether satisfied with the
provisions.
Phil May, writes a Bulletin London
correspondent by last mail, having returned to
the fold, takes the chair at the Savage Club dinner
to-morrow evening. So popular is he that room
cannot be found for all those Who have put their
names do Wn to attend. Phil’s stay in Cornwall did
him a world of good, and he is doing splendid work.
His next annual Will be worth buying, for it will
be the most brilliant of the series,
‘‘Robert LouiS Stevenson’s feet,” say&
the ’Frisco Chronicle man, “are long and
slender, and as he talked he gently toyed
among his shapely toes with his disengaged
hand.” Anyone who has lived with a lot of
native servants can easily imagine that a lofig-
haired man like Robert L. wouldn’t have a disen-
gaged hand, unless scratching one’s head or comb-
ing one’s hair isn’t being engaged.
Little W. H, Napier’s defeat for Auckland
city at Maoriland general elections showed hoW
thoroughly the woman-vote had upset all previous
calculations. He was the beloved of the united
Liberal organisations, and his return was regarded
as certain. Napier, by the way—who is scarcely
over thirty—is considered one of the cleverest of
young Maoriland laWyers, his greatest forensic
achievement being the winning of the big Samoan
land case. Teii years ago lie was a “ hand ” in a
draper’s shop.
Wanted to meet—some-
one,who didn’t take a prize
at Chicago.
Small wOllder that
Veteran George Grey, again
triumphantly returned to
Maoriland Parliament* be*
gins to feel old. He took
the oaths of office as Gover-
nor of S. A; on May 15,1841.
G: H. Reid is not the
only orator in the present
N.S.W; Assembly unable to
preserve the continuity, pro-
priety and congruity of his
metaphors. In S.M. II HR ALU
article on “ The Historical
Basis of Federation,” Bruce
Smith says that Freeman’s
unfinished history contains
“ a mine of carefully di-
gested matter on the broad
question of Federation.”
He also counsels his fellow-
members to take into account
“ those more important as-
pects which seem to lie at
the base, and to be alto-
gether removed from the
more detailed features,” and
speaks of “ draining to their
very source the store of facta
and the great body of ex-
perience.”
How many remember,
writes a London correspon-
dent to The Bulletin, that
Mr. Giles, P.M., of Sydney
(“Red Jim” they used to
call him in those days), was
one of the noble band
selected to swamp N.S.W.
Legislative Council by Char-
les Cowper on a memorable
and historic occasion?
“Jim” was no end of a
swell in those times —he then
dabbled in squattery, and
had not been raised to the
stipendiary bench. On that
Sroud day of “swamping,”
Ir. Giles swaggered out of
the old Reform Club in
O’Connell-street, his dainty
feet almost too proud to
touch the pavement; but ere
the shades of evening “ Jim”
wished that be had never
been born, so unmercifully
was he chaffed by his pals.
Probably no one, but the losers by their
offences, is especially desirous to keep Peter
Howe, Francis Abigail, and Frank Smith a day
longer in gaol; but it is equally probable that no
one with even a moderate sense of fair play will
assent to the release of that trio of N.S.W. ex-
Parliamentarians unless other financiers, im-
prisoned on similar grounds, and all other
prisoners confined on these or any other grounds,
are shown similar mercy.
Stead on Himself :
I feel that X have indeed been led by a way 1 knew not
of, and that as the result of my pilgrimage I have been
better prepared to act as a common centre of communica-
tion between men of opposing churches and parties and
nations, than most journalists of my time. lam the only
English journalist who has been on terms of personal and
more or less confidential communication with the Cardinal
Secretary of State at the Vatican, with the Procurator-
General of tlie Holy Synod, with the Archbishop, of
Canterbury, and with the leading Nonconformists. I
gave the right hand of fellowship to Annie Resant over
the grave of a Freethinker who had been killed in Tra-
falgar Square, and yet I have never ceased to rejoice in
the strength and the consolation of the simple faith, which
I learned at my mother’s knee. With me it is tjhe reverse.
I am more sympathetic, not because I believe less, but
because I believe more. Life has only deepened my faith
in the central principle of the providential government cf
the world and of the individual. After Religion no factor
is so potent as Race. And here I have won an uncon-
tested right to speak. lam the only English journalist
who edits an organ of opinion whose area of circulation
is co-extensive with the English-speaking race. lam in
the unique position of conducting a monthly organ of
opinion, both religious, social, political and literary, which
has 200,000 subscribers, almost equally divided between
the English-speaking world at home and the English-
speaking world over sea.
Italy is so liard-up that the local paper
currency will soon have to be carried as low as
1-franc notes, otherwise the internal trade of the
country must come to a standstill. There’s _nd
cash to bte had thete. The exchange for a British
sovereign is 36 francs, br thereabouts, and after
you have put down your “quid” lor a cheap
article in a latge shop yoit have to wait whilst
they worry round the neighbourhood for the
iiecessary change in silver. The Government will
pay for future ironclads with tenpenny bank-
notes, no doubt, and ill the event of a big war
breaking out Hingland is bound to buy up the
Italian fleet, at A job ptice, fdr ready specie.
Germany and Russia have no money worth men-
tioning, except in comparison with countries like
Spain and Portugal, and the time is perhaps
coming when England, |France, and America;
assisted by soiiie of the small frugal states, _\Vill
form a “corner ” in coin and do dreadful things
to the Great Powers that are built upon tick.
What a theme for the amateur financier who loves
to talk about the “ drain of gold ” and “mejumsbf
exchange!”
Public prayer is the fancy vehicle, nowa-
days, for getting one’s special little advertisement
in, as witness that giiileful member of the Sydney
“ Active Service Brigade,” who, at a recent Sun-
day evening service at Centenary Hall, had the
convulsive saints oh a'pretty string for awhile.
After the Spirit had moved several of the regulars
it inflamed this irregular, who, with emotiomu
utterance, prayed :
6 Heavenly Father, I want to make a confession.
(Voices: “Praise the Lord,” “Father, show him thy
way.’’) Lord, I am a backslider; it is many years since
I have entered thy church. (Parson Bavin and others:
“Lord, save him,” “Jesus come now.”) Many .years
ago, O Father, 1 was a member df this connection. I was,
0 God, as thou knowest; in my young days a Sunday-
“ASK THE POLICEMAN,"
“Do you think it will rain to-night, Policeman?"
“I don’t know, sorr, I’ve only been a mimber of the foorce for a
wake,”
school teacher. (“Come to Jesus.” “Come now.”
“ Give him your heart.”) Lord, I want to be a Christian.
(“Hallelujah.”) Heavenly Father, pity me. I desire to
serve thee and to be a Christian. (“Come, Lo d, now.”
“ Increase our faith,” and other interjections ) How can
I bo a Christian, O Lord, when I am hungry, and my wife
and children are at home starving? (Deep silence.) O
Lord, how can I follow thee whilst we are starving? Lord
curse the sweater and help thy
Perceiving that just here was where the
“ Clements Tonic ” article was intended to come
in, the orchestra and choir struck up a wild, gal-
loping hymn, and cheated the Almighty of the
rest of the p etition. “What do Ido when I
pray ? ” asked a parson once. “ Dunno,” said the
dunce. “ I’m just speaking to God.” Yet, very
pious Sydney people, including parsons, will scruff
a poor man out of the Presence when he’s “ speak-
ing to God,” according to their own definition..
Exhibition religion continually shower-baths itself
with ridicule.
Grafton (N.S.W.) Grip tells a brumby
yarn about yarding a lot of wild horses in the
Q. Ear West (these things always happen seven
miles from nowhere), and shooting and skinning
one horse that exhibited a camel-like hump on its
back. This hump was found to he “ a first-class
pigskin, saddle,” over which the horse’s hide had
completely grown. No mention is made of the
girths, but the liar says he is still using the saddle.
This story is half-brother to the one about the
bushman who visited Melbourne after three years
in the back-blocks. When they had shampooed him
for two hours at the Turkish baths, they came
across bis long-lost overcoat.
The Lay of the Matabele
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ White man tell Maori ‘Look up Heaven,’ and when
Maori look up he steal land.”- M aori Aphorism.
Caine a missionary merry from our sea-girt Mother
Isle,
Came and told the Matabele they were sinful men
and vile;
Told a tale of blissful regions where the saints
and seraphs stand,
Bade the heathen look to Heaved on high—while
he surveyed the land.
Cathe a merry Britisli trader with his shoddy and
his rum ;
And the heathen gathered round him with a
Happy heathen hum ;
And the missionary blessed them with up-lifted
lily hand;
And he bade them look to Heaven—while the
trader stole the land.
Came the merry British soldier with his merry
Maxim gun,
And ho mowed the Matabele till the setting of the
sun ;
Side by side, with face up-gazing, lie the bravest
of their band,
And they look and look to Heaven —while the
stranger holds the land!
P. LUFTIG.
London Pelican tells of a co-respondent,
resident in India, who, when his solicitor ill
London wired asking what defence he Was to
make td the charge (the offence was alleged td
have taken plaCe on the picturesque hills of Simla)
replied, ‘‘Plead Custom.”
The London and Melbourne Tailoring Go;j
of which Mr. S. M. Baumashe is manager, has
moved into new premises in Erskine street,
Sydney. The Company has a largo and well-
assorted Stock exhibited behind ah immense plate-
glass shop front; its workmanship is first-class
and its prices exceedingly low, and generally it is
built to suit the tftnes —which are by no means
adapted for expensive tailoring.
M'BUrney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
WOOL. —We held our usual weekly wool sale yesterday
at the Wool Exchange. There was a very large attend*
ance of buyers present, and the market exhibited a very
buoyant tone, prices for medium and good greasles and
scoured of all descriptions showing a decided improve-
ment as compared with prices ruling last week. This is
no doubt caused by the favourable reports from London
of the opening of tire November series of sales, prices all
round being equal to those ruling at the previous series.
As growers were prepared to meet the market, we were
enabled to clear nearly the whole of our catalogue at
prices which must be’considered satisfactory. For a
\ ery nice line of greasy marked AD Mumimville, from
Yass, we obtained 7ijd for the fleece, and flld for
pieces ■ three other lines from the same district, branded
WD/Sutton, ATD, and TY/Waroo, realising 7d, this figure
being also obtained for the AC Conlac, from Coolac, and
(JY Mudgee ; a small line of imskirted, marked J. Evans/
Temora, fetched CJd ; another lot from Bundarra, M.
lleady/Glenreaeh, fetching 6Jd. For the BFY over Spring
Farm, from Gundagai, (i|d was secured. In scoured a
further line (tf PR, from Tumut, realised 12|d for fleece,
lid for Ist sf.iu, lojcl for bellies, 9Jd for pieces, 9Jd tor
second skin, and 7ld for locks. For ihe oddments of the
118/Pern Glen, lljd was secured for Ihe Ist pieces, 9|d
2nd pieces, bellies, BJd bellies and locks, and 7|d for
locks.
Sheepskins,— The market this week exhibited a slightly
easier tone. Best full-woolled skins free from weevil, *
selling at up to 4|d ; medium, 3|d to 4Jd ; pelts, 3d per
lb. Butcher’s skins, 40d to 50d for tops ; 30d to 36d for
second ; and from 9d to 18d for pelts.
Hides.—There was a brisk demand to-day for well-con-
ditioned hides of all descriptions. Best heavies to 31d ;
medium, 2d to 21d ; light, lid to l|d; dry, to 2d per lb.
TaUiOW,—Market declined 5s to 10s per ton at the sales
to-day, best mutton selling up to £22 5s to £22 10s ; best
mixed, £22 to £22 7s 6d; beef, £2115s to £22 ; broken
packages, £l9 per ton.
Horns. —Dirge, £1 to £1 12s 6d ; medium, 10s to 15s ;
tips, from 3s per 100.
Hoofs.—£2 to £2 10s.
Bones, Shank, £3 15s to £4 10s; superior lines higher.
Common, £llos to £2 5s ; knuckle, £2 to £2 10s.
Hair. —Horse, Hid to 13d ; cow, 5d to lOid ; slump, to 5d
per lb.
Marsupial Skins.— As is usual at this time of the year,
the supply is very small and most of the skins are touched
with weevil. Large grey kangaroo, 40d to 50d ; medium,
20d to 30d ; small, Id to 18d. Red—large, 18d to 24d ;
small to medium. Id to 15d; wallaroo, Id to 16d ; wallaby
—swamp, 2d to 13d; scrub. Id to 18d, rook, Jd to 3d each.
Opossum, 5s to 10s ; second, 3s 6d to 4s 6d ; ruvnped, from
9d.
Sydney, Ist December, 1893.
The New Zealand Elections.
The elections now progressing in New Zealand
mark an epoch in the advance of the world’s
civilisation. From what we hear there will be no
cause to regret the innovation in politics now
inaugurated ; and we shall hail with delight the
realisation of another proof of the assertion that
woman is equally competent with man to conduct
and control the multifarious items that make up
our existence. But there is a subject of greater
importance even than those two momentous
questions, and that is the enfranchisement of the
body, for what is the power to votecompared with
the exquisite felicity of experiencing the pulsations
of healthy blood percolating through a system
untainted by disease, and uncontaminated by in-
fection of any kind ? And yet there are thousands
who, through careless indifference, or indolent
perversity, fail to avail themselves of the great
medicinal remedy and natural restorative, “Mar-
shall's Tonic Nervine.” That vitalizing agent
subjugates disease, overcomes weakness, replen-
ishes healthy vigour, and emancipates the patient
from the seeds of death, so that after a short
course of the remedy he becomes enfranchised,
both in mind and body. Another grateful witness
to its value, Mr. Thomas Green, bookbinder,
Shephard-street, Marrickville, writes : “ Having
been suffering from general weakness for several
years, I got no relief from any medicine I took
till I tried Marshall’s Tonic Nervine. Then, from
the first, I felt the greatest benefit, felt strong and
healthy again. You may publish this for others’
benefit, if you choose, as I think they ought to
know.”


•iPhotogmphg.
M’•><•>■ Charlemoiit :& .Co.
'■ Have REDUCED the Price of their. Photographs,
as follows;
© OEa/fc>ixxot;s •*» - *7s. .©cl.
la 4 . _.ca.o, - i2s.-6d.
Any Style or Pose.
As these Prices are not likely to last long, the
public would do well to avail of them. Sittings
tnay he had at once, appointments not necessary.
BE ON GUARD
AGAINST THE
VILE AND INJURIOUS IMITATIONS
OF
CLEMENTS TONIC
SOLD BY MANY DEALERS.
CLEMENTS TONIC IS THE
' ‘ BEST, ORIGINAL
AND ONLY GENUINE.
Don’t be deceived or misled into buying any
other, or your pains, time and money are only
thrown away.
CLEMENTS TONIC
POSITIVELY CURES ALL CASES
ARISING FROM
ANAEMIA, LIVER COMPLAINT
AND INDIGESTION.
WHAjT THEY SAY IN BIN ALONG.
Mr. Thomas Edgeworth, Binalong, who writes on
June 12th, 1893 ; —About twelve months ago I
was a great sufferer from indigestion. The
symptoms from which I have suffered were great
pains in the chest, especially after meals. Iliad
I no sooner eaten anything. than I would have a
violent fit of retching; 1 could not retain anything
on niy stomach; the consequence was that I
became weaker daily ; although I had the advice
of a doctor, and also his medicine; I derived no
benefit from either. Seeing so much about
Clements Tonic in every newspaper I took up, I
resolved to get a bottle • I did so, and by the time
I had finished the third 1 bottle I was thoroughly
cured of all disagreeable symptoms. If ever I feel
out of sorts, I fly to Clements T nic, and I am
happy to say I am never disappointed ■; if I was
to write for a month I could not. say more in
favour of Clements Tonic, though.l am a thorough
believer in it.—l remain, yours sincerely, Thomas
Edgeworth, fencer, Binalong.
ft)
PHOTOGRAPHY!
Useful Christmas Presents.
Hand Cameras from One Guinea upwards.
Baker & Bouse
' 375 George Street, SYDNEY;
260 Collins Street, MELBOURNE;
48 Queen Street, BRISBANE;
, 69 Bundle Street, ADELAIDE.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Age before—Speight.
They now call him single-thread Cotton,
M. (N.S.W.);
A London paper shows that Melbourne
-has its workhouse, the absurdly named “ Imrnb
grant’s Home.”
“An Anarchist is any person not a mem-
ber of parliament who persists in talking when he
ought to be at work.”
Johannesburg Standard happily heads a
trenchant leader on Butcher Rhodes’ Chartered
Company “Through Death to Dividends.”
Cablegram: “The Imperial Federation
League has been dissolved, its objects having been
attained.” The C.M.G.-ships are all expended.
Members of the N.S.W. Parliament who
lightly move for select committees, would do well
to remember that the cost of these committees
averages about £2OO.
Mrs. Harrison Lee makes a good point,
showing that liquor-selling grocers, realising
most of their profits on drink, Undersell grocers
who won’t deal in alcohol.
The adroit Gladstone is now at war with
the Tories on two great issues : the Irish Question
and the Betterment principle. Which latter has
been again rejected by the Lords.
During the year ended 15th Nov., the
N. full-blooded aborigines have decreased
by 230; half-castes have increased 135 ; nett de-
crease, 95. Present total, 7254, as against 7349,
in ’92.
The Argus, in discussing Maoriland
politics : “There is a tendency amongst the better
class of citizens to hold aloof from active politics.”
Biffed from the arena by the democratic party,
they sadly make a virtue of necessity.
Wanted, a federal definition of an absentee.
In Maoriland legislation he is a person absent for
three years, in South Australia’s Bill a person
absent for two years, and in the proposed Q.
legislation one who stays away one year.
The Glassey testimonial fund (Q.) is
reported to stand at about £BOO. It is said that
Jackson, M.P. for Ravenswood (N.Q.), will vacate
his seat, in order to give the Labour-leader an
early opportunity of re-entering Parliament.
Swan, the old member for Napier (M.L.),
who has been beaten by a prohibitionist, is a big
brewer. Geo. Fisher, a prohibition-leader and
the originator of the crusade against “ bound
houses,” is apparently amongst the defeated for
Wellington city.
Parkes denies that he ever told a West-
minster Gazette man that the proposal that
colonial representatives should sit in the Commons
was “ sheer nonsense.” He says that “if he had
given an opinion about colonial representation in
the House of Commons, he would have used
different language from what the cable message
represents.” No doubt. Had he thought he was
talking for publication, he would have been as
insufferably stilted and pompous as usual.
A woman is said to be
at the bottom of the troubles
of President Peixoto, of Brazil
—or rather several women
are at the bottom of them.
Peixoto is described as a glit-
tering military fool, with a
strictly moral yearning after
pretty faces, and the nice-look-
ing women of his family, in-
cluding his relatives to the
several-dozenth degree, have
been busy looting the Treasury
all through his brief and
troubled reign. The brightest
and prettiest of the lot has
trot off with something like
£400,000. As for his elderly
female relatives they have got
nothing worth speaking of,
and so they look grimly
through their green spectacles
as he slides down the buttered
abyss into perdition.
Capital in Queensland*
awaking from a stertorous
slumber, moves its lips : “ Im-
migrants, assisted immigrants,
free immigrants; give mo
stalwart men, hungry, naked,
who must work. Then I will
arise and be strong one©
more!” And the scared grocers
and bakers, and the famished
owners of broadsheets blotched
with dummy ads., and the
rack-rented drapers and cabi-
netmakers, and the manually
employed for a day or two in
the week, and the long line
of the wholly unemployed
standing in queue in hope of
being called some time to
earn a shilling, whisper one
to another: “Better give in;
what else is for us ?” . And
soon all Queensland will bo
heard saying: “Yes; what we want is more
Immigrants.”
The Oamaru (M.L.) Mail describes the
oratory of that good old Tory, Scobie Mackenzie,
as “the flashy fooling of a flippant and flatulent
talker, whose greatest claim to eminence is a
special aptitude for titillating the ears of an
audience with frothy flam and flimsy flapdoodle.”
The agitation for free education in N.S.W.
primary schools has been followed by a voluntarily-
imposed increase of fees in Sydney Grammar
School. The facts, taken together, constitute a
suggestive illustration of the opposing theories of
state and private enterprise operating in the same
sphere.
Dibbs and Co. reproach N.S.W. Labour-
party with having supported Melville’s Free
Education Bill to gain votes at the elections.
Does not that reproach imply that majorities in
Labour constituencies favour free education ; and,
if so, does not the reproach, like the wanton curse,
play boomerang ?
On the whole, the women of Maoriland
have voted the Democratic ticket: —
We congratulate the Woman—
What her place is in the Plan
We will not pause to argue on—
She’s acted well the Man.
Extract from R. Wood, M.P.’s meeting at
Adelaide :
Mr. R. E. WOOD: “ But, father”
Mr. H. Wood : “ Stop ! lam not your father
Mr. R. E. Wood ; “ Father ! Father ! —-
Mr. R. Wood: “ Don’t call me father ! ”
Mr. 11. E. Wood ; “ Father, you are a liar ! ”
Editor Bulletin, —What folly to talk of
reducing the screw of an Agent-General! Double
it rather, and knock the rest off the Governor.
The Agent-General is, in fact, the Governor, the
other only a figure-head. Make him a real busi-
ness man, like E. M. Young, formerly of Melb.,
now drawing his £7OOO a year, as manager of a
squattage loan society.
The return of Grey, Crowther and Button
for Auckland (M.L.) city, would seem to indicate
that the votes of the henfranehised are cast for the
white hairs ; each of the returned having pows of
unusual frostiness. Grey is Grey. Crowther,
who was twice Mayor, is a retired livery-keeper
and a bit of a rough diamond. Button is a pro-
minent lawyer, and a partner in Whitaker’s old
firm.
Why are not the pupils in State schools
taught the proper method of filling up ballot-
papers? The exercise would carry many advan-
tages and be as educational as any present school
task. If the filling in of a few ballot-papers were
made home-work before a general election informal
ballot-papers would be much rarer at the polls.
Such exercises could, of course, bo kept wholly
free from political bias.
A member of N.S.W. Assembly, lately
elected amidst the paeans of the daily press as an
uncompromising opponent of payment of members,
whispers (very low, at present) that he has seen
fit to change his opinions. There was once a
Tiger Which lived on rabbits and honour and
glory and Patriotism, and little things like that.
One day he TASTED HUMAN BLOOD-but
you can imagine the rest of the fable.
One of the most startling pieces of Civil
Service patronage yet indulged in by the Dibbs
Ministry—whose mania for appointing inspectors
of things has become proverbial—is the instal-
lation of a young man named Evans as “ in-
spector of N.S.W. artesian bores” at a salary of £250
per annum. The inspector of bores is understood
to be a son of Mr. Evans, proprietor of
Sydney Sunday Times, who, in some occult way,
seems to have lately developed a political signifi-
cance—as witness the ifact that in one of the
Sunday Times’ lists of suggested “ beat N.S.W.
Ministries ” appears the name of Mr. M. R.
Evans, aforesaid, in conjunction with those of
Dibbs, Barton, Copeland and Cq. !
SUFFICIENT PROOF.
OLD MR. HELPINGAND (to Ardup, who is well-known) : " No,sir,
I can help no loafers.”
ARDUP (the tramp) : “Sir, you insult me; the noblest blood of
England flows in my veins!”
OLD MR. HELPINGAND : “Noblest blood!—why, not only have
I known you for a long time as a loafer, but as a black-
guard, a drunkard, a gambler, and”
ARDUP : “Sir, as I said: the noblest blood of England flows in
my veins!”
N.S.W. Premier Dibhs enjoys his revenge.
In the personal squabble between him and
Jennings years ago, the Ministry fell to pieces
and Parkes was sent for. Parkes then so repre-
sented affairs that Carington gave him the written
promise of a dissolution in the event pf the House
, proving fractious. This document Parkes carried
,about in his breast coat-pocket, and whenever he
passed Dibbs he ostentatiously slapped the pocket.
Dibbs once remonstrated and declared that no
snob document existed, which brought from
jParkes the reply ; “ The day I like I will look the
door of Parliament; in your faced’ Now Dibbs
swaggers, in and out, equally superior to votes of
• the House, and able when ho likes to : lock, the
door in Parkes’ face. -
As a hair dressing and renovator, Ayer’sjHair
Vigor is universally recommended. It eradicates
dandruff, cures eruptions of the scalp, invigorates
and beautifies the hair, and ,prevents.its,fading or
turning gray.
In N.S.W. Assembly "the other night a
contractor’s claim for £5O came up for considera-
tion, and a select committee, which will cost
about £2OO, was promptly appointed to enquire
into the matter. The select-committee disease is
bad in N.S. Wales.
The official record of proceedings of the
Pan-Anglican Presbyterian Council held lately in
Canada, and to which Prof. Rentoul, of Mel-
bourne, was a delegate, describes the Vic. Presby-
terians as working “in the North-West of Aus-
tralia.” Let us federate.
Premier Kingston will adjourn S. A. Par-
liament over Christmas unless the chief items of
the Govt, policy are carried. This is the only
effectual reply to the policy of the Ass members
who, being in a minority, have consistently stone-
walled Democratic measures.
Editor Bui>
letin, Lovely
woman will never
do much good
with her vote un-
til she takes her
intellect out of its
present beer-bath
and dries it with
the rough towel
of common-sense ;
nor until she bends
her energies to-
wards legislating
against mass
m isery rather tl i an
against original
sin. It is curious,
too, that lovely
woman always
wants to reform
morally only the
toiling slave whose
life is hideous un-
der the pressure
of ghastly social
conditions ; sh,e is
ever angelically
ready to forgive
and condone the
burnished sins of
the man with ■“ a
stake ” in the
.country. —Ak.
The Rajah of
Sar a w a Ic, i n
W ESt’MINSTBU
Gazette, says
Australia wijlone
day find China a
hard nut to crack,
and therefore
should prevent at
all hazards the in-
flux of the Agony.
The idea is that
Australia won’t
want to have to
put up her hands
to the national ised
leper when all her
energies are need-
ed to cope with an
armed yellow in-
vasion.
Parkes complimented a new Labor-member
lately on the effectiveness of a short speech
delivered in the House before tea, and later, on
the way to the refreshment-room, to a friend : “It
was a remarkable speech. Not once did the hon.
member mention ‘heredity’ or “environment’ or
‘proletariat’ or the‘trend of modern thought.’
He talked quite as sensibly as if lie never had been
a member of the School of Arts debating club.”
“Dick” Wood, M.P. (S.A.), alleged to
be suffering from a matrimonial complication,
foolishly declined to accept the advice of his
.friends ;to resign his seat lor N- Adelaide and
stand for re-election. Had he done so, triumphant
ro-electipn was,certain, it,being no secret that the
have been ; pulled fiy a prominent Ass
.member for party purposes. Wood retains his
seat against the advice of his Assembly colleagues.
The Marquis and Earl of Donegal, Baron
of Belfast, and yiscount Chichester, having been
summoned before a common county-court by a
beastly tailor, claimed exemption on the ground
that he was a British peer
O, stately House ! where Britain’s pride,
Her lordly peers, ,at ease deride
The cominpn people’s will,
■You have attained at last your sphere
And proper place and duty here—
A wall to hide the shady peer
Who’d dodge his tailor’s bill.
“How far are we from anarchy ? ” asked
.the S.M. Herald when the local Tommy Dodd
exploded into irreverent prayer in the middle of a
church service. A previous leading article in
which thqt paper contended that when the com-
,fort-possessing classes are menaced ;by the com-
fortless it will become the bounden duty of Govt,
.to dp sopietjiing for the unemployed, prompts the
question : How,far are we from the time
.when Govt, will systematically provide work qr
food, or both, for the masses of hungry rnen un-
ablefo obtain private employment?
; Hpme of ; the “leading residents” pf Bur-
,wood, (Sydney, have decided to ask ex-Treas.
M'Millan, to stand for fhat cpnstitueupy at ne*t
.election. As Burwood contains mpre lawyers,
brokers, auetiqpeers, commission - agents and
sheht-per-shfhtors.to,the half-acre. than, perhaps
any other N.S.W. constituency, M‘Milian should
find a congenial Of all the new electorates,
Bur,wood may be relied upon to record tlie most
.compact Fat vote, powever, there’s a fly in Hr.
Mac.’s ointment, as t ( he supporters of Mr., Griff.
■Jones, solicitor, a popular local magnate, seem
I,in nowise inclined, to countenance, the t retirement
, ,of their man.
The Referendum is dismissed sby the
Argus ■
Nobody believes that the vote would be determined on
the merits of the question in dispute.’ The expert can-
vasser would, intervene, aqd all sorts Of personal cdn-
siderations would crop up to obscure the issue.
Muqh of, this is bajd . bunkum,, the rest pure
“ Ananias.” The objections of. the Argus are
only powerful when,^irepted .against, the present
system of deciding a question of politics, which is
about as sensible as trying a score of criminals,
charged with 20 various offences, in the lump, and
returning one verdict and passing one sentence.
The Referendum deal-' with one question, and
you pawn', fool a whole people on a plain deal
like that.
Writes Arthur Rue, M.L. A.
Dear i’ui.i.Eii.v, —You print a par. that I am announced
as an Independent Laboureaiilldate, and infer ihr I have
severed my connection with I lie N.S. W. Labour Leaguer.
That is not so ; I remain loyal to the league which selected
me, and will submit to its decision in the coining, or any
future,' selections of candidates, I also maintain the
genuine platform of the L.E.L., but repudiate (1) The
attempted centralisation of power in a practically irres-
ponsible clique of seif interested Sydney wire-pullers.
(•2) The stuffing of the Labour Conference with proxy
delegates from non existent organisations. (3) The
“ gag ”in any form. (1) The chain-gang, iron clad reso-
lutions forced through by an Inexperienced lot of damned
T Jf\l SUN WA’J j U f,T £\ 5 ijf' H
0 1 ntA'-'ef) A S/<A*
W/\$ A l_£*vVlN ’ of TV\i
-■ ' oi I
asses suffering from swelled head. — Yours, Arthur Rab.
P.S. Although J announced myself a Freetrader, I de-
fined “sinking’the fiscal question ’’ to mean sinking any
Ministry which acted against the just interests of Labour,
irrespective of the result of spoil “ sinking.”— A.II.
The Argus gives itself away cheap in
discussing the English Employers’ Liability Bill
lately passed by the Commons. Digest this blast
of logic:■*—
It was carried in the House of Commons by a majority
of 19, and amongst its supporters there were no less than
57 Irish members. It is thus evident that ft measure
which affects every trade and industry in Great Britain
lias been carried against the will of the British people ly
.the Irish supporters of Mr. Gladstone.
So the loyal organ that opposes with frenzy any
proposal for separate Government for Ireland is
also opppsed to Irish influence in the British
Parliament. The Argus thinks the Irish diffi-
culty might be happily settled by disfranchising
Ireland ! That is really what it does think.
A prison warder is reported to have been
dismissed from St. Helena (Q.) for having tried to
gouge out a prisoner’s eyes.


. cail’is iot|s ?alnjttwj
Sixers itj otje day and yer yo jvriius damage den ’ ,
iiop. Djft tydyeyiype of ferry-boat If life yo foe
Of rfe prifofy y\cjrpi rally cu a safe Vjv<jd jor
Hje d&r?ftjo pJ
P ERSON AL—SLIGHTLY.
“ GENT. (30) slightly deformed, wishes to meet Lady the same ; genuine—
C.S., Crown-st. P. 0.”
Gent (30) “ And is—-ir one of yours shorter than the other too 1 ”
”■ <“■* *Hr) “«• . long.,
Gent (30) : “ Rapture f We were made for each other "
'%//tfltv
Parkes denies that he ever characterised the proposal that colonial representa-
tives should sit in the House of Commons as “ sheer nonsense,” Being waited upon
by a representative of the press, he said if he had given an opinion about colonial
representation in the House of Commons, he woo'd have trad different language
from what the cable message represents
RuPORtEn : * And What language would you have used, Sir ; Enry 1”
Parses : “ t should have called it Harrant ’lJrobug.”
“ London, Wednesday Night.—
Mfcj Jenny Michel), a goveriSs'i
at Brighton, recently brought Ln
action for brosjh-of-proniiso or
ir?rriage against the Sultan of
Jobore; but the suit was dismissed
' 5 the ground that the Sultan, a»
. a ruling monarch, could not ho
■ c • •> party to a suit in England.”
When the above item was read aivni to him by
his chief confidential strangler, old Johore winked
audibly.
MESMERISM AND MEDICINE.
Mr Haynes, in the Assembly, asked whether *he
Board pould, under Its regulations, appfjsVof
* resort to hypnosis in lieu of medicine, and create a
chai£” % ' n,rerß,ty '" , Mr , Ha y nes ma J’ not be aware that all th*
cn 1 • thfi Uimemty are more or less hypnotic
" I have heard—it is an historical incident —of a
bank paying out to the last sovereign before it would
rf-re in.”
: Il> hj>
Where Dibb» must have got his “ history '
from.
THE MATCHWOOD GIRL.
Brisbane, Sunday.—An extraordinary story
comes from Caboolture, and is vouched for by
a minister. It is stated that a girl, 11 years of
age, has been for some month# pulling a large
number of splinters of wood from her body. The
number extracted has been nearly 1000, some-
times as many as 60 per day being taken out, up
to . * n length- The extraction causes no
pain. Where the timber comes fj-pm jsa mystery.’’
u * S *’ me young lady’s people pur
chased her a new wooden leg.
"London, Friday Night.—Hearing has been bfgttn of an extra-
ordinary action which turns on the marital experiences of a woman
named Rachel Cullena. who personated a man.
"In order to avoid her creditors, the woman passed herself off as
e man some years ago, and worked as a plumber. In 1866 she married
another woman named Sophia Newland, and the latter h-v 1 tV.u-
children.’
THINGS IN GENERAL
A FIRST-CLASS DRAMATIC SITUATION
HUSBANDESS (throwing off all disguise) “ My love, I have you all
these years ; I am NOT the father of your children! "
WIFE: "Oh, base deceiver"-( Fainta)


zqo/U rre mfT it/e.
CC.iciition of uf Couijtry
fat/dyes.
ft ml
f *l fou If-
C°-
V V ■ c r*
3
‘•Th« Government will move during the pre.
eenk recess into the country,” wee the remark
mad. yesterday by the Premier to Hr. J. A.
Wallace, M.L.0., and Mr. Craven.
Who waited upon Mr. Patterson with n view of
inducing him to pay a > ia.t to the Beed. W «tb.
Upper Murray and Beuiunbra districts et »
e »rw date. 'My colleagues and myself,
added the Premier, “ ere fully convinced that
the interests of the interior portions of the
colony ..quire to be carefully studied by Minis-
ters, and we are arranging to visit different
parts of the colony to note in which direction the
mining industry can be aided, to see where land
settlement can be carried out. to ascertain where
the agriculture! industry may be assisted, and.
In fact, to make personal Inquiries tpio the
targe number of Industries that contribute to
tbe prosperity of the metropolis and the colonT
as a whole.
s7i y;ei tfe lurfet-
~/A/n /< /
*' /A& ?n<xi'iy' <z/g<x Zir-Ao
<a.7Ve€,"
PATTERSON’S BACK-BLOCKS MINISTRY.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields hav e
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the, best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
iilO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
f’uaranteed title. The company has been estab-
islied in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
gd
Wonderful discovery I
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION*
mHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Saudi/ Might,
' Inflamed F.yes And Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Wyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, its, per Bottle.
I-sT" Manufactured Solely by 11. A. KOSK. Clii'lliisl,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ayer’s Pills cure constipation, improve the
appetite, promote digestion, restore healthy
action, and regulate every function. This medi-
cine is pleasant to take and gentle in its opera-
tion. See Ayer’s Almanac.
W
K
fflp 6
m
$
IF NOT,
YOU MAY BE
IMPOSED UPON
WITH
UNSCRUPULOUS
IMITATIONS OF
WOLFE’S
Society
A Melb. building-society Secretary in-
formed the shareholders recently that they might
Congratulate themselves upon the scarcity of
“ wrecks ”in the concern. “ Wrecks ” ate empty
houses from which the windows and doors have
been carried away by stealth together with slices
off the roof —houses that have never found
tenants, and were, perhaps* never expected to find
tenants when the society directors engaged their
friend, the contractor, to run ’em up. The coast
of Melbourne is strewn with these “ wrecks,” and
some of the men responsible for them are luxuriat-
ing in Europe. Providence intended it for the
best, however. There’s no vagrant so homeless but
that he can find a “ wreck ” to doss in, if he looks
for it. Scores of whole families have promiscuously
token possession of a domicile, rent-free.
A would-be tenant, desirous of inspecting
a “To Let ” house, gets the key from the
agent. He straightway rushes his wife and family
i ito possession, unlocks the back door, and re-
turns the key, with the intimation that
there are not enough reception-rooms, or
s nnething. Then he brings round*, in a barrow,
his “sticks,” consisting of a couple of gin-cases
a< settees, couch, and 4 o’clock tea-table, a pile of
newspapers to keep the tribe’s feet warm and
e tckroaehes from chawing off the junks of hard
skin —those self-same papers that heave ponderous
slabs of abuse at the workless worker. Also, a few
bags for bedding, and a few more with the bottoms
slit as night-gowns for the youngsters; likewise a
cement-cask, halved length-ways, as a cradle for
“baby.” Miscellaneous bits of broken crockery,
jam-tins (empty), and a blackened billy, which
is soon boiling merrily over a fire made out of the
back gate, complete the effects. Inspecting pros-
pective tenants, except of his own variety, are
rare these times, and with ordinary luck the
family camps on like a party of domesticated arabs
for weeks ; until the absent gate and increasing
gaps in the back fence cause the agent to call
round and inquire about things. Nothing to levy
upon of course. If he is level-headed he “tips”
the tenant 2s. 6d. to move along and give the
rival house-agent a turn, which is accordingly
done; and so, caravan-like, the happy home
moves on.
# ♦ •
When a certain clever and charming lady’s
engagement to a fellow artist was first publicly
announced, the lady’s Melbourne “boy” pooh-
poohed the story, not scornfully, but in a calm,
thoughtful style. He elevated his eyebrows,
JB>a.2leT.
ZySellj yeojole
may call it" classic.
clan dry, J>ut J
should Joe sorry
to mahe sue A. a.
sfcect ah le of- myself
Z>ey-a.decL }lu S hart ci
"Ju u
pLacl you could,
/Viar/u." /
passed his fingers through his curly hair, and came
to the casual conclusion that there was “ nothing
in it.’-' Next day he received a pale pink epistle,
to the effect that all was ovah between them, and
even then the slighted one forgot to blow his
brains out. On his way to luncheon he dropped
in at Reuter’s and cabled “home” to his people
the bald fact that his betrothal to the artiste wa s
cancelled. The family circle, it seems, had no
been smiling upon this intended marriage.
A return cable brought with it a thanks-
offering of .£250 to the poor “boy ’ as an
earnest of more favours to follow. Then the
amiable young fellow probibly whistled “In the
Gloaming,” with a tender quaver at the finish—-
“ It was best to leave me thus, dear—best for you
and best for me.” After which, as one may pre-
sume, he ran violently down a steep place and
drank the other fellow’s health.
Oaah is a great consoler, anyway. The rejected
lover will, if wise, soon learn the eternal verity
that actresses, however charming, are best mated
with members of the purfesh, and will cheerfully
acknowledge that fond parents are wise in their
generation. But he is bound to grow pensive
every time he sees Tommy Corrigan in the pig-
skin and gazes upon the reminiscent legs of that
Irish artist.
* * *
111 Victoria the barbarous practice of
looking up juries all night in non-capital cases
where they cannot agree is unknown. N. S. Wales,
the oldest of the provinces, is the furthest behind m
law reforms. If a Vic. jury disagree late in the
day, the Judge locks them up for the prescribed
number ot hours and then comes back, whatever
the time, and lets them out. In N.S.W., the
Judge goes home and stops there till morning;
Now that N.S.W. juries’ victuals arc tetrenched,
jurymen will becoming to court with sandwiches
wrapped up in newspaper and a bottle of cold tea.
Sheriff Gowper says they can’t have tea unless
they pay for it. In Melbourne, when a jury is
looked up for the night they get a dozen of beer
and a bottle of whisky among them.
Notes of a South Australian M.P. in
woman’s suffrage debate. He used them in speak-
ing and then handed them to the press
I have shown that woman is, phiciakly, meotely,
moraley mans, supereor.
1 By having less lunecey amongest the sex.
2. The creminoelly is less by £ to 3-
3. Phiceaky she can endure great suffering and pain
and worrie more than man.
Mentoley she shows her supereoreety by rapuletey \\eth
which she has maden her way in the learned, pro essions
during the very short time she has had the opertuneety
to studev the sienceses. ,
Speedely she will have the larger share of the medical
P By'whos pen and welfare was it that the creultey
Insjuslice and Brutaleety of Slavery was most forcehly
exnosed Bv the pen of Harrett B. Slow.
Women even in the dark times of Mary and Eezeheoth
were placed in the high places of the Empire.
There much oreulclty and injustice were perpetrated
during there rule, But was it not equely as bad under the
Mob rulers during the same age The fires of Snnthfild
were burned as brightly under the rule of Henry as under
Mary and Elezebeth.
Must allow for the spirit of the Age.
Johan of Arck the Woman General.
The Southern
M.P. who, it is
said, franks his
soiled collars home
to the family wash, ,
to save laundry ex-
penses during ses-
sion, has hitherto
been considered the
champion mean
man, but a Tas.
police official has
attempted lately to
raise a wealthy local
trader to that bad
pre-eminence. The
said P.O. alleged
that on the death
of the tradesman’s
porter’s wife, which
occurred on Mon-
day, the widower
applied to his em-
ployer for leave of
absence to attend
the funeral, and was
told that the inter-
ment must be post-
poned till Sunday,
as he could not be
pared on a businesss
day ; however, the
Central Board of
Health interfered,
and the woman was
buried during the
week. This state-
ment damaged the
trader’s reputation
somewhat, till it
transpired that the
death actually oc-
curred on Friday,
the funeral taking
place, in the natural
course of things, on
Sunday.
# #
How did those
unhappy ladies,
mother and daugh-
ter, contract le-
prosy ?
The three latest marriage-stories narrated
in the world of Cloth: 1. “I once married a
squatter who blew like a whale about his colossal
wealth. D’ye know what he gave me ? T wo-and-
sixpence!” 2. “I married a bush pedlar once
and lie gave me a papered packet tied tightly. I
didn’t open it till he left, but I knew it was coin,
and with the edge of my finger counted what 1
took to be 20 half-crowns. They were coppers.
3. “ I married a swell from Sydney once who left
by coach that night, giving me a cheque for .£lO.
The cheque was bad !”
* • *
The young business man who went the
(racing) pace awhile back, and, while on bail,
mysteriously disappeared, has been heard of from
gdf
'j
\
Not yet Awhile* hs sweet to plav
Af spoon*., the nut den s.a»aj
We'll pAvt m Atom am he w a-y
When All our love is d<Ad,
But let it perish by degrees,
Instead of at a blow ;
Then pick AoiuArrel ifyou pleAse,
And curse me. Pick, And -go!'
Fyush off, fpvers do in
Whilst I pretend tb weep
sioh,in cjuiet yhAoly nooks,
ATy Sock o{ hAir youll keep-
A token of IhAt treasured past’
At which we ll sadly imile
"Yes, Break it off,you goose At IAVf,
But not, notyef Awhile."
SDrtUNP FISH£R
S. America, whence he writes, privately, that he
is in hopes of making sufficient cash with which
to return and pay up in full. So mote it be !
Also, from that same happy hunting-ground
for financially “ croak” and malodorous fugitive
Australians, word comes that the “wanted”
trustee and alleged embezzler of his rela-
tives’ fortunes, who skipped with the nurse-
girl and the remnants of the cash, is now serving
three years’ hard, under an assumed name, in the
Republican State gaol, for forgery.
# # •
A certain Lord High Cockolorum and
Perpetual Great Worshipful President, or some-
thing, of a secret society, is at serious variance
with his own special lodge on the subject of a
certain widows’ and orphans’ fund.
# # *
K.S.W. Department of Public Instruction
professes never to appoint an unmarried male
teacher to the charge of a country school, where
he is the only teacher; pathless, it repeatedly
makes such appointments. 'Seeing how frequently
male-teachers, even in large schools, are charged
with serious offences against pupils, it is high time
that the dept, acted up to its profession in thisf .
regard. w #
C. of E. parishioners in N.S. Wales are
now provided with a tabulated bill of clerical
fare couched thus Single clergyman, to order,
£l5O per annum ; married, at from .£2OO up; if
with children, £25 extra for each child.
« • •
It appears a settled practice in Australian
police-courts to fine those found guilty of cruelty
to animals 20s. for the cruelty, 21s. for costs, and
4s. Gd. costs of court. It is thus arguable that, in
the eye of the law, cruelty to an animal is a
milder offence than putting the court in motion.
•• * .
Here is a fine generalisation. A Sydney
policeman attributes all the serious evils of city
life to the short time old and young devote to
sleep. “I nivver knew,” he testifies, “a long
sleeper to be a bad man. When I find a man up
early in the morning, I keep an eye on him—
unless I know he’s looking for a drink. In that
case, av coorse, he may be the best of men, not-
withstanding that he’s out of bed. Education,”
he somewhat garrulously continues, “ won’t make
people better; nayther will religion, with all
respect to everybody ; it’s sleep that’s the im-
prover. Make the greatest criminal in the world
sleep sixteen hours out of the twenty-four, and I’ll
bet me life that in ten or twelve years all the vice
will be out of him and he’ll be as harmless as a
babv.”
# # *
A bit from real life. Letter picked up iu
a Melb. street (names altered, but otherwise
absolutely verbatim) :
My Dear Brother,—l supose you will be surprise to hear
from me, not having wrote for A long time, but the fact
of the matter is I have been having some fun with ! wo
boys name Groatley and Porter, so you may guess I have
not had much time to write. The first one is one of the
slyest villens that ever walk the face of the earth, but
Tom Porter is one of nice ones. lam walking with him
at present. If you knew him, Will, lam sure you could
not help liking him. Mother likes him and so do I. 1
have been on the tram and It is A one. You ask
how John is getting on? Ho has consoled himself with
another girl, and got married about four weeks ago, but
they are not living together. Sheds one of the talent.
He is up at —, and she is here with Mrs. .
Takes A trip out with different boys every night and
smart ones at that. Jack calls her talent and so does the
people about here. ,1 got her to go one night with
Groatley, and if I didn’t haVo some fun. .He didn’t know
who she was and I did take a rise out of him. Is there
many nice boys over there ; the Hobart boys is no good,
lam getting sick of the lot of them. I turned good about
2 months ago - went to Sunday school and church every
Sunday, hut now the trams arc running every Sunday I
go on them instead, and by Jove it is gay going on top
with A hoy, belter than all the walks yon take in Hobart
and it is as cheap as dirt. lam going to two proper Ballt
next week, have got A low-necked, pink dress to go in,
and I intend to have some fun. So good-bye, from-
Your loving Sister, *
Poor little devil!
« * •
S. Australia was the first British province
to legalise marriage with a deceased wife’s sister.
The royal consent was repeatedly refused before
persistence won success —in 1871. Winch Govt,
will lead in legalising marriage with a deceased
husband’s brother ? Woman-enfranchised JVlaon
land, perhaps. #
The feeling
is spreading
among members
of the Jewish
faith in the Aus-
tralian capitals
that to keep
their Sabbath
f rom falling into
the ordinary
week the em-
ployment of
Jews by Jews
must be en-
couraged. J ew-
ish employers?
respect the
Christian em-
ploye’s regard
for Sunday, but
Christian em-
ployers don't
reciprocate in re
Saturday.
# # #
Immediately
after the public
protestation of
a pious Vic -
Baptist that the
local elect had
not been driven
to desperation
by the depres-
sion, but had put
their trust in the
Lord, a minister
of that body
went away and
drowned him-
self to avoid
money troubles
and domestic
worries.
A picture from the maternity ward—it is
not really a ward in the ordinary acceptation of
the term, but is described by the doctors as a
species of “horse-box”—at Sydney Benevolent
Asylum ;
The place, as a rule, was in a shamefully overcrowded
state. It was a common thing to see two single beds put
side by side close to each other and three women, often
with their infants, sleeping upon them, or three single
beds in the same position with four women and their
children sleeping upon them. It was also a common
thing to see two single beds placed in a similar position
with six, seven or eight children (some of them good big
ones) sleeping upon them, and it was by no means an un-
usual thing to see beds made up on the floor. He
appended a table showing that 276 souls (124 women and
152 children) had among them only 184 beds and cots. In
a children’s ward of the receiving hospital, a room,
slightly under 20ft. square and containing only eight
single beds, had been made to accommodate 33 children.
The asylum authorities have been exerting them-
selves for years to obtain a maternity hospital,
but one Government after another has been too
hard-up to stand the cost. Yet the money which
was spent, the other day, on the Mackenzie
Bovvell feed would, at least, have made a be-
ginning with the work. Bowell always goes
before benevolence in N.S. Wales, somehow.
What are the women of Sydney doing that they
don't institute a women’s hospital ?
* * *
Lieut. Fitzgerald, of the Vic. Field
Artillery, has passed his military examination
“ at home ” and is now qualified for a commission
in the Imperial Army. Exciting item from the
Age
The trustees of Wellington (M.L.) Benevo-
lent Home have shut down heavily upon card-
playing in that dreary institution. Some old men,
MY PHILOSOPHY.
Dear Bulletin, —Take this from me,
Philosophers you’ve had a many ;
There’s only one where all agree
The pound, the shilling and the penny !
THE IDIOT.
“GOOD NIGHT.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
From lips, in hue as bright
As any western sky
That bids the sun good-bye,
In gentle tones : “ Good night.”
The same lips, altered quite,
In brazen undertone,
In shadow’s stealthy zone,
Salute, ah, God ! “Good night.”
O.N.
Fitzgerald pulled through his exam.
As a “ great” Melbourne journal has toM y.er,
At the cost of a small cablegram.
His tutor was able to cram
The skull of this fortunate soldier.
Now, Russia’s a dangerous foe,
And news from the North is alarmy—
Which makes it a comfort to know
That Fitz. is arranging to go
And help the Himperial Army.
Victoriah’s proud of her son
Who “ passed ” without making an error.
When fighting is there, to be done,
He’ll show ’em how battles are won—
The Russians will find him a tenor.
But, though it is certainly grand,
To strengthen Her Majesty’s forces,
We want him to give us a hand
To lead that attack “ on the land ”
And capture its “splendid resources.’*


ToThE Deaf. —A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 3f> Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Send 8d. in stamps for a copy of Xmas
Bulletin, posted to any Australasian address
England and abroad, lOd. in stamps.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OP PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR, of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALIHG & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS PBURICH
UEBEL and LECHLEITEII, CAUL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by. all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, P,OOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
33S George Street. SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
it seems, who were too infirm for work, and who
wete tired of sitting round the fire, and listening
to the “ whoosh ” of the gale that is always blow-
ing in that dusty city, and reading with their dim
eyes an occasional tract, had found a pack of
cards, and having nothing else to stake, they
played occasional games for matches. When the
trustees heard of it, however, they promptly con-
fiscated the cards, and warned the old men that
amusements were not allowed. They also shut
down On dominoes, arid so the toothless gamblers
liaVe resumed their old occupation of sitting round
tile Stove and thinking of their approaching
dissolution, and looking solemnly at each other
through their horn spectacles. What have the
n.ewly-enfranchised wdmen-electors, even the
Social Purity ladies, got to say to this ?
* • »
Oile member of Melbourne Presbyterian
Assembly objected to Miss Sutherland’s juvenile
reclamation scheme, because it would interfere
With the Sunday-schoql youngsters’ sympathy for
the Dayspring South Sea Mission ship. He must
have been the Rev. Mr. Jellaby, a descendant of
the lady who was so urgent for the blankets and
top-boots for the poor tropical savages of Borrio-
boola Gha;
* * *
Melb. Women’s Christian Temperance
Union thinks of establishing a shop for the sale of
unfermented wine, and putting Mrs. Harrison
Lee in charge. Mrs. Harrison Lee is a lady with
very emphatic Views about men. The aspiring
youth who went hanging over her bar would pro-
bably be presented with her famous pamphlet
expounding a severe but reliable method of en-
couraging the spread of morality amongst men
about town.
* # *
Scene—Salvation Army meeting in a
W.Q. township. The captain had just finished
orating on the efficacy of prayer when a lank
individual tosh and asked permission to speak.
“Certainly, brother, give your experience,” said
the officer. “Well, my mate, Bill, had asthma
10 years and he was persuaded to pray for his
recovery.” (Intense interest aroused.) “Ho
prayed 20 years, and ” (emphatically)—“ died of
asthma.” Laughter from public and consternation
in the ranks of the disciples of the Big Drum.
* « •
Mr, Fenwick marries Miss Sylvia Grey,
and his name is trumpeted loudly throughout the
“ Hempire ” ;
How many Who have joined the chase
For Fame and striven on through life
Rave lost! Here’s one who wins the race
Upon the legs (hem!) of his wife !
* # *
The aristocratic “ Mr. Leigh,” mentioned
by the cable-man as having married aballet-nymph
and been sent away from her to Australia, and as
now accusing a London solicitor of having im-
properly. dealt with <£40,000 while Leigh was
globe-trotting, is probably the gilded youth who
lately visited Australia in a yacht.
# # *
Deaconesses in Sydney C.E. diocese receive
as remuneration for their services £l5 per annum,
with board, lodging, medical attendance and
“outer” clothing.
• * *
“ MY PHILOSOPHY.”
[ln repentance towards Victor J. Daley.)
I’ve changed my mind, my comrade, Vic,*
And “ my philosophy ” is—Hie !
The Dipsomaniac,
• • «
The soullessness of the Yic. Government
is proved by the fact that the Blue Book contains
a column giving the (alleged) date of birth of every
woman in the public service. When women get
votes
• • *
Launceston (Tas.) Examiner advt. :
TWO LADIES, just arrived from Scotland,
thoroughly domesticated and fond of children,
are desirous of meeting with a well-to-do farmer or
squatter with a view to matrimony. Age not over
40. All communications strictly private. Address
“Trust,” G.P.0., Launceston.
# # #■
A wealthy “Chinese doctor” in Victoria
lost a valuable diamond ring in a railway-carriage.
Porter Tung, of Ballarat, found and restored the
jewel, and the Chinese was so pleased that he
gave Tung .£lO. The item got into the papers,
and the railway commissioners saw i-t. There-
upon, Tung got a note from headquarters, direct-
ing him to forward the £lO to the railway
accountant, as it was considered too high a
reward; it was further hinted that Tung would
have been officially undisturbed had the gift been
but £l. However, the department annexed the
whole £lO, and did not return Tung even £l.
Moral: Hold your Tung.
* # #
The Harness “electric belt” alleged
swindle now being investigated in London, is, if
it is a swindle, only another aspect of the faith-
cure, Harness holds testimonials from men whose
bona-fides cannot be doubted. Provided you
believe in your doctor, he can very often cure you
with a bread pill.
Pall Mall Gazette can afford to denounce
Harness. It is now owned by that gilded
Yankee, W. W. Astor. The history of
the case is interesting. Augustus Moore first
denounced Harness and Co. in the Hawk, but
they were strong enough to knock him out. When
the history of the P.M.G. attack is written it
will probably be found that Moore is at the
back of the attack.
* . « «
A N.S.W. eleric, deploring the moral pur-
blindness which allows local journals to print
gambling advts., lamented bitterly the other day
that the province possesses no penman with the
spirit of London Stead. And yet when the late
Dead Bird did its best to emulate Stead’s
“ Maiden Tribute ” that cleric was among those
who stood jubilantly by to see it stoned to death.
* * *
Asiatic hawkers flood N.S.W. country dis-
tricts, and, through sheer terrorism, make women
buy from them. Recently one pushed his way
into a bush school, where the lady teacher, having
dismissed the school, was alone; and absolutely
refused to go till she bought something. Ho said
he was a British subject, and as good Queen
Victoria paid her a salary, she should help him.
Which she had to do.
The suicide-boom goes gaily on in Victoria,
and Panton, P.M., lashes his side-whiskers ill
impotent rage. Since his Worship’s ukase but
one would-be suicide has failed to “get there.”
Ihe latest is an effective, single-handed hanging
worked with a care and finish evidently inspired
by Panton’s threat:—
. An Australian newspaper, passionately
eloquent on the evils of gambling, lately published
a serial story from an English magazine, changing
tile title of the story and mis-soelling the author’s
name.—
‘‘dompoiinding sins that We’re inclined to
By' damning those We have no mind to.”
* # «
Miss Keene tells Melb. W.O.T.U. that
tob£icc° is woman’s most successful rival in man’s
alieotiqns. This view of the question Only occurs
to the W.C.T.TJ. style of young lady.
* # *
During last year Queensland contributed
to the Australasian labour difficulty one case of
triplets—three females—and 284 cases of twins,
almost all among the working classesi
* # *
Miss Jennie Mighell, of Brighton (Eng.),
has, is cabled, failed irt her final attempt to
pull ” the Sultan of Johore for breach of pro-
mise. As Albert Baker, incognito, the dusky
CAREFUL OF HIS REPUTATION.
SELECTOR: “Look ’are, mate, for ’Eaven’s sake, don’t steal anything about here-not as I
thinks as yer would. When anything goes a missing in these parts the neighbours
always puts it down to me!”
gentleman won her maidenly consent to become
Airs. 8., but as a reigning Sultan he cried off with
Jennie and defied her to get damages from a
foreign potentate. Seeing that nobody can re-
cover damages from a potentate who is not foreign,
Jennie may consider herself snuffed out. After
all, there are privileges attached to crowned
heads.—
The Australian Star reports the arrest,
in Sydney, of “a middle-aged man with wild-
looking eyes named Henry Jackson.” His ears
were probably named William Smith. A man
whose eyes are named Jackson almost always has
ears called Smith, somehow.
# * *
Tiii-kettling newlyrmarried couples is get-
ting out of date, but a new trouble has arisen in
its stead. A Grey town (M. L.) printer was
married one day last month, and his colleagues, by
way of showing their good feeling towards him,
printed about 200 bills expressing in huge type
their best wishes for his happiness. Then they
came along in the darkness and pasted his house
all over with them, roof included. The printer
and his bride didn’t go away for the week’s holiday
they had contemplated. It took them almost the
whole honeymoon to wash the bills off the house.
* * *
On that gaudy autograph quilt exhibited
at the Leichhardt Bazaar, the only autographs
which indicated any kind of personality were
those of Madame Sterling, Mrs. W. 0. Windeyer
and Master Duff.
# * #
A Queensland teamstdr Owed mondy to a
blacksmith, and a storekeeper, who, by the way,
is a J.P. The blacksmith took out a summons.
This made the storekeeper mad, as it meant that
the blacksmith would get the first chance at “ levy
and distress.” He, too, issued a Summons. In
his J.P. capacity, he tried to get a special court
for his own case, but failed. Next, he induced
the teamstei* to file a plea and defend the Oase
brought by the blacksmith, and to let his own
base go by default —undefended cases being, by
court practice, taken first. However, the Court
Registrar didn’t make out the execution writs,
after all, Until the Court had risen, when the
blacksmith and storekeeper Were scuffling for first
honours in planking their money. Seeing the
game, the Registrar made out both writs and
handed them together to the bailiff, whom both
accompanied to the unlucky debtor's team. The
bailiff seized the team on behalf of—a draw in the
hat, which chanced to result in favour of .the
blacksmith. The J.P. went raving mad and was
that night heard challenging the whole town to
mortal combat.
* # «
The physical decay of royalty is ordained
by Nature. An average heir-apparent frets born
before his mother and father are full-grown,
whilst the fact that he was born prevents his
younger brothers and sisters from being very
robust. As a rule, of course, the youngest son of
a large royal family is strong enough to wallop
the eldest son, but not strong enough to wallop
him much. This is a society paragraph suggested
by the news that the Crown Princess of Rournania
was a mother before her eighteenth birthday.
« * *
The publisher of an English magazine,
while holding the copyright of published matter
and not caring to prosecute Australian pirates,
lately intimated to a Sydney writer that the latter
might prosecute where his own articles were
pirated.
• * *
A Gippsland paper sent its horse-re-
porter to do the local parson on “ Love, Court-
ship and Marriage,’’ the other night. He wrote :
“ We don’t know how those feel who have brought
off the treble.’’
Betrayed by hope he rigged a rope
Up to a handy rafter ;
He did not fear to quit this sphere.
N ;r dreaded the hereafter.
At thoughts of gaol his heart would quail—
He hoped to make no blunder,
Iho noose he wound his neck around,
Then kicked the chair from under
When cold and dead, his spirit fled
To realms that are located
Deep down below. He sought to know
Where he was situated,
And raised a wail: “Aml in gaol?
Oh ! cursed be my condition !”
But sang he soon a gayer tune,
For lie was in Perdition.
A monarch has his troubles, spite of stars upon his chest,
In some respects he’s mortal, quite as mortal as the rest.
The masses he despises mostly look on him with dread,
But, now and then, it happens that they amputate his
head.
He can catch the influenza like a man of meaner clay,
And the little debt of Natur’ soon or later he must pay ;
If he’s troubled with a corn upon a corner of his foot,
Sudden changes in the weather nearly always make it
shoot.
Though he plaster up his wrinkles, as they do upon the
stage,
There are cruel birthday cannons to remind us of his age;
He cannot fill the places where the missing hair has been,
Unless he, night and morning, soaks his head with kero-
sene.
Yet kings have this advantage over all the human race—
They can’t be made defendant in a breach of promise
case.
A king may pop the question every morning of his life,
And tell each pet, in writing, that he wants her for a
wife;
He can smother thorn with brooches and be liberal with
rings,
Till ho captures their affections (poor, confiding little
things!)
He may bug ’em on the ocean and embrace ’em on the
shore
(We arc thinking now of Jennie and her Sultan of
Johore).
He can tell the ladies’ mothers that he wants to marry
soon.
He can hurry on the trousseau and discuss the honey-
moon ;
He can blight a thousand chances with a thousand other
chaps,
And play the very devil in so many ways, perhaps.
But when he “cuts his lucky” and rgtireth from the
chase,
He can’t be made defendant in a breach of promise ease.
POST-CUP PHILOSOPHY.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Where, by the giddy hour, we may be led ;
What, in its drunken moments, we may do ;
Sbon has that merry moment nimbly fled
Amt left us minutes multiplied to rue ;
Pleasure, since plucked from off the tree it grew,
Always has been a rough, Uneven measure ;
Balancing needs a pleasure for a pleasure.
Wisdom, Time’s daughter is. The aged man,
Whose brow is wrinkled with the silent years;
Can give advice that only wizards can ;
lint there too often are no eager ears
When he recites the ways that cost him tears.
Youth is a torrent Which no force will stay;
Advice—the rocks, that torrent wears away.
PAUL BLUST.
DEAD LION AND LIVING BULL.
A lion lay in Nubian land
All cold and dead on desert sand ;
From out the monarch’s wasting form
Flew carrion-flies in furious swarm
And cried : “ O, what a race are we !
How princely is our pedigree !
The desert-king with heart of fire,
The lordly lion is our sire !
And he who heard the insects vile
Thought then how serfs in Britain’s isle
Will oft (because they lead in toil
A slavish life on British soil)
Prate long and loud of days of old
And boast they spring from yeomen bold,
Who drove the foe, like sheep before,
On Crecy’s field and Agiucourt.
Queensland.
P. LUFTIG.
To Non-Subscribers and Distant Readers
The Bulletin’s Xmas Number, to be published
December 10, at this paper’s usual price, 6d., will
shine like a star. It will not be a fat hunk of
paper stained with English stories, bought abroad
for ss. a page, shared with scores of other papers
throughout the world, and backed up with yards
of stolen matter and a garish foreign-printed pic-
ture of a girl nursing a kitten.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be absolutely
original, both as regards its literary matter and its
pictures, which latter will be contributed by
the leading artists of Australia. The literary
contents will comprise contributions in prose and
verse from over 40 old and new Australian
writers; and there will not be one dull line from
first to last. The number will be the best and
biggest and most original sixpenny-worth of read-
ing published by any news-magazine in the world.
Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number will be mailed to any Australasian address
outside N.S. Wales for Bd. in stamps; to any
English or foreign address for a remittance of 9d.
in stamps sent to the office, 24 Pitt-street; Sydney;
N.S. Wales;
The German Socialists now poll 1*800,00C
votes for Parliament, having advanced from
350,000 in 1890.
MY WATCH AND OTHER WATCHES.
One evening last summer I had some writing tc
do at my house; The weather was very hot, and
I took off my coat and waistcoat. My new gold
watch (that I had paid .£30 for) I laid before rat
on the table, where I could keep an eye on it. Sc
far so good. I wrote on* and papers accumulated on
the table, one of them covering my watch. Reach-
ing out for something I wanted, my arm
accidentally swept it to the floor. Oh, heavens,
what luck ! I picked it up—tenderly as one picks
up a child who has had a bad tumble. Was it
still running ? Yes, faintly ; but as I put it to my
ear it ticked a few times, feebly and slowly, and
then stopped—a dead watch. A minute ago it
was a vital thing—now merely a lot of motionless
wheels in a case. What was broken ? I couldn’t
say. The watchmaker must repair it and return
it, with his bill. So much for my stupid care-
lessness.
Yet nobody is so poor as not to carry a more
valuable watch than that; one that will run many
years without winding. But when it stops, ah !
then, who is able to set it going again ?
Speaking about the one he owns, Mr. Geo. W.
Barton, of Kirton Holme, Boston, says: “My
heart fluttered in a way to alarm me. Sometimes
it was so bad I fancied I could hear it stop heat-
ing.” 1
What ailed Mr. Burton’s heart? Perhaps hia
letter will help us to find out. He says :—“In
October, 1887, I began to feel very weary and
languid. I had a bad taste in the mouth, and in
the morning my teeth and gums were covered with
a thick bloody slime. My appetite failed, and
after eating I had great pain in the chest and
stomach. All the time I had a craving for food,
but dare not take solids. It seemed sometimes
that my head would burst with pain, and I was
so dizzy I could hardly see. After a while acough
set in, and I spat up great quantities of phlegm.
Later on my breathing became very bad, and I
would break out into a cold sweat. I kept on
growing weaker until it was all I could do to get
about, and in this condition I continued for four
years. During this time I consulted doctors and
used all the different medicines I heard of, but
none of them did any good.”
Now, let’s think a minute. Mr. Burton says
his heart fluttered and palpitated, he had a hack-
ing cough, and difficulty in breathing—three
frightful things. A man might die of any one of
them, as we all know. Yet he recovered from all
of them — and all at the same time. He says :—
“ In February, 1891, I heard of what Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup had done in similar cases,
and I determined to try it, and got a bottle from
Messrs. Grimble and Kent, chemists, Boston.
The first few doses gave relief, and by continuing
to use it in a short time I was perfectly cured. I
make this statement in order that others may
know where to look for a remedy in an illness like
mine’’ _ (Signed) “ Geo. W. Burton.’’
We rejoice at his restoration to health, but
what, after all, ailed him ? Did he have three
diseases—viz., heart complaint, consumption, and
asthma? And, if so, how on earth could Mother
Seigel’s Curative Syrup have cured them—each
affecting different organs ? The answer is, he had
but one disease, indigestion and dyspepsia, of
which the feeble heart, the irritated throat, and
the burdened lungs were tell-tales and symptoms.
The poisoned blood—filled with deadly acids from
the stomach—half paralysed the nerves and thus
disordered the heart’s action ; it also infected the
delicate membrane lining of the lungs and air
passages, producing asthma and the cough that
seemed to threaten consumption. One disease,
many misleading symptoms—that is the truth ;
deluding physicians, and frightening patients into
thinking there is no hope.
When life’s timepiece runs down no power on
earth can wind it up again, but Mr. Burton’s case,
and thousands more, prove that it is often good
for many a year after you thought the works
would soon be motionless in the case.


m\)i lu q
/atarbutywatch requires
aboutfwesecondstowind
If is now cased in com-silver
filled grolol, Low-
pncecf accurate & durable
hStANf
mH.r
>
%
&
m
i
v,
%
’ *kOvKIooJL
SlO •)lOV’N>Vd*
'iJo ?Hi'Jo*>MjJ'is-SlO
. ±nos
fW'aS *
vWvAjo3m
WENTWORTH FALLS,
blue mountains.
Visitors from the seven Australasian provinces
will find the most princely accommodation, and
the grandest views at
Toll-s Hotel, Wentworth,
rjTALES '"or the syst em
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Amusements. _
HE It MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr, George Rignold.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING I
Win. Bourne’s Great Sensational Drama,
“ iko; _£±, 3ST T O M A. nST. 77
Mr. GEORGE RIGNOLD as James Gordon.
New»Pricc9 of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-Street, between Park and Market streets?.
Sole Lessees and Managefs, Williamson and Musgrove.
Thursday, Dec. 7, Last Night of 1.1.6 Italian Opera Season.
“ U’SLTlS'fci’*
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 8, Return of the ROYAL COMIC
O,’ERA COMPANY.
“ Pirates of Penzance/* k “ Princess Ida.”
Treasurer and Business Man ager, Geo. L. Goodman,
ajni H EATRE ROYAL*
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of Maggie Moore iu
c£ TSI IB 3D -A. 3ST ITIB S . 7 7
Box Plan Open Daily at the Theatre.
POPULAR PRICES—3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Business Manager, Mr. J. E. Moore.
fjs H E CRYSTAL MAZE
A REVELATION ! A REVELATION !
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of tills NOVEL and DELIGHT'
FUL EXHIBITION,
The nAost extraordinary and unique spectacle emir
witnessed in Sydney.
Location— THE STIIAMI (Pitt Street Entrance).
ADMISSION—One Shilling; Children, 6d.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
W. MACMAHON, Director.
GOOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Wm, Larmour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6 a.m.
till 10 p.m. For I.ABIES Daily from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Puilio Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesday Evening.
Ml AWARD’S
f
reran
J
ram l {
i®
gd
S TANDARD'; NEED LE S.
“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc, from The Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. 00. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
r~p ~pq~ ~pn
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO,
01? —-
NEW SOUTH WALES, Limited.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
CAPITAL ;
Subscribed, £1, 000,000 : Paid-up, <£25,000.
Board of Directors;
The Hon. F. T. Humphery. M.L.C., Chairman.
Rollo A. Cape, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
W. O. Goddard, Esq. Josiah Mullens, Esq.
■ Lesley George Herring, Esq.
Company acts as Executor, Adminis-
I trator, Trustee, Attorney, or Agent in the
Management or Realisation of Estates or Invest
merit of Funds, and is prepared to take over
existing Trusts.
Solicitors for Trusts transferred continue to act
for the Trust.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
Telephone No. 1207. Offices— lmperial Cham
bers, 1G O’Conneli-street.
ONE of the most remarkable BOOKS issued for
some time is the “CORNSTALK, HIS HABITS,
and HABITAT,” by Whaks Li Kell. Humour, satire,
and Pathos are marvellously blended. Hundreds Of
telling points, in vigorous English, are diversified
throughout the work. We have the humorous m
“Phelim MoCoul,” the satirical in “Tim Bunyip, Hi-
pathetio in “ Sighing,” and the “Palace of Pleasure is
a gem of literature.
All Booksellers, Is. ; Post, Is. 2d.
Eldivards, Dunlop & Co., Wholesale Agents
CHEA P MUSI C.
New Song, “After the Bali,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes,
Songs, Duets, &c., at 3d; each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W; PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
ASP
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application
enclosing business card.
NOW READY, POST FREE 18. 6d.
rgIHE BALLET
A GIRL: Her Thea-
trical and Donn stic His-
tory. Giving an account
Of iter first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet moials,
how some of them
manage to \vi ar real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautoh girls of
Ind a, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Harmaid.” To
be had only'of MaXiamb Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
fg
d
fgd
PERFECT WORKING MODEL STEAM ENGINES.
f
8S 6CI
Best English maka “The Ajax” or “Fury,” with Whistle,
Safety-valve, &o. With Lamp complete, in box, as illustrated.
Give your Boy
a Chance
with his Brains.
OVER
20s
“ The Dover," all made of Copper and Brass, beautifully
Finished, Works Splendidly ;60 miles an hour. As illustrated.
He may become
Commissioner for Rail-
" ays.
Salary , SW) a year.
gd
A
12s 6d
Beautiful Little Engine. Brass Tubular Boiler, Steam
Whistle, Safety-valve, &0., as illustrated.
*
i
3s 6d
Vertical Engine. 2Jin. Boiler, Br««> Cylinder, Fly Wheel and
Safety Valve. Complete, with Spirit Valve. Large Size, 6S.
As illustrated.
There is no danger ;
all are
Fitted with Safety-
Valves.
ft!
ft
■ 1
£1 15S
Large-size Donkey Engine, Solid Brass Boiler, Large-size Fly
Wheel, Taps, Safety Valves, etc., as illustrated.
These are
Really sensible presents
for Christmas
fg
XOs 6fl
A Pietty Model.
'Bright Copper Boiler, Enamel Brickwork Base, Double Bras*
Standards, Safety Valve, etc., as illustrated.
df
Make use of the parcels
post. Any of
these can be sent for Is.
by post.
£2 5s
The "Vulcan” Traction Engine. Entire length, 16in.; width,
4J,in. Solid Brass 3£in. Boiler, Safety Valve, Steam Tap, Gq»ge
5 Tap, Buffers, Side Rails, as illustrated.
g
IQS 6fl
Horizontal Engine. Solid Brass Boiler, 2|in. diam., very best
fittings, with Spirit Lamp, complete, as illustrated.
Send for
Ovjt Full Catalogue
150 pages, post free.
dfg
£3 lOs
Finest make Slide Valve Vertical Engine. Boiler, sin. long,
2in. diam., Cylinder, gin. Bore, lin. Stroke, with Fly Wheel,
3in. diani, A moot beautiful model.
FROST & SHI PH A>F 462 & 587 George-st., Sydney.
A traveller mentions that till he roamed
the Gippsland mountains lately he was not aware
ileighs were used in Victoria.
“ The Bishop in Japan," not of Japan, is
the title of the Anglican prelate at Tokio. Alight
not the arrogant style of Australian Bishops be
similarly modified ?
It was the father of millionaire Angasj
M.L.0., who introduced German emigrants into
S.A. That was in 1837, and now in many pro-
vincial towns the only language spoken is
German.
Befdrh undergoing operative or dther
treatment for Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharp on the
new and successful “ Cannalin ” treatment, 257
George-stt,, close to Bridge-st., Sydney.*
Patchett Martin’s “True Stories from
Australasian History,” one of Griffith-Farran’s
“ True Stones ” series, is out. It is somewhat
disappointing, for, instead of being stuffed with
old-time anecdote, which would have set all
“ colonial sassiety ” by the ears, it is an unpre-
tentious volume of 320 pp., dealing with a few
public men, from the first filibuster who set foot
on the continent to the' late Admiral Tryon. The
book will chiefly please those who have not very
closely studied Australian history. Much of the
contents are derived frorfl tile Record-office
arohivefi.
What is warited in this enervating climate
of ours is a drink that is easily made, pleasant to
taste and withal strengthening. Fry’s Malted
Cocoa is jtist that article, and each cup made at
home will only cost £ou the trifling sum of one
halfpenny, milk and sugar included.
Splatt, only survivor of the Victorian
Parliament, 1851, died, a few weeks ago, in
England, aged 82, while in office as Mayor of
Torquay, Devonshire. A grand old squatter and
author of the immortal phrase, “ Are we going to
tax ourselves ?”
If we keen a monarchy we must pay it aS
does Denmark; £lO,OOO or ,£20,000 a year is am-
ple, and those other than the head of thfe firm must
be taught to do as did the Princess of Wales be-
fore she came here—make their own dresses and
earn their own living. Never mind whether we
want them or not We can’t afford theseßattenbergs,
or Tecks. or hu’oibtigs generally. We haven’t the
cash to go round. And everybody, whether Roy-
alty or Government office boy, must be treated as
they are being treated by other bankrupt or bank-
rupting nations—their pay must be reduced by 50
per cent.— London Bulletin.
When a foreign company—if a company
of American cousins may be termed foreign-
takes up its abode amongst us and erects such a
structure as that which the Alutu.il Life Insurance
Company of New York is busy building at the
junctionof Martin-place and Pitt-street, Sydney, it
carries its own welcome with it. The design of
this edifice surpasses in beauty anything which has
yet been accomplished in the way of .Sydney
architectural adornment, and will, when com-
pleted, furnish a fitting shrine for the big business
which this progressive institution is securing in
New South Wales. The manager of the company,
Major Rennie, has shown, during his seven years’
residence iiuthis city, that he knows exactly what
the community wants in his line of business, and
the success he has achieved has been something
quite phenomenal. A good illustration of the
building will appear in the Christmas number of
The Bulletin.


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY.
Bead Office t 87 PITT STHUEIT, BTOHET.
Directors The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P ■ J. T. WALKER, Esq.;
and ROBTERT J. KING, Esq. .
tar" All Policies effected from now till the end of the Year will share In the Division of Profits as at 31st December, 1683. Amount of CASH BONUS Distributed amengst Policy*
holders for the One Year, 1892, exceeded HALF-A-MILLION STERLING.
All Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of two years,
the Profits for this year.
Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in applications early, either direct or through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of
General Manager and Actuary—FAClA ARE TFEC'F, F.1.A., F.F.A, ROBERT It, CAMERON, Secretary.
r b i
Summer Cup December 26. 10,000 at 10.
Carrington Stakes. 25,000 at XO.
Midsummer H’cap Jauunry L 10,000 at 5.
“ T AT ! KIM I I ,’’
Oare of Okorue Adams,
“The Tele.'rapli ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
iii Isbiine, UnceusliiiKl
* 6 ITREMAN’S ” SKLECTIONS
JL for all Sp >rting Events should be ob-
tained by every backer. Summer Cup, Carrington
Stakes, and Tattersall’s Cup. Some good things
specially kept for these' events. “Yorkshire-
man ” selected Little Bernie, Pilot Boy and
Chatham last year; this is as good. See News,
Star and Referee weekly.
" YORKSHIRES! AN,”
Care of W. J. FRANK, 3 Ridge-st., Surry Hills, Sydney
WHAT BEAUTY?
Fresh, Creak., Firm Complexions and a Beauti-
ful Figure ?
PH
m
ANNA RUPPERT,
the eminent Lecturess,
under Royal pationaire,
can give you all that is
required to make you
an envied woman.
—TRY—
JRTTPPERT’S
SKIN TONIC.
Harmless, Effect! veand
Permanent. It does
not require continual
use; refreshes and
makes
firm and giiTsii. Noth-
ing magical, but a
perfect tonic, used
locally.
Currs .I,'tir, BlnrJ,-hr:ifti, IScsenm, JSarly
il fhiMcs, (■/(■. rails.
Prica per Bottle, 12 0; Tinea (usually required), £1 12s Cd.
All Mrs. Ruppert's Quods bear her Trade Mark and the
Address, W lie jent Street', London, on the labels.
Wholesale Agency for Australasia:
No. 161, THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
Sole Melbourne Agents: BEDDOME & CO., Cueniists,
254 Bourke Street.
IST” RETAIL AGENTS WANTED in QUEENSLAND.
For particulars apply t,t the Sydney oflioe.
Special Advertisements
The people of Queensland, in
Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Brisbane),
where the FINEST STOCK in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts, Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockery ware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low-priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES !! This can be proved in the
mostsatisfactory manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the onlv reliable test. Everything
in their line can he had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S except shoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is required, and remittance to cover
amount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Bank Drafts, &c.. payable to FINNE V,
ISLES & CO.
Samples, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for men’s or
women’s clothing, Price-lists, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will be immediately forwarded
on application to
FINNEY, ISLES & CO
(Direct Importers and Manufacturers),
Brisbane, Maryborough «P London.
JI Perfect Food.
HO RUCK’S
MALTED
MILK
d
&
(o'
NOURISHING.
'DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS
FOR TRAVELLERS
Malted milk is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by di-solving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
111 fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk."
— Lancet. April 4, 1891.
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-;
I*l valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants."
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents ; —
Ruiott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
Lancet.
St. Jolm's Works, Loudon, W.O
Barry’s Tricopherods
FOR THE
and,
HAIR
SKIN.
§
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
i the hnlr grow thick and soft. Cares
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
1IIcals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Aew York.
fgd
Reuters Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to euro every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
, . ■»!■ . i enough for the strongest, do not after
wards constipate but by their general action please all wh •
t; e tj, -n. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Prof-.*,
'on. 'i 1 o smallest and easiest to take, forty in a phial.
B 1
TLLBTIN
trv any
XMAS NUMBER.
Australasian add mss AI.
Bos tod
]7iOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
- ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY, One is “THE CKKSCENV,” situated 631
GEORGE STEEET (handy to Railway), and the-other is
the “ POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. W. ELLIS.
f
S.EACH.
5. EACH.
gd
At 5 Each 10,000 At 5 Each
SUMMER CUP.
Randwick, December 26th,
FIRST
SECOND
THIRD
... 1000
.. 600
.. 250
S. (divide) .. 300
N.S. (divide) .. 25,-,
100 at 2 each .. ..
Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c jo H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-street, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 a Pitt Street,
(Opposite G.P.0.),
8 YDUE IT.
TELEPHONE, No, 1,542.
Telegraphic Code:
“ Westbrook, Sydney.”
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES—No. 3.
“Lobengula, the Matabele King, notwithstanding his
defeat by the British, and his envoyshavins been unjustly
fired upon, humanely afforded the missionaries a safe
passage to the British lines. Such a example
of magnanimity should not be overlooked when making
terms with the dusky potentate.”
CLOSES THURSDAY. JANUARY 4.
Every Competitor allowed two guesses for each 1/- gent
,by Postal or P.O. Order, 1/1 if in stamps. Total amount,
less 10 per cnt., divided amongst successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited in a sealed envelope with
Mr. T. P. Hughes, the well-known Albury bookseller.
Burton & Metcalfe, Dean street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
t NOTE.—No, 2 Competition not having been correctly
guessed, the amount has been carried into No. 3 (as above).
VITALINE.”
Latest GERMAN
REMEDY.
cHLOfo
m
life
A.
'Of.
o>
utalime.
Produces the a'>ove results in THIRTY
DHjelopes SmalV Sl.mnkcn parts of YOUNG and
Old. and CUrf.ES Debility, Sleeplessness, Pains
m the Back, Loss of Memory, Dizziness, etc., etc.
Instant Relief—Never Returns !
Full Cure sent in plain package on receipt of Til.
B. MULLEE, 11 Francis-st., Sydney.
Cure Guaranteed. Register all letters contain-
ing money.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, December 5, 1303.
11 LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
1 SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o i-lock
a.tn. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Bridge, Wollondilly River at Lacy’s Crossing
Bridge, Wybong Creek, road Merriwa to Muswell-
brook
Bridge, Glennie’s Creek at Camberwell
Bridge,- Murray River at Hawksview
Bridge, Yarramunmun Creek, road Novvra to
• Yalwal
Construction of Main, Eastern Branch Sewer,
Western Suburbs Drainage. Time extended
Additions, Hospital for the Insane, Rj dahnere
Erection of Dining-room, &c., Hospital for the
Insane, Gladesville. Fresh tenders. Time
extended
Erection of Building for Dairy Agricultural
College, Richmond
Asphalting Hold, &c., N.S.S. Sabraon.
Construction of Sewer to drain Necropolis. Con-
tract No. 97, Sydney Sewerage.
Construction of Sewer, March-street, on to Sewage
Farm. Contract No. 101, Sydney Sewerage.
Erection of Waiting Shed, &c., Scott-street, New-
castle Tramway.
Manufacture within the Colony, supply, &c. .if
Steel Pipes, Junee Water Supply.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20.
Annual Contracts, 1894.
(A deposit of =£lo in respect of each Contract to
accompany Tender.)
Supply op
(To be Manufactured in New South Wales)
Awnings, Sails, Tents, fee. Furniture
Brooms, Brushes, &c. Ironmongery, No. 2
Clinker and Carvel-built Boats. Rope, &c.
Engineers’ Fittings, &c. Wrought Scrap Iron
Forgings
Cast and Wrought Copper, Lead, Zinc, &c.
Leather Belting, Hose, &c. Wrought iron
Paints, Colours &c., No. 2. Window Blinds, &o.
Plumbers and Gastitters’ Fittings and Materials,
No. 2
Iron, Brass and Gunmetal Castings
Stone for Parramatta District (N.S.W. quarries)
Stone for Maitland District ( do. )
Drain Pipes—
Metropolitan and Illawarra District
Northern District. Western District
Southern District
Timber—
Hardwood (New South Wales). Kauri Pine
Colonial Pine, Baltic, &c.
Oregon and American Redwood
Coal, Supply for Sydney—
(Foreign or Colonial Manufacture)
Anchors, Chains, &o. Wire Rope, &c.
Carpets, Floorcloths, Linoleum, &c. Ship
Chandlery
Diving Gear. India Rubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Steel. Draftsman’s Materials
Engineers’ Stores. Draftsman’s and Surveyors'
Instruments
Oils, Paints, &o. Ironmongery, No. 1. Chairs,
&c. Clocks
Plumbers and Gasfitters’ Fittings and Materials,
No. 1. Plate Bar Iron, &c.
Conveyance of Coal.
Newcastle to Clarence River
„ ~ Hastings „
„ ~ Mncleay „
„ „ Manning ~
„ „ Myall
~ ~ Nambucca ~
ii ~ Richmond ~
„ „ Tweed „
„ „ Bellinger „
~ ~ Cape Hawke,,
II ,i Camden Haven River
Wollongong to Moruya
„ to Shoalhaven
Sweeping Chimneys.
Cleaning, &c., Carpets.
Supply of Colonial-made Cooking Stoves.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 27.
Construction of Earthwork Dam across AlumV
Creek, Grafton. 7
Construction of Wharf at Government Dock*
Cundletown, Manning River.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1894.
Bridge, Cow Creek, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wakool River, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wilson River at Balfingarra. Time ex-
tended
Erection of Building in connection with the Ho»
pital for the Insane at Kenmure
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
FOR GUESSES ON THIS REBUS.
GIVEN AWAY
in Presents.
Which represents, when properly arranged, the
name of a prominent Australian City. To tire First Five Persons sending us correct answer on or
before December 20th, 1893. wo will give to each, A Genuine «olil Hunting
Match. % alne t>. To each of the next Six we will give a Sterling' Silver Elis.tr: .
Lever Mutch. Value £3104. To each of the next leu we will give a ftemiinolviriiel
driver heylexs M atch. % alue £I, To each of the last Five sending correct answer we will
give A Pennine Ooltl Hunting < U»e Lever Maul.. Value £>, To each of the
next Six we will g.ve A Me.l.na h.lvor Hunting Ctael.eve. Match. Value £3 10.,
To each of the next len we will give A Wcauine XlcUcl Silver Korlew M atch. Value £l
This Rehus admits of only one answer and does not convey a double meaning. It is no catchpeunv
Advt., but a Genuine distribution of ( hristmas Presents to be faithfully conducted as above stated.
COmpetaion Closes at 5p.m., December 20th, next. With your answer we require you to
repd F |p Tt EN. PENNY STAMPS for abo*of “ Mar Antlhiliou* IMIU,” the Best I.iver,
me
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Ihe first half of the Melbourne Bioyole Carnival
was put through last Saturday on tlie M.C.C. ground with
a financial success that beat all previous records. The
show lias not gained in effect by the introduction of
11 pneumatic-safety ” machines, which bring the riders
nearer to earth than of yore, but as the time for a tvvo-
mile race is now about 15 or 20 seconds faster than last
year's, professional interest in next Saturday’s finals is
greater than ever.
* # #
Broadbent, of Vic., won the Five Mile Cham-
pionship by going early to the front and pounding away
at top speed whilst a dozen other men were riding “a
waiting race,” To the unenlightened critic, it seemed
That they carefully waited until Croadbent’s victory was
certain before they spurted in hot pursuit. Then they
decreased the gap rapidly enough. The winner, h nvever,
was not called upon to prd\ e whether he also had a spurt
left in him, so it is very likely that he could have got
there all the same in any case. Seven sovereigns and a
gold medal are not much of an inducement to try for
championship honours in a game where money, rather
than glory, is said to grease the wheels.
• • •
For the Austral Handicap prizes—=£2oo, =£4o
and £10 —there should be a lively struggle. On paper,
the final heat is a pretty good thing for Bucknall (Vic.),
who starts on the 360yds. limit. He won bis heat last
Saturday by something like the length of his start. He
will have no field to get through, no risk of a collision,
nothing to do. except stay in front all the way. Elliott
is the on'y other Victorian likely to trouble Bucknall
at the finish. South Australia has two men left in
among the twenty-four, but unless they were riding
very dark last Saturday they can have no chance,
nor is the one .Maorilander reckoned dangerous.
N.S. Wales will have five going for the stake. Of
these Megson and Jorgenson each won a heat, the former
pulling off the One Mile Open into the bargain. Jorgen
son's performance seemed the more promising “at the
weights,” though, and perhaps he will fight out the finish
for the Austral with Bucknall and Elliott.
* * * -
Bicycles, as gambling machines, are less trust-
worthy than horses. Tiie nag that is “stiffened” does
occasiona iy insist upon winning, whereas the bicycle
any chance overpowers its jockey when that
young gentleman has been made safe.
* # »
The Sydney punters are pretty well all cleaned
out. There are several equine “good tilings” about
Sydney, fit as hands can make them, lying idle Tor want
ef a punter. Several smart young men round town are
in danger of being posted at Tattersall’s.
# * •
Frank Toms has lowered the A del Aide-Mel-
bourne cycle journey record. He .covered 200 miles
between Hamilton and Melbourne in 21 hours, and, after
a rub-down, set off for anot her three hours’ ride, accom-
plishing 225 miles in 24 hours. This sort'of thing generally
1 ads to one result: a surgeon holding up an accomplished
bicyclist’s heart on a knife and pointing with his fore-
finger at the ruptured place.
# # #
The best shooting at the recent Melb.. tourna-
ment was shown in the international match" between
teams picked from all the provinces -500 and 600 yards
range. The English and Australian teams scored 1535
points altogether, as compared with 1530 made at the
same distances by Victoria and N.S.W. in the Federal
match. But S'otland and Ireland respectively fell short
of the S. A. and Tasmanian totals, lieland, in fact, didn’t
do quite as well as West rail a, the lowest,on the “ Federal”
list. It was noticeable, too, that Scotch names, which are
always to the fore in Wimbledon shooting contests, were
not so very prominent here. Perhaps Lite cold Caledonian
nerve doesn’t thrive in Australian climates.
• * •
“ Mick ” Rush, the old-time sculler, now keeps
a Sydney hotel. They all do it.
The approaching Christmas holidays sug-
gest delightful outings—picnic parties both on
the beautiful harbour and .in the numerous
charming country resorts, so easily found, and so
delightfully situated in and around Sydney. To
thoroughly enjoy such an excursion see.that
in your party is included an amateur photo-
grapher. He will, through the agency of
his little camera, give you a lasting souvenir
of a pleasant day in the shape of a photo-
graph of your party, or of some picturesque
spot with pleasant associations. Should you not
possess a friend of the “ Camera Fiend ” species,
you may easily rise to the occasion yourself by
calling on Messrs. Baker and Rouse, 375 George-
street, Sydney, opposite Sydney Arcade, who will
supply you with outfits from 30s. upwards, and
also give you full instructions how to produce a
photograph gratis. They will also mail you
catalogues on application.


BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1»2 $,
fg
for
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
J£ATOOMBA.
The FBIOBY.
Gardens, Orchard, Ballroom, Tennis adjacent,
Dairy.
Terms • £2 2s.
Mrs. J. W. FLETCHER.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
Retail Booksellers and Stationers,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
Cafe
MARTIN
Moore
and Pitt Sts,,
lv "City Dinner”
(A Specialty).
MARXIST
CHAMBERS,
opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY,
First-class Grill Room & Restaurant.
The Coolest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
in Sydney.
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-elass Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE AND TABLE SERVICE.
N.B.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready—l/- to 8/6.
Public Banquets. Private Dinners. Smoke Concerts.
For Estimates, apply H. GARDNER, Manager.
•• A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold!”
TAYLOR BROS.,
PIPE MAKERS & Amber Turners,
248 PITT STREET.
SYID ZESTED.
T*>-
er” The ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made into good Smoking Pipes.
Needle Wood (Hakea Leucopterra)
(with Silver Mount and Vulcanite Stem), 4 6
Myall Wood Pipe ditto 4 6
Yarran Wood Pipe ditto 4 6
Briar Boot Pipe ditto 4 6
(Above Pipes with Silver Mount and Amber Stem, 7/6)
Briar Root Pipes, L. &Co. in circle, 4/-, 5/-, 6/-, 7/-
The Needle Wood Pipe is self-absorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
The Briar Root is sweeter than any other known.
Pipes Silver-mouated, Re-Amhered and Repaired.
jgy When ordering, please state shapes. Shapes :
Square Block, Horn of Plenty Round Bent and Round
Bent Push, and Elat.
On receipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be sent (post free) to any address.
We arc Purchasers of Needle-Wood Root.
NEURODYNE
(REGISTERED)
HAS been USED with considerable success for Four-
teen Years in NEURALGIA, SICK HEAD-
ACHE. LOSS OF BHAIN POWER, WASTING
DEBILITY, LANGOUK, etc.
All Chemists.
Wholesale from ELLIOTT EROS., Limited,
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO.
MEN...
WOMEN
WHO HAVE USED “ FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND CONSTIPATION
Cure” have found it a certain cure for all Liver Com-
plaints, Flatulency, Costiveness, Bilious Headache, Dis-
agreeable Taste in the Mouth, Alternate Chills and
Flushings of Heat, Loss of Appetite, Alcoholism, Indiges-
tion, Disturbed Rest at Night, Nervous Tremors and
Debility. By continued use it cures Constipation
permanently.
Ladies will find it invaluable fob the relief of
many Uterine Complaints and Efficacious in Producing and Restoring that
Regularity of Habit which is all important to their wellbeing.
We retrain from publishing' any of tlie many Testimonials
we receive daily from persons who have taken this Valuable
Medicine, as the Public has no guarantee of the g-enuineness
of Testimonials printed by Patent Medicine Manufacturers; but the
unprecedented success “Puss’s Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure”
lias met with in all parts of the world, has induced the inventor of
this unsurpassed preparation to offer to any purchaser ot it the
refund of the Price of 58s. Od. if the Medicine fails to cure
the ailments we recommended it for.
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE CHEMISTS AMD PATENT MEDICINE VEKDQRS.
Should it not be procurable locally it will be sent Carriage Paid to any part of the
Colony on remittance of 3s. for one bottle, or 15s. for six bottles to the
COSMOS APOTHECARIES COY.,
the Agents for the Australian Colonies. 674 GEORGE ST.. SYDN EY.
Xmas and New Year’s
PRESENTS.
“Announcement Extraordinary.”
J. F. COLLINS & CO.’S
Great Carnival and Sale Commenced on Friday, December 1, 1893.
This year the BARGAINS will be ASTOUNDING. Our entire Stock has undergone
Wholesale Reductions, so that everyone may have an opportunity of procuring their Xmas require-
ments in DRAPERY and CLOTHING- at half the usual prices.
Gents’ Tweed and Serge Sac Suits will be offered at 11s 9d, 16s 6d, 18s 6d, to 30s,
Gents’ Strong Flannellette or Harvard Shirts, Is, Is 3d, Is 9d, 2s 6d.
Boy’s Galatea Washing Serge and Tweed Suits, 2s 9d, 3s 6d, 3s lid, to 10s 6d.
Ladies’ Taffeta Gloves, 6 Kid Gloves, sewn backs, Is llgd, 2s ll|d, to 5s lid.
Dress Materials, 3s lid the Doz. ; Washing prints, 3s lid the Doz.
Tweed Costumes to Order. Marlow Skirt and bodice, from 12s 6d,
Gents’ Sac Suits to Order, 50s, 635, and 70s. Trousers to Order, 12s 6d, 16s 6d, 21s.
Do not Fail to VISIT us when in Town, or WRITE for Patterns,
£Country Orders Promptly Attended to.
Patterns and Measurement Forma FREE on Application. All Goods Purchased from 40s.
upwards Carriage Free.
J. F. COLLINS & CO.,
GREAT JUVENILE OUTFITTERS (Late SUMMERFIELD’S),
235, 237, 239 PITT STREET (near Market Street), SYDNEY.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
JUST ARRIVED, PER s.B. AUSTRALIA, FASHIONABLE SHIPMENT OF
Summer Suitings, Tweeds, Serges and Fancy Worsteds.
TWEED SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 45/- TROUSERS, 18/6
SERGE SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 50/- TROUSERS, 15/-
BOUND CORKSCREW SAC SUITS TO MEASURE, 50/- TROUSERS, 16/6
Country Customers please write for Patterns, Tape and Self-Measurement Forms.
LONDON & MELBOURNE TAILORING CO. a. M. BAVMASHE, Manager.
THE GREAT
Scandinavian
Remedy
—FOR—
RHEUMATISM (acute and chronic) GOUT,
CHALKY GOUT, SCIATICA,
LUMBAGO, NEURALGIA,
BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
KIDNEY & LIVER DISORDERS,
BRITISH CHOLERA,
And all Blood and Skin Diseases-
THIS Medicine effectually eradicates uric acid
and kidney poisons from the blood. Re-
moves pain in the muscles, joints or nerves and
permanently restores the system to perfect health.
PRICE, ss, Per BOTTLE,
Or Course of 5 Bottles for £1 Is,
To be taken 3 times daily either before or after meals.
Dose.— One small tablespoonful in equal quantity of
water.
When Pills or Liniments Fail, this Valuable
Specific effects a Certain Cure,
V. ,
p, •
ft
V
tVie
jsiP—
Remedy
The
“HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER.
The Moat Perfect Typewriter.
■ »
rrHE ONLY TYPEWRITER possessing Perfect Align-
ment, Changeable Type (40 odd) and Ribbons instantly,
Uniform Impression (independent of operator’s touch), any
Width Paper, Visible Writing, Light Action, Shortest Key
Depression, Automatic Manifolding Stroke, and recommenda-
tion by FRANKLIN SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTE
—FOR—
“Great Durability in Service,”
Competitors can neither claim or deny these facts.
Positively the Best Writing Machine for Use with the Mimeo-
graph and Neoc3’dostill.
Ribbons last much longer, and never wear into holes.
Send for Sample Work, Illustrated Catalogue and Testimonials.
D. B. THOMAS,
Australian Agent,
Victoria Arcade, SIDNEY.
Musical Instruments!
XMAS boxes:
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away!! (only 30,000)
BE IN TIME.
Scud Four Pcnuy Stamps and you will receive
In return a 4s. Song. Waltz; or Plano Piece,
FKEE!
HOWARD & 00. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Kemeniber tills ! HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Acoordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT:
ALSO,
Guns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
e<ai. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK !
At 2d. and 3f&. each— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Bd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
S£T Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
SB
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:—
CRAIG «9c AITKEN,
new south wales barbers* supply house,
680 d T 683 George Street, Sydney,
m- STEELE’S GALVANIC
GENT’S BEtT
ELECTRIC BELTS la
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances save those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion,
liver disease, &c. STEELE’S BELTS forwarded imme-
diately upon receipt of £2—registered letter, post-order,
or cheque. When ordering Belts, send waist measure
above the hips.
A.. R. Gregory,
Phcexioe Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Over Washington Soui. & Co.)
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO..
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
HENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “ ITn Hallo in Maschcrn,” “11 Trova-
tore,” “ Lcs Huguenots.” Is. 6J. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swanston Strkkt, MELBOURNE.
“ Where is the woman who in her heart
oes not admire Samson more than Christ?”
X.L. (Melb.) : “After strenuously oppos-
ing the Bible in Schools’ League all along, I was
thinking to-day whether an accommodation could
not be made with them. I would allow 20 minutes
on Tuesday and Friday afternoons for reading in
class a series of lessons from Job, Psalms, and
Proverbs, arranged so as to cover the year. There
is no danger now of the sects ever throttling the
Act, and I think it a misfortune for a scholar to
know nothing of the Bible.”
N.S. W. Board of Health has decided to pro-
secute a Newcastle medico for failing to report a
case of leprosy which came under his notice. The
facts are understood to be as follow Six months
ago five doctors consulted upon a Hindoo suffering
from a peculiar disease. Four of them decided
it was gangrene, the fifth that it was leprosy. The
latter, being by far the youngest and least experi-
enced, was naturally overruled by the others, and
the case was treated and recorded as gangrene.
Some months later the symptoms became so defi-
nite as to preclude all further doubt that it was
leprosy, and the patient was interned at Little
Bay lazarette. The doctor who spotted the dis-
ease at the consultation naturally felt disinclined
to hide his light under a bushel, and in a letter to
the local paper, giving full particulars of the con-
sultation, stated, with bold indiscretion, that from
his first examination he never had the slightest
doubt about the nature of the disease. Thus,
e ven should he be fined for the offence he has tech-
nically committed, the prosecution will not be
likely to much damage his professional reputation.


XXerx 1
RASSMUSSEN,
““THE—*
Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
Head Office;
547 George Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFALINE
VITALITY FILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
Invigorator and Restorer.
X - Herr RASSMUSSEN is in POSSESSION of
Over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials
from grateful CURED SUFFERERS, as Well a*
SEVERAL COLD MEDALS,
and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have CURED more than all others put together
for the same complaint.
The ALFALINE VITALITY FILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pcpsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. JgiF” A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.; an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12$.
WARNlNG.—lmitators will be Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. His ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
UlTOISIBSS!
Cured Permanently by taking
fferr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALFMJNE
VITALITY PILLS.
M AWARDED
|fWO GOLD
l/lEDALS
liU!
SSss
&
i m
vXa
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100.000 FOR THE BLOOD u. NERVES.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d., posted. Ordinary Course, 235, 6d, Boxes, Os, and 12s.
Registered and Purely Herbal.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Bassmussen.
“ Herr Rassmusseu’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.’’—Sydney Bulletin,
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures sbme excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Hefbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S.A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Fills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted.
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23/0.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3/- and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 16,
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, 1/-
and 2/-; posted, 1/6 and 2/6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES; SKIN AFFECTIONS,
SORES, BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA;
SALT RHEUM,"OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS,
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course. 435. 6d.
Alfaline Lcucorrhcea Powders*
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
Herr rassmussefs head depot: 547 Goofcin Street, Svdnev.
-A.T HIS BEAHGHES : **
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne. 1 160 Queen Street, Brisbane. [ 154 Bundle Street, Adelaide. \9l Lambton Quay, Wel’ton, N.Z
Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestion,
Acidity, and
Nervous
Headache.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists
1/3,2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle.
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
.School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
it®" CAUTION. —Bo Careful to Secure
BOSISTO’S “ PARROT BRAND,” and avoid
the many crude and mixed oils now being offered
to the Public, which may nob be only worthless,
from a remedial point of view, bub actually harm-
ful in administration.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle,
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Clears the House, the Conservatory, and
the Garden of all Insect Pests.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S Ist
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Cleanses Domestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Is the only Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
and take none other.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Sold Everywhere, in Tins at 1/-, 1/0
*2/6, 5/- each.
FOR COLDS,
COUCHS, 4
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL 1
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
for children, an ever-ready remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. j. c. Ayer & Co,, Lowell.
Mass., U. S. A. *
KiT” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles.
v VV^ eRY **<>> $
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
street
Beware of imitations. Thegenuine is signed
TRADE MARK:- MUSK DEER < 1
df
Grand natatortum hotel, 396 to 402
Pitt-street, Haymarket, Sydney. These extensive
Premises offer every home comfort to visitors. Attached
to the hotel are the grandest sea-water swimming baths
in the world ; 1100 tons of warm flowing sea-water; a per-
fect luxury, free of charge, to our viikipra. N.B.—The
Pitt-street Railway ’buses pass the dooi'Wt ry few minutes
ECZEMA,
SALT-EBEUtt,
Or any other
Eruptive Disease,
Will quickly leave its Victim* when
the remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
Read the following testimonial from Mr. R. H*
Stahl, a respectable citizen of Dea Moines, lowa,
U.S.A. He says : “My little daughter was for
several years, afflicted with Eczema; none of the
many remedies prescribed by the physicians doing
SssS
vr
|M
her any good. When we had about given up all
hope of curing her, my wife suggested the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. We tried it, and before one
bottle had been taken, a great change for the
better was noticeable. We continned the treat*
ment, and a thorough cure was the result."
“ My daughter, long a sufferer from salt-rheum,
was completely cured by the use of Ayer’s Sarsap.
arilla.” — Maria R. dk Bins, Calpulalpam, Mexico.
Ayer’s. Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. 0. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others a will cure you*
j^VEF*
Grinding
gd
ft Pleasure
KROPP^H
real gehmanhollow-ground
taRAZOR
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Razors vceh
lent.”
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
[Square, London. W.
It is said on good authority that should
the N.S.W. Foreign-trade party come into power
again, under Parkes, they will immediately intro-
duce some striking measures for the benefit of
the farmers. Foremost will be an “ Insect Pro-
tection Bill ” on the lines of the Birds Protection
Act. Caterpillars, grubs of all kinds, and mos-
quitoes are to be protected during the breeding
season, i.e., during the summer months, but may
be shot (though with No. 12 blasting-powder only)
during the winter season, Easter to Michaelmas.
Cockroaches and fleas may te shot whenever
catch able.
Glasson’s achievement at Carcoar by no
means breaks the N.S.W, murder record. In ’62,
at Conroy’s Gap, about 16 miles from Yass,
Monday, a ticket-of-leave man, got loose and did
five murders before he was secured. First of all
he rose in the night and with an axe slew his
room-mate. One Smith, sleeping in an adjoining
room, came out to see what was going on, and had
his curiosity cut short with a pair of shears. This
aroused Conroy and his wife, the proprietors of
the farm, who entered the murderer’s room, and
were expeditiously despatched. After that, Mun-
day went to bed. Next morning, however, a
neighbour named White casually called round and
was met by Munday, who stunned him with the
axe and finished him off with the shears. The
manslayer then went in search of Conroy’s son,
but was arrested and soon afterwards hanged.
A N.S.W. dairyman, charged with having
supplied milk for public consumption from a
diseased cow (cancerous), escaped conviction
because his town had not been “ proclaimed ” a
“dairy district”; further, because the informa-
tion was laid by a police-sergeant when it should
have been laid by a superintendent. It was clear
that the milch cow had been diseased for two
years, and that various residents had been buying
and drinking her milk during the most of that
time ; but, for the technical reasons given above,
and because no specific act of “ supply ” could be
traced to one solitary date mentioned in the infor-
mation, the purveyor of diseased milk could not be
punished—according to beak law. Apropos, people
have queer ideas as to the relative heinousness of
crimes. The milkman who deliberately stokes
men, women, and children with cancer-cells is a
million times more dangerous a criminal than
Deeming.
Dear Bulletin, — Apropos on
the Australian mirage being a reflex of a real
waterhole ; While working on Carrandotta station
(Q.) in ’B3 and ’B4, we were often surprised, on
clear, still mornings, to see a distinct reflex of
Womerah waterhole on the plain which extended
for miles in front of the home station. Womerah,
a largo waterhole in the Georgina, was about
seven miles, as near as possible, in the rear of the
station, and the reflex would appear to be about
one mile in front of it. There was no mistaking
the reflection. The smallest details of Womerah
were faithfully pictured ; cattle drinking, bogged
cattle, and wild fowl could be seen as distinctly as
possible. This was a very common occurrence ; I
have seen it repeatedly. The most remarkable
occurrence, however, was the appearance, one
morning, of a strange waterhole, with timber,
cattle, &c., plainly showing. None of us, not
even the stockmen, could recognise its features.
To my mind this proves: (1) that a reflex is
possible in favourable localities; (2) that the
locality so favoured will reflect without respect to
distance ; and (3) that water is necessary to com-
plete all such reflections.—Yours, &c., The
Wombat.


GOLDSBROUGH,
MORT & CO.
(LIMITED.)
Hon. HENRY MORT, M.L.C.,
Adviser. •
JOSEPH ABBOTT,
Shipping Manager.
LESLEY HERRING,
Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
—AND—
Station Agents.
STORES:
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
Carter t Co?
j3uau Table
NON REVERSIBLE
lngeniously Constructed RIM.IAUD OINIWO-
-i- T lIILE is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
Asahome-atiraction. Billiards have no equal, comhin-
inggen tie exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—2S to 3T4 fin neas include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Beilins-St.. Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
To Prospectors.— The advertiser, who has ample capital
at command, also long mining experience, unites offers
of good goW-niining properties, 'to he worked for the
mine, not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic-
sluicing claims. Send offers, with fulkit particulars, to
“Oro,” 2 Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Send Bd. in stamps for a copy of Xmas
Bulletin, posted- to any Australasian address.
England and abroad. lOd. in stamps.
With Agonizing EczeMas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modem times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
CUTICURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soother and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Reme-
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
«ar «' How TO Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, V
Illustrations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap, *50. .
Cuticura Resolvent, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S.f.
v<
V
w
Ilf
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by CutlCUra Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautlfiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps
The only medicated toilet soap , and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
ihc pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oilv skin.
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR PRESENTS.
The larcest and most choice stock just imported of everything that Is elegant and new, the value and excellence of which
I only be realised by personal Inspection, therefore visit S. D. & Co.'s Great. Emporium for every thing at first London cost.
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s Charming “ Up-to-Date ” LONDON Specialities.
JOST PUBLISHED, our NEW PAMPHLET .f Elegant Spcclalltl.., a C.py of which will he cent. Peat Paid, on Application I. S. D, A Co.. SYDNEY.
Usually
Sold
at £lO IDs.
Ladles’ 18-ot. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5lO.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2lO.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 109.
No. 525.—Lovers’ Knot and Heart Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, £1 5.
ISto. r 688.— Gold Brooch, 1 Diamond,
2 Pearls, t 2 10.
Ho
's\|—E eirant Lucky Hell !<■<> o , 9-ct.
G ilfl 17 6; 15 ct. Gold, ±1 10;
Silver, 5 6.
Rleeant
Heart
and
Lovers’
Knot
Hr o(M.
5-ct. Gold, Diamond centre, £3-
Whip and Shoe Pin,
15-ct. Gold, 15 6
Silver, 4/6-
No. 228.—Set Link*,
9-ct. Gold, !»,«■
Silver, 3/-
Pin and Stud, IS-ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 17 «■
.No. 226.- Set Links,
0 cl. G' M, 15/6 ;
15 ct., £1 10; Sjlvcr, 4 6.
Pin and Stud, IB cl . Gold,
6 Diamonds. 1 Sapphire,
,t:i Vi «
15-ct. Of>W Locket,
Diamoml Centre, £ li.
WATCHES.
The variety, ex-
tent and value of
our superb stock
outrivals the sem-
blance of any com-
parison.
Telescopic
Pencil,9 ct
Hold. HR'-
Silver,
10 6
m
No. 764.
9-et. <3 old.
Lucky Charm Bell
Bracelet, £1 10.
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
0-ct, Gold, from-11 15 : 15-ct. Gold, from £3 5.
For sizes, see Illustrations in Pamphlet.
No. 750. • Bell li.aw.ct, 9-ot. Oo.d, xt 10;
5 Bell ditto, £2 ; 3 Bell ditto, silver, 7«.
1 mu
No. 750,—Double Heart Bracelet.
16-ct. Oold and 2 Diamonds, 3 !«■
No. 106.—dent’s Albert, 9-ct. Gold, £4 4 ; 15-ct., £6 15 ; Silver, 15 tt.
No. 107. Gent’s Albert. 9-ct. Gold, » «■«; l i ft., 15 M. 6; Silver, IS tt.
No. 42. Ladies’ Ring,
15-ct. (4o'd, 7 Kul'ies,
6 Pearls, £1 5-
No. 53.—Electro-Silver
Breakfast Cruet, fine
English Cut Bottles, Spoons,
comp' te, 81/-
No. 39.—Todies’ Uinor,
18-c!. Gold, 2 Diamoi da,
3 Uutijes, £3 10.
« o mo#
£
r 4
No. 70.—Solid Silver
Napkin Ring*, tin. wide.
2 in case' £l 2 <!
4 ditto 2 5 «
No. 82.—Ladies’ Uin(t,
IS-ot. Gold. 1 Din mono,
3 Rubies, i 2.
Nn. 25.~Weddinp:Rincr.
Missive 18-ct. Gold, 21/-
18-et. Keeper, same pi ice.
fg
Lovers' Knot
and New.
9-ct. Gold, 14 «
Silver, 4 «
Lucky Bell
Brooch.
16-ot. Gold,
£i ;«
No. 601.—Silver Match Box, 11 6.
Size Smaller, 8 6.
9 cl, Gold, £2 10.
No. 532. —Music Brooch, 16-ct. Gold,
£1 10
No. 504. —The “Little Pet’s” Brooch,
O ct. Gold, 5/6.
SOVEREIGN
m
m
PURSE.
No. COO. —Silver, 96. Plain ditto, 8 6
f) oti. Odd, engrav* d, €2 10.
No. f 31.—Pearl Initial Brooch, any letter.
9-ct. Gold,»/«.
V,,,,.:. . ArUO. U,i„ Oorrr W '•
A ,id to Remit lame lor real an.l Rejlaler; one *>Ucla. «■: T ”‘>; ™2, U:
de.paU-1. floods daily, post paid, at tt.eso rati 9. and take all risk in transit.
es are about H.l t.V the
i mini Colonial Charges.
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street,
SY-DISTETST, TsT.S.W.
The first pro rata drawing for prizes in the
Columbian Land Distribution took place in tbe presence
of about 30 spectators, at O’Connell street, Sydney, at
4.30 p.m. on Nov. 30th. The proceedings were conducted
with every fairness. The numbers, which were carefully
checked beforehand, were placed in a barrel, and the
drawing was performed by a youth who was blind folded.
The wins, which were well distributed over the entire
continent, are as follow;
A bouse of 9 rooms, with 500 acres of land, lalue £7OOO,
with bonus of £l5O added, Miss Maggie MTntyre, Murde-
duke, Gippsland, Victoria, ticket No. 59,573.
109 acres agricultural land ready for the plough, value
£lO5O, W. J. Alexander, Milta Mitta, 54,190.
57£ acres of land, value £575, Alexander Matthews,
O’Comiell-street, Sydney, 60,435.
Property of 54 acres, value £660, Miss M. K. Jones,
c/o-R. R. Jones, Queensland.
Four properties, each of 50 acres, value £550 each,
53117, 59925, 50907, 50857.
Eight township allotments, each value £24 (cash if pre-
ferred), 58226, 60807, 51875, 60502, 52004, 51679, 50116,
54977.
The company’s new prospectus of a future drawing will
shortly be issued.
# * *
The Western silver-mine, Zeehan (Tas.), paid
its div., Is. share, in Nov. Its record is unique in Tas-
manian mining, it having been thoroughly equipped with
all machinery for concentrating, winding, pumping and
electric lighting, without calling up one penny of the
capital. The ore account shows receipts of £21,652 for
half-year ended Sept. 30th.
Broken Hill Block 14 closes its half-year with
apr fin of £5693 2s. 9d. Balance from last half-year
was £13,753 7s. lid.; two Is. divs. (£10,000) were paid,
and £9446 10s. Bd. is carried forward.
# * *
Central (Broken Hill) declares a dividend of 6d.
on 30 ih instant. The co. has been realising a profit of
about £6 per ton on its carbonate (nearly 150 tons per
week") sold to the Dry Creek (S.A.) smelting-works, hut
very little of this ore now remains in the mine. There
aroj however, said to be large reserves of good grade
sulphide, the sale of which will leave a profit of 80s. per
ton.
• • #
Clarences (Bendigo) have had a big rise from
9/- to 65/-, but have since fallen a bit. Several Melbourne
and Bendigo brokers fell in badly over the rise, as they
“speo’d” from 25 - to 30/-, and had to get them back at
50 '- to 60/-. One Melbourne broker, in particular, speo’d
300 at 32/-, bought in at 59/-, and next day had the plea-
sure of seeing them down to buyer, 51/.
• « #
Zebina Lane, representing a Melb, syndicate, is
actually at Coolgardie, and has three properties under
offer. Lane has full power to inspect and report on any
other properties. #
Dear Bulletin, —Why not tax the export of
gold, say ss. an oz.? Tons and tons of gold leave Aus-
tralia annually for China and other foreign places, with-
out the remotest ohance of it ever returning in any shape.
No wonder gold is at a premium in Australia. An expoit
duty on gold for all ports (except Australian) would give
a lot of revenue.—O.K.
*# • .
The New Oriental Bank liquidation is expected
to yield another dividend of Is. 6d. in the £ in January,
making 7s. 6d. up to date'. Another ss. Is expected some
time in the dim and distant future.-
It pays British peers to pose as Liberals.
Gladstone has but 30 peers from whom to select
prize winners; Salisbury, 400.
Editor of Mavuba (N.Q.) Express returns
thanks to an admirer for bis gift of “a bar of
soap ! ” We suppose he ate it.
Finding, at last Q. elections, from the
results of the first batch of contests, that the Con-
tingent Vote worked wholly against the Labour-
candidates, the A.L.F. issued a manifesto request-
ing workers to let the Contingent Vote alone.
The Labour-voters gave Contingent Votes away,
but there was no reciprocity on the part of Fat
Man’s supporters. j
Out of a total population of 52 at
N.S.W., all bdt half-a-dozen petitioned alifcllhil
the granting of a publican’s permit. L
A N.S. VV. Orange parson ia quoted 43
saying that an Orangeman may work for a Roman
'Catholic, but should not employ one.
A mail grievance .at Tliargominduh (Q.) is
that the coaches leave Hungerford for Thargo on
a Friday morning, while the Southern mails don’t
arrive at the former place till Friday night., Con-
sequently, Thargo’s batch takes a spell at Hunger
ford till Tuesday, and the world gets a week
ahead.
On© of the squatter Macpheraons, ot Vlo.,
was in the Siege of Paris, with his wife, and they
had to dine on their poodle.
A Newtown (Sydney) hotel closes every
public holiday at noon, and remains closed till
next morning, so as to enable the servants and
barmen taking a day’s outing.
The Duchess who does “ Vanity Fair ” for
the Akgus, says:—“Mrs. Weldon was, and is,
Crobably. the most virtuous woman who ever
reathed.” Which seems to imply that other
women are only virtuous in moderation —not
bigoted about it.
“Tom” Slattery, N.S.W. Minister for
Mines, and Dr. Donovan, of Sydney, have been
made Knights of the Order of St. Gregory —Car-
dinal Moran having brought the two titles back
with him from Home in his portmanteau. Quite
a little Holy Roman aristocracy is growing up in
N.S.W., vith the Marquis Jennings as its head.
The titles of this little coterie are not aired except
in select Roman society, but when the doors are
locked, and no scoffers are about, then the Roman
boblemen grovH to each other in secret, and try
to feel like theColonnas or the Orsini of mediaeval
Rome. “Quite rigiit, Marquis.” “Yes, Sir
Thomas.” “Thank you, Sir John.”


df
MBURNET, WALLIS and 00.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO. (Limited)
WOOL & PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY,
la
M f SUBNET X
B. WALLIS J
HENSON" J}
Liberal Cash. Advance s if required.
PEOIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce. PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Each Department managed. by a member of the Firm.
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Wool Warehouses : Margaret Street. Pi’oduce Stores; Circular Quay. Offices: Macquarie
Street North, SYDNEY.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Colemane. & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
FOR INFANTS and INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
-THE-
Wentworth Hotel
£
m
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Tariff: Bs. 6d. per Day.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress,
Telephone No. 1(88.
PERRINS'
SAUCE,
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
O'
Aslc for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export hi/ the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., sc, J
and by Grocers and Oilmen throughout the World.
Agents: Messes. YIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY
Positively the Best* Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS “ HARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
si
AFTER USB.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USB.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and MonstaoHios it has never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Ra.in to Its Original Dolour, never fails.
000000
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is., 2s. 6d., 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
‘ Plum ?
th
THE
‘Plum'
THfS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
1 ure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell ; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
i o- n k r | e ® ,azor » | n strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
t Single Razor, in ivory handle, 155.; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
gdg
<rl
?"VC, S' 1 *
B.MOONTCASTIE&S9HS
OIRCCT iMPpRTERS & WAN 0 FACTO RE«3
of H£T<s & QAPS
d
fgd
fg
d
fg
df
i SS*< R
u
gd
fg
d
L
m
fg
dfg
M
d
fg
d
gd
fg
df
TT
.V.t NT
fDR (OOKSEY/* [b> (eLEBRATED IONDON HATS
Whenlordering number of hat will be sufficient
ĝ
892 G-eorse Street,
SITDNBIT.
Miscellaneous.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for £W
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for <£so
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£lOO.
DEPARTMENTS :
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW-
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and Eii'dis'-.
KAPOK and WOYEN-WIRE MATTR K.S - IN
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVI S (all si/, s).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and Illustrated Catalogues, free im-
post.
JOHN LAWLIUI & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone No. 66.] [Established 1860,
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Si CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Prospectus.
£59,401 worth of Freehold Property J
Australian Building Society.
Y ARR AB AN DIN I & TANBAN
Monster Freehold Properly Distribution,
Comprising 10,652 acres of the well-known failin' and
agricultural lands of Sydney Verge, Esq., of the Maoleay
River, and several valuable TOWN LOTS in Kempsev anil
the suburbs of Sydney, and a valuable GRAZING FARM
at Kingston and Loganlea Railway Stations, close to
Brisbane, all of which have been purchased by the Society
for its members.
The Maoleay Properties have been valued by Mr. James
Johnston, J.P., Auctioneer and Valuator, of Kempsey,
and the Queensland Property by Messrs. Arthur Martin
and Co., Ltd.
The above Properties will be distributed amongst the
members of the
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY
(Incorporated according to Act of Parliament.)
proposed (Issue of 59,401 (Shares
At £1 Each.
Committee of Management.
C. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNEAR, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in K.S. Wales.
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P. for the Maoleay,
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBERT HAYEB, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, Limited.
Messrs. THYNNE and MACARTNEY, BRISBANE
118 PRIZES, asunder:
FIRST PRIZE, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643
2nd Prize, £6724
3rd „ 6000
4th .. 5813
sth 3000
6th „ 2720
8 Prizes from £2560 to £1650
13 „ „ £BB5 to 1 50
23 Prizes of £45 each
49 ~ £26 10s each
19 ~ £2O each
Total Value of Prizes, £59,401.
Each Shareholder, for every Share held by him, will
have Eleven Separate Chances, or a possibility of
winning prizes to the value of £39,436 10s.
Payment of the sum of £1 will secure One Share in the
Society, upon which there will be no further liability.
The Drawing will be by Ballot, according to Rules of
Society, and lists will close Slat MARCH.
Transfers will be executed in f ivourof successful Share-
holders immediately after the Ballot, free of all mortgages
rates, taxes and encumbrances.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must be made to
the Secretary, BARRON L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street
Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24
Imperial Arcade, Sydney ; or “ Secretary,” care of J.
RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any
further particulars may be obtained.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes; add exchange if cheque sent.
Register letters.
The Committee invite the attention of intending Share-
holders to the value of the Properties for distribution, and
also to the Auctioneers' description, which may be seen
at the office. Should the Lists not be filled, the Com-
mittee reserve the right to withdraw one or more lots,
according to the amount subscribed.
Adelaide brewers use 20,667,000 gallons
of water a year. This ought to satisfy the most
rabid teetotaller.
When Napoleon invaded Prussia, in 1806>
three of his soldiers tried to violate Bismarck’s
mother. She fled into the library, at Schonhausen,
and bolted the door, which yet bears the marks of
their bayonets.
Melb. Age advfc. :
“DOARD and Residence.—Two young gentlemen,
quiet and domesticated, want comfortable Home,
where genial company and Christian example to
younger members of family would be taken as an
equivalent for remuneration, in addition to nominal
sura it desired. Address FORTITUDE, care of
Gordon and Gotcb.
“The duty of the police is to prevent
crime, not to make it. It is one thing to detector
discover an offence, but it is quite another thing
to resort to stratagem to create an offence ; and,
speaking for myself, I desire to say that such
practices are repugnant to my sense of right. I
believe them to be wrong and contrary to the
principles of law. lam not at all sure that such
an act is not a misdemeanour at common-law,
namely, to incite a person to commit an offence. —
Judge Hknsman (W. A.).
An Oauiaru (M.L.) man, who owned the
Very smallest pony in the white stone city of
silence, recently wanted to send the animabby
rail, and was told he would have to hire a horse-
box, price 20s. He remonstrated, and pointed
out that a pony of such dimensions with a whole
horse-box to himself would be like a beetle alone
in a tank, but the department was obdurate. So
at last he put the animal in a crate, and marked
him “poultry,” and he was safely delivered at
his destination for 6s, The department has since
spent about .£5 in legal advice to decide whether
a horse can be a fowl in the eye of the law, but
the point is still unsettled.
Utica (U.S.) Globe graphically describes
“that botanical monster, the ‘ cannibal tree ’ of
Australia”—like ‘‘a gigantic pineapple,” from
10 to 12ft. high, and sft. through at the base;
with leaves “like broad planks,” frequently 15ft.
long, 20in. broad, and ijft. thick, hanging down
“so as to form a sort of umbrella round the
stemand “on the apex of the cone ... . two
concave figures, resembling dinner-plates, one
above the other,” and filled with “ an intoxicating
honey.” Birds, men, or animals that rush for
this drink are caught in a death-trap. “The
instant the honey receptacles are touched the
leaves close like a trap, and squeeze the life out of
the meddler.” Then the leaves relax and set the
trap once more. Not unlike a fairy tale once
printed re a similar man-mangling Mexican
cactus.


’s cocoa
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely Pure.
, .r^
mr&.
s&s&m
isaS?»
iiiwml ®K
• :,, -¥ -■
i»*ss
A JSSp
mgmatr.
it '
f
a f-.H v
RBI
&VN
-W
-v A. .
i •^C✓
n>%A 11 • V^CTV^J
rants
n-FT
CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
of fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
An Unusual Embezzler.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Sensation” was no sufficient word to
express the consternation that cycloned Bigtown
when it became known that IHartin Maxborough,
the popular secretary of Bigtown General Boom
Co., Ld., had been arrested as a defaulter. What ?
Martin Maxborough an embezzler ? Impossible !
You couldn’t suspect Martin of dishonesty if
you tried ever so much. He never went to church
and snuffled; he never shirked his liquor at fes-
tival or funeral; his “ birthdays ” were the most
illuminating things Bigtown ever knew ; he
shouted for the whole country-side; he always
“ drank fair ” ; he gambled and swore, and was so
utterly above-board about it. What! Him a
thief? Never !
Yet, there it stared Bigtown in the face in th©
evening papers. And they said 1 it amounted
to .£120,000 ! Bigtown was doubled up and went
on a collective drunk.
* • •
A meeting of the Bigtown General Boom
Co. was at once called, and everyone who had a
balance of 4|d. rolled up, for, in face of such a
calamity, shareholders, depositors, and rank out-
siders were merged in one bond of brotherhood
and excitement.
Chairman of Directors Blummer presided and
swayed the mind of the meeting with his blunt
and feeling eloquence. . , ,
It had, he said, been the painful, the bpartan,
duty of the directors to hand their beloved boon
companion and trusted secretary, Mr. Martin
Maxborough—“ Merry ” Martin, as he was known
on account of his irresistible every thingness over
to the myrmidons of the Law! Martin had
owned up, like the man he always was. The
whole of the co,’s funds had disappeared—(sensa-
tion)— with the exception of —(expectancy) —
eleven shillings and threepence in silver, fourteen
pence halfpenny in coppers, £3OO in dishonoured
and utterly valueless bills, and six shillings in
stamps. .
Mr. Blummer was a punctiliously business man,
and the manner in which he rolled out slowly and
impressively these items of assets made the meet-
ing reverence him as a saviour. Then he added
that the Bigtown General Boom Co. had gone
bung past even reconstruction. It must file its
schedule and leave their poor comrade to the
mercy of the Law. It was easy to see how
Martin —dear old Martin —had lost the co.’s coin.
He had boozed up the whole town for years, until
there were no more funds to booze it up with, and
he (Blummer) revered him for it. He meant to
stick to Martin always and ever, for he loved him
like a brother. Martin had never “ pretended to
be a hypocrite’ - (Blummer’s own phrase; not
mine), like some infernal frauds. There would
not be a cent of money returned to anyone, as
Martin hadn’t a brass farthing to bless himself
with ; all the directors had lost their all and meant
to “declare themselves” at once; every one of
them were completely rooked and they had better
all file and start with a clean sheet.
“As for me,” sobbed Blummer, “ruined and
dishonoured (no, no)—“well, ruined, then, I
have with me always the memory that I absorbed
my losses in Martin’s companionship, and that we
painted the town red, if I did spend a lot of
Martin’s money.” _ _
“And a lob of ours, too,” snorted Parson
Smolebun. . , . „
“You can’t drink your pile and keep it, con-
tinued the imperturbable Blummer, “and I mean
to wait for Martin at the quod-gate, if it s 20
years hence, and stand him a drink. I beg to
move that the balance that I have announced be
at once expended in necessary refreshment for
this meeting.”
It was a masterpiece of strategy.
• * *
Blummer continued : “I took the liberty
of ordering the drinks beforehand, and we 11 dump
them in along with poor Martin’s defalcations.
He won’t mind it; his heart is too noble for that.
I sounded him on the subject and he said that he
felt honoured by the proposition, since it might
never be his luck again to ask any of his clients to
‘wet the other eye.’ What a big heart is there,
gentlemen ! he thought of you in his extremity
in his dungeon cell. Gentlemen, charge your
glasses. I beg to propose the health of Martin
Maxborough, the best of pals, the boss swindler—
and we’re all proud of him, and the resigned
martyr. With a hip-ip-; ”
The effect was electric; the room shook with
the reverberation of throat-bursting yells, and
every glass turned upside-down to show that
every bumper was drained to the last drop, and
there was no deception. . ■, ;
Then the meeting dispersed to file its schedule.
• *• *
Martin Maxborough, before a full bench
of double rows of magistrates, pleaded—” Guilty
with extenuating circumstances.”
“Gentlemen: You behold me a beggar. All
the company’s directors and customers were such
rattling good fellows that I couldn’t help myself
—that is to say,, I couldn’t help helping myself.
I felt it to be my highest duty and privilege, both
in the interests of the unfortunate bankrupt com-
pany and in the interests of Bigtown generally,
to boom this important city. It may be true,
gentlemen, that some of you may have lost some
of your money, but you have helped me drink it.
Remember that, gentlemen, though I do not
accuse you of conspiracy, I have boomed Bigtown
as no other man has done. In addition to the
.£120,000 which I have spent on' it personally, I
have obtained large expenditure
upon it. I feel proud of my position this day,
and will take my gruel like a man. In that sen-
timent, I am proud and happy to say, Mrs. Max-
borough concurs —yes, she, the helpmeet of my
highest efforts, the hostess of many past glad
functions, the partner of my bosom; she fully
concurs and endorses my sentiments.- I grate-
fully return thanks to all, high or low, share-
holders or depositors, who have helped me to
keep Bigtown alive, and I feel that I have
not altogether failed in my duty. I place myself
unreservedly in ray country’s hands.”
Martin was committed for trial, but nnme-
.diately released on bail. He presided at_a_ public
banquet that night, and there wasn t a citize» in
Bigtown next morning without a sore head.
• * •
Martin Maxborough was sent to gaol for
six years, and the Government had to resign
because the Attorney-General stubbornly refused
to enter a nolle prosequi. That gentleman him-
self became the most unpopular man in the
country, and everybody rejoiced when the press
announced one morning that he had grown bald-
headed in one night!
It wasn’t to be expected that the country was
going to submit to so distasteful an outrage as
the continued incarceration of its idol, and within
18 months Martin was a free man again.
Whereupon Bigtown -illuminated itself, banged
off cannon, fired rockets, held processions, got
twice as drunk and mad as ever, and some of the
wildest enthusiasts were only prevented from
tarringand feathering the baldheaded ex-Attorney-
General by that gentleman smartly skipping the
country.
* • *
Caucus meeting of friends. ......
“ I’m glad it was you who drew the ballot,
Martin; if any other one of us had drawn the
nick-marble, we wouldn’t have got out so soon.
But I’d have done it, and stood the racket gamely,
I would.” , ~ _
“ I’m sure you would, Ben. Well, now, come
along and we’ll operate on the trust-account at
Change and Co.’s. Do you know what name I
put it in ?”
“ No.”
“ Muggs All.”
“ Ha, ha, ho, ho, hoo, hoo—er—er—er !
THE DIPSOMANIAC.
“Marriage is a grand institution no
family should be without it.” — Haddon Cham-
bers.
English Labour-leader Tom Mann, in a
sermon delivered from a London pulpit the other
day said that he “refused to be associated with
any Trades Union or labour movement which did
not make religion its fundamental basis. | Rev.
Tom Mann’s strong religious sympathies are
taking him rather out of his depth. The labour
movement isn’t a matter of religion, but merely
one of bread-and-beef.
Colemane & Sons’ Yic. Ointment is marvellous.
Deeming’s personal effects, bequeathed to
his legal consoler, Marshall Lyle, were auctioned
in Melbourne, the other day. Lot 1 comprised
the “ Axe and knife (produced at trial),” and the
solemnity with which auctioneer Baylee offered
the relics to a gory-minded public would have sent
old Deeming into convulsions. “The buyer,
ladies and gentlemen, can obtain Mr. Lyle’s certi-
ficate that these awful weapons (shudder, in which
the clerk joined) are ab-so-lutely genuine.’’
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
There is something “creepy” in people
like Miss Meares and “Eaustine” gibbering
about “ dear old Walt Whitman,” and ecstatically
palpitating over his genuinely “ beautiful views of
physical nature.” The first English-writing woman
who publicly professed admiration of the eccentric
bard was Oscar Wilde’s mother, the “Speranza
of Irish literature, but she picked and chose the
attributes of his genius which displayed his best
qualities and was satisfied with distant allusions
to his worship of the physical. Browning and
Tennyson, who took him up later on and pressed
his merits on the public, similarly discriminated
between the poet and the eccentric. But Austra-
lians, in’particular, either denounce Whitman as a
poetic maniac or pick out for worship the least
delicate qualities of his mind.
The Settlement for Gyp.
I.
Who among us of the midland counties (midland
counties of the Riverina) do not know Scotty the
Banker, and remember his big slut, Gyp ! Where
the Banker was, there was Gyp, and I fancy he
visits her grave once a week.
She had become burry and matted and dirty
and deaf and fat, and anything else. At last it
dawned on Hugh Dalrymple, alias Scotty the
Banker, that he must get rid of her. He was
camped with us in the show-ground of Bilbundry,
and called her to follow him to the town. This
was unusual, and I wonder Gyp did not suspect.
Now, there is a French and a Scotch chemist in
Bilbundry, so he chose the latter. It was some
time before he could find it in him to tackle Mr.
Gray. At last he asked him—“Maister Gray,
can you poison this old dog?”
It was soon done in the backyard, and Scotty
begged to be allowed to have a greet by himself.
Then he put her in a sack, and said he had a big
grave dug for her, and he carried her a mile to a
quiet sandhill. He told Mr. Gray that he had
not the shilling for the dose, but that didn’t
matter in a case of life and death.
11.
A year or two afterwards Mr. Gray had a
shilling handed over the counter by a man whom
he could not place, till he said —“ Poison, for
dog.” At first he wanted to refuse the money,
but poor old Scotty explained that if he did not
pay, it would look like as if he had murdered his
pet. And the chemist wisely considered it best
to take it, foolishly asking, “Have you got
another dog ? ”
Quickly and fiercely the old fellow answered,
“ I do not transfer my affections so quickly.”
That’s all. lam now in Bilbundry and saw the
shilling paid.
SCOTTY THE WRINKLER.
Queensland 1893 sugar exports up to
Sept. 30, 54,000 tons. Crushing is still vigorously
proceeding.
A Scotch magistrate of the ancient town
of Dumfries has given his legal decision that a
man isn’t drunk within the meaning of the Act,
if he can get along by holding on to the wall.
Well, what about the man who can’t lie down
without holding on to the ground ? Where does
he roll in ?
A 20-st. woman, married to a 20-st. farmer,
at Kirkham (Eng.), recently died of her 30th
child 1 She had been married 20 years, and “ had
borne six pairs of twins.” Something wrong here
in the English arithmetic. Six sets of twins, even
in the fastest time on record, would leave 18
children brought forth in 14 years. Probably, the
woman died in trying to solve this problem.
Admiral Nelson left no legitimate descend-
ants, but his neglected widow received a pension
of .£2OOO a year, in addition to which his brother
and the descendants of his sister, Mrs. Bolton,
have drawn from the public exchequer .£440,000,
and are to go on receiving .£5OOO a year as long as
the title remains extant, which, according to pre-
sent appearances, is likely to be for ever, as the
current Lord Nelson has five sons, and male
descendants of the other sister, Mrs. Matcham,
are plentiful.


“ Men I Have Smiled With,”
W
B St A Y ab
‘jHHnain o o
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
OHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-atreet, Sydney.
Beat Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &0.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors,
6s. per DAY. TERMS: 30s. per WEEK.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLIVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the B itanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
"F you VISIT Brisbane, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
“ JIMMY GfIR--A. UNT T_
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
BRISBANE.
Moxley’s “ British. Empire Hotel ” is a
Central Cosy Lounge,
BRISBANE.
Mrs. F. L. Moxley’s “Metropolitan” is the
SPORTING TEAMS' HOME.
T
SOUTHPORT, Q.
WEED HEADS COACHES
Start from Hanlon’s Pacific Hotel.
KNOWING VISITORS
From Southern Queensland to Northern New
South Wales, travel from Southport to Tweed
Heads by Dodd’s Royal Mail Coaches, and
connect by STEAM LAUNCH with Stuart’s
Reliable Coaches at Cudgen, for quickest route
to Brunswick and the Richmond.
BRUNSWICK.
MARSHALL’S OCEAN VIEW HOTEL
Is the charming Half-way House between
The RICHMOND and the TWEED.
CASINO.
PARKER’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL ranks as
“The Australia’ 1 ' of the North Coast.
CLOUTIER’S BALLINA COACHES will be
BETTER PATRONISED than the Lismore to
the Tweed Railway. -
LISMORE.
CRUICKSHANK’S Commercial Hotel is the
Travellers’ Home on the Northern Risers.
Gr
GRAFTON.
REAVES’ FAMILY HOTEL
Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
SOUTH GRAFTON.
VOU CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S HOTEL
N By Much.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN.
AVELLERS and others pronounce Walter J.
Eolblgg’s Commercial Hotel Comme ilfaut.
KATOOMBA.
Temora House,
A High-class BOARDING HOUSE, pleasantly
situated, well recommended. Porter meets all
trains. 355. a Week; 6s. a Day. Reduction
for Visitors remaining a Month, also for Families.
Mrs. DALE.
MOXJIVT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can b e procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Balmoral Blouse.
Visitors, Tourists, or Invalids, will find comforts
of a refined HOME at above; good airy rooms,
excellent table and attendance. Terms, Two
Guineas. Private suites if required. Trains
met. Address, MANAGER.
KATOOMBA.
MR, J. BLAKEY’S “ Sydney Livery
Stables,” in Cascade-street, offer the
very best of vehicles in the place. Ladies sulkies
of the newest pattern.
Ladies’ Hacks thoroughly trained.
Miscellaneous.
R ows
|
-'iSi
I?' \p¥i,
'.VEWERYWHEBE'i
3/e
"VfOTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than Ip.m. on
TUESDAY.
/
A
XMAS NUMBER.
TO BE PUBLISHED
DECEMBER IG, 1893.
Greatly increased in Size.
And in addition will be given GRATIS a complete double-page
HUMOROUS SUPPLEMENT,
In Four Colours, Entitled,
“Ths Bulletin Unas Supplement Cmpetiticn”
By “ The Bulletin’s ” Special Artist,
LIVINGSTON HOPKINS.
gUT The Literary and Artistic matter will be entirely Original and
Australian, and from the pens and pencils of leading writers and artists,
none of it being cribbed or purchased from other publications, foreign
or local.
No trouble or expense has been spared to make this number surpass
in originality and interest all previous Xmas editions.
Mo Increase in Cost!
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition-No. 9,
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Oidy one guess is allowed on each Coupom
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Wednesday, 27th
December, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only t© the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
The Bulletin’s 19 Missing Word Competition Coupon*—Ko* 9.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to be received by Wednesday, December 27th, 1893.
It is proposed by some uneasy moralists that newspapers containing “ con-
sultation ” advts. shall not be allowed to pass through the post in N.S.W. This
means the abolition of the tolerably honest “sweeps,” and a'legally-fortified
monopoly for the bookmakers. Therefore, there is much among the
profession that skins the lamb, and much shaking of not over-clean hands with
a profusion of jewellery thereon.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor ,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
JVo replies will he admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been token to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.


Table Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
The QUEEN.
SCHWEPPE’S
SODA, SELTZER,
LEMONADE,
GINGER ALE, &c.
NOW PUBLISHED.
“THE LAST OF SIX;”
Tales ol‘ Hie Austral Tropics,
BY
IE IR, IST IE S T PAVEISTC,
1 rice, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, l.s. Sd.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
notice 7
Headers of The Bulletin, where-
erer situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who ivould pro-
bably undertake its sale.
FOR ECONOMIC DRESSMAKING
Try HORDERN BROTHERS ,
203-211 PITT STREET (OWTJRY), SYDNEY.
AT this time of the year, Ladies will require their Xmas frown, and they are respect-
ful y sell cited to see HORDE UN BROTHERS’ GOODS, and compare their
rimes which will be found 50 per cent, lower than any other First-class Dressmaking
Establishment. If yon live in the country, write for particulars and Book of Fashions
which are sent kJK,E.E
• HORDERN 'BROTHERS guarantee a Good Fit, also give the latest “ up-to-date
styles and charge the Lowest Prices. This is a fact! Ladies, prove it by trying them.
Have you studned the new Postal Regulations? Just note this :—Parcels are sent to
any town in iNew South Wales, and delivered where practicable, at the following rates—
21b. or under, Bd. ; every additional pound, 3d. Parcels exceeding 31b. In weight are not
carried to places to which mails are conveyed on horseback.
The benefits to country customers under this system are great, and enables them to
nave goods delivered to their door at the same price that they would pay if they bought
our ve departments, as we send ALL PARCELS OF DRAPERY
IREK to any Railway Station or Steamer’s Wharf in the colony.
Our Only Address:
HOBBEBET BROTHERS,
>3—2Xl Street, Sgty ci mey.
MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED — >
Insect Destroying Powder ■
—KILLS—
Fleas, Flies, Bugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc, Harmless to Animals or Birds. >
Manufacturer—R. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Kinney s).
Tins, 1 ; Boxes, 16. On receipt of stamps will be ,
forwarded post free at 1,2 and 1,9.
- >
BE-OU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative. '
CUBES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD is PALIS bit I
JT. 33! 3F*. 3Et IE!
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists. I
rHALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics. •
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
True Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LAGY GO.
OLIIMIZTIEnTD),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINIHG & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
OonerELl Macliinery 3Mlo:r oSastnl:*
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
oprietor of tb.e “ Pioneer ” Ore Treatins- •\A7 - r-»»-iirca
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, lor .ho Tr,..n.,.l „ Or., fe Dry a„,l Wo. 0, Z«JZ.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
yr
BR
V»
fl
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Apent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
\ our attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Springs
MARK I will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coining season. Ladies will find a refreshings delight
O O
in a clai y visit to jFOY'S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable : from the continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
Great is the curiosity aud joy of young and old, to
see and adaaare the spick-an»d-span t novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere.
MILLINLRY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest
flights of imagination couM conceive.
LADILS !—One pecmy, one penny, one penny postal
card to
ARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(NKAit HYDE ’PARK?,
V\ ill receive prompt attention for Patstoms and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■VSTyrKLysa/rsa. Square, STE':O3XTE!'Sr-
[ESTABUSHED OVER A QUARTER OF A CISNTURY-J
MOST CENTRA 1,1 ,Y SITUATED. M ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING TUB RESERVE.
y Terms— log. 6d. per May. Walter Sidney date of Newcastle), 4 ‘Prop.”
|""" '"HIrI T "I I, | |, WiII—IWIIWI HWI .1 111 rsanro^'M'y »»<Qiy*WE|WßWraTr|pw-jrw|>aaMT^iMr»'y|»«ig*.Rip>y^^l
-PEIVATE HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN ' HOUSE. Million’s Point. SYDNEY.
lipi mm* 9
u am. ■
II an
S 8
sm
r ;.r
Resident M iaic a Oaicjr Dr- LEiGrHTOr
- . T'-RC-S., Emr.. efo
Formerly Medical Superintendent, lirislmiip General Hospital; Government. M nlicui oillcer llrisl.«uie ptc
IKT 'O' R. Sab 3; I\T iGr STAGS’*
TERMS SPRIG IMA' MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GY VAICOLOGICAL' CASES
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensfw
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
