

o
ri*
Ui
£
CADBURY’S bkt
absolutely pure THEREFORE BEST.
9
m
XO7 Kent street, Sydney,
rontr actor s’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Mining an TDrwMOYftERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ţ
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
PERDRIAU
AND
CO.
Elite Boots
y*
GARDEN
HOSE, &c
111;
ijH';!'
&
■ I ■■ •
Ifi-J
ill
270 Cteorge-st., Sydney.
pW A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRV 1 HEM. Man u-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. JVT Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
spurious.
■
r r \
'Ju
-Tik
? /I
' —
S 3 x d,
Ill)
'iilP ■ ♦ill
■rro^; d H otoi. a^et,
H. THORPE Pbobeitoe.
NEW SOUTH WALES
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO., U°
Fisli! Fiah! Fiato.!
RAWING to perfect arrangements in the FISH and GAME
'-J DEPARTMENT, the Company is now supplying FISH
to an enormous section of the inhabitants of the city, and
residents in every country town of N.S.W.—as a matter
of fact, to many towns outside, notably Brisbane.
A telegraph order from any country town despatched
before 1 p.m. (provided the Telegraph Department do
their part) is certain of execution by mail train same day,
and as Fish is carried at half parcels rates- equal to about
id. per lb. for the most distant towns —the luxury of a
fish diet is withiiAthe reach of all, the F.F. & I. Co.’s
prices (free on rail) being extremely moderate. We pre-
pay trainage, thereby effecting a saving of 50 per cent.
The Company stock all kinds of New Zealand and N.S.
Wales fish, also some American kinds—notably Salmon —
and arrangements have been concluded with the Orient
Line to fit a steamer. The first consignment of English
fish and game leaves London sth May, 1893.
Price-lists obtainable at Company’s Depot, 135 King-st.,
or from the Manager, 25 to 33 Harbour-street.
Note.— We shall be pleased for country visitors to in-
spect o n- refrigerating establishment at Harbour-street.
The Company deliver daily to all parts of the city and
suburbs— Milk, Ice, Cream, Butter, Poultry, Fish, Game,
Pastry, &c.
3E»£&/tes3o3Ci., Manager.
25 to 33 Harbour-st., Sydney'. 22nd Feb., 1893.
WiLKER’S WHISII. iLLSOPPS ILL
JollN , 24 BOND STEEET, SYDNEY.
w—
m3 •
Sole
Agexits
i*x Iffew
Soutli "VST" ales
and.
Clayt on
Messrs.
for
SJanttleworth.
THE
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
The Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
WITH HANDLES,
ORDINARY STEERAGE,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in Riding.
f cl ayj oiL» SHUi.imimw iwcowN
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
m
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines: Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
roriduic xiiicw3»i . t>_ \ir nnc - Prtvf.ahlo Sfpnm.nnwf
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and
Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work
(Lightness in fraught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each.
Converta'ble to ordinary ploughs if desired.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES,
j. & c.
WINDING ENGINES TRACTION ENGINES. IST Full Catalogue., ot Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on
Howard, 2801 Pitt Street;, Sydney
The Bulletin
Vol 13.—N0. «94. j
[Saturday, June 3, 1893.


Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
puffer from hashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, &c., should
•end for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
DRUGS.
Late House Surgeon, Great
N’thn. Hospital, Lond.,
Seamen’s Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought,”
Greenwich-/
Invitss every investi-
gation as to
Ms
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr.
M. PERRY,
M.R.C.8., L.8.A., &0.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
Send for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
yr Tumors and all
Glandular Bnlargemmti
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
him to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
-BY-
‘ Price Warung,’
From The Bulletin, are now published and
may be had of any bookseller ; or will be
posted direct from Bulletin office to any
Australian address for Is. 3d. in stamps.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AND INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.” —Chas. H. Pibsse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
='■ ■ ■ ' :
The bank oe new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Htgienio, Infallible & Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
J. FEPIR £i,
Successor to Brou) Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
P O W D ER
V IX
urn
•'A
. IX
Plan
She; “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S I"
He : “No !”
She ; “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
da
tBOMART*
mg,
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKT.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
Id
to
to
i,S
p; co
Cl efcr
t/)<C
o w
O Zv
DC J O
iS
co#y
4 V
jS
/
f
THE ONLY PURE EUCALYPTE,
EXTRACT IN THE WORLD
Manufactory:
Cootamundra, N.S.W.
NEW ZEALAND BRANCH, CHRISTCHURCH.
TALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brigb-ton of KTew South Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Eishmg Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTBR. ... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
t
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager for Australia -T. J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
S-.
V S
* c
s
|5 QZS
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
99
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS,
—BY—
nest r A VEITC
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Bolclrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm. ~, w , „
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nance and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama ot the Waste.
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“ASKING TOO MUCH.',
BOLTLEIGH : “Mary, call me a cab.”
LANDLADY : “What ever can you want a cab for, Mr. Boltleigh?”
BOLTLEIGH : “You surely can’t expect me to walk from one plum to another in this
pudding, Mrs. Brown.”


Business Announcement.
years dyeing
for the ladies.
7 r r ieididiß'lidgke] & co.,
W " DYEES & jDLBANERS,
40 YORK SC
* (Opp. Oenl
Country
UET, SYDNEY
iry Hall).
orders hy P ost all til6 colonies promptly
u attended to.
W££
» t he lounge hair-dressing chair.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
rJa works easv, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
D f t, -l’ I hnnrovement upon any other chair. Used by
own saloons. Se P nd for price. Sole Agents:-
craig <Sc aitken,
new SOUTH WALES BAEBERS’ supply house,
680 A 683 George Street. Sydney.
MILK, butter, cream.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
Medical.
Cur e, 3XT o
sl y •
in
B ELT
ipHIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
1 cure all NERYOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the weafer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTlCE.—Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
Call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Hotel.
m
in.
ft
wi
‘ £' ns (Sydney <g offee palace :
Sir John Younq’s Crescent,
Loyycp Domain, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
tariff,
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board i
With Board ;;; JJ
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
Wuh Two Single Beds,
W 0 friends.
it>a each per week, Board
and Residence.
ROUBLE BEDROOM
Man and Wife.
Ga „°, ’ Pe>' week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OP ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Roard and Residence.
„ SMOKING
eiTTiW 81101 * 1 -.
s„a si °
DESCRIPTIVE,
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Pdst Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
T HE gr and central coffee palace
has jns?adLto D it?ir N T S ™"?’ SYDKEY)
0,16 ol the best-annnfr, , a *J e ® <i y. ex tensive establishment
fooms in the citv H „ , Ea ? les " anf l Refreshment
Men in theviciniiv !' a J SO ,l )e , a K v e\t boon to Business
"Rh a little of the’oim n 16 / e 5 1R 't refreshment, combined
uie eup that cheers without inebriating.
T ALES 0F the
SYST EM.
TEICE ~ ONE SHILLING.
ModluuL,
D> JECKELL VINES
(P.R.0.P., M.R.0.5., etc.),
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “ Lectures on the Microscope," and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra - uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous & Skin Complaints
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers - and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
: this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head 2
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered 2 Dr, J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr, J, Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of, my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours of Consultation:
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—!).30 a.rn. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—o.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
BUST Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WHITING
Medical.
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
m&jm
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably,
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receiv©
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr, Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION THEE.
Shipping.
GLAND VIA AMERICA
IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Frau-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
i assengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, =£s2 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MAWtTWES!
SYDNEY to LONDON.
OVERLAND FROM MARSEILLES via PARIS.
Steamers under postal contract with the Government oi
France, calling at MELBOURNE ADELAIDE, KING
GEORGE’S SOUND, MAKE, SUEZ, and PORT SAID.
Passengers booked to KURRACHEE, BOMBAY.
MAURITIUS, and EAST COAST of AFRICA.
The service is carried on by powerful steamers of 6000
tons and 3000 effective h.p., built expressly for the Aus-
tralian and New Caledonian line, which will be despatched
as follows:
Steamers. Commander.
Leave Sydneyf
Polynesien ..
Armand Behic
Boulard
Vimont
Australien . .iG. Didier
June 27 July
July 27 July
27 August
1
31
31
And thenceforward on the 27th of each month.
Rates of passage-money to Marseilles from £2O to £B5,
including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS issued at the following rates; —
English interpreters meet through passengers far
London on arrival of steamers at Marseilles, and acoom-
pany them to Paris and Calais. N. B. —Passengers’ luggage
conveyed free of cost from Marseilles to London by steamer.
For freight, passage, and further particulars apply at the
Company’s Office, -15 Macquarie-place.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
pANADIAN-AUSTRALIA
STEAMSHIP LINE.
in connection with
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY,
THE NEW NATIONAL SHORT ROUTE,
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE,
via HONOLULU and VANCOUVER, through CANADA
and UNITED STATES, in 32 DAYS,
under contract with the Government of Canada, pod
pending negotiations with the Australian Governments.
From Sydney for Vancouver, via Brisbane and Honolulu,
Positively sailing as follows:
Thenceforward MONTHLY.
Making close connection at Vancouver with the magnifi-
cent transcontinental trains of the Canadian Pacific Rail-
way, from the Pacific to the Atlantic without change of
cars. Choice of four routes across the American con-
tinent.
THROUGH TICKETS, at lowest rates, to San Fran-
cisco and all points in Canada, United States, and Euro-
pean continent, by all Trans-Atlantic Lines of Steamers.
*** ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS by P. and O.
and Canadian-Pacific lines, either via Vancouver or via
China and Japan at special rates. Passengers via China
and Japan booked through by the steamers of the
E. and A.S.S. Company and China Navigation Company,
connecting at Hongkong with the Canadian-Pacific Rail-
way Company’s magnificent Empress Line of Steamships,
sailing for Vancouver, via Inland Sea of Japan, every
three weeks.
PARE—To or from Vancouver, Victoria (B.O.), Puget
Sound ports, Portland, or San Francisco: Saloon—Single,
£4O: return £6O. Fore-cabin—Single, £2O. WORLD’S
FAIR, CHICAGO.—From Sydney or Brisbane: Saloon,
return, £74.
For rates, maps, guide book, and full information, apply
to
BURNS, PHILP, and Co., Ltd.,
Managing Agents,
10 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous.
HOW TO INCREASE THE
SHEEP CARRYING CAPACITY
On STATIONS.
Five Acres with Scrub will carry only One Sheep,
without Scrub, One Sheep to the Acre. Extra
Wool pays for clearance of Scrub.
Kill "Scrub Co.’s
DESTRUCTANT.
VICTORIA ARCADE,
SYDNEY.
KW Bathurst Burr, Briar, Lantana, Prickly Pear,
Brushwood, Butter-bush, and ALL NOXIOUS
PLANTS, are quickly and effectually destroyed,
whilst, strange to say,
CLOVER GRASS
IS PRODUCED INSTEAD.
This has been incontestably proved by crucial
tests experimentally made by the Agricultural
Department of New South Wales at Richmond
under the supervision of J. L. Thompson, Esq.’
in the presence of the well-known botanists, Mr!
Turner and Mr. Ednie Browne (Director-General
of Forests), and other skilled scientific agricultural
experts.


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Eider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel tov sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- each .. AS SHOWN, 13/-each.
k:
U-r-;
POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD 0= receipt «t P. 0.0. » JLS. W.l« «-!•
W. jno. Baker, CUTLER, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
3EM -
Jt...
9ffl(inEttlKHnilßlffllllii(DlßOl»lililS!(SWiinii£!UlSlMyißlßßH
I
fee
ROYAL HOTEL,
A Family Hotel, select and beautifully furnished Situated m
the best suburb cf Sydney. Terms very moderate.
T. ItKOWN, Proprietor.
OME
Sim& est
Before purchasing any ofher
send for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
IN.
tH e
I>l£
v\
niOTvTK
•9
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarket), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
> 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
*4.
f COPY RIOHTt
i rt defies
© w
l/'The old proverb be true
SAPOLIO is greater fhan
royally iteelf: Try ifinyournexb
housercleaning: Grocers keep ih
DO YOU LIVE IN,GREASE?
As a true patriot and citizen you should naturalize yourself
by using the best inventions of the day for removing such a charge.
To live in Grease is utterly unnecessary when SAPOL.IO is sold
In'all the stores, and abolishes grease and dirt.
SOLD BY GROCERS, CHEMISTS, AND IRONMONGERS.
&
NEWTON & LAMB.
DINING-ROOM SUITES.
A LARGE SELECTION
IN
Walnut, gflk # Mahogany,
From £9 upwards.
BEST VALUE OBTAINABLE.
:
DRAWING-ROOM SUITES.
In TAPJRSTKY,
AND
Tapestry or Cot allna & Plush.
At Lowest Prices.
CABINETS, WHATNOTS,"*
OVEKMANTELS, ETC.
ţ
ť
t
BED-ROOM SUITES.
I* O li I S H E I> PINK.
£6 Os., £B, £9, £lO to £l6 10s.
A M E H ICAN A S H.
£lB, £2l, £23, £3O, etc.
AMERICAN WALNUT.
£2O, £23, £2B, £32, etc.
.
1
HALL, LIBRARY and OFFICE
FURNITURE.
Fall-front Writing Tables,
centre a sum: tabllis,
BOOK-CASES, REVOLVING CHAIRS,
ETC., ETC.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
BAKER & ROUSE,
Manufacturers aNu Importers of
Photographic Materials & Optical Lantern Goods.
.# AMATEUR
OUTFITS
FROM
ss«
FREE
INSTRUCTIONS
GIVEN.
NO TROUBLE
WHATEVER.
tty?.
- tfdS§i» N
-dg
&
V' .
PHOTOGRAPHIC
CATALOGUES.
LANTERN
CATALOGUES.
MONTHLY
CIRCULARS.
POST FREE
ON
APPLICATION.
NQTE THE ADDRESS: 375 George Street, SYDNEY
(DIRECTLY OPPOSITE SYDNEY ARCADE); and at
256 COLLINS STREET
69 RUNDLE STREET .... ....
46 QUEEN STREET
MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE.
SAYWELL & CO.
/^oepot^n
/ f- Or \
(MARVEL)
AT O B A C CO/
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Clas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
<3T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want, particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
INSTRUMENT ‘MAKERS.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
Richards and Darke’s STEAM INDICATORS,, Speed Indicators, Counters.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Illustrated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. SLei'ial arrange-
me nil fer Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 Atari-
merits and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Ryhi-
bitions, r Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &C., are easy 0/ access.
~ Gloucester Road, London, S.W„ the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible coin fort and convenience. e
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
‘ Plum’
Wmjffi
umid,
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to any tiling that has ever lieon offend to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave t
selves they cannot possibly do better than ta try this particular brand.
_ . (Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful inoyocco leather s.
Price Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, «. Os.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics , Queensland and Tasmahia, Is. extia,
Solo
Agents :
CRAIG & AITK.EN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY
“TALES


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—No. 694.
SATURDAY. JUNE 8, 1893.
Price, 6d.
z^f '- ( &y *& /tIL Qt?y /s
t
“SYDNEY, THE PARADISE OF WATERS.”— EARL ROSEBERY.
GOV. DUFF (loq.) : “By Jove! Rosebery was right. It is a paradise of waterers, and no mistake."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper;
"Australia for the Australians”
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum -AZ 0 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have Tub Bulletin posted iegularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not ivish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
* Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (Jthose dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding tivo columns in
length, or say SOOO ivords, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications ivill be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But ice desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal; — The Standard and Diggers’
Neivs Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also :~ R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetoivn, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-,
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future ivill be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription, be pre-.
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.,
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
stou, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain,
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY, JUNE 3, 1893.
The Voice of Simpson’s Railway.
When the weary traveller falls in the desert,
the crows and kites and other obscene birds
of prey hasten to the spot that they may
pick out his eyes while he is dying and eat
him when he is dead. This is. typical of the
present situation of Australia ; it has fallen
by the wayside, and the daily press, as the
principal obscene bird of the occasion, is
naturally close at hand shepherding the
prospective carrion. Its mission in general
is to,cry dismally that “ private enterprise ”
is the only remedy for the disasters under
which the’ country suffers ; and by private
enterprise it means, not industry and strict
economy, but a great financial “drunk,”'
and a blind and reckless selling of the
country to, syndicates and joint-stock com 7
panics. The sale of the railways and tram-
ways, to, private speculators, the wholesale
alienation of the public estate, the granting
of all manner of railway, tramway, electric-
lighting and other concessions to whomso-
ever wants them, are the things which the
daily press describes as “ private enterprise,”
and by these the country is to be saved. And
as a reason why the country is to be saved
by these devices, this same daily press affects
to believe that it is by too much State inter-
ference and too little of the blessed “ enter-
prise ” aforesaid that the country has been
lost in the past and in the present. Only a
press clothed in the outer husk of the
rhinoceros could assume such a line of argu-
ment at the existing juncture, but when the
daily paper is engaged in booming private
speculations in which some of its influential
shareholders are generally interested, the
rhinoceros is a thin and delicate animal by
comparison with it.
* * *
Australia, for the time being, is in a state
of ruin. It is a continent that has been
wrecked and made bankrupt by the blighting
influences of “ private enterprise.” Queens-
land’s fall dates from the bursting of the
boom in sugar-lands. Victoria came to grief
partly through the collapse of its gold-boom,
but mainly from the land-mania of a year or
two ago and. the- horrible awakening that
ensued. New South Wales had a great land-
boom and a great silver-boom, and they both
came to unspeakable disaster. These things,
which were the beginning of Australia’s
troubles,, were all “ private enterprise ” pure
and simple. Then came the banking down-
fall,. the bursting of about half-a-lmndted
“land-banks,” the suspension of fourteen
banks of issue; mostly huge and imposing
concerns which professed to be of Alpine
solidity, and the stoppage of gold payments by
the majority of the survivors. Among them
all, something like 170 big “ private enter-
prises ” came to bankruptcy and repudiation.
Nearly 00 per cent, of all the money in Aus-
tralia has disappeared from view, in one act,
through “ private enterprise.” Matthew
Davies, James Munro and the Griffil-
wraith land-grant railway syndicates all
belong to the same category of spoliation ;
so do the Last Call mine, the defunct Van
Diemen’s Land Bank, the Oriental, New
Oriental and the very much-deceased Com-
mercial of South Australia —none of which
were included in the list given above, also
Abigail, Peter Howe, Parkes’ famous life-
office, Thomas Smith Richardson, and every
other sink and sepulchre which has helped
to devour Australia’s substance for many
years past. And even now, when the daily
press is pouring forth jeremiads about the
blessings of private enterprise- and the evils
of State interference, almost the only private
enterprises which survive are being held; up
by State interference, and if the State lets
go, the signs are that there will presently be
nothing left. This position of things is
strikingly characteristic of private enterprise
in general. It only remains private so long
as it is profitable ; when it becomes a losing
concern it invariably shrieks for State aid,
and when it has got the required aid, it
solemnly denounces all State interference as
an unmitigated evil.
* * *
The State of New South Wales having
propped up the ruins of private enterprise
with a guarantee of £9,000,000, Sydney
Telegraph, as the most leathern of all the
press vampires, on. the job,, evidently feels
called upon, to come out strong. Here are a
few extracts from its latest effort; —
With a depleted national,exchequer and.a virtual cessa-
tion of Government, works the only hope of> employment
for labour tor some time to come must lie almost solely in
the direction of private enterprise. . . . Though this
is a Labour Parliament it has consistently and persistently
blocked almost every measure of private enterprise which
has been submitted to it. It has rejected bills designed;
to let private capital loose in the construction of repro-
ductive works which would; give scope for the utilisation
of surplus labour as well as stagnant money to mutual
advantage. . . ., The labour members have banded
themselves together in hostility to all private effort
. . . but for their action many hundreds of men now
idle would have been employed many months ago in con-
structing Simpson, ’s, railway in the* Parramatta district.
. . . But for. this action many, thousands of pounds of
private money might have been at the present moment in
circulation in connection with the initiation of a system
of electric lighting in Sydney,, and an equally large
amount of private capital would also have been employed
in connection with the proposed Menindie Tramway, and
the irrigation scheme in the same district.
# * *
The. above is the gospel of “ private enter'
prise ” in a small space—the voice of Simp-
son’s railway, crying aloud in the wilderness.
Apart altogether from any suspicion that the
Telegraph’s immediate friends are person-
ally interested in, some of the speculations
which that print booms so assiduously,
it is an interesting production, if only by
reason, of its utter uuscrupulousness and
hopeless disregard for, facts. The present
New South Wales Legislature is not a
“Labour Parliament ; ” it contains but a
small minority of Labour representatives in
one House and not. one in th,e other-—there-
fore, it might quite as truthfully be de-
nounced as an,unhinged Parliament because
Jacob, M.L.C.,. says that his intellect has
come unfastened, or a. Parliament of felons
because Peter Hdwe, ex-M.L.Av, has been;
Ipcked up through too-much, private enter-
prise. The “virtual cessation of public
works” is, absolutely unnecessary ; as the
Telegraph itself, usedi to point out in its
better, days, public- works can be carried on
under the betterment principle even,though,
the Treasury is “depleted.” Moreover; the
said depletion is not so much; a reason for
stopping public works as it, is an evidence
that the State should, rigidly abstain from
giving£9,000,000 guarantees, unless with cast-
iron security, in order to prop up joint-stock
speculations run for the exclusive benefit of
private capitalists. Farther, the assertion
that “many thousands of pounds of private
money wouldhavebeen at thcpresentmoment
iu circulation ” if the N.S. Wales Legislature
had looked with a more kindly eye on sun-
dry axes which wanted grinding is supremely
ludicrous as well as absolutely false, in view
of the fact that almost all the money in the
country has been confiscated by the 160 or
170 private institutions which have lately
become insolvent. And, in addition to all
.this, it would be a gratifying thing if the
Telegraph would explain who Simpson is,
and where his railway lies, and what
guarantee there is that it would have em-
ployed even one human being—let alone
“ many hundreds.”
# # #
This latter question is especially pertinent.
The assertion that the present Parliament
has blocked almost every measure of private
enterprise is a woeful departure from the
truth, for during last session that much-
cursed Legislature passed no less than six
private measures establishing as many mono-
polies of the Simpson’s railway brand,
expressly with a view to supplying employ-
menfc, and not one of the six furnished wages
or occupation to a single workman. The con-
cessionaires are all holding on to the privileges
they have acquired with a view to selling
out to some other syndicate, or, possibly, of
selling back to the State what the State gave
them for nothing and there is every pro-
bability that the : Simpson’s railway, and
Menindie Tramway, and Sydney Electric
Lighting speculators Would have done like-
wise. N The ■n. consistent features about
this kind of “ private enterprise are
that it isn’t private, because it in-
variably wants some special privilege and
monopoly from the State before it even pro-
fesses to start work, and is therefore a
pauper speculation from the beginning, and
that it always exists for the professed pur-
pose of furnishing employment, and, in nine
cases out of ten, it never employs anybody.
The former characteristic is especially con-
spicuous ; when the typical speculator of the
Simpson’s Railway variety comes begging
dismally for State concessions on the door-
mat of the House, he'is no'longer a “private
enterprise ” in the true sense of the
term. Moreover,, the Telegraph and
the New South Wales Upper House
and the capitalistic/ party in general
have done themselves exactly what they
falsely accuse the Labour party of doing ; by
their unsympathetic attitude towards, or
frantic opposition to, the Sydney Corporation
electric-lighting scheme, and the Sydney
North Sydney gas project, and the
New South Wales Mining on Private
Property Bill, and the village settle-
ment proposals, they have done their
utmost to prevent the employment of labour
just at a time when employment was most
urgently wanted. Also, it is a strange
anomaly that a large section of the press
cries loudly for the sale of the New South
Wales railways and tramways to a private
syndicate on the ground that the syndicate
will work them more “economically”—
which means that it will work them with a
smaller and harder-driven and worse-paid
staff, and throw a large number of men out
of employment—a policy which hardly
squares with its yearning to provide billets
for the unemployed on Simpson’s railway.
* * *
The gospel according to Simpson’s railway
is a lie and an imposture, from its Genesis,
which is boom, to its Revelations, which is
ruin. There is no “ private capital ” loose
in Australia to build such works ; it has all
been confiscated by that stupendous act of
fraud and repudiation which has lately been
perpetrated by the private enterprise of this
Continent., Therefore, if that or any similar
work was ever started, it would be with'
capital borrowed in England, and whether,
the capital is borrowed by the State,, or by
Simpson’s railway, or by the Menindie
Tramway Go., or by the English banks
which are now being propped up by a New
South Wales State guarantee, or. by the rail-
way and tramway syndicate for which the
daily press whoops so unceasingly, this,
nation has got to find the interest all the
same. Only, as Simpson’s railway and the 1
rest cannot borrow on such favourable terms
as the State, the nation has to find more in-
terest in their case than in the other. Con-
sequently this sort of private' enterprise is
only a repetition of Bryan O’Loghlen’s
famous recipe for prosperity : “ Let’s borrow
ten millions and spend it.” It may afford
temporary relief, but a, big loan and another
outbreak of public works would, do. the
same, by, exactly the same' process,, and
at less cost.. Regarded as a public
benevolence, it is merely on a par
with the benevolence; of the rum-seller
who makes a. careworn wretch.drunk at his
own—not the rum-seller’s—expense, so that
he has one night of happy forgetfulness, and
is more miserable than ever in the morning.
It is the kindness of the usurer who relieves
the poor and. needy at 90 per shent on the
security of their own furniture, and thereby 1 -,
enables them to have a few days of affluence
—after, which he sells them; up, and their
last state is worse than the first ; or of the
opiumrden keeper Who dispenses, for hard )
cash, temporary surcease from sorrow with
death to. follow. The publican, and the
usurer,, and the opium - seller, and the
Simpson’s railway gang, and. the Menindie
syndicate, and the daily press with, its pros-
pective railway and tram and electric-
lighting grabs are all benefactors of the same
calibre. The sort of “private enterprise,”
which consists principally in abject begging
for concessions from the State, is too expen-
sive a luxury for this country under its
present conditions.
Trades-Unionism in Horsehair.
One Benjamin Cooke was summoned to appear
last week before the New South Wales Full
Court to show cause why he should not suffer
some vague and unspecified penalty for a breach
of the Attorneys Act. The offence alleged
against him was that he had drawn up certain
legal papers and accepted payment for the
same, not being a member of the trades-union
upon which the law ( i.e ., the lawyers) has con-
ferred a monopoly of doing that sort of work
for payment. His accusers were the Incor-
porated Law Institute, the council of said
union. The accusation, if sustained, would
have rendered him liable to a heavy fine ; and
if he had not been able to pay the fine, he
would have had to go to gaol.
* * *
Barrister Jack Want, Q.C., in one of his
famous attacks on the system of picketing as a
branch of unionist tactics, asked what would
be thought of a lawyer who planted pickets
round the Supreme Court to keep out blacklegs?
What people would think of such a; lawyer
Would be that he was a new brand of lunatic.
The system of picketing would instantly dis-
appear if the Trades and Labour Council were
authorised by law to summon anyone suspected
of blacklegging to appear and show cause why
he should not be summarily sent to gaol, and
were empowered to send him there forthwith
if he failed to give satisfactory proof that he
was not a blackleg. The National Ass ought
to look into this question. A short and simple
Act on these lines in each province would put
a final stop to picketing and so euchre the
labour unions all over Australia. We suggest
that Cokum Epps be set to work on the job at
once, with a copy of the New' South Wales
Attorneys’ Act as a. model.
# # #
But, to return to Mr, Benjamin Cooke.
This gentleman proved conclusively that he
had not committed the offence of which he was
accused. He not only satisfied the Court on
this point, but, after hearing his affidavit and
corroborative evidence, the barrister who
appeared for the associated costs-grabbing union
admitted that he could not proceed with the
charge. It was clear that the accused had
drawn the documents he w'as charged with
drawing. It was equally clear that he had not
charged anything for them. Unfortunately,
this was a case for which no punishment was
provided by the Act, so the charge broke down.
The man who drew the Act, being a lawyer',
had not contemplated the possibility of anyone
being so misguided as to do legal work without
a fee. Consequently the Law, having grabbed
Mr. Cooke by the ear, and hauled him before
its solemn tribunal, was reluctantly compelled
to let go its hold, and set him free.
* - * #
That, however, was not all. Mr. Cooke had
done what he was legally and morally entitled
to do. Any member of a community has just
as much legal right to draw up legal documents
for nothing, as a lawyer has to draw them up
for a fee. There was no suggestion that Cooke
had done the work carelessly or unskilfully.
In fact, it was shown that, having out of charity
undertaken to prepare the paper gratuitously
for a poor woman who could not afford to em-
ploy a lawyer, he took the trouble to consult
the prothonotary of the Supreme Court as to
the form in which the papers ought to be
drawn. All these facts the prosecuting trade-
unionists could have discovered by the simple pro-
cess of applying to Cooke for an explanation.
T hey did not choose 1 to do so. They charged
him with an offence of which he was innocent;
they put him to the expense of defending him-
self at the peril of fine and imprisonment upon
this unwarrantable charge ; and yet the Court
refused to l make an order requiring them to pay
his costs ! !.! The Bulletin would like to
know why this wealthy body, an association of
the fattest-fed occupants of the protected legal
stye, should be exempt from the liability which
the poorest litigant incurs when he institutes
legal proceedings, of being saddled with the
costs in case of failure. Had Cooke been un-
successful in his defence, he would have had to
pay all the costs, as well as any fine the court
might have imposed, and on failure to pay be
would have been sent to gaol. , Why should
more favourable treatment be extended to the
party which has been unsuccessful in the prose-
cution of Cooke ?
* * *
Whatever may be the reason for the distinc-
tion,, its practical effect is very obvious. The
law says that a person not a lawyer must not
do certain work and charge for it. The same
law says that such person may do the work if
he does not charge for it. If a layman breaks
the law and charges for such work, the court
punishes him with fine and imprisonment. If
he does not break the law,, but does the work
gratuitously,, the court punishes him by making
him pay the costs of vexatious proceedings, in
which he is charged with an offence of which he
is guiltless. Whether he proceeds legally or
illegally he- has to> suffer. Truly the way of
the blackleg, when he has to l do with the horse-
hair trade-union, is hard.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“Perjing” the Rolls.
Statistics reveal some of the crimes perpetrated
during the late Queensland elections by the in-
famous Griffilwka mi-enacted electoral laws,
now in force in that province. Those laws cut
in two ways—they disfranchised thousands of
workers, and they gave the collective Fat Man*
plural votes—to some individuals eight and ten
votes apiece ! Taking the disfranchisements
first, the numbers as they ought to be on the'
rolls of adult males, and the figures as they
actually are, show that: —In the Balonne
(Morehead’s district), out of 1844 men, 1297
were disfranchised, or over 70 per cent.!•
Gregory district, out of 1275, 836, or nearly
66 per cent, were disfranchised ; Bulloo, out of
1441, 918 disfranchisements, or nearly 64 per
cent. ‘ r Warrego, out of 1882, 1192, or over 63
per cent, Carpentaria, out of 1444, 909, or
nearly 63 per cent. ; Clermont, out of 1864,
1074,. or nearly 58 per cent.; Barcoo, out of
2907, 1512, or over 52 per cent.; Flinders, out
of 1889, 934,. or over 49 per cent.; Bowen, out
of 1264, 615,- or nearly 50 per cent.; Aubigny,-
out of 2161, 1034, or nearly 48 per'cent. ;■
Cook, out of 1916, 801, or nearly 42 per cent.; ;
Herbert, out of 1414, 558, or over 39 percent. ;•
Bundaberg, out of 1478,- 408, or nearly 28 per
cent. ;; Cairns, out of 1666, 371, or over 22 per
cent. In these 14 electorates, out of 24,475'
voters, 12,459 were disfranchised, or more than
half ! The English language is impotent to
describe the infamy of the swindle perpetrated
by the perjured Parliament which has just died
—only to re-germinate amid its own corruption.
Of the voters left on the rolls, many represent
non-resident owners of allotment-pegs whose
names are not counted at all in the lists of
adult males of the respective districts, and
whose insertion on the voting-lists means that
for every peg-man so inserted another manhood
voter has been excluded. Some idea of the
omnipresent power of the plural dummy-vote
may be gathered from the fact that on some of
the Queensland voting rolls, the number


of names actually exceeds the total number of
adult male residents in the district ! Thus—
Bandanba (which rejected Labour-leader
Glassey) has an adult male population of 1125,
but its electoral-roll contains 1414 names—sur-
plus of dummies, 289. How glorious and honest
was the victory thus scored by mine-owner
Thomas ! The little Brisbane suburb of Nun-
dah boasts 1388 resident adult males, but Ims
1863 voters on its roll—dummy surplus, 475, or
more than one-third of its real manhood popu-
lation ! Similarly : Gympie, 2698 resident men,
2864 voters —dummydom, 166 ; Woolloongabba,
2302 and 2418—dummy surplus, 116; llalby,
853 and 925 —dummyhood suffrage, 72. And so
on. Under all the hideous circumstances of
political chicane, it is really marvellous
that the Queensland Labour vote polled
so tellingly as it did. One thing is
made perfectly clear—Let any Australian
province once gain One-man-one-vote, and
Labour’s destiny' is in its own hands. The
achievement of One-man-one-vote means the
death-doom of the plural Fat Man, and the
liberation (if they choose) from white slavery of
the workers. Every other issue should be sub-
ordinated everywhere to gaining this first
citadel, which is the key to the whole strong-
hold. Every energy at the disposal of the
workers should day and night be first concen-
trated on this one vital point; that once carried
by assault, all other democratic reforms will be
comparatively easy. Never lose sight of this
motto —One-man-one-vote is the pole-star that
lights the way to the new deliverance. And
plural-voting is the key of the gaol in which
robbed and violated Queensland is now im-
prisoned by a shameless syndicate of land-
sharks and “ bankers.”
That Railway Sale Plot.
i Another newspaper, the Australian Mining
- Standard, takes, on high public grounds, a
hand in the great job now on foot to sell the
State railways. Says this small tool in the
large and unscrupulous hand of the land-
grabber and “right-thinking” monopolist: —
Our chief incubus at the present time is undoubtedly
the railway service of Australasia, inasmuch as the funds
spent on it represent practically the whole of our national
debt. . • • Now, if the Australian States were to
relieve themselves of this inculms they would find their
vitality instantly restored. We do not advocate that the
fee-simple of the railways should be parted with for ever,
although if it were the railways would remain in the
country A nd be a taxable asset, but they might be leased
to strong, corporations for lengthy terms such as a cen-
,t»ry. ... At the same time the State should be pre-
pared (to, sfjl, the right to work other lines of railway.
If the,advice of this genius were to be followed
by private-traders, most of them would give up
their businesses just when they began to pay.
Their “ chief incubus” would be the debt con-
tracted in the purchase of plant, &c., therefore,
in order that they should prosper, the tools of
production should be sold for the extinguish-
ment of liabilities. It is true that the trader’s
debts might not thus be wholly paid off, and
that his means of livelihood would thus be
totally extinguished, and it is just as true that
if the community were to sell their railways—
leasing them for 100 years would mean
a sale of the rights of three generations —
while temporarily reducing responsibili-
ties they would also diminish the sum of
national' wealth. It is strange that this
proposal to sell the railways should never have
been made until they began to pay a fair return
on expenditure. This return—3| per cent.—is
nothing to the tremendous profits that could be
made in the future were the State railways
placed in the hands of a profit-mongering
“strong corporation.” It is because State-
owned railways cannot be used as a means
of squeezing out dividends from the toil
and enterprise of the people, but simply
as an instrument for the development of
natural resources and as a weapon against
external competition, that The Bulletin com-
bats all attempts to sell the most valuable
national asset. The banks’ 25 per cent
dividends, representing so much underpaid
labour, so many traders forced by usurious
demands to walk to the Bankruptcy Court, are
, trumpery returns to those that might be
(exploited from the sucked-dry farmers, traders,
sand workers of this continent should this
gigantic swindle to exploit the people of their
birth - right succeed. Any arguments yet
encountered in favour of this sale are on all
fours with advising a man to cut his legs off in
order to save himself the purchase of boots —or
his head, to save all expenses.
♦
The “ Pahiatua Mystery.”
The case of William Joseph Smith, formerly
described as being “ wanted ” under the name
of Aldridge, the Pahiatua (M.L.) “murderer,”
as he was freely termed, is, in its final develop-
ments, a weird and horrible commentary on the
value of police evidence and the anxiety of the
public at large to corroborate the same, io
recapitulate the old story, the accused and one
Jacobsen were bush-felling together at Pahiatua
away back in the times of ancient history.
Jacobsen left, or “disappeared” —the two
expressions often mean much the same thing -
and his mate sold some camp-gear and went to
Australia. As Jacobsen never returned to
Pahiatua—possibly he had gone back to his
native Germany—he somehow began to be
alluded to by the police and local residents as
the “murdered man,” and repeated searches
were made for his remains. They were never
found—it may be because he is still using his
; remains in their live state. But at last sundry
teeth, buttons, &c., were discovered among
i the ashes of a camp fire, and some local
residents positively identified the former as
■ the masticatory apparatus of the vanished
Jacobsen. Thereupon the “suspect” was
■ arrested and extradited to the scene of
ibis “crime,” there to stand his trial for
i murder. But when the prisoner had been two
'months under arrest, and been dragged away
'from his home and his employment, and the
iname of the “Pahiatua murderer” had been
'indelibly fixed upon him, it transpired that the
'■teeth were the remains of a defunct hog, and
■ the case fell through. The moral, however,
'remains. A very large section of the com-
'munity is ready and willing to swear anything
>it doesn’t know, and to identify anything it
• never saw before, and to corroborate anything
it never heard of, for the mere excitement of
helping to hang anybody, whether guilty or
not. Therefore, when a case is strongly sup-
ported by “ independent testimony,” that
testimony, as likely as not, is based on pure
cussedness, and a desire to swear to something,
and to get the testifier’s name in the papers.
In the present case, the witnesses’ undue haste
to identify a hog as a man saved the prisoner
from the gallows. But, if the bones of a man
—any kind of a man—had been found in the
Pahiatua district, the same persons who were
ready to swear that the aforesaid pig was
Jacobsen would probably have sworn that the
remains of the man were also Jacobsen, and it
being practically impossible to disprove such a
statement, a chaste and elegant hanging would
likely enough have resulted.
♦
O'Loghlen and the Magistrates.
If Attorney-General O’Loghlen was guilty of
“a grave error of judgment” in deciding to
quash the committal of Matthew’ Davies and
Millidge to the Melb. Criminal Court, how
about Mr. Panton, P. M. , and the magistrates who
would fain have quashed the Mercantile Bank
case at an earlier stage ? In the general indig-
nation excited by O’Loghlen’s action most
people have lost sight of the magistrates’ share
in the scandal. As matters stand, O’Loghlen is
unanimously condemned for doing on his own
responsibility the very thing which Panton and
the four or five men at his back had attempted
to accomplish a week before. One magistrate,
Mr. M ‘Donald, asserted his right to commit
Matthew Davies for trial in the very teeth of
Panton and Co. When the Attorney-General
refused to endorse the decision of Mr.
M ‘Donald the whole country perceived
that he was trampling on facts and, “ arresting
the course of justice.” That is to say, it was
emphatically declared that a prima facie case
against Matthew Davies had been made out
with such clearness as to leave the grand jury
(O’Loghlen) no reasonable grounds for refusing
to find a true bill. Seeing that the grand jury
ought to have sent the case up for trial after
reading the evidence given before Panton and
Co., how much more ought the said Panton lo
have passed the matter on to the aforesaid grand
jury? And here we come to the one Explanation
of Bryan O’Loghlen’s action, which commands
a certain amount of sympathy. That im-
petuous personage may have looked at the
Matthew Davies case with the eyes of a man
who feels bound to uphold the reputation of
the Law. Now, if Bryan O’Loghlen had said,
as his colleague, Solicitor General Isaacs, and
everybody else says, that the decision of
Panton & Co. was an insult to justice, and
that M‘Donald was the only man on the Police
Court Bench who did his duty—well, O’Loghlen
would not have been upholding the reputation
of the Law. He would have been giving the
Law away. The Matthew Davies scandal is
a complicated piece of mechanism. For that
reason the press deals with it gingerly, and
touches only one wheel at a time. But it is
certainly strange that the far and wide con-
demnation lavished upon O’Loghlen has never
been modified by the suggestion that he didn’t
wish to expose the error of Melbourne’s leading
police-magistrate, and of the other gentlemen
wdio found Matthew Davies guiltless—some
of them because they “trembled to think of
what might happen if he were tried before an
ordinary jury,”
The Billingsgate of Dibbs and See.
An interesting question, and one which wants
answering more urgently than any other
question now before the public, was asked
recently in New South Wales Assembly by
Black, M.L. A., and was received by Treasurer
See and Premier G. Royalist Dibbs with a
blast of hog-like insolence. The information
asked for was simply whether the Government
had any evidence of the solvency of the four
banks whose paper it has guaranteed to the
extent of £7,000,000 of public money, and
whether it would produce that evidence if it
had any, and—supposing it had none —if it
would proceed to get it by means of a State
audit. Whereupon Treasurer John See replied
that there would be no audit, and the Govern-
ment didn’t mean to worry about the solvency
of the banks, and proceeded (as per press
report) to rage as follows
The hon. member should, in his (the Minister’s) opinion,
have a better appreciation of the responsibility of bis
position as a member of the Legislature than he appeared
to have from the tenor of his questions, which had a
tendency to discredit institutions which were doing their
utmost to uphold the credit of the colony during a very
trying period. (Ministerial cheers.)
After that, Premier Dibbs proceeded to
remark that “ very often questions of a grossly
impertinent nature were asked by members
opposite, and when they got answers which
they did not like they appealed to the Speaker. ”
From these two utterances it is evident that,
in Treasurer See’s opinion, no member who
knew his duties would think of asking any
questions about such a small trifleas £9,000,000
of the public money risked to prop up sundry pri-
vate speculations, without security and solely on
the speculators’ own assertion of their own sol-
vency. And, in Dibbs’s opinion, such a
question is “ grossly impertinent.” The cold-
blooded, blastiferous arrogance of one insolvent
K.C.M.G. and a ship-owner never went further
than this, and even the charitable assumption
that Wales’s historic cigar has gone to the
heads of both parties is insufficient to explain
such an exhibition. When the Emperor Dibbs
and his hanger-on announce that it is an act of
“ impertinence ” for any member to ask if some
slight precaution is being taken against a pos-
sible loss of £9,000,000, it can only be assumed
that they don’t recognise the right of Parlia-
ment to interfere at all with the finances or to
ask any questions whatever.
NSW. at Chicago.
A Sydney visitor to the Chicago (U.5.A..)
Exposition writes The Bulletin in this
strain :
Chicago is a vile hole, and, though I have received
every kindness from Chicagoans, I shall be glad to get
back to Sydney. N.S. Wales Commissioner RenwiCk is
living in the most simple and parsimonious manner. No
man in Chicago can say that he has had an orgy at his
expense. The poorest man in N.S. Wales, had he been
sent here, could not fill the social side of the bill more
economically. In fact, all round, I don’t think the pro-
duce could have selected a man more unsuited for his
position. Bubdett Smith, with his many glaring defi-
ciencies, would be a princely executive commissioner in
comparison with Eknwick.
Probably, the little doctor squandered all
his “ spending-money ” in London, while wait-
ing for the pinning on of that expected title—
or is hoarding it up for a final splurge on the
Colonial-Office door mat. There is no title in
the Chicago air; hence Renwick’s Spartan
simplicity.
Hudson does not shine as general superintendent.
Hudson, Terry and Pugh have each his allotted court.
Several of the young - fellows whom Berwick appointed in
Sydney have arrived here, despite the cancellation of
these appointments by the Commission. Renwick has
put them on and pays them a bare Bs. a day—an allow-
ance upon which they can just manage to starve. How
they are to get back to Sydney is a conundrum for the
future to solve.
The N.S.W. staff is, in appearance, the most poverty-
stricken, and the only poverty-stricken, one in the Exposi-
tion. Three N.S.W. officials —not juniors—are to be seen
daily perambulating the grounds with their boots burst at
the sides and their clothes threadbare. The wardrobes of
the staff must go, since, with the exception of one or two,
they are expected to live on their bare salaries, though I
am told that some of the appointments provided for “pas-
sage-money and travelling-expenses.”
The Commission has sent from Sydney to Chicago about
20,000 copies of the shilling edition of Greville’s “Year
Book ” at a cost of about £lOOO.
In connection with the concluding par., which
is in magnificent contrast with the dismal
penuriousness depicted in the preceding para-
graphs, it is interesting to remember that Mr.
Greville, of the “Year Book,” is himself a
member of the body that voted this sum of
£lOOO. Also, it seems pertinent to enquire—
Are not at least other two of his fellow-com-
missioners members of the “Greville Co.”
which forms the issuing proprietary of this
book ?
•
With splendid audacity, Melb. Age still com-
plains that “the present financial crisis has
been due to a totally unwarrantable scare. The
published bank returns and balance-sheets dis-
closed nothing to justify the suspicion that they
were virtually in a condition of approaching
insolvency, yet the public took it into their
head that they were. No circumstance could
show more clearly the value of confidence, as
one of the most important factors in the success
of any institution witn which the public have
fiduciary dealings.” How artless is the Age’s
reference to balance-sheets, and the unwarrant-
able lack of confidence, in this article of 21st
May. Yet, two days earlier, the same precious
newspaper had said: “Another clear conse-
quence also follows from this trial (Mercantile)
and its abortive ending. Banking balance-
sheets may be as fictitious as Montagu Tigg’s,
and no one be responsible for them. This
cannot be otherwise than disastrous and destruc-
tive of that confidence on which the commercial
well being of every community largely depends.
... It has gone abroad to the public that
banking methods which are shocking to com-
mon sense are quite permissible under our law.”
In the first place, we have the Age candidly
admitting that nobody was justified in trusting
balance-sheets, or maintaining an iota of respect
for current banking principles. In the next
place, we find it sneering at the intelligence of
the people who were scared because they had
excellent cause for being scared. And it is with
such reckless inconsistency of argument that
the average daily journal asserts its claim to
lead public opinion, and be considered “ great.”
The wave of State socialistic sentiment rolls
from pole to pole. Traill, of South Sydney
repudiated in New South Wales Parliament
lately the application of the term, “charity,”
to a certain proposed contribution of the State
to the necessities of the unemployed. The
Hospital Saturday Committees throughout
England are erasing “charity” wherever in
their domain of work they encounter the word.
Tickets recommending applicants for relief
have for generations carried the printed en-
dorsement, “ whom I believe to be a real object
of charity.” The central committee objected
to this, and the hospital authorities deleted it—
after a fight. But the latter subsequently
issued tickets with the legend, “ Whom I
believe to be deserving of the benefits of this
charitable institution.” Once more the com-
mittee objected, and once more, after a stub-
born resistance, the authorities deleted. Still
again, however, in the interests of sham philan-
thropic classification, they struck off a season’s
tickets superscribed, “ founded for the relief of
the indigent sick ” ; and here at this last trench
the Hospital Saturday Committee joined issue
and won. The ticket is now signed by contri-
butors to the fund and is without any word dis-
paraging to the social status of the person
recommended. Charity has killed brotherhood,
and the true State must kill charity.
The Victorian Government, which deliberately
quashes the case against Matthew Davies, has
apparently decided to divert public attention
by jumping afresh upon poor Matthias Larkin.
Larkin was a miserable sneak and an embezzler,
but he had a front name which was enough to
lead any man astray; and, anyhow, he has
already been sentenced to six years in
gaol, and the attempt to get him another
six years is a mere treading on the worm
that is already flat. That valiant gentle-
man, Attorney-General Bryan O’Loghlen,
is hereby invited to make a note of this:
The Government which won’t even allow
Matthew Davies to be tried and acquitted in
the usual fashion needn’t be so anxious to break
the bruised sneak and quench the smoking
hypocrite, especially considering how effectually
he has been quenched already. By-the-way,
has the Age duly considered the “ cost to the
country ” in the Larkin case ’ If Matthias is
to be prosecuted afresh every year or so he will
be quite as expensive in the end as Davies
could have been, and not nearly so satisfactory.
•
Archibald Michie, Q.C., came out of his shell
to deride the miserable mockery of the Davies
“trial.” “For more than 30 days we have
had four Crown prosecutors and a police magis-
trate, and a number of honorary justices, at
work on a case which, in London, would have
been despatched in three or four days at most.
The members of the Government complacently
let all this go on, and but for one man, who had
the courage of his opinions, we must suppose
that the Attorney-General would never have
been resorted to at all,” wrote Michie to the
Age. But he forgot to mention that it was the
counsel for the defence who dragged out the
case, cross-examining witnesses for weeks at a
stretch, and making 10-hour speeches as far
away from the point as possible. Theodore
Kink was allowed to talk about the integrity of
Matthew Davies, and the incorruptibility of
all his friends, for two solid days, and when he
had thus thoroughly exposed the weakness of
his case, the Bench thanked him for his “able
and lucid address.” If Matthew Davies were
now as wealthy, in fact, as he once was wealthy
on paper, there would have been nothing to
prevent Fink from talking for ten years, as far
as The Bulletin can make out. And cer-
tainly a magistrate who thanks an advocate for
being lucid at sucli preposterous length on the
superficial question of a prima facie case
couldn’t have objected to the speech running on
into the next century.
Frank Cotton’s defence in The Bulletin of
the attempts of a Melbourne syndicate to lease
certain State rights to water-power with a con-
tingent control of uncertain land areas, on the
ground that it would be well if all other natural
opportunities in the shape of “ city lots, coal-
lands, harbour and river frontages,” &c., had
been similarly leased out, is ingenious, if not
ingenuous. It would be well if the State leased
out instead of alienating those things that it
holds in quantity, such as land ; it is unjust to
the individuals that compose the State, that
monopolies should be granted to syndicates in
things that are held in scarcity, coal-lands, for
instance, but notably in the case of this unique
Grose and Golo Rivers water-force, which is in-
dispensable to the cheap generation of elec-
tricity in the city of Sydney. It is very true
•that the community has the right to revoke this
lease at the end of 15 years, but, seeing how
ductile the present Parliament appears to be in
the hands of foreign and other syndicates, it may
be that in 15 years it will be no less amenable to
the oily seductionsoftheFatMan. Consequently,
without a revolution in the constitution and
conduct of Parliament, the present House is
about to barter away for a mess of pottage,
under the specious pretext that it will give
work, the right to levy blackmail on every light
kindled in Sydney, until electricity is super-
seded by some newer invention. Even the man
who burns candles, oil, or gas will be taxed,
first for municipal lights, then in the sustained
cost of other illuminants occasioned by the
monopoly of the water-power which makes the
electric-light expensive. Mr. Cotton’s method
may be that which he has “consistently advo-
cated for many years,” but it will nevertheless
appear none the more commendable now that
his position as a member of Parliament permits
him to air his cranky and selfish individualism
at the expense of society and its growing
belief in municipal co-operation.
A desire to whitewash little J ames Mirams —
i.e., to trot him forth as a martyr to Crown
persecution —is making itself very manifest
among a few of his old financial friends, Mel-
bourne Age of last Friday announced that a
little meeting had been held eight days pre-
viously, whereat it was resolved that “ steps
should be taken to bring Mr. Mirams’ case
before Parliament, with a view to the appoint-
ment of a committee of inquiry into the matter.”
The ghastly impudence of asking a Parliament
which didn’t want an enquiry into Matthew
Davies to enquire into the merits of Mirams’
conviction is not to be dismissed with a sneer.
Those who do not understand Melbourne and
its ways may suppose that an attempt to dis-
credit the summing-up and sentence passed by
just Judge Higinbotham (who tried the Mirams
cases) could not be seriously made. But already
it appears there are plenty of people in the
background ready to support this extraordinary
cause if the House will make the job easy.
Letters of sympathy with the little meeting
aforesaid appear to have been received from
many shining lights. The faithful Parson
Fitchett promised his assistance, too. But, in
particular, it is worth noticing that James
Service is quite enthusiastic in the matter.
The Bulletin has lately become deeply in-
terested in the chairman of the Commercial
Bank re-construction.
A Sydney evening paper gives brisk publicity
to “a sort of valedictory tour” round some
local suburban schools, made by a party of the
name of Wilshire. Under displayed headings
the event is represented as a “ Visitation ”
the most appropriate synonym for what was
indeed a lugubrious “affliction.” The tear-
compelling pathos of the fizgiggery ought to
have an immediate depressing effect on the
price of onions :
Mr. Wilsiurb resolved on bidding farewell to his friends,
the school children, and presented each of them with a
beautifully reproduced portrait of her Majesty—[“Salute
the Bailie !”]—as a souvenir of the occasion. At Burwood
Superior Public School, 950 boys and girls mustered and
were formed into a hollow square, where Mr. Wilshibh
addressed them for the last time as a member of the
board—[salute the Truant Officer!]—taking for his sub-
ject, “ Amor Patrise.” He then called for a cheer fot
“The Queen of Australia’’—[salute the nearest black
gin !]—and for Sir Robert and Lady Duff.
“ The Queen of Australia !” This is going to
be the next grovelling catch-cry of the local
Jingo.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Competi-
tion Coupon \v ill be found on page 13. Attention
is drawn to the date on which the competition
closes.
Dear Bulletin, — Re the letter printed by
you from “Trotter Bethune ” concerning “the
discovery of gold on theThames(Maoriland)2s years
ago by four penniless prospectors, Clarke, Cobley,
White and Hunt ” (myself, in which it is stated
that I was supported, while prospecting, by a lady
who subsequently sued me for breach of promise),
I have to say that this rather unpleasant assertion
in question happens to be quite untrue. I never
received such (or any other support) from the
lady in question (or any other lady), with whom
1 only became acquainted many months after
the discovery—when I was in my twenty-fourth
year, and was already a wealthy man. Many of
the other assertions in the letter are equally in-
correct. This can easily be verified by reference
to the Auckland papers of the time -when the
action was tried. —W. A. Hunt.


The new Garibaldi bridge over the Tibeu
Rome, is a splendid and everlasting memorial.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “It’s Never Too Late to
Mend..”
Lyceum “ Human Nature.”
Criterion “ The Idler.”
Tivoli Theatre Harry Rickards.
Theatre Royal “Sliamus O’Brien.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “The Vicar of Bray.”
“Trialby Jury.”
Alexandra Variety Show.
Town Hall Antoinette Sterling.
“ It’s Never too Late to Mend ” was
revived at Sydney Alajesty’son Saturday night as
a grim satire on a community whose cash is all
locked up in banks that are either past mending
or are likely to be worse when they are mended
than they were before. And right here The
Bulletin joins issue with the author, and states
that it is often a lot too late to mend —that it is
too late to mend most of the time, in fact, and
that many things, instead of being mended, need
to be utterly smashed and abolished. Apart from
the unhappy morality of the title, however, there
is nothing much the matter. The drama is a well-
known story concerning a good, young English
farmer who came to Australia and fell among
Meston’s aborigines, 40 of them, who fill most of
act 3 with corrobboree and other insects,
plain and coloured. Then, having found a
stupendous nugget, he goes back to the old home,
where the cow has been looking for him for years,
with misty eyes and a large red tongue hung over
the top bar of the gate, and worries the girl named
Susan, whom lie left behind him, and spends the
rest of his life in top-dressing the oats. The prin-
cipal character, however, is not the farmer, but a
certain flashy pickpocket who wasn’t too late to
mend, and George Rignold plays this individual
in a vigorous and convincing fashion. For want
of a policeman, J. W. Sweeny has been made a
chaplain; he is a reasonably good chaplain, too,
though the yearning to arrest somebody for
“ tearin’me sermon ” is strong upon him. Five
or six assorted villains are played in a somewhat
mediocre fashion ; the sky-towering ruffian who is
delineated by Mr. Augustus Glover being the
principal exception. There never is anything
mediocre about Air. Glover’s villain ; he always
suggests a vampire, stalking over the earth with a
trail of blood-spattered cow’s liver in his wake.
Miss Watts-Phillips plays the part of a boy
who hangs himself in gaol, and who is of little
public interest anyhow, and the situation is a
woeful waste of this lady’s talents. There are
only two female parts in the drama altogether;
and, as one is a domestic with practically nothing to
do, the feminine interest gets right down to Susan.
The staging and scenery are unexceptionable. In
this respect they are widely different from Susan,
who, in the original, is a gentle and sheep-like
maiden of the kind that chews the cud on a gate
and habitually says “ Law!” and though Mr.
Rignold has altered her considerably, her bovine
nature still asserts itself.
* * * *
That obese drama, “ Alone in London,”
was revived at Sydney Lyceum in the presence of
an audience which was no larger than it ought to
be. “Alone in London ” is one of those pictures
which are limned by the simple but efficient pro-
cess of “ throwing a paint pot” (with a good aim)
“in the face of the public,” and its delicate
shadings are akin to those of the red and white
cow of commerce. Its brightest spots are, that
the heroine is an orphan, so that there is no bulky
father to mourn in brown gaiters over her mis-
chances ; that the virtuous but rejected bucolic
suitor, as represented by Mr. Sass, wears clothes
which are reasonably like those of any other man,
whereas he generally wears clothes that are unlike
anything under Heaven ; and that Aliss Henrietta
Watson does not face adversity in the rusty black
frock which generally crops up on such occasions.
And the most lamentable feature in the show
is the scene where this same lady is tied up in a
sluice-house, and, the sluices being opened, several
hundred yards of cloth—which is so obviously cloth
as to defy misconception—rolls in to represent the
raging waters, and Sass plunges through the
foaming calico to her rescue. The company is too
large to be considered in detail, but Messrs. W.
E. Baker, Bland Holt, and Sass, stand out pro-
minently, and Aliss Henrietta Watson stands out
also, but not quite so prominently. Miss Watson
always looks nice as the happy heroine, but as the
miserable one she is not so successful. Aliss Maud
Williamson is a melancholy variety of “Jo”
who is “ moved on ” to such an extent that hopes
are sometimes entertained that he will presently
be moved right into the North Sea. And the rest
is a rushing phantasmagoria of peasants, outcasts,
hawkers, nigger minstrels, coiners, beggars,
forgers, flash-note artists, rags, damp cellars,
policemen, and assorted drunks of all shades of
drunkenness.
* * * *
A drama with many attractions for Irish-
men and others is “Shamus O’Brien,” at Sydney
Royal. There is a good deal of human interest in
this rebel of ’9B, and, if he isn’t historical —a point
on which The Bulletin feels somewhat misty—
he ought to be, for he was a nuggety, upstanding
patriot, and the Saxon oppressor wore out many
hundreds of boots in pursuit of him. For, in those
days, there was a procession of two in the land,
and Shamus O’Brien was at the head of it, while
the oppressor brought up the rear. Alfred Dam-
pier, in the guise of Shamus, is most of the
drama in himself. The inevitable “ praste,”
without whom no Irish drama ever prospers,
is executed with a fair measure of success by Mr.
J. H. Rainford, and the almost equally inevitable
colonel, with rather more success, by Mr. Plimmer.
Concerning the rank-and-file of the drama there
is little calling for special mention, excepting the
striking similarity of Donovan, Owen Rooney,
and Flannigan, and the resemblance of the whole
three to Casey and O’Rourke, neither of whom
could be told at ten yards distance from Alickey
O’Neill. A certain individuality attaches to
Alurtagh Maguire, whereby he stands out of the
ruck and can be distinguished from Andrew
Brady, but that is all—the man who tries to sort
out Andrew Brady from Andy Macnamara has a
hopeless contract on hand.
* * * *
The “Imperial” Opera House, Sydney,
re-opened on Saturday after a long period of deso-
lation, with that unfortunate drama, “ Hands
Across the Sea.” Possibly it was the prospective
arrival of Gov. Duff which prompted the manage-
ment to this effort, “Hands” being a “loyal”
production in which there are many dreadful allu-
sions to the British flag, which, when there is a
breeze, seems to wave more than any other flag.
Also, there is a prevailing note of reverence for
“ the Crown,” and most of the characters seem to
sit up regularly at brief intervals to thank God
that they were born in England, and when a crisis
supervenes the English characters come upper-
most, and the French ones go down with a thud,
and everybody who contemplates evil flies
aghast when he sees the pure old British
banner floating against the stars. The com-
pany bore up as manfully as it could
against these disadvantages, but the odds were too
heavy. It wasn’t very much of a co., and it was
much in want of one big man of great circum-
ference to rise up right in the middle of it and
darn the British flag, and thus make a healthy
break in the dead level of drivel. Alessis. Wilson
Forbes, Cates and West, and Miss Ada Lawrence,
are here honourably mentioned, because they
seemed less impressed with the British flag than
the rest of the company. A small difference of
opinion took place in the stalls on the opening
night, and the British flag, we believe, was the
cause of it.
*• *- * *-
Mr, Gilbert Smith carried out his fell pur-
pose of re-opening Sydney Gaiety last week. The
ancient house has been renovated and decorated,
the prices are reduced to less than half the cus-
tomary tariff, and George Dean’s opera co. gives
a rather fetching show. Moreover, “ Rip Van
Winkle” is a cheerful kind of opera when it
doesn't fall into the hands of a specially lachry-
mose company. It is full of Dutchmen, and,
though the every day live-meat Dutchman is the
saddest hog on earth, the stage Dutchman is a
pleasant thing to meet. Somehow, a species of
romance has grown around the large-booted,
slow-going race who used to own the valleys of
the Hudson and the Schuylkill, until the English
Armada deposed Peter the Irritable, and the
glory of the Knickerbockers departed. Their lives
were dreary and full of tobacco-smoke and beer,
and they washed but seldom, and generally slept
with their clothes on ; but there is a beauty about
their memory, all the same, and their armed
ghosts still wander around on v indy nights with
one eye fixed in incessant watchfulness upon the
Swedish enemy, and the other on the main chance.
Mr. George Dean has drilled his youthful com-
pany of thirty or more till it looks like a veteran
combination. George Dean, as R. V. Winkle, is
one eminently gratifying Dutchman, and Edward
Noble —in the part of Nick Veclder—is another.
Air. Dean’s voice is not in first-class order, pos-
sibly through exposure on the Kaatskills, but bis
humour and bis shattered English and his pathos,
and his thirst after unpaid-for drinks are in excel-
lent repair. Peter Von Dunk (by Tom Hall), is
another commendable institution ; but the prin-
cipal grace and beauty of the show is little Cora
Carey, whose Alice Van Winkle is a marvel of
childish ability. Alisses Alarie Dunoon, Florrie
Maskiell, Cynthia Carey, Nellie Findlay, and the
goblin dwarf, are also good value for the money,
and the chorus is well-trained and capable. Only,
some one in authority should make a few stern
remarks to John L. Hall, who has a tendency to
stamp and rave, and to Alaster E. Tucker, who is
weak and unconvincing; and Aliss Mattie Caesar
should be sternly admonished at the bar of the
House and then put in solitary confinement on
account of the aspect she presents in a cocked hat
and the third act.
“TheYicar of Bray,” although less bril-
liant than its aspirations, is a genuine success at
Melbourne Princess’. Gilbert and Sullivan ought
to have taken their opera in hand, but Grundy
and Solomon imitated the old masters cleverly
enough, and a good tiling is none the less good for
not being better. People admire the central
shepherd because he possesses considerable
strength of character, and a fine, elastic conscience.
A meaner man would cling like a crayfish to his
early narrow principles whilst he stroked the
ballet with one surreptitious claw ; also, he would
converse earnestly with the lady teachers in dim
religious places, and calm their misgivings with a
gentle snuffle. The Reverend Barlow would
scorn to hide his rortiness under a bushel. Pro-
bably he is Billy Barlow’s long lost grandfather,
for he has the wicked eye of that same trim-built
wherry, and no nonsense about him. When Pro-
vidence puts a rich widow in his path, he opens
his arms like a pair of railway signals to indicate
that the line is clear. When a guild of dancing-
girls invites him to become chairman of
the new religion, he simply licks his
lips in the limelight and takes a turn
at Ritualistic practices. He is one of those cherry-
ripe apostles who don’t mind what they do to
oblige a lady, especially when there are several
ladies at once. Yet, he is no sinner. He enjoys
a real good time without going too far. George
Lauri puts much polish on the Vicar performance,
a clean-cut, gentlemanly piece of extravagance
throughout. As a dancer he pleases the eye whilst
tickling the fancy. His antics are often more
truly graceful than the movements of the average
danseuse, whose success is chiefly a matter ot skirt
arrangement, Joseph Tapley, after being further
considered, is still a musical reminder of Percy
Lyndal, but with a more virile manner. Last
week’s notice put “ sterile ” for virile, a mistake
attributable to the birth of our Gracious
Queen and the hurried publication of The
Bulletin. The character of a “conscientious prig”
is not easily made attractive, yet Tapley achmvis
this feat in a very natural style, and promises well
for the more robust, romantic line of business.
Clara Thompson, encouraged by applause, is dis-
posed to overdo the frisk of the amorous widow,
and her anxiety to get married would bear toning
down. Florence Young shines in a couple of
fetching duets with the tenor, and Lucy Cobb,
hitherto of the ballot pure and simple, now sings
and talks a little in a very acceptable way. “The
Vicar of Bray” made rather a short bill, so “Trial
by Jury” now plays the audience in.
* * * *
At the little Gaiety Theatre they have
scoured the services of a world-renowned “imita-
tor of animals” as a special feature. Further-
more, the name of poor Will Johnson appears on
the programme, and the resuscitation of that
coloured brother, with his fine thunderstorm voice,
is in itself a circumstance that deserves favourable
mention.
** * *
Matthew Davies, whose hanky-panky per-
formances under Crown patronage excited great
interest in Melbourne, concluded a successful
season with a brilliant exposition of the vanishing-
trick on Saturday last. The public regret this
hasty departure of Matthew, and are inviting him
earnestly to come back and appear again. How-
ever, a committee of influential citizens have
engaged him to remain away as long as possible,
for the benefit of his brain. Matthew was not
ostensibly bad when be sailed for Colombo ; but
there is a general legal opinion that he would have
been a lunatic if he had neglected to escape.
Meanwhile, prayers for those in peril on the sea
are earnestly requested. The briny deep always
takes its course, and you can’t stop a white squall
with a nolle prosequi.
** * *
Madame Antoinette Sterling was to open
a aeries of five concerts at Melbourne Town Hall
this Tuesday. It is not necessary to puff praises
to the contralto ballad singer who “created ’’
“ The Lost Chord,” but it may be as well to men-
tion that Madame Sterling’s voice is very much
younger than those of some other great vocalists
who have visited Australia. James Wood, H.
R. Holder, Miss Isabel Webster, and clever Miss
May Habgood, are supporting the “ star,” who will
sing again to-night (Thursday), and on Saturday
and Tuesday next.
* * *
The “farcical comedy” company at St.
George’s Hall seems to have died suddenly. A
“mental scientist,” named Mason, has taken
possession of the platform, and thoughtfully pro-
vided himself with a “musical party.” The
Alhambra struggles along pertinaciously all the
week, including Sunday, when Snazelle comes to
the rescue, and the offertory is balm in Gilead.
#* * *
Bad luck in theatres means, in most cases,
a want of comfort in front, including bad stairs.
The drinking bars and other adjuncts of Melbourne
Royal, and the general droughtiness and detest-
able acoustic properties of the Bijou are cases in
point. The London Shaftesbury is another in-
stance. The crush rooms are all horribly vaulty
and damp, and anyone coming out to see a man
gets the shivers for the rest of the evening. And
yet, these points are always treated as if they did
not exist.
a? ste * *
Adelaide, at the time of writing (May 25),
is surfeited with amusements of a kind. Darrell
and “The Double Event” were at the Royal;
Gourlay, Walton and Shine were making fun at
Hudson’s Bijou ; Madame Antoinette Sterling was
warbling at the Town Hall; and Wirth’s Circus
was under canvas in a central part of the city. See-
ing that Adelaide has a population of but 120,000,
mostly professing saints, this record in dull times
is simply wonderful.
** * *
Fitzgerald’s circus, up to date, has been
crowded to its utmost capacity almost every night,
and on Saturday, when the Austrian Archduke
shed his smile upon the entertainment, business
was even better than usual. The circus deserves
all its popularity. It is a show that keeps going
all the time, and there is no weak point in it.
The acrobat who turns a somersault over 20 horses,
the flying trapeze gentleman, and Bartolo, a bone-
less contortionist, who, in his utter want of any
fixed shape, seems to be a cross between the jelly-
fish and Bryan O’Loghlen’s reasons for not prose-
cuting Matthew Davies, all fill a great void in the
public soul. So, also, does the Parliamentary
disagreement between the two rival clowns,
Haynes and Crick, in which the combatants have
to be dragged asunder by horse-power, and the
steeplechase is an event which appeals to the most
holy feelings of this horsey land. The circus is
strong everywhere, but in the horse element it is
probably about the strongest of all.
** * *
“ The Idler,” by Haddon Chambers, will
be staged on Saturday at Sydney Criterion.
# * *
Despite the unaccountable outbreak of
new shows—such an outbreak as Sydney hasn’t
seen for many months —the Tivoli keeps pretty
well up to its former standard of prosperity.
George Wood is probably one of the main causes
of this. There is more variety about Mr. Wood
than about the ordinary minstrel, and he lasts
longer before he has to invert his keg of humour
and start afresh at the other end. Still, there are
evil days ahead for some of the Sydney showmen.
The city which can keep nine theatres afloat
doesn’t exist in Australia these times.
* * ¥6 *
Gourlay, Walton, and Shine liberally
coined money at Hudson’s Bijou, Adelaide, with
“Skipped by the Light of the Moon.”
* ae * »
Madame Antoinette Sterling doesn’t im-
press one at first, but, on acquaintance, her deep
contralto fascinates. She is a born actress,
although not a beauty, stoutish and ungainly, yet
always at ease. Her success is mainly attribut-
able to the intense feeling she puts into her songs.
** * *
The Bulletin is informed, on the best
authority, that Miss Effie Clements did not pay
Messrs. Williamson and Musgrove .£5O, or any
other sum, to be released from her Australian
engagement; in fact, the firm made no demand
upon the lady, who was left to adjust all financial
matters in London with Mr. Musgrove, with
whom she made the engagement. Miss Clements
parted in a most friendly way with all connected
with the theatre, and her departure, which she
herself deeply regretted, was caused solely by
illness —the opinions of her own doctors, as to her
inability to study or to fulfil her contract, being
confirmed by Air. T. N. Fitzgerald. Mr. VV illiam-
son himself thinks Miss Clements a very clever
little lady, who would have been very successful
here. We are also informed that it is incorrect
that Air. Bracy ever rehearsed Air. Tapley’a part
in the “Vicar of Bray,” He had full and early
information as to the coming of Air. Tapley, whom
he has known for many years, and of whose
alents he has the highest opinion.
The Vicar of Bray is a chubby divine,
Whose other eye winketh at Heaven .
He comes on the stage at a quarter to nine
Disguised as the excellent Bevan.
His countenance shines with chernbical glow,
And white are the whiskers of Mister Bar-low.
He sings comic songs in a fatherly way,
Despite goody-goody protesting;
His curate s departure in pious dismay
He treats as a matter for jesting.
Politely he trippeth a clerical toe
When the widows come wooing, doth Alister
Bar-low.
With fays of the ballet he airily flirts,
But not in a spirit unruly ;
He shortens his sermons, they lengthen their
skirts —
The Vicar thinks, rather unduly.
The inch of silk stocking they modestly show
Is not quite sufficient for Alister Bar-low.
For even as eggs are undoubtedly eggs,
And “ an eel pie may be a pigeon,”
The Church is as kindly disposed towards legs
As ballet-girls are to religion.
But very few parsons will let themselves go
As freely as Reverend Mister Bar-low.
At Poverty Point.
Curious to watch the growth of stage caricature of the
clergy. Evidently the sole reason ot it e “ Vicar of Bray”
(now on at Melb. Princess') failing in London, 11 years
ago, was that the cleric interest had not gone down enough
to warrant the travesty. How long will it be ere the
audacious opera-bouffers dare to tackle a bishop? The
“Private Secretary” curate was a cheeky thing-, and
deans are having their day as funny stage personages.
The following, from a London paper, should be irueiest-
ing to a few johnnies and Melb. bookmakers—” Miss
Kathleen Lmile Foote (daughter of Colonel Foote), whi
has just returned from Australia, will make her flrsl
appearance in London shortly, at the Prince of Wales’
Theatre, in * Cupid’s Messenger.’" Katie Foote was the
long, dark, silent girl of the so-called Gaiety Co., th«
damsel who always played chief nobody, and used, in a
measure, to balance buxom Grace VVixon from the opposite
end of the stage. Katie’s fixed and painted smile haunts
us still. It was the most vapid thing of its kind that eve*
came from England under special engagement. Now ono
begins to understand how this daughter of a colonel came
to be brought over in the disguise of a Gaiety girl.
Madame Fanny Simonsen believes that, if Vi Varley
were taken in hand properly now, her voice would be as
good as Melba’s. If she isn’t, well—find the missing
words.
There is one defect in the drama “His Natural Life,’’
as given at Sydney Royal—not one of the warders is
Irish!
Dear Bulletin, — Dot Bouoloault and Phil. Beck ara
credited with having discovered and developed Pattie
Browne’s “genius.” But, I submit, the chief credit must
be given to Emilie Melville. years ago, Patti 1 Browne
was a member of the Emilie Melville Opera Co., then
playing at the old (Melb.) Princess Theatre. During the
season she advanced rapidly, and finally made quite a hit
as Prince Paul, in the “Grand Duchess,” and other
parts. On Melville’s benefit night the prima-donna came
forward, and, after thanking the public, siarted right in
to compliment herco., ending with Pattie Browne, whom
she highly eulogised, and advised her to persevere in the
study necessary to advance m nt in her profession ; she
predicted for Pattie a brilliant future, especially in sou-
brette parts. The prophecy seems likely of fulfilment.—
W.J.C.
If “ the firm ” had brought out Terry, the really good
comedian, first, instead of the altogether poor one Toole,
their success would have been greater. Now the result is
more doubtful, especially after Thornton. But it will be
worth while to have Terry here if only to see him as Paul
Pry.
The Y.M.O.A. ought to roll up to support Terry. Ij*
private life he is an eminent churchwarden, and smug, not
to say sanctimonious, in aspect.
After all, Beerbohra Tree could not have lost money by
“ Hypatia,” as Ogilvy, who adapted the play, and is very
wealthy, found all the necessary expenses. The modern
piofessional manager usually sees that his bread is buttered
on both sides before he tries an experiment. George
L ,of Australia, was lately applied to for an engage-
ment by a budding Bernard Beere - cum - Bernhardt
debutante. He was most agreeable—“ Provided, of course
you pay your own travelling expenses, give me a bonus of
£25, and promise to dress the parts handsomely.” After
all, it is not utterly unfair. The experiences of a few
months’ real work is worth all the money to the most
gifted amateur.
How keen the City of Saints is on second-rate per-
formers! Walter Bentley, with a poor company, had
packed houses, and Brown-Potter was the Adelaide,A/rorc
of the decade, but Sass and Emery, with a really excellent
all-round company, had, in sheer desperation one night,
to offer a whole suite of furniture to get people into the
house.
Maggie Knight has got married again. She threatened
never to return to the stage. Pier last performance of
note (it contained a fine pathetic touch) was as Norah
Desmond, the Irish daughter of a Southern planter, in the
“Bells of Haslemere.”
Criticising Tosli’s song, “My Dreams,” the S. M.
Herald accuses Weatherley, who found the words, of
“perpetrating the phrase ‘to thy chamber-window,
sweet.’ ” The phrase is borrowed from Shelley’s exqui-
site, “ I arise from dreams of thee.”
An Australian Minister of the Crown wrote a 21-
page letter of loving farewell to an actress who
was going to England. This was years ago. One
of its passionate spasms read like this; —“Use my
name and position to protect you from the riff-
raff cricketers you are crossing with ; for, (hough here,
I am The Hon. the Minister for , to you, my
darling, I am always— Plain (say) Judas.” The actress,
wise in her generation, handed the letter to her husband,
and £1250 was the sweet little sum he blackmailed out of
the official old sinner.
“The Ticket-of-Leave Man" has been galvanised in
Melbourne. Jefferson was nervous, acting Bob Brierly, in
Hobart, before a sort of serried convict pit, which came
in a Balaamish spirit, but remained to bless. It is a
spectral play now, with spectral actors, mummies taken
out of sarcophagi. Their hinges creak.
Now is the time for Rev. Marshall, of Melbourne,
Bentley’s friend, of Silver King fame, to give the 11 Vicar of
Bray ” a turn. It beautifully exposes the humbug of the
Church and State Guild. But Marshall can only tolerate
a Presbyterian actor.
Johnny Sheridan—O’Brien—has met with bad reverses
in America, and stars England as the Shaughraun.
Legouve, author, with Scribe, of “ Adrienne Lecoa-
vreur,” narrates, in his new memoirs, that Scribe at 60.
fell violently enamoured of a girl of 17, and the passion
was reciprocal. However, Scribe remained virtuous, re-
flecting on his wife and family', and the newspaper
scandals, and “ the devotion of his life to writing moral
plays.” A beautiful lesson to the Church and Stage
Guild, and the author of the great moral drama of “Jack
Sheppard.’’
A life-sized wax figure of Deeming holding the nude
form of a woman in his arms has just been destroyed by
the Vic. Customs’ authorities as an indecent work. Deem-
ing himself was destroyed for the same reason.
Anson and Elton are both out of engagement. Lon-
don is a cold place for the “ resting ” actor.
Johnny Gilmore, the burnt-cork artist, concludes his*
seven months “on the corner” by going to England in.
the Austral with his wife, Kitty Synnot, the agile dancer,,
to take possession of a snug sum recently left him.
Walter Bentley, which his name is William Begg, wag.
once a Dunedin (M.L.) water-rates dun. They used to.
call him “Water pipe Begg” in those days-a double-
barreled irony reflecting both on his long and lean exterior,-
and his begging—or, rather, dunning—avocation.
Bellair, the stately ex-Thespian hotelkeeper, wl ose
death at Wagga (N.S.W.) was lately noted, first arrived!
in Australia in '55, under a 2-years’ engagement with.
Andrew Turning, lessee of the old Vic., Sydney, for whom,
he was acting-stage-manager. Afterwards, Bellair ran a.
co. of his own through Maoriland, and then took to the
boards under Brooke and Coppin. Later still, he kept
his first hotel at Ballarat (Vic.) —he was lessee of Lester’s
for eight years. After another turn on the boards, he
became a boniface (and Mayor) at Newmarket (Melb.)i
for 11 years.
Snazelle turns out to be a lieutenant of volunteers in.
Hingland. In point of fact, it was Snazelle, and not Bill.
Adams, who won the battle of Waterloo.
A Shakespeare in State Schools League is projected as a.
set-off against the Bible in State School League. A show
for “ resting” stars.
Titheradge as Benedick was fairly good, but a sixteen-
year-old amateur, daughter of a Bourke-street boot-seller
with a Hebrew patronymic, can give him points andi
canter in.
Australian audiences thought the silent Lone Fisher-
man, in “ Evangeline,” a new idea. But, Aristophanes,
wrote a drama called “ The Peace,” 2000 years ago, in
which the heroine never speaks a word throughout the
play.
Butler Cole Aspinall’s wife, having disappeared in.
London, he charged Australian Lee, Toole’s manager,
with having something to do with it, and, threatening to-
put daylight through him, was bound over to keep the
peace. Young Aspinall was always an impulsive fellow,,
and when despondent in Melbourne, years ago, went very
near to meeting Ins end.
Miss Etfle Morelia, a bright young ,lndy with a'fine
soprano, is now appearing at Sydney Opera House.
She spent several years in Europe, principally atßiussels,
studying her art. It she can act as well as she sings,
there ought to be a future for her in opera.
Some have it Sydney and some Samuel, but it is Squire
Bancroft. Not that it matters anyway.
Nine years on the stage mean 18 months before 30
and 18 years after 40. Between 30 and 40 they don’t
count at all.
Next Saturday night veteran J. J. Utting, the George
Darrell of journalism, takes a complimentary benefit at
Melbourne Royal. On this occasion Mr. Utting will stage
his capital and labour drama, “ The White Slaves,” and
the pallid victims of the Press are expected to creep forth
from their squalid printing offices and groan at the
symbolical Fat Man. Between the acts, too, they will go
in state t > the refreshment bar for the purpose of drinking
Utting’s health.


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
' lls a PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY,, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
l On Ist January, 1893, its accumulated funds amounted to £28,202,0X6 is. XcX.,
■ and its SURPLUS over all liabilities to £3,457,808 ss. Id., being the LARGEST
• Surplus held by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the world.
It does the LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Note —This is the only Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
' CsuranceDepartment. The Assets. Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
’he State by the Insurance Superintendent.
The Austrian Prince aroused some curiosity-
in the Southern Paris, on St. Kilda Road. The
most magnificently useless hack in Melbourne
had been hired for him, a sort of 4000 guinea
Titan, with the neck of a Godolphin Arabian, and
long curly mane and tail. Behind rode a groom,
or orderly, about equal in style to any Melbourne
magnate in terra-boom-decay times.
The successful gaoling of three notorious
English old-stamp forgers—who had the gall to
plead that “faking” stamps was “a legitimate
trade ” —has brought philately into unusual pro-
minence lately. The Philatelic J ournal of Great
Britain for April also publishes a portrait, and
gives a biography, of Dawson A. Vindin, of
Sydney, who seems to have made quite a philatelic
splurge in the British Babylon. Vindin was,
some six years ago, editor and proprietor of a
monthly Australian magazine that did not “re-
construct ” him with any degree of success. The
Philatelic Journal issues also a philatelic
“ Review of Reviews,” and is decidedly interest-
ing to all stamp-maniacs.
“It is an ill wind,” &c., is exemplified by
the large increase in the sale of Australian wines
as against imported spirits. This arises from the
necessity for economy, and we are glad of it, as
the consumption of locally-made wines increases
the internal industry of the country. The popular
brand is Innes and Co.’s, of fierce Boar’s Head
fame. We cordially recommend the wines to our
readers.
TheWhiteHorseCellar.
T 9,
PEira-nu^g
The OldßlervdL
Wtusky
SwfgS
DIRECT FROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLtYt
MATURED SCOTCH MALT
[?]
'846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
31st May, 1893.
Mt Dear Moorabinda—
The new Governor of N.S. Wales assumed
.officeinthe vestibule of Government House last
Monday. Sir Robert and Lady Duff, with their
interesting family of four girls and one little boy,
lunched quietly at Government House and walked
through the garden to the launch, which bore
them to Circular Quay for the official landing—
■ Govt. House being again reached at half-past
two.
The central figure of female interest on the
staircase during the ceremony was, of course,
Lady Duff, who occupied a chair to the right in
the centre. She is a fairly tall, good-looking
woman, with a youthful figure, dark-brown hair,
worn in plaits, and brown eyes, and a trick of
smiling with them that is wary charming, although
she looked rather tired on Monday. She seemed
a little sunburnt after the voyage (which she spoke
,of as a pleasant experience), and I did not quite
like her toilet. Black pongee flowered in white,
»ery simply made and slightly trimmed with grey
aaid black passementerie—a black lace scarf round
the meek, black hat, profusely trimmed with black
muffed chiffon and wings, and a black veil. It
seemed hardly festive enough—indeed, the lovely
presentation roses, with hanging trails were the
only light and airy touch.
Sir Robert Duff is of medium height, well built,
and very much like his portrait lately printed in
JThe Bulletin. His hair is silver-white, and he
Avears his moustache waxed at the tips—he pulls
this “mo” tremendously, I notice, when he’s ponder-
.ingtthings. He has a “fruity” voice, and says
Vietoriah,” “sweah,” and so on, but he doesirit
, drop his final g’s, like Gov. Jersey did—at least
,not in moments of high official pressure, anyhow.
Miss Duff and Miss Heather Duff were among
rthose on the staircase where the Acting-
“ Governoress ” sat opposite Lady Duff, who had
.Mrs. Bowden-Smith, in a stylish costume of
i-brown cloth and velvet, on her left. Miss Duff,
! who is a young lady of twenty or so, wore a gown
, of pearly colour with a bronze line, and trimmed
. with bronze-green velvet and Y-shaped yoke of
~cream silk, covered with guipure—small vest of
.white chiffon and round hat of bronze velvet and
.ribbon. Miss Heather Duff is decidedly pretty,
with a vivacious face. Her attire was a fawn
-cloth skirt and jacket, very fashionably cut,
basket straw hat, trimmed with purple poly-
anthus and black gauze butterfly bows—black
strings. Miss Mabel Duff, in dark-blue serge,
peeped at the ceremonies from above with her
little brother, Patrick.
As to the “suite,” Mr. Galton, the private
secretary, who holds the fate of Potts Point jn
sthe hollow of his hand, so to speak, has pre-
4naturely-grey hair and a naval shave, and goes
•.upstairs two steps at a time ; and Mr. John Baird
,-(a relative of the hard-riding squire) is a small
youth with pale hair and spectacles, who looks as
if “Bo !” were the best way to open up a conver-
sation with him. Captain Rupert Leigh is to
■•. share the honours of being his fellow aide-de-
u-eamp. By the way, General Hutton, the new
N.S. VV. commandant, was much admired from the
.staircase—perhaps because he had such a Niagara-
dike fall of white plumes in his hat?
•Sydney society is somewhat tickled by the
manifest indifference to its blandishments dis-
played by the itinerant Austrian Royalty who
these shores to bag—not to be bagged.
Apparently, after the Archduke had assured him-
self that, as the song very nearly says, “to
■ people’s surprise we saw with our eyes and our
tongues moved whenever we spoke,” he lost in-
terest in us as aborigines and turned his attention
■Jo the fauna. Government House had to make
quite a petition of an invitation to dinner, and
• even then grave fears were entertained up to the
-.last moment as to whether “we’’ would come or
not. Apropos the-Sunday on which “we’’ and
his cousin ..visited the R.C. Cathedral, it was
amusing to observe the crowded building where,
on ordinary occasions, when only the Deity is in-
voked, one can always fluid a seat. The mob was
such an eloquent testimony to the relative drawing-
, powers of God and Royalty.
The afternoon dance on board the Kaiserin
Elisabeth, last Friday week, .was not a source of
• unalloyed joy to Society, for the fiercely-mou-
> stacked Austrians, with their overpowering mode
of salutation (one maiden complained of Somebody
throwing up his arms in front of her “ as if I was
a runaway cow !”), and their cool custom
dancing once round with a partner, dropping he r
and taking another, were not at all the sort of
men that usually happen to a “gel” in Australia.
The Archduke, an elongated, weedy youth, with a
pale-blue optio (none of the girls thought it elec-
trio), a small waist, any amount of “chuck” in
his bosom and diamond rings on his fingers,
danced with Mrs. Burdekin, Miss Bowden Smith,
Miss Pilcher and Miss McDonagh ; but it was in
a round game, in which the company stood hand-
in-hand in a ring, that H.R.H. of Austria shook
off his alleged diffidence, and squoze tire little fists
of the girls on each side of him with positively
morganatic meaning. Accepting the royal invita-
tion, a party of people stayed after the company
generally had dispersed, and were entertained in
the Archduke’s special saloon —a grove of Persian
carpets, wherein a fountain pattered amid twink-
ling fairy lights.
Still harping on the Austrian dance, one couldn’t
help being reminded of the novel pincushion fair
when, in one figure, the ladies, armed German-
fashion with ribbon-decorated pins, rushed and
stuck them into the gentlemen, as a sign they
wanted to dance with them. Tne Archduke was,
of course, glistening with pins, and danced every
one of them out—but when, after the pin-figures
were over, a bovine damsel floundered up to him
and jabbed her pin into him as if he was a pin-
cushion, the Emperor-to-be-if-the-Socialists-will-
let-him seemed glad the ship sailed off to-morrow.
Of course, the most unblushing begging for
souvenirs went on among the ladies, and photo-
graphs were blowing about like hand-bills in a
suburban garden. An importunate female begged
one of the officers for a remembrance, and she
specified a photograph—but the officer beckoned
to one of the sailors, pulled the ribbon off the
man’s hat, and gave it to his tormentress ! How-
ever, she thanked him gushfully, all the same. It
takes some people a week to see right through a
little thing like that.
I take it that the Austrian Royalty has had the
most unmolested time a big gun of his social
calibre could possibly experience in a star-gazing
place like Sydney, and as he is said to be a diffi-
dent and retiring Archduke, he must have appre-
ciated the masterly manner in which he was
always smuggled on shore, while the crowd was
growing like a snowball round the corner. He
ought to consider himself lucky that he didn’t
have to stir up dormant loyalty with a long pole,
or exhibit himself to the populace to keep the
silken bonds stretched, as English dukes must
when they “do ”us in proper person. It is told
of the Duke of Edinburgh that, when in Aus-
tralia, he was going a trip by rail, but, as he was
stepping on to the train, he drew back and said
hesitatingly, “ I don’t know whether I’ll go or
not, after all. Are there any Mayors on this
line ? ”
Sydney Turf Club commenced its annual meet-
ing on the Queen’s Birthday—the day when the
noise of the feu de joie, heard at a distance, sounds
as if somebody were tearing calico in the next
province. The most noticeable thing on first day
was the absence of sweeps on the “Members’.”
Here and there a lukewarm damsel with her little
brother’s hat full of carefully-weeded sweep-bags
tried to lure the shy half-crown ; biit the bevies of
importunate damsels who innocently leave all the
soratchings to be drawn in their sweeps, and get
prettily fogged over the financial result—where,
oh, where were they ?
The sartorial interest on the grandstand was
varied. Frocking repeated itself among the numer-
ous vice-regal party, and in several other instances;
but for some reason or other the birthday meeting
is never very swell, partly because autumn frocks
are just worn out, and Winter glories are still on
the stocks; and the situation has been further
aggravated this year by the Duffs. Society
generally is making a dark horse of its latest
screamer, and keeping its new hat as impenetrable
a mystery as the gunpowder-plot—so as to make
Lady D. wink both eyes when the sun catches its
untarnished splendors at her first “at home.”
Dr. Frances Dick wore an artistic dress —a mingl-
ing of mushroom and pale.blue, with a cavalier
hat eii suite ; Mrs. Russell Norton in red and
green epingle, with green velvet intervals and
small bonnet. Mrs. Titheradge wore an 1830 get-
up of pinky tweed, with a black bonnet, and
came with Myra Kemble, dressed in a neat mili-
tary-looking dark-blue serge.
The last day, on Saturday, of the S.T.C. meet-
ing magnetised a neat, but not gaudy, crowd into
the Members’, and a large party, headed by Chief
Justice and ,M rs - Darley, into the vice-regal
box, from which I think the cane furniture ought
to be.taken away in the winter—it looks so very
cold. Mrs. W. Mitchell wore the nobbiest turn-
out, of ultramarine blue made with a sleeveless
body of black silk, small bow-bonnet in black with
pink fioyvers; Mrs. Henry Lloyd’s dress of black
Ottoman brocade and jet was quietly stylish,
worn with a mauve bonnet; Miss Elsie Josephson
sported a French dress of brown cdthle trimmed
with fawn velvet, and yoke of white serge starred
in gold, brown hat and feathers ; Mrs. Bland Holt,
tailor-built fawn tweed trimmed with dull yellow
silk and pipings of pale-blue, small straw hat en
suite. A society girl, who kept on a very heavy
jacket and yet fanned her heated face with her
race-book, suggested the man in the ’mime, who
reveals only a dicky and cuffs when his coat splits;
and another girl brandished a scarlet parasol,
although bright pink flowers were growing in her
hat ; and still another amusing thing was to hear
a frisky figurante, who has apparently been left
till called for, asking people where her husband
was ?
Few society pastimes reproduce themselves
with such fatal exactness as garden-parties, which
resemble one another so closely that you hardly
know which you’re at—especially when the frocks
don’t vary much —as they didn’t at the vice vice-
regal grass-party, the other Tuesday, at Govern-
ment House. The hostess was sombrely attired in
black rep silk with a spring-green interval in her
bonnet; Mrs. Bowden Smith turned out very
nicely in black figured silk mingled stylishly with
pink velvet designed in black fans and trimmed
with black jet—small bonnet to correspond ; Miss
Bowden Smith sported a rough cheviot tweed with
a big brown hat and feathers; Miss Darley’s ex-
ceedingly modish garment was a contrast of black
and petunia-purple. A dull tartan Terry velvet
(worn by a rich man’s wife) produced the perhaps
far-fetched impression of those ribbed pictures
that are the prince of Wales one way and Bis-
marck the other—it was the rib on the velvet, I
suppose. A titled-within-the-colony lady in moss-
green plush suggested the apotheosis of the stone
that doesn’t roll, but I liked Mrs. M'Millan’s get-
up of rep silk and jet, very smartly cut, and worn
with a black hat with a bow of emerald green
velvet; Mrs. M'Donagh, in brown hat and
feathers, cut a stylish appearance, and Mrs.
Macnarnara’s black and purple turn-out was quite
a wedding-garment. A concealed brass-band
murmured agreeably through the afternoon, and
tea followed on the verandah.
There is a marked absence of Union Jack about
the decorations of the Fitzgeralds’ Circus (now in
full gallop at Redfern) that is refreshing if only
as a novelty. One looks in vain among the cloud
of pink and blue bannerets tor the flag that
braved, etc. Also, you are not ejected to the tune
of the Anathema, and the audience seems to know
when to burrow for its hat without the aid of
Mr. J. Bull’s musical genius. Barring a black
man in a costume reminiscent of a carpet-bag, the
performances were well got-up, from the ring-men
in George IY. suits of satin to Mr. Dan Fitz-
gerald in the sort of evening-dress lady novelists
describe as “faultless.” I liked the equestrienne
match when the two riders were in scarlet and
the gee-gee’s trappings to match, and print is
impotent to express the magnetism of a swarm of
girls on the “daring trapeze” attired (I mean the
girls) in radish-coloured tights long drawn out
and finished off with a simple and rather inade-
quate ruche. Also, I cannot hope to convey the
thrill produced by a black-wire damsel who peels
off her petticoats in mid-air, and apparently hurls
them at the dress-circle. One thing that inter-
ested society (only, of course, when the pheno-
menally-clever pony Commodore wasn’t in sight)
was a make-believe Chinee man, who was as like
Charles Ryley as his reflection in a cheap looking-
glass. There was a good circle for the first night,
Mrs. Burdekin bringing a large circus-party.
There is no scope for smart dress in “It’s Never
Too Late to Mend,” at Her Majesty's—indeed,
forty of the (aboriginal) performers who crowd the
stage and receive wild applause wear nothing at
all, with the exception of a loin-cloth, added, in
one instance, to a paper collar. Hilda Spong was
the nice girl who is always kissable, and drove
home the old adage about “ beauty unadorned,”
by looking best in a print gown, and worst in
the white satin veil and general fuss of the bride
in the last act.
The Parliamentary how-de-do over the lady-
doctor whom the ladies’ committee refuse to
appoint to Sydney Children’s Hospital, is amusing,
in a cynical way, because it so elaborately bears
out the theory that woman is woman’s natural
enemy.
If Miss De Toorak works up a fad to enter one
of the professions, her sisters, cousins, and aunts
argue tearfully with her, of course; but if they
prevail not, then they settle down resignedly to
having a brass-plate in the family, and society
helps her gently over the stones if neces-
sary, and votes her in everywhere, because it’s so
nice to select somebody one knows ; you know. On
the other hand, if the brainy Miss Yardmeasure
gets out of the hereditary groove, and into a pro-
fession, then the feminine half of society suddenly
discovers an insurmountable prejudice to that sort
of thing, don’t you know. What wouldn’t some
women give to be able to write “Trespassers in
petticoats will be prosecuted” over the entrance
to the polite professions ?
Skipping contests are the strictly society “go ”
in Melbourne this winter—another tribute to
eternal fitness, I suppose. Matrons, men, and
maidens, whirl the tricky rope on tennis-lawns—
with the result, perhaps, that some of the darlings
will go skipping away from their husbands with
gay Lothario, who can “keep up” longer than
the poor, breathless old man.
I hear that'Madame Roth, who left Sydney for
Europe last year, to the regret of the artistic com-
munity, is again in England, having returned
thither from New York.
After all, a Queen hasn’t a perfectly lovely time
of it. I wonder how the every-day woman would
like to have, on her birthday, batteries of cannon
roaring her age, one bang for every year ? And
it never seems to happen that the guns refuse to
explode after, say, eighteen rounds—though the
military are supposed to be so chivalrous ! By
the way, if Queen Victoria owns to the chief
weakness of woman-nature, there ought to be a
certain knighthood in store for the officer who
managed to spike his guns somewhere on the
cheerful side of forty.
Australia really is a democratic country. At
the Kaiserin Elisabeth dance, the Archduke
asked a young lady to waltz. “I am afraid I
can’t,” she said, “ for I am engaged to this gentle-
man !” Shades of Austrian Court etiquette—
what do you think of that? •
By the way, I hear, in the most mysterious and
unexpected manner, that the reason why Mayor
Manning had to wait nearly half-an-hour before
the Archduke could receive him on his cere-
monious call on board the warship, would make
spicy reading were it possible to put the thing
into cold print. "
Yours faithfully.
SAPPHO SMITH.
A Correction.
In The Bulletin of April Ist appeared
the following paragraph :
James Marsland, committed for trial in Sydney for
harbouring bank-manager Bennett, was formerly, when in
Melbourne, manager for architect “Billy" Pitt, M.L.C,
He was a clever draughtsman and chiefly responsible for
the handsome Stock Exchange of Melbourne.
We have now received from the solicitor of Mr.
John Marsland, architect, of Sydney, a letter
intimating that the paragraph above quoted has
done his client an injustice—which we at once
proceed to repair. There are, it seems, two
architects named Marsland—-one, James Mars-
land, who, as mentioned above, was committed
for harbouring the offender .Bennett; the other,
Mr. John Marsland, formerly in the ser-
vice of Mr, Pitt, of Melbourne, which lattef
Mr. Marsland has never been in any way
connected with any legal proceedings of the kind
referred to, but who has unfortunately been con-
founded, through the similarity of names, with
James Marsland aforementioned. The Bulletin
extremely regrets its error, and now tenders to
Mr. John Marsland its sincere apology for any
unpleasantness which may have been caused him.
There are cabled reports that Gladstone is
at variance with Queen Victoria on several ques-
tions—among them the subject of a dissolution
when the Lords reject the Home Rule Bill, and
the appointment to a Marquisate of Earl Spencer.
Two bills were blocked last Friday night
in N.S.W. Assembly—one a measure authorising
Sydney Corporation to light the city with elec-
tricity, the other allowing some private speculators
to build a small railway in the Newcastle district.
The two events are reported by Sydney Tele-
graph in one and the same paragraph, only, as
one is State socialism and the other “private
enterprise,” they are reported in a different
fashion. Concerning the municipal enterprise:—
The bill was ruled out on a point of order taken by Mr
Neild.
As to the private enterprise :
Several patriots resolved to be revenged (Neild, of
course, didn’t want to be revenged) and formed a coterie
to block the railway bill. It was urged that the work
would afford immediate employment to 300 men in the
district. (The Telegraph doesn’t mention how many
men the other scheme would have employed.) Messrs.
Hindle, Lees, Darnley, llae, Danahey and Schey persisted
in demanding a division on the proposed adjournment,
and the railway bill was effectually prevented from being
considered. This is a specimen of the manner in which
the work of this Parliament is done. (Neild’s conduct, of
course, isn’t a “specimen ’’ of anything.)
The “ New Australia ” exodus is even-
tuating. The promoters have paid .£1620 for a
wooden barque of 598 tons, The Royal Tar,
hitherto chiefly employed in the timber-trade
between Pacific Coast ports and Australia.
Batches of emigrants have been arriving
lately in Sydney (the port of departure) from
Brisbane and Adelaide, and the ship is being
fitted for the voyage. It is expected that the first
lot of passengers will comprise about 200 adults
and their children. Assume that 100 of these
adults are men, each contributing the required
minimum of £6O. Could not 100 men, with a
capital of £6OOO, approach any Australian Go-
vernment with confident expectation and work out
a settlement success in Australia ? It is the
world-old glamour of the greenness of distant
pastures—a human fatuity exploded time after
time ever since squatter Lot’s selection of the
Gomorrah plains. But experience never teaches
—other people. “New Australia ”is advertising
for a doctor. It won’t need to advertise for
plagues.
The silver-haired Henry Halloran, ex-
Principal Under-Secretary of N.S.W., who died
a few days ago, was what might, in the homely
sense of the phrase, be called a fine old man. He
doddered sadly over thousands of topics, and had
lost touch with the younger minds ; but there was
in him a good deal of the uncommon and uncon-
ventional. He had no equal in Australia as an
impromptu rhymester. Give him a topic, elusive
or solid, and within a few minutes he would turn
three or four verses, technically perfect, and far from
stupid. These he would declaim, as he composed
them, with features expressive of the emotions de-
scribed. It is easy to ridicule his printed poems ;
but to know him. and witness the manufacture pf
the articles inspired a genuine liking for his per-
sonality. The present writer often urged him to
produce a work on early Sydney, and some five or
six months ago the old litterateur had got in order
a sufficient pile of material to justify him in
making ,a start; but it is likely the key will now
be lost. He was conscientiously a loyalist arid
royalist, and, though thought lay many “stuck
up,” was at heart a whole-souled Bohemian 1 .
Writes the “National”; “Magazine-news-
papers are the best to advertise in. An advertisement
which is not read does no good, and most dairy papers are
only half read before they make way for their successors.
The paper that is read from end to end,” like Tim Bulle-
tin, “is the sheet-anchor of profitable advertising.” A
good, original weekly, not a hideous jumble of reprinted
stale news spiced with observations about Horse-colic and
turnip-diseases, is the best medium. Every man knows
that he skims over a daily, at breakfast or on a tram-car.
He never reads it through. But his favourite weekly is
mentally laid aside for an hour of leisure, and then he
reads it, and reads it right through. The Bulletin cir-
culates everywhere in Australasia, and even sells 300
copies weekly in South Africa. Let the business man
personally observe, or ask his traveller or his travelling
friend to keep his eyes open and say which paper is the
most widely-circulated in this continent. There can he
but one answer— Tub Bulletin.
Dear Bulletin, —Some time ago Mr. F.
E. Rogers, Q.C., retired from the position of
president of N.S.W. Land Court because Parlia-
ment would not give him the status and salary of
a Supreme Court judge, with the right of a pros-
pective pension. Since then he has been success-
fully leading against the Crown in land-appeal
cases brought before his old court, and has won, I
think, every case he has been connected with. In
one case his advocacy got the rental (a low one,
by the way) appraised by Government at about
per acre, reduced to something under 3d, !
Thus is the wind tempered to the “ suspended-
until-reconstructed ” bank ! Can he be engaged
to represent appellants against his own decisions
as president of the Land Court? Mr. Rogers’
experience, and the prestige attaching to him as
ex-president of the, court, naturally give him a
considerable advantage over the comparatively
youthful Mr. Canaway, the Crown counsel. It
does not always do to “ retrench ” a judge back,to
private practice.—Yours,
BAK BLOX.


ASSESS
[MAM
VOKEICiN A AUSTRALASIAN
ST ASH'S.
100 different Foreign, 2/6; 100 different
Australasian, 5/-; Stamp Albums, 1/10;
with Catalogue, 6/10 —all post free,
price-list gratis. Unused stamps
accepted. Hare stamps bought.
VINDIN <Sc CO.,
The Foreign Stamp Depot,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
The use of cocaine, as an alternative to
nitrous-oxide gas, in dental operations, is daily
practised by J. I. Marshall, dental surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-st. entrance), Sydney. Mr.
Marshall has gained reputation as the author of a
popular treatise on “ The Teeth.”
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, CONSUMPTION,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. Fevers of all
ki ids,' Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Urcalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find sugar-coated Eucalypte Pills pearls of
great price. {'W" For external use try Colkmank and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Oootainundra, N.S.W
The Bulletin’s current Missing Word
Competition closes this Saturday, 3rd June.
The good opinion of the public, in regard to
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, is confirmed by clergy-
man, lawyers, public speakers, and actors. All
say it is the best remedy for affections of the
throat and lungs.
Personal Items.
Phil May, at latest, was in New York, on
his way to Japan. , . ,
Willoughby edits the Argus during Had-
don’s holidays.
Godbehere is the name of the organist of
St. Stephen’s Church, Newtown, Sydney.
Mr Justice Williams, of Melbourne, is a
near relation of the famous Montagu Williams,
Q.C.
An ex-detective now sits on the Melb.
police-court bench. His claim to appointment as
J.P. was that he is an expert.
The late Premier Ballance was twice
married, but had no children. His niece
Kathleen Anderson, was, however, his adopted
daughter.
Australia’s accepted representatives at
’Orne • Wealth, Salmon Wilson ; politics, Hen-
niker Heaton; literature, Fergus Hume. Great
Scott!
A “ buck nigger ” was one of the most
enthusiastic supporters of Jawb ° n ® fc :^® dd T he
Sydney Protestant Hall Orange meeting, ihe
“ Black North ” with a vengeance.
Bishop Goe advises Melbournians to appeal
to the Almighty “in the hope that He will
graciously consider their low estate. This sound
like soliciting another land-boom.
General Tulloch (Vic.) brings into camp
only one overcoat and two blankets. A militia
corporal’s kit usually includes a maUrass feather-
pillow, several coats, and a large Gladstone bag.
Rev. Edgar (Wesleyan), who turns Melb
Wesley Church into a Sunday social Parliament,
is an object of jealousy in his dcnomination An
endeavour has been made to shunt him to Maori
land. .
“Perhaps the directors were more unfor-
tunate than criminal,” wails the Age, in an article
on the Mercantile affair. The next hard-up
wretch who steals a leg of mutton or a coat ought
to try this brilliant gag on the Bench.
The little emblems of their calling, worn
by the shearers at the last Melbourne e.ght-hour
procession, were the handiwork of David Wyllie,
who, absent from the gathering, was at that time
jying upon what proved his death-bed. ■
A remarkable thing noted at the Queen’s
Biithday review in Albert Park Melb., was the
extraordinary corpulence of the officers. Judging
by appearances, these glittering men of gore would
go about four to the ton, and their horses are all
knock-kneed.
Harper Brothers appear to have taken a
loan of Lumholtz, the “ Australian traveller, and
given him a right-of-way among their numerous
periodicals. Lumholtz paints pictures of Queens-
hind wild-life which would take the breath from
even Meston’s Myall blacks.
Salomons’ allusions to his recent monetary
losses were made in a particularly lachrymose key
at a late public meeting, but were taken by the
audience as the cry of a man who would soon feel
much better. The Q.O. seemed to notice this and
jumped at once to his cheery register.
Percy Meg°y, who was so well advertised
as secretary of N.S.W. single-taxers, has a new
controlling fad-vegetarianism. He rhapsodises
about “that ideal state which has never yet
occurred on earth,” in which we are all to love
each other, and eat beans instead of beet.
Marshall Lyle, the wild Irishman who
defended Deeming (and succeeded to his portable
property) tells the electors of North Melboxirne to
“depend upon it that the day is not far distant
when everything that is not serious and true will
bo ridiculous.” Lyle himself is presumably serious
and true.
John Wroe, founder of the Beardies,
Christian Israelites, and men with their hair
rolled up behind, is held by a Melb. newspaper
correspondent not to be dead. this is vital,
because the world is, or was to die with him.
There is about a handful of dust left of him m
M<db. cemetery.
The general manager of a Sydney banking
co. says that, though connected with banking for
40 years, he never bought a bank share m his life,
evcept 120 that he took up in London for his
daughter. Although it took 40 years to show it,
he was right in the long run. Doctors don t take
their own physic.
Mr. Edmund Barton, N.S.W. Attorney-
General, fairly-fee’d barrister, has begun also to
say “For lam a poor man myself. i'arkes has
been saying that these forty years, and the phrase
ii as much his as is his hair. How would Barton
look in Parkes’s hair ? That’s how he looks when
uttering Parkis’s gag.
One day Dean O’Hea was summoned to
Melbourne Police Court as a witness in a bigamy
case. The “ Dane ” thus moralised in a fine rich
brogue across the lawyers’ table; Well, well,
one would have th night that one woman was
enough for any man. Fifty years ago 1 decided
that one would be too much for me.
The late Abington Baird, writes a corre-
spondent is said to have informed his confidential
Johnnies’ that he had bequeathed the bulk of his
fortune to Mrs. Langtry. Baird wasn’t one of
those good young men who tell gratuitous lies, and
people are disposed to think that his last will and
testament has been mysteriously “lost.
Hewlett Ross, who fancies himself a poet,
but whose only real claims to notoriety are that he
wrote a very inferior life of Adam Lindsay Gor-
don and that some sentimental English woman
sent out by him a wreath for Gordon’s grave, per-
vades Melbourne in long poetic hair and a big
slouched hat. He thinks he looks like Tennyson.
Mannington Caffyn claimed that it was his
recommendation that led to the acceptance of
“ Robbery Under Arms ” by a London publisher.
“ Rolf Boldrewood ” himself says Murray Smith
was the man who did the trick. Several people
fancy that the merits of the book had a great deal
more to do with it than either the doctor or the
financier.
The congregation of the perky Canon
Perks (Anglican) of Richmond (Melb.) give him
hut seven years to live. There is a memorial stone
;n St. Stephen’s, facing Church-st., upon which
Several events and dates are engraved. Amongst
them, it is|reoordod that C. T. Perks was incumbent i
from 1851 till 18— A space is left for two
figures, but 1000 will be in in seven years more.
The other day Townsend MacDerraott, the
criminal lawyer, entered a Melbourne restaurant,
where sat an aboriginal-looking person who was
scanning the bill of fare with great apparent dis-
favour. Presently he began to stare rudely at
Mac’s eye-glass. Fixing the monocle more firmly
in his orbit, and scowling at the darky in a most
appalling manner, Townsend called the waiter :
“ Humph ! get this man a possum.”
Purves, Q. 0., was one day roasting an,
inoffensive little man in the witness-box with
questions, to one of which the victim answered,,
“I saw you in church.” “Ha!” said the legal
Blunderbore, “stop right there, and let us test
your veracity. Remember you are on your oath,,
sir !” “ Well,” stammered the little man, “ I saw
your family in church, and I saw you smoking a
cigar on the steps outside.” “Stand down I” 1
roared the Queen’s counsel.
District-Coroner Candler, of Melbourne,
is a somewhat querulous potentate, much addicted
to maintaining the “ dignity ” of his microscopic
court. One day there was a noise under Candler’s
table, and in thunderous tones he demanded of an
adjacent policeman, “Constable, what’s that?”’
“ Plaze, yer Washup, it’s yer Washup’s dorg,,
sir.” “Well, then,” growled Coroner Candler,.
“ bring him before me and I’ll make it a caution
to him.”
Herman Melville’s “ Moby Dick ” has
been republished, as well as “Typee.” Those
who have perused Stevenson’s weak, tedious and
characterless Polynesian sketches and have not
read Melville’s works have a treat in store. Mel-
ville had long actual experience of the people of
whom he has written so charmingly, and is in-
comparably the best writer who has yet taken the
South Seas for his field. Where “ the great
novelist ” is dull and prosy, Melville, the ex-
whaler, is terse, forceful and brilliant.
Marshall Lyle is
putting up for Parlia-
ment, having been nomi-
nated for North Melb.
The curse of Deeming !
Says Albert Vandam,
author of “ An English-
man in Paris” : “ La-
martine’s poverty did not
breed respect. There was
no dignity about it. It
was the poverty of Oliver
Goldsmith feasting with
the guinea Dr. Johnson
had forwarded to him by
a messenger, pending his
own arrival.” The N.S.
Welshman can make the
application. Had Parkes’
poverty not been the
result of his depletion of
Wardour-street, he would
now be worshipped for
his honest devotion to the
service of the country.
Lady Loch, late of
Victoria, and Lady
Lytton are twin sisters,
and used to be a fruitful
cause of complication in
Society. For example,
she who became Lady
Lytton once received a
verbal offer of marriage
from a young Irish officer,
which was meant for her
sister. On another occa-
sion, Lord Lytton, at a
crowded reception, mis-
took the present Lady
Loch for his sweetheart,
and greeted her accord-
ingly, much to the amuse-
ment of a few around who
knew better.
It has often been
remarked as a curious
anomaly that Cardinal
Moran who drinks
ginger-beer at his lunch
and is correspondingly
simple in his tastes all
round—should drive
about in a pair - horse
carriage. We now read,
however, that such are
the orders of the Vatican.
Every cardinal must drive
a pair-horse carriage; no
cardinal must go afoot.
C. J. Roberts, M.L.C., still follows the
healthy habit of falling asleep punctually at
11 p.m. When Postmaster-General in the Lower
House he used at first to be awakened by Inghs or
Francis Abigail, but after a time he was accepted
“ just as he was.” In dropping off to sleep his
eyelids came together with a clash —which caused
some to think of the shutting up of the pubs, but,
immediately after, the mouth fell open, which dis-
turbed the suggestiveness of the simile.
Surgeon Beaney’s £lO,OOO “charitable’
bequest to the city of Canterbury (Eng.) having
been declared illegal, the present position is that
the Canterbury charities won’t get the money and
that Beaney has nevertheless secured a cenotaph
in Canterbury Cathedral bearing a lying inscrip-
tion, to the effect that he was the benefactor who
endowed, &c., &c. Having set up the memorial,
they cannot, as already remarked, very well pull
it down. Moral: First catch your £lO,OOO.
In ’6B, when Titokowaru was threatening
the Maoriland settlers, young John Ballance (the
lately deceased Premier), then 29, called a meet-
ing of his fellow-citizens, and at that meeting the
Wanganui Cavalry was formed, Ballance joining
as a private trooper, and rising to the position of
cornet. As war-correspondent to his own paper,
the Wanganui Herald, he so offended his
superiors by his bold criticisms of war mismanage-
ment that Cornet Ballance was decisively
cashiered.
N.S.W. Attorney-General Barton has in
his possession two letters wherein the offer to him
of a K.C.M.G. is overtly enough indicated. “ I’ll
not take a title,’’said Barton, once. “I’m not so
sure of that,” said a staunch supporter, now in
Darlin'ghurst Gaol for illicit distilling, but then a
sturdy politician ; “ you’re just the man to take it
on the sly.” “Because you make whisky on the
sly, eh?” barked the Attorney-General, “you
think everyone is on the sly.” And this was six
.months before the “ still ” was_ found, which con-
vinced the enterprising politician that Attorney-
General Barton knew a lot more than he looked.
Charles Lamb Smith, son of the veteran
and accomplished journalist, James Smith, goes for
a European trip after eight years as Aegus chief
sub-editor. Where is the other Australian news-
paper man whose son has worthily filled such a
journalistic place of honour ? The second genera-
tion are fools. The sons of most of the men who
made the “ great ” Australian papers are entirely
out of sympathy with the most glorious and
interesting of professions. Taken all round, they
are brainless skinflints, who ought to be keeping
lolly-shops, or running “groceries” where they
adulterate the coffee with grated horse-liver.
J. F. Hogan, formerly of Melbourne
Aegus, got a big advt. from London Academy,
when that literary weekly pointed out that “ The
Golden Lake,” by W. Carlton Dawe(also formerly
of Melbourne), “exactly resembles in all its im-
portant points ‘The Lost Explorer,’ by J. F-
Hogan.” But the true inwardness of the whole
business was not fully apparent till Professor
Tucker, in the now defunct Austealasian Ceitio,
showed indubitably that J. F. Hogan’s book was,
incident for incident, an exact parallel of Rider
Haggard’s “King Solomon’s Mines.”
The most picturesque feature of Acting-
Governor Darley’s recent levee was Mr. John
Macdonald Cameron, Deputy Master of Sydney
Mint, in the kilt and tartan of his clan. Certain
N.S.W. politicians recently misrepresented him as
a played-out Gladstonian. As a matter of fact,
he possesses the broadest shoulders and
one of the strongest frames in Sydney.
He entered the British Excise department
at =6(10 per annum, and after the yearly competi-
tive exam, was selected for the at
Somerset House. Displaying great chemical
knowledge he was appointed to the School of
Mines, South Kensington, and then started in
business as a metallurgist. Employed by London
THE MOTHERLESS HORSE.
Old Flinders, giving delivery of horse, after sale of station, to
Southern buyer, has the oldest blackboy on the station to help
him. Buyer taking down number, pedigree, age, etc.
OLD FLINDERS : “Peter, what name Mamie belongin’ to this one??’
PETER : “Baal got’m Mamie.”
OLD F.: “You damned fool; baal you know’m Mamie?”
PETER : “Baal me dam fool —that one there foal where you an’ me been
steal'am alouga Normanton long while ago.”
syndicates he has visited and reported on mines in
all parts of the globe, and this is not his first so-
journ in Australia. At the election of 1885 he
stood as a Radical, and wrested a seat from an old
Scotch family. He accepted his Sydney appoint-
ment for a well-earned rest; also because, in his
younger days, he put in 13 years which will now
count for pension.
In a pile of dusty papers on a shelf in the
Yic. Treasury is a paper of much historic interest.
It is an application from one E. G. Fitzgibbon
(now autocrat of Melb. Metropolitan Board of
Waterworks) for employment in the Civil Service,
in which the modest candidate asserts that he
“can write good prose, and is a master of verse,”
and encloses samples of his contributions to litera-
ture. One corner of this document is turned down,
and thereon is this brief memo. Regret no
vacancy; nor do we see how Mr. Fitzgibbon’s
poetic capacity may be made useful to the State.”
The signature of this daring memo.-writer is
“Latrobe.”
Archbishop Reynolds, of Adelaide, was
“given up” by the doctors before Easter, but he
still lives. Irreverent journalists argue that this
is due to the fact that his life was written up apd
put into type lay both daily journals directly it
was known that he was seriously ill. Once upon
a time the S.A. Advertiser, having in type an
obituary notice of the erratic Councillor Raphael,
slipped it in prematurely. Sammy called to
expostulate, and the result was the insertion next
day of a paragraph, beginning—“ We regret that
the announcement of the death of Mr. Samuel
Raphael, made in this morning’s issue, is in-
correct.” The gentleman died in real earnest
shortly afterwards.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will he taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“Edelweiss”: Yes, certainly. Any person
who steals a piece of literature and passes it off as his own,
and receives payment for it, can be sent to gaol for false
pretences. And as an act of justice to genuine writers
The Bulletin hopes to see one or two such individuals sent
there at an early opportunity ...“Lara” (W.A.): We
said it would have to be re-written ; we didn’t care to re-
write it, and have mostly forgotten it. We repeat that
girls in imminent life-peril never use prepared copy-book
phraseology “Wommerah”: Too one-horse a place
“ J.P./No. 2 ” : There would be no Attorney-General
on hand to enter a nolle prosequi against Tub Bulletin if
it published Mat. Davies’ prayer on the recent “ Day of
Humiliation.” “Tom Gayndah” :We don’t remember
the other poems, but we have just read “Pining,” in which
you speak of your “small hut native town.” That
“ but ” is a wonderful thing in the way of non-sequiturs.
How big a town, do you think, would it be fair for the
Almighty to let a potentate of your size be born in?....
“ The Roamer ” : Why invent a Chinaman as the mouth-
piece of a common Caucasian truism? “ Bulloo ”
(Q.): We had long suspected a good deal of what you tell
us in your long letter. But your “poetry” is an abso-
lute crime... “E. 8.”; Shall Germanton have a show
this year? A parochial question. Ask the national
conundrum —Wilt have a drink? “T.M.”: Baby-
drawings of women who look like three-legged pots...
“J.W.”: Thanks. Facts already noted “Ballads”:
Slouch cynicism. Bogus philosophy without under-
draperies gives your Muse rheumatism in the feet. Prose,
the burnt gravy of others' overcooked brains
“H.0.J.L.": Two decent lines —
So, while the cobwebs catch the little flies,
The great break through before the spinner’s eyes ;
but even these are out of joint with the whole idea-
“ 8.C.W.” : Well, haven’t we said it? ~ “ W.W.A.”;
We are tired of such things.... “ J.S.” (Crookwell): Wal-
lace composed “Maritana” at Parramatta, we believe
“8.W.M.” (Murrum.): We’d not select them to look
after us, anyhow “Bulimbah ” : A played-out pleasan-
try “Elo”: Premier Dibbs barks up the wrong tree.
Mr. Traill has written not a line of The Bulletin for
many months ... “ Amorker ” : Your exhaustive treatise
on “capital and labour” weighs over Jib. We don’t even
try to read such huge junks of literature—“ Fly” : A
bright and universally beloved youth signs a bill for a
Jew and thereupon becomes drunken, bloated, pimpled,
and a frowsy wreck. It seems to us you have mistaken a
bill for a skin-disease “J.M.” (Paddington): Your
poem is one of these unforeseen disasters against which
no human foresight can provide. Poems like that break
out in the best-regulated families “Marah”: You
aren’t bitter as your name implies ; you are only sour...
“D.W.”: We don’t care for the illegitimate infant and
affiliation-order variety of verse,,.. “Nemo” (Broken
Hill): (1) “Doing Loans” doesn’t rhyme with “ tomb-
stones.” (2) “Several loans” doesn’t either, nor does
“your loans,” and “about a bone ” is the worst of the
lot. (3) The Redeemer was not “sold in Galilee.”....
“Zoe”: A nicely-written story, but not our sort. Send
it to a girls’ periodical “Bernard Ffont”: We can’t
stand the line “Ring out the chimes from the lofty
cathedral of waking humanity.” You might as reason-
ably ring the dinner-bell on the elevated shot-tower of
mankind “ Yarrevah” ; Will possibly use “Arthur
Hood” (North Sydney): You are not going to “smite”
upon any “ golden harp” in this office. Neither are you
going to strike the sackbut, shawm, psaltery, or any other
variety of music “Junius II.”: We will do our best.
Meanwhile we thank you for the word “ reconswindle,”
which is a noble and useful addition to the language
“Fred.”; The whole yarn simply implies that you
were drunk at night and suffer from apparent
diminution of hat in the morning “ H.C.” (Victoria):
“Sunset” is pretty and weak, and wax-dolly generally....
“ Herbert” (Bourke): Spasmodic, alliterative, and jumpy.
Also metre so long that the reader has to come up to
breathe in the middle of each line else suffocation would
be inevitable “ H.W.S.” (Townsville): Item got stale
on the road “Wombat"; Good enough, but we have
said it all before in far less space ... “ Arrow ” : Declined.
“Moularaein”: You say the adjacent selector, with
wliom you seem to be unfriendly, gets rations and other
assistance from the adjacent squatter and “leaves his
wife at the station,” and you want us to draw an inference
from these facts. In such a case every man should draw
his own inference. No man can draw another man’s
inference “W. M’Moleskin”: The navvies who knocked
off work for humiliation and prayer don’t look real. Who
ever saw a navvy of the humiliation-and-prayer variety?
“Ilex” (Horsham): Seems to be a particularly con-
fused fight between Potiphar’s wife and Joseph’s best
girl, and the former, being licked, went home and threw
the dishes with a strong hand at Potiphar.... “E.J.W.”
(Balmain): “The Sydney cad is to be despised and
avoided.” That trenchant but knock-kneed assertion is
quite wrong. The Sydney cad is to be dropped over the
South Head, or put down the Bondi sewer...." F.8.M.”
(Neutral Bay): Only a big bushman in a very small set of
horrors. Get your bushman measured for his horrors
next time ... “ E.C.0.” : Why “humiliation and prayer?”
Do bishops think that the Almighty runs the banks? Is
it not reasonable to suppose that the Opposition has a
bigger say in the matter? “The Pauper”: Duck
story unattractive.... “ F.D.” (Barcaldine, Q.): No, the
one-eyed trooper yarn is not original, but a glaring adapta-
tion from a “Decameron” story,. . .“ Minnamurra’ :
May metamorphose....“ Corny”; We have read your
poetry. Suicide is your only hope “ A.R.” (St. Hilda,
Vic.): Unpardonable even as a nursery rhyme...
(Bogan River): Moral of yarn of the ten prospectors is old.
It is simply “ Who’s going to wash up?” Try again....
“M.C.H.”: Too Saturnine for us “M.J.S.” (Burra-
wong, N.S.W.): Beaconsfield was not in office at the
time of his death.... “Nemesis ”: In opposing the lash-
system we advocate not “ the cause of villains,” but the
cause of civilisation. Torture has been a failure in all
ages, in all countries, and among all pe0p1e5......
“W. M‘D.” (Bathurst): Dibbs may (or may not)have
been returned merely to give N.S.W. “Protection
which, by the way, he has not yet done—and for no other
reason ; but The Bulletin was not established for that
purpose. The Bulletin declines to be the man Friday of
any politician “J. J.”: Thanks; next week, if possible.
“H. Wade” (Melb.): (1.) “In what year was the hulk
Success first abandoned as a “prison-ship?” No record
immediately available, but it was about ’59 or 60. ine
“Melville rush” on 22nd October, ’56, produced a parlia-
mentary select committee of inquiry that led to all the
old hulks being paid out of commission ; the chief inter-
vening time-mark record is the murder of Price on 2btn
March, ’57. Probably the best man to give easily an
exact answer to the question would be the Williamstown
town clerk. (2). “In what year was it abandoned as an
industrial school?” When the male convicts were re-
moved to the enlarged Pentridge prison the Success was
made a women’s hulk ; when the women were also accom-
modated in the stockade, it was handed over to the
reformatory ship Sir Harry Smith, and utilised as an
industrial school, which was discontinued about 63. too
“ Has it ever been used as a temporary prison for convicts
since it was an industrial school? If so, in what year-
No: finally as a store-hulk for the Victorian Defence
Department.... “ E.H.W.” : Thanks. Will reproduce.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Price for Ordinary Cabinet Photographs,
15s. per Dozen.
„ Platinotype Cabinet Photographs,
30s. per Dozen.
“Invest Your Money in Land.”
MOHT’S TOWNSHIP.
On Railway Municipality of Hurstville, only 10 miles
from the City of Sydney. Next Public-school.
Gas and City Water .
Title Certificate lodged with Registrar-General as security
for purchasers. Vol., 1060 ; Polio, 170 ; Official P1an,,2921.
Prices range from £5 to £IG 10s. per Lot.
TERMS-£l CASH; 10s. MONTHLY.
I guarantee no forfeiture if you are sick or out of work.
Clients in the country can rely on faithful selection. No
rocks, gullies, or swamps, or money returned in full.
Deeds sent to any part of the world ; personal attendance
unnecessary at Sydney. You can pay as you like. This
is a genuine offer to those who have a few pounds to
spare. No fencing clause, no land-tax, and Torrens’
Title, which cannot be jumped even if yon do not turn up
for ages hence. Deeds made out in names of children or
wives. Free Plans post free from
E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
Licensed Auctioneer, 301 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &c.
33 A 34 Clnrciicostfeet,
SYDNEY.
ŧ
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowestrates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various/
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
• f; ■-
POLITICAL
POINTS
Russia is a thousand miles nearer India
than it was 40 years ago.
A Patterson-O’Loghlen (Vic.) proverb—
“ Policy’s the best honesty.
“This is not lying. This is voting with
your party.”—Thackeray.
“ The never-ending audacity of elected
persons.”—Walt. Whitman.
The N.S.W. Current Accounts Conversion
Bill —How to pay private debts at public expense.
Where is Shiels ? He appears to have
retired within himself and pitched away the key.
Parkes’s party in N.S.W, Asssmbly—
Parkes, Brunker, Hughey Taylor, Cullen, and
Ringnose Wise.
The hitherto indeterminate A. G. Taylor
has definitely decided to stand for Mudgee at the
very first chance.
The Ulster “Assembly” is giving “man-
hood suffrage” to its voters, A lovely satire
on British Toryism.
“ My knowledge of colonial Upper Houses
has only intensified my dislike for tipper Houses
in general.”— Dilke.
The Argus’ reduction came just in time.
Wilson and Mackinnon score heavily over the
nolle prosequi business.
The plural vote from Queen-street, Bris-
bane, upset the decision of five suburban consti-
tuencies, of which Nundah is the latest.
The suggestion that Goschen* should be
specially engaged to come out and “ advise ” Aus-
tralia on financial ma'tters is gorgeously funny.
Mr. B. Lee, the ex-Sydney Stipendiary,
formerly member for a Northern N.S.W. 1 consti-
tuency, will now re-enter Parliament if heman.
Gaunson, who defended Davies’ dock-col-
league, Milliffge, once said that Matthew got to
the Speaker’s chair “through the bellies of the
members. ”
Perkins (brewer), Tyson (squatto-million-
aire), and J. B. Oribb (store-merchant king-
mortgagee) have been appointed to the Queensland
Legislative Council.
The ignorant and the prevaricating are
stating that the Labour-party has caused the bad
times. Put it the other way—the bad times
caused the Labour-party.
Just 26,810 electors purged from the Vic-
torian rolls in February last, of whom 1228 are
dead. It is not good Conservative policy to
deprive the dead of their votes.
The Victorian boomers speak bitterly of
Solicitor-General Isaaes’ “disloyalty” to Premier
Patterson. He is loyal to justice, but disloyal to
Patterson. Draw your own inference. ,
Two men come out of the nasty Mercantile
trial business with some credit —M'Donald and
Isaacs. M‘DonaM was the Isaacs of the Bench,
and Isaacs was the M‘Donald of the Ministry.
Ex-Judge M‘Farland’s desire for a seat in
N.S.W. Parliament has cooled down almost to
freezing-point. In his face has blown from all
quarters the bitter wind of political distrust.
While rotten reeds escape the stroke
That leaps in lightning from the skies,
The red bolt rends the royal oak :
Our rulers live while Ballance dies.
Choice mot from the Anti-Home Rule
speech, at Sydney, of Windeyer Thompson : “Mr.
Gladstone is not only rolling the people of Ulster
in the dirt, but rubbing their noses in it like a
dirty cat.”
Premier Patterson dodges the Davies
uproar by fooling round Victoria in a special train,
looking for places where new lines would be desir-
able if the Government had any money to build
them with.
In many of the S.A. German settlements
there are people who cannot speak a word of
English, although, in some, cases, they were born
in the province and have lived in it for thirty or
forty years.
“ Captain” Charlie Taylor, having earned
the gratitude of the Victorian Premier by his
unique management of the Missing Mace Enquiry,
is spoken of at time of writing as a likely suc-
cessor to Isaacs.
Ex-Gov. Jervois : “If the Australian
colonies were severed from the Empire they must
inevitably fall a prey to France, Germany, or
China.” Bah! But, anyhow, as well be eaten by
an eagle as by a lion.
It is disgusting beyond the limits of lan-
guage to note the brazen efforts of the political
sympathisers of Mat. Davies to screen that gilded
boomer under a wretched pretence of devotion to
constitutionalism.
We may soom be hearing Isaacs being
dubbed the Australian Beaconsfield. In theatrical
effect and daring decisiveness the ex-Victorian
Solicitor-General has kept very true to Ms model
and co-religionist Disraeli.
The crash of banking institution's and
commercial corporations tends to a still greater
monopoly of cash and commercialism. There will
be shortly fewer and bigger banks, fewer and
larger firms. Consequently society takes another
‘ stew towards Socialism.
\nNone of the new members of S.A. Assem-
bly are practising lawyers, of whom there are but
four in the House, two being in the present
Ministry, and a third the Premier’s brother.
What, then, will the Opposition do if Kingston,
Q.C., declines to join them ?
Bishop Montgomery, of Hobart, is the
only prelate in Australasia who boldly opposes
Hospital Sunday collections in churches. His
opposition is based on the ground that the
sick poor are the care of the Government,
not of a section of the public.
Bryan O’Loghlen wrote Isaacs: “I am
ready to justify my exercise of the royal preroga-
tive before the High Court of Parliament.” It
would be possible to justify worse things than that
before the Vic. Legislature, which is only a High
Court insofar that it smells a good deal.
The Argus, talking Home Rule, wonders
whether Gladstone is “ the prophet of a millen-
nium, or simply an obstinate old man who cannot
conduct a retreat or atone for a mistake.” Con-
sidering that the G.O. M. has an increasing
majority behind him this is gorgeous flapdoodle.
Out of the 71 members of N.S.W. Legis-
lative (Council, the House of Kidney Fits and
Internal Fat, not more than 15 look at the busi-
ness-paper of the night’s proceedings. Apart from
a few burning questions of late origin, the
councillors don’t care how a matter is resolved.
Several only go to the House because they are
called for at their private residences by old
acquaintances.
The “no b le
stand ” made by Soli-
citor-General Isaacs
under the present
tempting circum-
stance i s scarcely
consistent with his
silence, as plain Isaacs,
M.L.A., when Shiels
was trying to ignore
the Mercantile Bank
business. A t that
time the Vic. As-
sembly in its entirety
gave Shiels a warm,
dumb support. The
Bulletin often re-
marked that the “ old
hands,” the Young
Australian party and
the Labour-members
sat all equally culp-
able in the great
Davies scandal. Not
until Ballarat began
to agitate for a pro-
secution was a faint
stir made in the
Senate, and it was
only a very faint stir,
a mild, apologetic
disturbance at any
time. And Isaacs, as
far as The Bulletin
can remember, didn’t
distinguish himself
by taking a hand in
it. But better late than never.
“I am surprised that the land and the
labourer should have so long been kept apart,”
says Lieut.-Gov. Darley. It is surprising that
the labourer should so long have submitted to be
kept apart from the land.
In N.S.W. Assembly, during the Bank
Issue debate, a member for a suburban consti-
tuency left the Chamber, and was discovered some
minutes later on his kne'es, praying, in an ante-
room. The member had graduated as a parson,
and in his hour of tribulation the ruling habit
asserted itself.
McMillan, M.P. (N.S.W.), in advocating
State interference with banking matters, said that
he was renouncing the principles of a lifetime.
Not at all. When State interference is contrary
to the interests of his class, he’s against it; when
it’s in favour of those interests, he’s for it. He is
a cash and class legislator,
Hodgkinson, the late Minister for Mines
and Education, was elected for Lockyer (Q.)on
the first count —primary votes. But the contingent
votp, which Hodgkinson assisted MTlwraith to
foist on the country, turned the tables, and the
ex-Minister is thus left out in the cold. A stroke
of truly poetical justice !
The Bulletin was once simple enough to
regard the leading N.S.W. prophets of the Single-
tax as childlike enthusiasts. Judging from the
syndicative accomplishments now openly de-
veloped by several of their number, it is plain
that quite a lot of the brethren know all about
promoter’s shares and how many half-crowns go to
the pound.
It was amusing to notice the tergiversation
oftheßockhampton pressduringtherecentelection.
Hatred of M‘Hwraith as the author of a railway
scheme which would infallibly ruin Rockhampton,
alternated with fear of the Democratic-party with
its schemes of land taxation, fatal to all Separa-
tionist allotment-mongers. On the whole they
preferred M‘llwraith.
Remarkable that Cross (Clermont), the
only Labour-candidate in the first two batches
who remained staunch on the question of Electoral
Reform before Separation, was the only Labour
man returned out of five nominated by workers —
up to May 13th—in the Central District. But the
Separation barometer sinks nearly to zero when
you get 100 miles from Rockhampton.
How do those N.S. Wales M’s.P stand —
constitutionally and morally—who, being share-
holders of the four N.S.W. banks whose I O U’s
have been made “legal tender,” voted for the
Bill proclaiming said “legal tender?” The similar
joining case in the Q. Parliament has still stronger
outlines, since the Q.N.B. shareholders are, in-
dividually and collectively, liable for the redemp-
tion of the Q.N.B. notes.
The World’s Fair bids fair to be the
World’s Frost. If the great Chicago show fails
things will become lively in the States, where a
financial cyclone will sweep hundreds of financial
institutions to insolvency. The show is simply a
big bit of bluff to puff up confidence and ward off
that national disaster which is imminent, and
which the M‘Kinley Tariff would have averted.
Paste this prophecy in your scrap-book.
The Age argues that the assertion of its
porcine contemporary that Victoria “ had fastened
round its neck the heavy burden of about .£700,000
per annum loss on interest on public works and on
the deficit,” is responsible for the timidity of
British investors and the present crisis. There
was a time when David Syme would rather have
eaten his hat than admitted that the Argus had
prestige enough to scare a hen off a fence.
“No offers for the construction of land-
grant railways have yet been received—but now
that the country has pronounced unmistakably
in favour of such works, doubtless offers will be
forthcoming,” said the “Governor’s Speech” at
the opening of Queensland Parliament. How
much more to the point it would have been to put
it like this : “Various gentlemen who helped to
push the land-grant railway bill through Parlia-
ment have not yet tendered for the construction
of any of the proposed lines, having thought it
more prudent to keep the tenders in their coat-
tail pockets until it was ascertained that their
A SYDNEY PLEASANTRY.
ARTIST : “Now, sir, keep your eye on that, and look cheerful.”
VICTIM: “Umph! and I have one of his I O U’s in my pocket.”
opponents had been successfully disfranchised.
The tenders —which may be seen bulging out in
the clothes of several prominent politicians—will
be handed in as soon as the * independent ’ mem-
bers have settled down and the Labour-party has
been sufficiently squelched—if it can’t be squared.”
The chief provisions of the N.S.W. Elec-
tions Act are vote for residence, registration, one-
day elections, single electorates, abolition of
deposits and nomination speeches, with nomina-
tion by not less than six citizens. With the
disfranchisement of seamen, soldiers, nomads,
policemen, and unpensioned worn-out workers, it
is only a measure of partial justice. Now, the
Labour-party has a duty—to teach the wage-
earners how to use it, to keep them registered.
The American Mail and Export Journal
for April prints a letter, dated Feb. 20, from its
special Sydney correspondent:—
There are heaps of money in the banks—indeed, those
institutions are refusing deposits, except at very low
rates of interest—but the directors are unwilling to make
advances for any purpose, because of the troubles in
Parliament. . . . The Labour representatives are, I
am glad to say, falling into discredit.
And now ?
Premier Downer and his colleagues are in
a quandary. At different times they have all vehe-
mently opposed the democratic Land Values
Assessment Bill, which has been triumphantly
carried by S.A. Assembly (it meets this week)
four times, and on every occasion rejected by the
property chamber. The situation now is that if
the Government do not re-introduce the measure,
they will discount their chances of retaining office
about 90 per cent. In the new S.A. Assembly
there is a majority for the Bill of about 15 votes.
The Isaacs v. O’Loghlen fiasco, in Victoria?
is another nail ip the coffin of Government by
Contradiction. The Patterson Ministry is, or
pretends to be, one in opinion with Isaacs as to
the propriety of Davies and Millidge going to a
jury, but fires him out, because it is necessary for
the Cabinet to support O’Loghlen, the senior law-
officer, in the execution of his alleged duty, even
against its own ideas and inclinations. On which
jackass principle a whole Parliament may be
stultified by the obstinacy of one dunder-headed
Minister.
Twenty-five pounds is apparently the price
of political popularity in Sydney. Anyhow, the
wage-earners of that city rent the Town Hall with
applause when the Imperially-bebaubled Julian
Salomons, Q.C., who voted against the Mining on
Private Property, the Coal Mines Regulation, the
Income Tax, and twenty other democratic mea-
sures, while doing all he could to block one-man-
one-vote without actually voting against it, donated
that sum to the Village Settlement scheme. They
were also loud in their appreciation of Acting-
Governor Darley’s condescension i n taking thechair ,
though it is not so long since that potentate de*
dared his approval of “stamping out” th«
National spirit by armed force. After this suc-
cessful bid for popularity, Salomons comes out at
the next general election sure; but the electors
before that might remember that the income-tax
would have taken more than .£25 per annum out
of his pocket.
It ought now to be a race between the
Australasian provinces as to which will first
establish a State bank, to guard the people’s
savings and monopolise the note-issue. But the
present Cabinets are all Fat Men’s arks. The
N.S.W. Premier is own brother to a boss bung-
bank-manager ; the Victorian Premier was a
director of a hung-up bank ; the Q. Premier has
been for years intimately connected with the
throttled Q.N. Bank; the S.A. Premier is the
boon friend of bankers ; the Premier of Westralia
is a demigod among financial scoops.
The provision of the new N.S.W. Electoral
Act which disqualifies persons in receipt of aid
from public charitable institutions is, in Minister
O’Connor’s opinion, the worst feature of the
measure. A flood like the late Queensland one,
or like that of the Hunter River district, may
bring about the disfranchisement of an electorate.
There are 1500 men, heads of distressed families,
now in receipt of rations from Government in
Sydney. To accept rations means to lose your
vote. “Eat —and die politically.” Poverty has
expressly been made a crime by Act of the Legis-
lative Council.
In 1874, Higinbotham opposed the Grand
Jury proviso in the Judicature Bill because “ the
public officials—the Crown law officers and the
Grown prosecutors—did their duty so effectually,
discreetly and properly.’’ Had the old Democrat
lived to see the Mercantile mess he would have
abandoned that argument. Premier Patterson, in
the same debate, said he was of opinion that “the
grave responsibility of filing criminal informations
should rest with some authority not in any way
connected with political affairs.” If he still holds
that opinion, which isn’t likely in Jump Jim
Crow, why did he let Pliant O’Loghlen put the
non-political Crown prosecutors aside ?
THE QUEENSLAND ELECTIONS.
The girl ivas pure.
But what could she do ? The fangs of famine
were sinking more deeply daily into her wasting
flesh.
The Fat Man called upon her with a leer in his
glittering eye—the other eye.
“Yes, my poor child, I’ll help you. Meet me
at 12 o’clock to-night.”
Horror and loathing killed her souL What
could she do ?
Well, she went.
And, now
Le Diable.
Queen Victoria is said to be failing visibly.
The greatest individuals leave this planet without
causing any tremor, but those, like her, only great
by position, may cause a social earthquake. The
accession of the Prince of Wales to the throne
will involve tremendous changes. All the German
influence will be quashed, for Wales is more
French than Gladstone. Victoria’s personal
influence is as immense as the Barrage of the
Nile, and nothing will be substituted for it. Men
like Wales or York will merely be straws on the
torrent. One like Kaiser Wilhelm would, of
course, kill the Monarchy right off. Wales or
York won’t.
David Syme clumsily splits straws with
Michie, Q.C., re the Isaacs v. O’Loghlen embro-
glio. Michie slyly recalls the Age’s expressions
of patriotic indignation over the great cost of the
Mercantile prosecution, and naively comments on
the willingness of Syme to set the examination at
naught in spite of what it has cost. David gives
a new and original reading of the clause of the
Crimes Act under which O’Loghlen operated.
The clause runs :
It shall be lawful for her Majesty’s Attorney-General or
Solicitor-General for Victoria, or for any prosecutor for
the Queen in the name of a law officer, to make present-
ment at the Supreme Court or General Sessions of the
Peace of any person for any indictable offence cognisable
by such courts respectively, &c., &c.
The Syme argues that this does not include “ the
power of one (Attorney-General or Solicitor-
General) to supersede or annul the decision of the
other,” forgetting in his haste that O’Loghlen has
done that very thing, and is supported by the Age
and the Cabinet in having superseded and annulled
the decision of Isaacs.
Reconstruction.
The prompt acceptance of various schemes of
banking reconstruction is a cheering proof of the
restoration of public confidence in the solvency,
stability and future prospects of the monetary
institutions of New South Wales, and demon-
strates the fact that depositors have recovered
control of their reasoning faculties. The turmoil,
anxiety and worry, inseparable from the panic,
carry their own hygienic penalties—nerves are un-
strung, strength is diminishing, and the various
organs of the body are thrown into chaotic con-
fusion. To reconstruct the nervous and muscular
systems, and rebuild afresh shaken constitutions,
recourse should be had to that wonderfully effica-
cious and widely-known remedy, Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine —a proved “perfect panacea” for
all disorders springing from lack of nervous
vitality. Mr. A. A. Black-wood, one of the oldest
and best-known travellers on the Western road,
writes from Dubbo, under date 7th May :
Some time ago I used a bottle of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, and several since. Just • bought another at
Graham’s. I never used anything so effective in renewing
vitality and appetite. I have recommended it to dozens,
who are using it and state the same, although chemists
laugh at the idea as fancy; but their own quinine and
iron mixtures, which they substitute for it, nearly always
affect the head, whilst Marshall’s Tonic Nervine does
not. Unless the article was as I describe it, I would not
lend my name to it.
To starving workers, statesmen, bland
And fat, cry, “ Go and till the land ;”
While, undeterred, with might and will,
The bank director lands the till.
"PRIVATE ENTERPRISE.”
Brute man, of God’s fair form and face,
Is gifted with a mind
To leave the field and flood and chase,
And prey upon his kind.
MAY 24.
The bayonets glitter on the green,
The great guns roar along the water.
But can .ye glorify a Queen
With mimic war and slaughter ?
The Rothschilds, we read, are ‘“backing”
a certain Sydney bank. They backed the
Khedive’s bonds, and the British Government is
now collecting for them in Egypt. The Roths-
childs can always find bayonets to back their
bailiffs.


Lokeok, Thursday.—Her Majesty the
Queen has presented one of her photo-
graphs to each in either of the teams of
New South'Wales Cavalry and Victoria
Horse Artillery at present in London.
fo r altooj^
~J)c °
fa c/. d *h s ‘-
*V> S
h 5««i (
(,i f tfys 7";
fIS K tpoutj) I
af-O'^ular
■Duiy
' 'jhf
\i\m-Y es
£or ‘tyf-
W (jo cl L(fj^
y"
Wm 2
r
\
c ,^’c K »fer
London, Friday.-—The Roman Catholic
pilgrims from Australia were introduced
'to the Rope yesterdav by Mousignor
Kelly
P/iic Said
P&35 IKn I? C£ f
m is,i s^i°
■fa vrr 15 e« ui)M) j; e h)ft - s
ih <e foec “
klelllfe Session i^bo
id close-
j/> Cl r <L,
The Primate lias authorised for dso in
morning or evening prayer throughout the
diocese of Sydney, and commends 'for occa-
sional private use in families, the following’
. “ special player,” drawn up with reference
to the prevailing financial and industrial
distress “ 0 Almighty GJO, whose right-
eous Providence ordereth all things in
Heaven and earth, we beseech Thee to have
mercy upon us, as a people, in this time of
financial distress and difficulty. Wc humble
ourselves befera Thle, and confess that we
have often cared too much for mere earthly
prosperity, and have not sought as our first
object Thy kingdom and Thy righteousness.
From all covetous andsclfisb desires,and from
inordinate love of riches, deliver us* we pray
Thee ; increase in our land that righteous-
ness which cxalteth a nivtiou ; and remove,
ny the inworking of Thy Holy Spirit, all
that now hinders the spread of godliness,
equity, and concord amongst us. Grant this,
we beseech Theepfor the glory of Thy Holy
name, through Jesus Christ our Saviour
Amen.”
SUSPENDED
ffN DlNtj
]\fCOM SjnUCTiOIJ
'Uupfj //
DBt
Kg(o+ j)/S Curreph
account *
Sle Sity °S
impeccable to* tjus beef) Ope fro r
a •
FROM A SYDNEY STANDPOINT.


Sfie/f fit nc ~ '
EX_7?, f. SfoeiifA-t /s
n o iX'—<2^./7■-</» o ji ~to
re-c.oile.eO~ih.e- -no-vne s
ofat.ll t rxe-rn.be rs of
Tetriict. m e rxjT wh o
7S”feC. Aim. *r6sf acini
on. a.XAS- s'to-'iW't S -fha.'e. .
a.n. ci vvAeCt
ih. g-f" S a,"ioL.
Tf J fuT
anelAar iAr<£t Totatl t-aitnA/t
m.y h ca-cL Jm/ykt~ftatf In)
■hy re collecttn.
Q lt a. wcmJef iaTAo
oliel-txl' m c * e<2
sm*- *
cctiorf v
in
\Je
/• ioit c SmaiU'iajf jsfo-ur
12.'ithi&j none, oj- r
defnirnirt' Jl(e./hoKrnSL ,*
is*'* won't' ftcinaL ih
‘Vlt was distinctly
understood by many members of the As-
sembly that the last change of Government
would be accompanied by a cessation of all
criminal proceedings against those involved
in' these bank failures. "
Ballarat, TilaylaE R, 'R FaJjE.
pt n
m i le|| I
T O
BftUaß* 1
ZUtlir-*re
br&a/e* lt A* -» Jo*
y.ur
7
I®|||
N&s,
\A
Xk
i'X
'Jel?
atonf:
t
w
* y\
% V
V
ţ
ť
'confront
c/usT/ce. ancl Aef- CAtxfe.
h> o c .
X v* "X
t 7r>V' ° . o>^ e
n! onon
"t'fvc'- n.l !> 4 2,‘ur’ i
eo.se •
<’ Sir Matthew \wi to h,? proatratad rith lilbea#
poctor-H**r 9"
i/- .
?,V A fecr-SCa. rxh suy 1 fa. see n
-The- rre,zv~sjs a,/o Q.l-S.
pdcTot- We. 2/, I'll, <x d St’s g* y~t> za Vo^
Tea. e? fhe 'tfera Id\"
M O'R T H
tyITLBOURNE
ELECTION
•pe posits
| -Ret eive d
(xert
ays
fJTitW:gaunso72 A&9
c/e~/3o3ifc_ -pa'tly'fjaftei'.
et~ ~f~S* cte]oo*ft'.
w
'I
/f
A Mat'U.ra'l Vecis/oix..
'f’rcn'szf 7a /Sets on _l* Zook Tiers
, ~fA/t Qairern men/'" cat<x r n f rn&d urint a.rxt <s/<2«-
C}''nr<*k<7'if a.ncl !/. j'*u. J /o he. -t
iPokacC To or a-ny/kin# of-7Aatf orT, you. mu.f7 also.-,- aUrToj-'ct.
CHIEFLY IN MELBOURNE.


|3ost
Ersoheinl; jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis 3d. '"
Zu haben bei alien Zeitungs-Agenten.
AbonnciuenL 10 sii. j.iln'.ijli (lirekt bei »icr
Foreign Publishing OJice, 20 Hunter Str., Sydney.
To The Deae.—A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Ibtihlmgs. ,'U Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Th E equitable
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U. 3.
'STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS!
Assurance in force, January 1, 1892 .. £K(7,OBG,3iSO
New Business, 1891 48.5(!0,319
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,450,871
Apply for “TO NTI N E TRIUMPHS”
and Specimens of Actual llesidts.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society’s perma-
nent building)
Junction of Hunter, Pitt & O'Connell Streets.
Society
The ball at Melbourne Government House
last week was numerously attended by ghosts of
people whose social glory has departed. The
Davieses and Benjamins headed a great crowd of
these spectres. The vice-regal set in particular
seemed to consist mainly of impalpable shapes.
Solemn old Macßain, light of foot when in the
flesh, appeared now as a noiseless shadow. Mat-
thew Lang, relieved for ever of all anxiety con-
cerning his bank-oVerdraffc, glided through his
vis-a-yis in a manner wonderful to behold.
Nothing was substantially at all like what it used
to be, and a strange odour of rotting land-boom
tainted the hot air.
• • •
Three unrelated Sydney families claim
blood relationship with Archduke Franz Ferdi-
nand, and went far to make his stay in Sydney
miserable. The heads of two of the houses ap-
peared to camp opposite the Kaiserin Elizabeth,
for, as soon as the potentate came ashore, they each
day accosted him, and, on his leaving, they re-
peated the infliction. They did not seek to levy
on his purse or to tap his influence ; they merely
desired to establish kinship. Franz Ferdinand
says that he strikes no large city without acquir-
ing several similar experiences, and, what is still
more interesting, he admits that the alleged kin-
ship may be in all cases, and very likely is in
many, quite real—which may or may not be a
valuable admission to those interested.
* . * *
The S.A. Advertiser suggests that after
Gov. Kintore leaves in November, Chief Justice
Way should be asked to act as Governor for two
years. Economy for the province and a big
decoration for Mr. Way. Besides, it would save
awkward criticisms concerning the small amount
of work the Adelaide Supreme Court magnates
have to do.
# * *
Should Judge Way be appointed S.A.
Governor after Lord Kintore’s departure, the
country will save the Chief Justice’s salary of
£2OOO during his term of office. Since January,
1877, Mr. Way has acted for the Governor fifteen
times, his aggregate service being 20 months. It
is objected by those who desire to bask in the light
of a Lord’s countenance that the Chief is a
bachelor. Well, most of our Vice-regalities are
grass-widowers.
# # •
Dear Bulletin, — Me Humiliation Day.
How comes it that there was no Thanksgiving
Day when the boom was at its height? Perhaps
Bishop Goe can tell us?—Yours, &c., Takto.
“ The greatness of
our city,” writes a Mel-
bourne correspondent
to The Bulletin, “is
founded on Brass.
Hitherto, anyhow, the
most diaphanous quack
has only had to assume
a belltopper and put up
a solid brass-plate to be
certain of success in—
O hoflow mockery !
the Antipodean Baby-
lon. An enormous pro-
portion of the offices in
Collins-street are now
untenanted, and weekly
rents have come down
from pounds to shil-
lings. One of the high-
est of those up-ended
nests of pigeon-holes
contains nearly a hun-
dred offices—like Na-
ture, abhorring a
vacuum. One of them
was recently taken by
a business-man, who
placed a gilt-lettered
tin plate on the board
facing Collins - street.
He soon received a
peremptory letter from
the trustees of the build-
ing, informing him that
one of the conditions
of the lease provided
that each tenant must
exhibit a brass-plate,
and nothing but a
brass-plate. The tenant
in this instancedeclined
to maintain the dignity
of the landlord at the
expense of his ( own
pocket, and was served
with notice to quit,
which he did forthwith,
and thebuildingbecame
once more a gaunt mau-
soleum of solitude. This
immolation of a rent-
paying victim upon the
altar of Brass is thor-
oughly typical of a city
wherein banks don’t go
* insolvent,’ but ‘ reconstruct.’ ”
• * •
A nineteen-year-old son of a well-adver-
tised reverend Melbourne editor has astonished
his father and his friends by marrying a lady-
help (ten years his senior) at a college with
which the old gentleman is associated. At
the time of the wedding he was in receipt of the
princely income of ss. a week, but his father at
once gave him a billet at .£lOO a year.
w # «
Editor Bulletin, — The trustees of N.S.W.
National Art Gallery have done a number of
foolish things in the way of making purchases for
the collection, but it is doubtful whether they ever
committed a more sublime act of folly than when
they bought Edouard Detaille’s “Vive L’Em-
pereur.” So far as the technical qualities of the
work are concerned, little fault can be found with
the picture, the artist having long since proved
himself a past-master as a painter of battle-pieces.
The central figures of the composition, viz., the
leader of the charge and the horse on which he is
mounted, are full of vigour and force, all the de-
tails of the uniform and trappings being carefully
studied, although there is a doubtful bit of fore-
shortening in the left foreleg of the animal, and
the nether limbs appear to be* somewhat too weak
to carry so heavy a body. The expressions on the
faces of the men are admirably given, and the
handling of the background, with the troop
coming through the mist, is only what was to be
expected from an artist of Detaille’s reputation.
The question is, however, whether the trustees were
warranted, in these depressed times, in spending
so large a sum as £3OOO in the purchase of a
picture, the subject of which can have but little
interest to the ordinary visitor to the Gallery.
The avowed policy of the gentlemen who have
authority to make these purchases—and very
stupid policy it is—is to procure one picture a
year, the provision being that it should be of ex-
ceptional size, and from the brush of an artist of
celebrity. The result has been, so far, that
N.S. Wales possesses Poynter’s “Queen of Sheba
visiting King Solomon,” a work that deteriorated
50 per cent, in value in three years, and “ Vive
L’Empereur,” which the French Government did
not consider worthy of a place in the Luxembourg.
When it is taken into account that the province
does not possess a single example of Alma
Tadema, Orohardson or Pettie, and but a very
second rate Millais, the absurdity of purchasing
pictures by the square yard must be apparent. —
Artist.
Hymen in a new character. Stipendiary
Clarke (Sydney) to Pat. Donnelly : “You must
marry before Thursday or be brought before me
again, and if that happens I will send you to
gaol.” Poor Donnelly ! Gaol anyhow.
* * *
The hired bruiser is a new Australian
industry. One went up for a three months’sen-
tence last week who admitted that his services
had been available for a small fee in and around
Sydney for the past year or so. If an offended
man didn’t want to fight, or didn’t like to fight, or
couldn’t fight and yet desired to have an enemy
punched, he tipped the bruiser and got the work
home. A N.S. Wales M.L.A., who has been
THE GOVERNOR IN THE BACK-BLOCKS: A REMINIS-
CENCE OF THE JERSEY REGIME IN N.S.W,
HIS MAJESTY KING JACKY : “Good day, Missa Gubnor!"
HIS EXCELLENCY : “Good day, Jacky.”
H.M.K.J.: “You know that feller Sergeant there?”
HIS EX.: “Yes, Jacky.”
H.M.K.J.: “Well, he bin kissa my Mary.”
HIS EX. : “Tut, tut, tut! I can’t listen to that.”
H.M.K.J.: “Oh, all very fine—you say ‘tut, tut, tut!’ you no say
‘tut, tut, tut!’ if be kissa your Mary.”
twice of late struck in a public street in Sydney
by persons wholly unknown to him, accounts for
the occurrences in this way. There is but one
remedy for the hired bruiser—the pistol.
• • 9
Some Melbourne prayers said by certain
large investors on Humiliation Day :
FOR METROPOLITAN GAS.
Oh, Lord, that hast control of the largest monopoly,
even that of the universe, turn favourably toward our
hugest monopoly—yea, that of the Metropolitan Gas Co.
Thou must surely have noticed, oh, Lord, the unaccount-
able fall in the price of shares during the w?ek that is
past. Let Thy light shine upon the darkness of the share-
market, and the meter of our hearts will register several
million feet of thanksgivings from the flame Thou shalt
have kindled therein.
FOR THE MELBOURNE TRAMWAY AND
OMNIBUS CO.
Lord, some put their trust in chariots, and some in
horses; peradventure, some have put their trust-funds in
trams. Let the great, machinery of Thy vrace so smoothly
work the cables ut Thv servants' minds, 'hat they ivyiy be
moved to expend many an odd twopence or threepence
left unlocked by the banks in an occasional jau t ipon
the dummy ; insomuch, that shareholders may rejoice
with exceeding great joy.
FOE THE BANKS.
Almighty Controller of Finance, we remember gratefully
the check Thou didst long ago offer to Pharaoh on the
banks of the Etd Sea, crossed by Moses and Co. Pour,
we pray Thee, such huge deposits of faith into the re-
constructed hearts of depositors, that they may yield up
readily their small cash balances. In return, we will
honour large drafts of thankfulness, and pay out from our
enormous reserves of gratitude. We offer Thee as legal
tender the coin of our hearts; vouchsafe to accept our
promissory notes of praise.
# • *
“Gent. 25, wants refined Lady as Com-
panion. Full description, state appointment,
genuine. School, G.P.O.” — Evening News.
A bank manager in an Australian capital,
who was divorced from his wife a couple of years
ago, is about to re-marry his ex-spouse, who, since
she discarded him, has maintained herself as a
barmaid.
* « •
Those “ great demonstrations ” in honour
of Princess May and her little York make one
smile. If they were to put a larrikin and his
‘donah’ at the head of a procession, and'label
them “Going to be married” the whote nation
would burst into cheers. Romance, or sentiment,
or human nature, or something inexpressible
accounts for this everlasting interest in “young
couples.” And in the cheers of a great mob on
the marriage topic there is—why disguise the fact?
—a considerable strain of indecency.
* * *
Scott, the Maoriland murderer, was hanged
the other day at Auckland. During his last^hours
he furnished much “copy” for the newspapers.
About the very last slab of literature on the
subject was the announcement, in the Auckland
Star, that Rev. Mr. Calder proposed to make use
at the hanging of “ the very beautiful form of
prayer for the visitation of prisoners in gaol and
on the scaffold, which is found at the end of
Bishop Mants’ devotional prayer-book. The copy
from which Mr. Calder will extract the special
form of prayer belongs to Mr. Outram, who,
curiously enough, only came into possession of it
a short time ago.” As a sample of cut-and-dried
salvation —of religion that is salted so that it will
keep, and then hung up like dried fish, ready for
use at any moment—this reads particularly well.
And as a specimen of tfib cut-and-dried parson,
the one who announces to the papers a week
beforehand the prayer that will be prayed at the
hanging, and the name of the man who lent him
the book with the prayer in it, has few equals.
• * «
An Anglo-Australian firm (Ward, Lock
and Co.) have supplied a long-felt want to this
country by producing an A.B.C. toy book, which
is strictly un-English, and contains no reference to
Queen Victoria. It has been usual for the be-
wildered Australian infant to leg,rn his pictorial
alphabet from an old-worldy point of view. A
book that makes B stand for Blackfellow, C for
Captain Cook, D for Damper, and E for Emu
instead of for England, is something of a correc-
tive to the imported parent who believes»»that
Christmas isn’t Christmas unless one can see snow
on the ground.
N.S.W. Minister Suttor, a family man
himself, says that every girl should swim. Yes,
every girl should be in the swim.
• » «
A Richmond River (N.S. W.) editor cen-
sures the residents for not having better patronised
the new central police-court. He says their con-
duct is injurious to the prestige of the member
who exerted himself so nobly to get the building
erected.
# * •
The Indian hawker who late.ly cremated
his countryman at Hillston (N.S.W.) was under
the impression that Dr. Creed’s bill had become
law, This is one branch of the legislative life of
the country in which nearly all these men are
interested; but even when the law is passed it
will be hard to get them to use crematories, as the
open air gives a religious colour to the service.
# * #
Four unemployed walked up to a Macleay-
street (Sydney) residence one day last week and
offered their services to the lady of the house.
They proposed to usurp the place of her pair of
spanking horses and take her out each afternoon
for a drive. They supplemented their economic
tender by saying that they would be satisfied with
remuneration equal to that expended upon the
horses. The lady regarded them steadily awhile,
and then observed that she feared the item of
grooming would come too high.
* . # *
Insolvency—Only Bank-ruptcy.
* * *
Advt. from S.M. Herald; “Wanted
briefless barrister to take case. Sure fortune if
successful.” Alas! A man likely to be successful
would have already made his pile.
• # #
The ruined bank-depositor who sent
anonymously a medal, gold studs, and other
articles of jewellery to the Sydney Village Settle-
ment scheme, gave a deal more than the bold
advertiser, Salomons.
THE CHURCH OF THE FUTURE.
“My idea of a church,” lately said the bene-
volent Mr. Lewis, amateur pastor of the Liver-
pool-street (Sydney) and cheap
restaurant, “is a place wherein on the first floor the
poor are fed. On the second tloor should be a
sleeping place for the necessitous and on the third
the church proper and on the fourth an hospital.”
[A sectional view of the coming church is given
by an artist.]
“There is nothing in the world like the
devotion of a married woman ; it is something no
married man knows anything about.” — Oscar
Wilde.
# # #
Apropos of the granting in N.S.W. of a
free special train to the Austrian Archduke whose
warship haTs been in harbour. Premier Patterson
(Vic.) Says that “ distinguished visitors ” are now
those who pay their way.
* # *
An ex-shopwalker from the most fashion-
able Bourke-street, Melb., drapery emporium,
may now be seen scraping a butcher’s block.
ODE TO EMBLING.
A glistening tear-drop gently flows
A-down the politician’s nose.
The bankers are the little lambs
Deserted by the guardian dams—
The public are the carrion crows.
Financiers whom our wicked laws
Have sent to indurate their paws
At knapping hluestone, Pentridge way,
Or picking oakum by the day,
Are martyrs in a noble cause.
Those pious mpn of great pretence
Who started banks on eighteenpence,
Which since have gone to hopeless smash.
Are victims of the people’s rash.
Insensate lack of confidence.
Then sympathise with Erabling’s pain,
And share his withering disdain
For fickle people in the ranks,
Who, having put their cash in banks,
Now want to take it out again.
E.D.
REFINEMENT.
No sooty word defiles the page
To tinge the cheek of tender age
With red, or make the matron rage,
The pious matron.
Even the lost could hardly find
Improper meanings of a kind
To soil the maiden’s spotless mind,
In “ Wanted Lady.”
No shoddy female need apply,
Who drinks, or winks her dexter eye ;
For maid “ refined ” we hear him sigh.
This “Gent, of 25.”
And, mark the comprehensive grace
Of “give description.” Pretty phrase !
Which may refer to legs and face,
Or merely mental beauty.
Oh ! would / knew some maid “ refined”
As a “companion,” who’d be kind
And loving to me, and not mind
The sneers of evil thinkers.
Let some such “ lady ” come and rest
Her head upon this lonely breast,
And> later, if I think it best,
I’ll— leave her with a blessing.
Sydney, May 23.
D.W.
THE STATESMAN.
Bold as brass, bold as brass,
The Parliamentary leader was.
Hear him thund’ring in debate,
Fighting fiercely for the State,
Hurling words to left and right
Around the Chamber all the night 1
Timid men look scared and pale
Beneath his wild linguistic flail.
Callous men go out and sup,
Or drain the ateoholic cup 1
Easy-going members cry,
“ For any sake, shut up'or die I’*
But bold as brass, bold as brass
That Parliamentary leader was ;
And did not let the House away
Until the dawning of the day.
Now, why? The truth is that he knew
In his own house, of only two,
He played a weaker, punier hand
Than in the Senate of his land.


Advice to Young Men-Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—Mo. 3.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitoi’s pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within six weeks from Saturday, 22nd April,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
When the prizes are awarded, the winning
word and the names and addresses of the success-
ful competitors will be published in The Bulle-
tin.
Should it happen that no one succeeds in naming
the word, the whole of the money will be added
to that of the succeeding competition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
“ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. 3.
Gut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received hy Saturday, 3rd June,
1893.
When Dailey made his
proposal, at a meeting of N.S.W. Cabinet,
to offer a contingent for service in the Sou-
dan, the only members present besides him-
self were Francis Augustus Wright and
James Squire Farnell. Dibbs knew nothing
about it until he saw a paragraph, stating
what had been done, in a daily paper, when
he was coming up in the train from Emu
Plains ; and Stuart was in Maoriland.
Name
Address
Missing Word
The person tvho fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there he more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will he divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B. —Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
•ffl
IBS3
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OE PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions,
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL and LECHLBITER, CARL BCKB,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
The Bulletin has just received a poem
of about 200 lines, written in a neat round hand
on many slips of paper that have been carefully
pasted together so as to make a sort of boa-con-
strictor in rhyme. It begins as follows:
As my love and I have got to part,
And part at once so quick ;
To part we cannot and the uproarious start
Does make me feel quite sick.
But to part at last we must,
Yes, we must part at last.
Accompanying it came the following letter
addressed to the business-manager :
Dear Sir,—Enclosed you will find a poem entitled
“ Love’s Suicide ” for The Bulletin, which, by its en-
titilism and contents, will prove, I am sure, very in-
teresting and attractive to your readers, and which, I
think, is as good a poem as was ever printed in The Bul-
letin. Of course, everything looks better in print than
in handwriting, as will be the way with this. I will want
it issued in next Saturday week’s issue of The Bulletin.
It would be useless writing to the editor, and so I write to
yourself asking you for the sum of 10s. to cover the fol-
lowing expenses: Two advertisements in the Gundagai
paper, one in Tuesdays and one in Fridays notifying its
publication in The Bulletin. By doing this it would
mean money for your own pocket, as six or seven dozen
more copies of Bulletin, at least, will be sold here than
the usual number, and I hope you will send plenty of
copies to this town next Saturday week. Kindly let me
have the 10s. by return and oblige yours truly, .
• • •
Still another of the alleged “ Long firm ”
frauders has reason to complain of the irony of
fate. He made his name as a canvasser for a
picture entitled “ A Cloud of Witnesses,” and a
cloud of witnesses are now trying to take that
good name from him.
* * *
Among the liabilicies of a recent Mel-
bourne insolvent was a debt of .£6O due to his
vegetable John.
* * *
Ex-bank-clerks now hawk fish and rabbits
in Melb- suburbs.
6 # •
Melbourne fires become too “ thin.”
* # •
Melbourne Argus published a banking
cablegram the other day headed, “Attitude of
the Scotch Depositors.” The most probable atti-
tude of the Scotch depositor at present is that of a
red-headed man in kilts swearing profusely on a
moor.
# * *
There are no undertakers in Japan. Each
family buries its own dead in an economical man-
ner, and the mourning doesn’t commence until
the object of grief has been disposed of.
# # #
In the “ temperance ” township of Mil-
dura (Vic.), within the last 17 months, there have
been .£BBO of fines imposed upon the sly-grog-sellers
of that pub.-less place, without reckoning sundry
forfeitures. The quality of the sly-grog which
slips down Mildura throats can be imagined.
* * •
The World’s Fair Accommodation Co. was
founded on the estimate that 200,000 people would
visit the Exhibition daily. At latest dates the
average daily attendance was only 33,000, and the
traffic and other arrangements made by the
Accommodation Co. were a black and bitter
“ frost.”
# • •
“Women transported for infanticide are
found to make the best mothers.”— Lady Jersey,
on the New Caledonian convicts.
At a late Sydney funeral. Widower and
unmothered son chief mourners. Coffin lowered
into grave. Son (suddenly seizing his respected
father): “ You old , you ought to be there
too; go and join her, you (missing words, chiefly
adjectives).” The old man was only saved by the
efforts of the other mourners,
# # *-
In possible expectation of Mrs. Madden
appearing “with them all on,” Lady Hopetoun
was unusually resplendent at the Melbourne
“state” ball.
* * *
Lord Hopetoun is giving that misguided
moustache of his another chance :
No lives were lost in consequence of the
collapse of the Women’s Congress building at
Chicago the other day, but the cable says there
was a “ terrible scene when the 80 lady delegates
were precipitated into the basement,” We don’t
doubt it.
,* * #
Melbourne City Council reduces “ salaried
officers” a maximum of 10 per cent., and wage-
earning labourers a maximum of 20 per cent.
Its policy, like that of Premier Patterson, is to
“ cut to the bone ” —the bone and sinew.
The World’s
Fair, they say,
threatens to turn
out a huge failure.
The public are
growing tired of
exhibitions with
their acres of heavy
machinery, and
“dry-hash” articles
■which only people
“ in the trade ” can
appreciate; their
rival battalions of
pianos, and their
avenues of gaudy
shops. la has
dawned upon so-
ciety that exhibi-
tions are head-achey
shows, designed
for the benefit of
local hotels and
lodging-houses, and
the manufacturers
of foreign countries.
We don’t hear of
the Germans invit-
ing the nations of
the earth to display
their best products
at Berlin.
* *
There were but
six people present
at a Sydney Cham-
ber o f Commerce
meeting to promote
anti-a dulteration
legislation, and the
chairman was a tea-
merchant. Tea, the
most adulterated article in N.S. Wales, was
apparently not even named.
« • *
The Victorian press has enthusiastically
applauded Judge a’Beckett for his action snub-
bing lawyer Furlonge for his insulting attitude
towards a female witness. Even those papers
that never fail to publish the brutal and needless
questions often put by cross-examiners to
able women in the box joined m the chorus.
# # *
“In England a scientist may live m
novertv-but a good French cook will probably
die rich and highly-respected.’’-LABODCHEKE.
No pile of pelf hath he who teaoheth Wisdom’s school,
While wealth arid power pursue Sir Paunch’s kitchen tool-
Dost wish to lead the wise? Nay! Bather tedthetool 1
3 * *
The handsome and bluff Governor Duff
spent his first day on Australian soil withi be-
coming loyalty. He attended Gov. Kin tore s
birthday levee, and then went to see the Birthday
Cup run for, finishing up with a birthday dinner
at night. Judging by appearances the races were
the most enjoyable of the three engagements.
* * #
When Gov. Jersey reigned at Sydney, he
issued invitations to a Government House levee
on cards in size about ten inches by ourte
The day after its receipt one member of the Parlia-
mentary Labour-party was intensely amused to
see his elder-born flying the gilt and cream-laid
mark of gubernatorial hospitality as a kite.
# * *
Primate Sauraarez Smith has issued a prayer
for the use of churches, in which petition Providence
is requested to deliver the people of N.S.W. from
inordinate love of riches and all that hinders the
spi ead of equity and concord. If Mr. Smith were
a true believer in the book on which his faith is
founded, he would also have given a series of
sermons directed straight against that mordinate
love of gain, as exemplified in 25 per cent, banking
dividends, which has worked the national rum.
How would this text from Deuteronomy suit him;
Thou shalt not lend money upon usurytothybrother ;
usury of money, usury of victuals, usury of anything that
is lent upon.
Or this, from Ezekiel;
Thou hast taken usury and increase and thou hast
srreedily gained of thy neighbour by extortion, behold,
therefore, I have smitten my hand at the dishonest gam
which thou has made, saith the Lord God.
Dear Bulletin,— Any village-settlement
scheme that aims at permanence must procure
possession of land that can be relied upon to yield
profitable returns at least 9 years .out of 10 ana
that is easily accessible to a market. Fur >
area must belong entirely to the collec
ment, so that created values shall be sharea
equitably among their creators. Suitably prod c
tive land exists among the head-waters
Murray, Hastings, and Macleay rivers (JNo . •)
-fertile, brushy hills capable of growing all the
fruits of temperate climes, and many semi L
products. The orange, the banana, ana the grape-
vine grow there like weeds, and could be mar e
comfortably sustain a thousand families, a 1 }
provided that a ready market was obtain-
able. An area of 20,000 acres could be
taken up “on end,” but- and here «
the but a tramway or light railway
must be built before an easy market is
a possibility. If that link with a market were
made—and why not by the co-operative labour of
the unemployed, under judicious advance tac i -
ties?—32 20-acre farms to each square mile could
easily be established, half of which would have a
frontage to the line, and the other half would be
within a quarter of a mile of it, provided the line
followed only the good land and the best grades.
Village sites could be chosen in the occasional
open breaks of forest-land. There are hundre s
of thousands of acres of unaiienated Crown lands
to pick from, and these could be let at a perennia
lease of 3d. per acre to bond fide working settlers
only. The annual rainfall is between 40m. and
50in., and the climate equable. I speak with
a 13-years’ knowledge of the district. Yours,
Mutti.
Yol. 1., part 1, of the “Historical Records’
of N.S.'W., just published, is exclusively devoted
to Cook’s discovery and survey of the eastern
coast of New Holland. It contains the private
log of Lieut. Cook ; the official log of Lieut. Cook;
and the Palliser copy of Cook’s log ; the journals
of Lieut. Hicks, Gunner Stephen Forward, Richard
Pickersgill, Charles Clerke, Francis Wilkinson
and Midshipman John Bootie; an anonymous
journal ascribed to Charles Green, the astronomer,
copious notes, general correspondence and appen-
dices ; a preface from the pen of J late Alex.
Britton, and an introduction by F. M. Bladen.
The compiler can be fairly congratulated on ins
work, sufficient historical facts being marshalled
without explanatory choking. A few cherished
delusions are swept away by this publication.
Cook, it would seem, never called the country any
COMPENSATION IN EVERY-
THING.
MISS N.S.W. ( handing cheque over
counter ): “Gold, please.”
THE OPTIMISTIC TELLER DIBBS:
“No, Miss; you’ll have to
take notes. They won’t hurt
your bead—they’re a lot softer
to sleep on.”
such bastard name as New South Wales, or New
Wales, so that one stain is wiped from his charac-
ter. Neither did he stultify himself by calling the
dreary swamp to the south of Sydney Botany Bay.
“ Stingray Harbour ” was the title conferred on
it. Also (which, however, was disposed of years
ago) there was no sailor on board the ship of the
name of Jackson. These explanations evoke a
greater respect for Cook than has existed, and if
it could only be proved that he never was here at
all there might arise a genuine regard for his
slandered memory. Moreton Bay has also been
sailing under false colours, as it was really
christened Morton (perhaps after the well-known
London pickle-man). Cook, however, did beach
his barque at the mouth of the Endeavour River
(N.Q.), and took possession of Possession Island m
the name of his Satanic Majesty George 111.
The most northern point of Australia was
originally named “York Cape,” and not “Cape
York.” The volume of fac-simile charts accom-
panying the work is interesting—that of the
Endeavour River may be recognised with tears.
The volume has been neatly turned out by the
Government Printer. There are fancy portraits
of Cook, Palliser, and the Earl of Sandwich, and
fac-similes of Cook’s awful handwriting.
The Monte Carlo profits, last year, were a
million sterling, and the =£2o shares are =£loo.
You don’t break that bank.
A succession of paralytic seizures among
the pearl-shell divers in the deep-water fisheries
off Darnley Island has added a grim terror to the
chief industry of Torres Straits. Thirteen fatali-
ties have occurred from this cause alone off Darn-
ley within the last few months, death resulting
within from two to twelve hours of the diver’s re-
appearance on the surface, sometimes in apparent
ordinary health ; symptoms—paralysis of lower
limbs, speedily spreading upwards. The
divers are mostly Malays, or of other Asiatic
races, and the telegraphed account from Thursday
Island of the thirteenth death cold-bloodedly con-
cludes :—“ There is no inclination among the
divers to abandon the batch of shell, which is very
thick.” Which means “among the employers,”
since the actual divers, who have to risk their
lives, are mostly wages-men. And this sort of
thing is given matter-of-fact publicity among a
people who advocate capital punishment as a
deterrent to crime!
No sufferers from any scrofulous disease, who
will fairly try Ayer’s sarsaparilla, need despair
of a cure. This remedy purges the blood of im-
purities, destroys the germs of scrofula and infuses
new vigour throughout the system.
Rev. A. Marshall, of Melbourne, finds in
the financial smashes a deplorable proof of th«
people’s lack of faith. The people have lost
faith in the great God Lucre and his prophets,
and so the parson weeps !
From the Chilian Times, Feb. 4: —
“ News reached London, Jan. 23, that a bomb
had exploded in the Hdtel d’Angleterre at Double,
N.S. Wales, damaging the building, but without
causing any personal disaster. Numerous arrests
were made. The outrage was the result of
revenge.”
Dull times and general depression in trade
are affecting everyone. How apparently hopeless is
the condition of the man who, on a small income,
with oftentimes a large family to support, con-
tinues “the daily round the common task ” witn
a tight money-market and finances generally in a
state of chaos. To such comes as a boon and a
blessing “The Columbian Land Distribution,” by
which thoroughly equitable means may be secured
a competency for life by the acquisition of a
landed estate for the sum of £l. The scheme is
in the hands of reputable men of standing, who
court the fullest enquiry, and is, we understand,
receiving support far and wide. Further particu-
lars appear in our advertising columns.
A Whisky Sponge.
A neat trick was played upon me by an old
toper the other day, writes a publican. The toper
brought in a bottle, and asked for two shillings’
worth of whisky. I drew it, and clung to the
bottle while he went through his pockets after the
silver.
Presently he put on a look of dismay, and said
he had lost bis money.
“ All right,” said I, and turned out the whisky,
and put the bottle on the counter.
He took the bottle and went away, saying he
would be back for the whisky presently.
He did not come back, however, but five
minutes later I found him sitting round the corner
poking something into the bottle with a stick, and
after every poke turning out a thimbleful of whisky
into a cup. . .
I seized the bottle and made an investigation.
What do you think I found ? Why, the old
rascal had forced a sponge as big as my clenched
fist into the bottle, and this had soaked up a glass-
ful of my whisky when I filled the bottle.
Whisky is all very well in its way, but asa cure for
influenza, indigestion, spasms, general debility,
weakness, lassitude, or nervousness it cannot hold
a candle to Clements Tonic. This is proved in
thousands of cases, particularly in that of Mr. D.
Rose, dyer, Merewether, N.S.W., who writes on
Feb. fit’ll, 1893 About three years ago I was
suffering from corrosion of the stomach that is
what the doctors of the Maokay told me, and they
were three in number, and I derived no benefit
whatever from their medicines. r lhe symptoms
from which I suffered was extreme nausea,
especially after meals, in fact I could hardly retain
anything on my stomach ; I felt as if my inside
was quite raw. I happened to be going home
about the time when I found the effects more
acutely than usual. I had been riding for
some hours and wondered to myself whether I
would ever be able to get home. I called at a
friend’s place who kept a wine shop, and told him
how I felt, and he said “Why don’t you try
Clements Tonic?” I said I had no faith in patent
medicines, as the doctors had failed to do me any
good with their prescriptions, but owing to his
persuasions I resolved to try Clements lonic. 1
can’t find language to express my gratification as
to the wonderful cure Clements Tonic has per-
formed for mo. Before I had taken three doses I
was surprised at the effect it had, and by the time I
had finished the third bottle I felt myself per-
fectly cured. I forgot to state that the first three
doses entirely cured me, but not being sure of it I
continued taking Clements Tonic, and now can
say that I have never felt any of the above-men-
tioned symptoms since. In fact, it would take
more than dyspepsia or any of the other epidemics
flying about to knock me out, as I have faith in
Clements Tonic, and intend having it as long as 1
can speak or write. I am well-known from the
Mackay to Newcastle as a business man, and l am
sure that anybody who knows me will not dis-
credit the above statement. I am only too happy
at all times to recommend Clements ionic. 1
know there are a great many people who aie
biased in mind or who are in the trammels of
lodge doctors, and who are afraid to give credit to
anyone outside the medical profession who does
them good. This is only false delicacy, or mock
modesty. I think it is nothing but right for any-
one who derives benefit from a so-called patent
medicine to give it the utmost publicity. Hoping
this may benefit hundreds who are now sutteung,
I remain, yours sincerely, D. Rose, dyer, Mere-
wether, near Newcastle, New South Wales.
Lord Hopetoun, shave that mo,
Leave not a single hair!
Why did you let it grow
To blight your beauty rare ?
The Countess looks at you
Like one inclined to scoff;
Beseech the barber, do,
To come and take it off.
Put back your head, O, noble toff,
And bid the barber take it off.
Remove that awful mo
With razor bright and keen ;
The sacrifice you owe
To Hingland and the Queen.
We gently drop a hint —
Excuse our making bold—
Its terra-cotta tint
Will never pass for gold.
Although you boast of wealth untold,
That mo will never pass for gold.
Lord Hopey, get a shave !
Dame Nature made a slip
When hastily she gave
To your vice-regal lip
Those bristles red and straight,
Of growth unduly thin.
Before it is too late,
Pray call the barber in.
Before the country makes a din,
Arise, and call the barber in !


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors-The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN,
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., P.F.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year
of over One Million sterling.
JHeaci Office; 87 PITT STREET, SYDKTEY.
Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT,
1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
ir¥l
i
i
Grrandl ]NTa.tioxia.l Hurdle Flciulnstou, July 8, 1893.
50,000 at 2o 50,000
Grraud. Mational Steeplechase —Flcm., July 15, 1893.
50,000 at 10 50,000
ONLY ADDRESS:
' " r iTTUKSAM,"
C/o Geo. ADAMS(Owner), Tatter-
sa|l’s Hotel & Old Club Premises-
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.VV.
Amusements.
Sffl H E A T R E ROYAL.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under tlie Management of Mr. J. IL UAINFORD.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
Sb.ana.us O’Brien,”
Commence at 8 sharp.
ALFRED DAMPIER, JAMES 11. RAINFORD, Miss LILY
DAM PIER, Miss KATHERINE RUSSELL, and the
Popular Dramatic Company.
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Maokay’s Hotel.
Dress Circle, 45.; Orchestra Stalls, 35.; Stalls, 25.;
Family Circle, Is.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
ITER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Charles Reade's Famous Play,
“it is never too late TO MEND.”
Mr. George Rignold as Tom Rihinson.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
ip he lyceum t h eat r e
“ (Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST 2 NIGHTS ! LAST 2 NIGHTS !
of
“Alone in Loudon.”
Saturday, June 3—" HUMAN NATURE.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
•mm
m
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work I
Note ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
M'bn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
S.EACH.
£
5. EACH-
M0N«
gXSgESSS
ţ
J- XJ KT E
At 6 «u:h
ON TUB
. STAKE
June 10, ISM.
E*T" 10.0IM) JBFl
At 6 each
First .. .. 800
Second .. 250
Third .. .. 150
S. (d.) .. .. 300
ť
100 Consolations at 2 each, 200.
Less 10 per cent.
Registered Letters to “GALA,” c/o.
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY,
The ONLY Genuine One at 5 each i
Subscribers may witness Drawings.
H. Alexander
N.S.W.
n the Colonies.
ADAM BED E’S
Consultations.
All the Tear Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CA.XJTIOKT.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a' person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY
Address
}
-IS
dflLdam. Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Carter & Co?
ŧ
J^uauTable
NQN REVERSIBLE
'T'HIS Ingeniously Constructed MILLIARD lUMK-
TiliLK is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction. Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PiUCES—3S to 3714 Guineas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
CHEAP MUSIC!
PAXTON .V CO., 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
Australian Branch; 251 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To be had
of Music-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanston-St., Melbourne.
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Modal. ITi"host Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the RARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Lm
Dewar’s Wliisky.
20 GOLD and PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents; ... ... CURCIEK, ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Amusements.
■piVOLI THEATRE
■“ (Castlereagh St re -'t, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
UNPRECEDENTED PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF
[“mTTTi altlt Y KI(KA lt P s "I
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Dress Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN 0. LEETB.
ALBERTS’ Violins, real Cremona Copies, 10s.
6d., 155., 255., 355., 505., =£3 155., £5 to £7
10s., cash or Is. weekly. Special discount to trade.
ALBERTS’ Mandolines.—Best Neapolitanand
French, 255., 355., 555., 755., 955., to £7 10s.
Largest stock. Cash or Is. weekly. 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ Accordeons.—Brilliant tone; 12s.
6d., 18s. 6d., 215., 355. to 455. Cash or Is.
weekly. 118 King-st, Largest assortment in Aus.
ALBERTS’ Autoharps, with tuning-boards,
enables any novice to tune his own instru-
ment, 18s. Gd. (canvassed for 305.) 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ accept all,intercolonial Bank-notes
and stamps without any extra charge for
exchange. J. Albert & Son, wholesale importers.
118 King-street.
CRITERION THEATRE.
Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucicault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
of
THE LATE LAMENTED.
By Mr. Fred. Horner.
SATURDAY, June 3—“ THE IDLER.”
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, 'where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
AJ. S., COMMERCIAL, or any other B ANK
• DEPOSIT RECEIPTS purchased. W.
Carson, 91 Pitt-street.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, May 30, 1893.
TfIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govelinment Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 14.
Bridge, Shoalhaven River, at Bombay Crossing,
road Braidwood to Queanbeyan
Bridge, Burrowa River, at Acraman’s, road Bur-
rowa to Frogmore. Fresh tenders.
Construction, &c., of Iron Bridge and Approaches
thereto, at Wilcannia, Darling River
Bridge, Morton’s Creek, road Beechwood to
Ennis. Fresh tenders
Bridge, Mount Hunter Creek, road Westbrook to
Camden.
Erection of a Power Plant and Car House at
Rushcutter Bay for Ocean-street Tramway
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Bridge, Stoney Creek, road Bega to Bodalla
Bridge, Dry Creek, road Bega to Bodalla
Construction of Dam, Engine House, and
Fencing, Nyngan W.S.
Construction, within the Colony, of Pumping
Machinery, Nyngan W.S.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 26.
Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
Garden Island. (Time extended)
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
The Treasury, New South Wales.
26th May, 1893.
REGULATIONS UNDER THE “CURRENT
ACCOUNT DEPOSITORS’ ACT OF 1893.’’
THE following Regulations, which have been
made by His Excellency the Lieutenant-
Governor and the Executive Council, in pursuance
of the provisions of the “Current Account Deposi-
tors’ Act of 1893,” are published for general in-
formation.
JOHN SEE.
1. Application may be made under sub-section I.
of section 3 of the Act in the Form 1, which must
be signed by the applicant and lodged by him in
person at the Treasury. There shall also be
deposited in the Treasury the indorsed certificate
and the statutory declaration in the sub-section I.
mentioned.
2. An application may be made by the liquida-
tor under sub-section 11. of section 3 of the Act in
the Form 2, which must be deposited in the Trea-
sury by the liquidator or his agent. There shall
also be deposited in the Treasury an authority
from the creditor to the liquidator in Form 3,
together with the indorsed certificate and statutory
declaration mentioned in the said sub-section 11.
3. The statutory declaration shall be in the
Form 4.
4. The advance may be made at the Treasury to
the person applying for the same, and shall be
accompanied by an acknowledgement, in accord-
ance with sub-section 111. of section 3 of the Act,
and signed by an officer of the Treasury appointed
for that purpose from time to time by the Colonial
Treasurer, in Form 5.
5. An application under sub-section I. of section
6 of the Act for a return of the certificate may be
made personally in the Form 6 ; and if the appli-
cation is made by an agent, he shall lodge a docu-
ment in Form 7-
6. Treasury notes issued under the authority of
the Act shall be in Form 8, and shall be signed by
the Colonial Treasurer, or by the Under Secretary
to the Treasury, the Accountant, Receiver, Regis-
trar of Funded Stock, Registrar of Records, or by
Treasury Inspector Reilly on behalf of the Colonial
Treasurer, and shall be countersigned by the Sub-
Accountant, Registrar of Leases, Principal
Ledger-keeper, Deputy Registrar of Funded
Government Notices.
fetock, or by Mr. Thomas Godbolt or Mr. Andrew
Lynch, Clerks to the Treasury, on behalf of the
Accountant to the Treasury. The notes
shall be of the respective amounts of £l, £5, <£lo
£2O, and .£5O.
7. The Colonial Treasurer shall cause to be
prepared and kept in the Treasury such books of
account as he may think necessary to give full)
effect to the provisions of the Act and these
Regulations.
8. The forms annexed shall be followed when-
ever practicable; but necessary or immaterial)
variations may be made, so long as the provisions;
of the Act and of these Regulations are sub-
stantially complied with.
FORMS.
Form I.
“ Current Account Depositors’ Act of 1893,”
section 3, sub-section (I.).
I [name], of [residence and occupation] being
the creditor to whom a certificate under the above
Act has been issued by the liquidator of the [name
of Banking Company or Corporation] for £
due to me by the said Company on current account'
hereby apply to the Colonial Treasurer for an
advance of £ on the security of the said
certificate.
[Name and Date ]
Form 2.
“ Current Account Depositors’ Act of 1893,”
section 3, sub-section (II.).
I [name], provisional liquidator of the [name of
Banking Company or Corporation] on behalf of
[name of creditor] to whom a certificate for
£ due to him on current account, herebv
j apply on his behalf to the Colonial Treasurer foi
an advance of £ on the security of the said
certificate, which I undertake to place in the said
Company in trust for the said [name of creditor],
and hold in terms of section 10 of the above Act.
[Name and Date.]
Form 3.
“Current Account Depositors’Act of 1893,” sec-
tion 3, sub-section (II.).
I [name], of [residence and occupation], being
the creditor to whom a certificate under the above
Act has been issued by the liquidator of the [name
of Banking Company or Corporation] for £
due to me by the said Company on current
account, hereby authorise [name] the aforesaid
liquidator to apply to the Colonial Treasurer on
.my behalf for an advance of £ on the security
of the said certificate to be placed in the said
Company in trust for me, and to be held in terms
of section 10 of the above Act at my disposal by
cheque, order, bill, or note as therein mentioned,
[Name and Date.]
Form 4.
“Current Account Depositors’Act of 1893,”
section 3.
I [name of creditor], of [residence and occupa-
tion] do solemnly and sincerely declare that I have
not dealt with or charged the amount of £
certified to be due to me on current account in the
[name of Banking Company or Corporation], by
the certificate of the liquidator of that Company,
dated the day of 189 .
And I make this solemn declaration, conscien-
tiously believing the same to be true, and in
virtue of the provisions of an Act made and passed
in the ninth year of the reign of Her present
Majesty, intituled, “An Act for the more effec-
tual abolition of oaths and affirmations taken and
made in various departments of the Government
of New South Wales, and to substitute declara-
tions in lieu thereof, and for the suppression of
voluntary and extra-judicial oaths and affidavits.”
[Name and Date, and Attestation of Justice of the
Peace, Notary Public, or Commissioner
for Affidavits.]
Form 5.
“ Current Account Depositors’ Act of 1893,”
section 3, sub-section (III.).
This is to certify and acknowledge that the
Colonial Treasurer holds a certificate issued to
[name of creditor] of [residence and occupation]
by [name] liquidator of the [name of Banking
Company or Corporation] for the sum of £ ,
as security for an advance of £ made by the
Colonial Treasurer to [name of creditor or liquid-
ator] on the day of 189 ,
[Name and Date.]
Form 6.
“Current Account Depositors’ Act of 1893,'
section 6, sub-section (I.).
I [name of creditor, personal representative,
official assignee, or committee], of [residence and
occupation] hereby apply to the Colonial Trea-
surer, in pursuance of sub-section I. of section 6 of
the above Act, to have delivered and indorsed to
me the certificate for £ deposited as security
for an advance of £ , made on the
day of 189 , together with all shares,
securities, and moneys to which I am entitled.
[Name and Date.]
Form 7.
“Current Account Depositors’ Act of 1893,”
section C, sub-section (I.).
I [name of creditor, personal representative,
official assignee, or committee], of [residence and
occupation] hereby authorise [name of agent] of
[residence and occupation] to receive on my behalf
the certificate for £ deposited as security
for an advance of £ on the day of
189 , together with all shares, securities,
and moneys to which I am entitled.
[Name and Date.]
I [name of agent], hereby apply to the Colonial
Treasurer in accordance with the above authority
as agent for the said [name of creditor, &c.] for
the certificate, shares, securities, and money?,
therein mentioned.
[Name and Date.]
Form 8.
“Current Accounts Depositors’ Act of 1893,“
section 7.
Treasury Note, Government of New South'
Wales, issued and redeemable under the provisions
of the Act 56 Vic. No. 17.
[Here follows the amount, in words and figures,,
for which the note is issued.]
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Iho mallet-trick ” —a recent London invention
—is being successfully played by gentlemanly-looking
confidence-men in Melbourne. Thus, A and it, appar-
ently strangers, are confederates ; C is the “mug” they
have planned to bleed. The three meet in the free-and-
easy style of supposed Jimmy-Woodsers, drinking and
exchanging remarks. A, in drawing forth his handker-
chief, awkwardly pulls out a beautifully carved mallet.
B picks it up, examines it curiously, and infects 0 with
equal curiosity. “ Yaas, y’know,” says A, “ it’s not only
pwitty, but valuable. You would nevab dweam it, but it
contains silvah. Pawdon me one moment, I’ll be back
diweokly.” In bis absence, B, after artistic fumbling,
screws off the head, and discovers a bright threepenny-
bit in a cavity. “Ha 1 here's a lark 1 We’ll take this
out and have him on toast.” The mug consents (and, in
parenthesis, one half the mugs wouldn’t be “had ” if they
were not anxious to be spieling cheats themselves). A
returns. B; “There’s no silver in that thing.” A:.
“I’ll bet a tenner there is.” B; “Done. Here’s ray
fiver, and my friend ’ll put down another.” Wagers
planked. A removes the head and feigns dismay ; then
(with, “ But, hold on ! ”) unscrews another place and dis-
• closes another cavity with another bright thrum.
* # *
Mace talks of coming to Australia with Burge,
the English lightweight and ped. As well carry coals to
Newcastle.
# • *
The respected cricket name of Hornby was
missing from the Lancashire Eleven last week. The
veteran, last season, had come down to an average of
!) runs for a few innings, and his hitting days are quite
over, apparently. In his prime, Hornby was reckoned
the “ W.G.” of England North, although he seldom “came
off ” on the London grounds in representative matches.
* * *
A horse which won two Wagga Wagga gold
cups is now used in a buggy in the Tichbourne town,
flying Buck, winner of the first champion race, died
between the shafts of a Melbourne cab.
* * *
The wealthy John Crozier, who breeds and
trains his own horses, has a monopoly of the plums of
S.A. racing. Vakeel won the Adelaide Cup, and Fulham
thj Birthday, and, besides this, Crozier secured nearly all
the youngsters’ races.
* # *
The cable only leaves off reporting the one-
funged Billy “ Shadow ” Maher’s death to flash across the
wires that he has thrashed another Yankee. Billy’s
latest victim is Jimmy Griffin, whom he clean knocked
out in 15 rounds at Minneapolis, U.S.
* # #
Mr. “Charley” Medcalf, killed by a cab in
Sydney streets the other day, was some years ago a hig
factor in Port Jackson amateur aquatics. He was one
of the founders of the Sydney Mercantile Rowing Club ;
rowed in an interprovincial eight; and Messrs. Medcalf
and “ Bill ” Benson, both light, wiry men, without an
atom of “style,” were well-nigh invincible pair-oars in
the old class club-skiffs.
« tt •
Notwithstanding that glove-fighting is law-
banned, for right down roughing and brutality it is not
a circumstance alongside football. Last Monday’s papers
fairly brisked with accidents, from a trifle such as a gash
over the eye, which required five stitches, to sudden
death. As the sudden death happened in the football
field, it was of course ascribed to heart-disease ; but had
the same man died in the roped arena, the “ whole bilin’ ’*
of seconds and officials would have been arrested. The
law doesn’t discover that boxing is too rough unless a
man dies.
* * *
A Clarence River (N.S.W.) over-smart, big-
little man bought a pair of wild ducks for 3s. Having
paid for same, he turned to the vendor, and said; “Now,
sir, I’m a J.P., and I demand to see your license to sell
game. There is a lot of illegal selling going on, and I’m
right on the job.” The vendor produced his license,
which was examined and found all correct, much to the
J.P.’s chagrin. “Well, my man, I was misinformed. I
didn’t want the ducks ; I only bought ’em to prove my
case. You can have ’em back for 25.; that will give you a
shilling in return for this little trouble.” Bargain com-
pleted, and J.P. about to depart. “ Hold on, if you
please.” “ What’s the matter, now ?” “ I’m not a J.P.,
but I’m a licensed game-seller, interested in the uphold-
ing of the law. You have just sold me a pair of ducks for
25., and I demand to see your license to sell game.” And
the J.P. had to hush matters up in the end by flinging
down a sovereign—bank-note refused under the circum-
stances.
A seedy crowd received Governor Duff,
the new JSI.S.W. Viceroy. M’s.P. in mourning-
coaches not wanted for the day ; Dibbs and Snttor
in Windsor uniform, which other Ministers,
not yet received at Court, were too thrifty to
purchase. To read the daily papers, one would
imagine that the Governor was enthusiastically
received ; but, as a matter of fact, the cheers were
few, and sometimes feeble. Premier Dibbs was
received with a running fire of hoots, accompanied
by a loud slap on the cheekbone from a sucked
half-orange, whereas Parkes was greeted with
cheers, which, though he may like, he really de-
spises, as witness his lines on the subject in “A
Beauteous Terrorist.” To anyone who under-
stands the fickleness and venality of the crowd, it
is more nauseous to be cheered than to be hit in the
mouth with a long-dead cat. As for decorations,
the Colonial Secretary’s office was gaudy with
hearth-rugs and doormats hung out on its balconies
in a manner reminiscent of a forced auction-sale.
Gov. Duff (N.S. W.), according to a news-
paper interviewer, calls himself a “Scotchman”
—not a Scotsman, ye ken. To the thoroughbred
Soot, the term Scotchman conveys a face-flaming
insult —it is the trademark of the pawky pedlar,
the half-breed grinder. To glory in being a Scotch-
man sets a vulgar fashion to N.S.W. burgoo-
adorers. The Scotsman is the ideal and magni-
ficent patriot-hero, who wielded the claymore with
Wallace and Bruce, who hiked the Southron’s
cattle over the mountain passes with Maogregor,
and who swore, like Douglas, that his hand was
his own; the Scotchman is the pitiful stage
muckster who weeps most when bang goes sax-
pence. Gov. Duff will have to withdraw and
apologise—or make the newspaper-man apologise.


ADAMS’
TATTERSALL’S HOTEL
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
mHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
1 above old-established and popular Hotel being: now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Pa.la.ce Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney,
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an unrivalled
reputation as ACCURATE, BELT ABLE, and
INEXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
31 Perfect Food,
HORLICK'S
MALTED
MILK.
t
&
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For travellers.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of mtik, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted bailee-.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quickie
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
Malted milk, as a food for In-
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane,
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Kilt, LONDON, E.C.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
invigorate
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says : —“ 1 think them such very-
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.E.C.P., Edin., says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED,
Don’ tbe put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist,. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
S) Jade in out, Hantingn, .England,
Tha Wild-Cat Column.
The N.S.W. Government’s measure for the
relief of the current-account depositors in certain banks
is a marvellous evidence of consideration for capital in
distress and want of consideration for everybody else.
The measure is as much a relief to the banks as it is to
the depositors. It provides that the State will advance to
the latter, in notes, not more than one-half the amount
of their locked-up funds, and by so doing it. certainly
affords a little assistance to the vast multitude who are
suffering by the wholesale fraud perpetrated on the nation
by “ private enterprise.” But it also tends-and this is
probably its main object—to put the depositors in a
better frame of mind, and thus gives the hanks a better
chance to get their reconstruction *’ scheme ” through un-
questioned. So far, only one bank has re-construcled
successfully, and, judging from the rising indignation of
the public, there was every reason to believe that, unless
something was done to smooth matters, very few of the
other dozen or so would get through. The Bill is practi-
cally a scheme to save a large number of private specula-
tions from destruction by throwing a sop to their creditors.
Yet the banks are to pay nothing for this assistance,
while the depositors pay anywhere from 8 to 40 per
shent. The Treasury, as'the price of its relief, takes the
interest on the whole deposit; therefore, when the bank
allows 4 per cent., the person who borrows half his
deposit from the Treasury pays 8 per cent, tor the loan,
and the one who borrows only one-tenth pays 40 per cent.
And the hank which, by reckless mismanagement,
brought about the whole trouble, gets its creditors staved
off by the State, gratis. The yearning to help along
“private enterprise” is Incoming an altogether too
glaring feature in N.S.W. politics. Also, the difference
between the lavish generosity which lately gave I lie hanks
£7,000,000, free of all charge, and the cast-iron economy
which charges the public up to 40 per shent. for less than
half that measure of relief, is a matter which calls for a
whole lot of explanation.
# * *
Premier MTlwraith (Q.) has struck the most
statesmanlike idea yet evoked by the banking crisis. He
proposes to abolish bank paper and issue instead State
notes for £550,000, that being the average amount of the
Queensland paper circulation. The State notes will be
made a legal tender for the present, but when the gold
now locked up gets again into circulation, they will he
redeemable on demand in the customary way. When he
is not led astray by a yearning to grind his own or his
frh nd’s private axe, M’ilwraith is still the best of Austra-
lian financiers, and his simple and logical scheme is a
brilliant contrast to the circuitous devices of the Dihbs
and Patters m Cabinets.
* * *
A bright soirit signing himself G. Baker Walker
proposes, in the Sydney Telegraph, that the N.S.W.
Government should adopt an infant. The said infant is
the Bank of N.S. Wales,' which, he suggests, should be
made the sole hank of issue, and should be supported by
the Government, and be to N.S.W. what the Bank of
England is to the dear old mother-land. Which, when
boiled down, exactly amounts to this—the State is to
guarantee one big private enterprise tor the benefit of
the shareholders, and the Bank of N.S.W. is to be a State
bank in everything except the trifling fact that the Stare
isn’t to get the profits. Why shouldn’t the Government,
instead,"take over all the insolvent banks belonging to
the province and make a State hank out of the ruins,
paying out the present shareholders according to the
realisable value of the assets? It is the only way to end
the interminable process of “ reconstruction.”
» * *
Another week has passed, and still no more of
the suspended hanks have succeeded in getting their re-
construction scheme afloat. The Commercial of Austra-
lia still booms along in solitary grandeur. And so horrible
is the change that has come over the spirit of the financial
dream, that, at the meeting of the Commercial Banking
Co. of Sydney, M’Kinnon, M.L.A., proposed that criminal
proceedings should be taken, with a view to sending
Responsible members of the board to Darlinghurst gaol.
The proposal fell through, and the board isn’t en roxite
ifor D.irlinghnrst, but the mere suggestion of such a thing
iis like a cold door-key on the spine for a good many other
• directors, compared to whom the Commercial of Sydney
ipeople, a set whose personal word is as good as their
.respective bonds, are like unto the whited snowball for
i purity.
# # #
Even the unquiet ghost of the old Eederal Bank
ris stirring ngiin these times, and on the office window
.appears the fauvliar legend that “ trust accounts ” will be
opened for the convenience of customers. Perhaps the
Federal also means to “reconstruct,” and the glory of
.James Munro has not altogether departed. And, after
all, why not? “Reconstruction” is a process whereby
the insolvent hank blocks investigation as to its position
and scoops in more money to go on with, and the hank
which is most in want of money and least anxious for
.investigation, is just the kind which ought to reconstruct.
# * *
The Cape Government has offered, in view of
■the distressed condition of Australia, to take up an Aus-
tralian loan or otherwise invest largely in Australian
.securities. The offer has been declined with thanks, hub
it has already sown the seeds of much whooping about
the “Empire” and the "silken bonds,” and the benefi-
cent influence which has arisen out of the Soudan
donkey and the goat. This sort of thing always does crop
up on the smallest provocation. Yet there is not the
slightest evidence that the “Empire” or the “silken
bonds” or the National Anthem had anything to do with
the matter. The offer was a genuine act of kindness, hut
it wasn’t instigated by the Queen or the Imperial Hin-
rstitute, or any other Imperial institution, and to start
yelling for the Empire because the Cape Government has
.performed a deed of generosity, is as illogical as to give
three cheers for the sources of the Nile because Parkes
has had his hair cut.
• # •
“Private enterprise,” in the outward and
visible shape of Jawbone Neild, M.L.A., successfully
choked off the Sydney Corporation’s Electric Lighting
Bill the other night, on a technical objection. The same
variety of “ enterprise ” has also obtained an injunction
from the Court of Equity, forbidding the North Sydney
Council to borrow £65,000, as authorised by Parliament,
for the erection of municipal gasworks. The excuse for
this proceeding is that when the Bill was passed, North
Sydney included Mossman’s Bay, and since then Moss-
man’s has separated, and set up for itself.
# # *
The shares of that gigantic monopoly, the
Sydney Gas Co., have fallen. It would please the public
if the price of gas fell as well. In Bathurst the gas-works
are the property of the Municipal Council. There, where
they have a limited consumption, and cannot make a
marketable coke from Lithgow coal, the price is 3s. 6d.
per 1000 feet, with a large discount if payment is made
within seven days of receiving your account. In Sydney,
where ti e consumption is simply colossal, and a big coke
market, the price is over 50 per cent, higher, with no dis-
count! Sydney Gas Co. could pay fair dividends at hilf
the nresent price. And it is to secure the continuance of
f/its sort of thing that the Sydney public is asked to give
the Gas Ce. and its gang an electric-lighting monopoly in
Ihe city ! When the City Corporation’s Lighting Bill gets
thtough Parliament, which it will, the city will he lighted
at half the present price.
* # *
The Colo Valley (N.S.W.) electrioal-power
scheme only awaits the third reading to become law. If
the promoters have what they claim, abundance of per.
manent water, sufficient fall todevelope thousands of horse-
power and, if they can, convey the power on wires without
difficulty all over the metropolis—then the State is giving
away for nothing a right worth at least a million of
money. Such a scheme as this would float in London in
a few hours, and well do some of the Mount Morgan
crowd connected with the affair know it.
• * •
They won’t jump on Matt. Davies, but how
enthusiastically they jump on Matt. Larkin, already in
gaol! It reminds one of the man who, feeling nasty about
a fellow he daren’t hit, goes home and kicks his own 6st.
51b. wife.
* # #
Too much fuss has been made over Matthew
Davies’ departure. After all, he is only flesh and blood,
and there is little doubt the desperate anxieties of the
past year or two, and especially those of the last few
months, have utterly shattered his nerves. It is quite
beside the question to say that the anxieties have been
of his own making. The wounded beast crawls away into
solitude to recover or die. So does the wounded man. It
we were Matthew Davies we’d have crawled to cover long
ago.
* * ♦
The Police-Court hearing of the Mercantile case
managed to present a most ungenuine appearance
throughout. Liquidator Ducker, although a "good”
witness, as far as he went, seemed for ever trying to put
his evidence as mildly as possible, and expressing regret
that he had to make himself unpleasant. When the court
adjourned, he would yarn with Matthew Davies in a
polite way, and at another time he would be seen
talking to a leading magistrate. The public were quite
prepared at the finish to behold Matthew Davies sitting on
the Bench, while some of the other magistrates proceeded
to talk the case over with Theodore Fink and Alfred
Deakin. It was such a family-party looking affair as re-
gards the Bench, the defence side, and most of the wit-
nesses, that the bare idea of a conviction seemed prepos-
terous. The Crown counsel were a little out in the cold,
so to speak, but no great importance was attached to
that circumstance. Somebody had to keep up appear-
ances.
* # «
Two days before the City of Melbourne Bank
closed its doors the accredited Melbourne representative
of the Scotch depositors had cabled, as the result of a
thorough investigation, that the bank was perfectly sound,
but neither this, nor the guarantee by the Union Bank to
meet the May allayed the alarm of
the canny Soots. Australian bank directors’ revised
Litany: “From plague, pestilence, Scotch depositors,
and sudden death, good Lord deliver us 1”
* * *
The cable notifies the presentation of a petition
for the compulsory winding-up of the Mercantile Finance
Trustees and Agency Co. of Melbourne. Born of the land-
boom, and directed by an historical rocket, its position in
the Melbourne financial world was all-powerful five or six
years ago, when its shares were eagerly snapped up at
£l2 apiece—£l2 would buy thousands of them at the
present moment. It has handled breweries, printing
works, jam-factories, restaurants, fancy-goods houses, oil
merchants, electric-light companies, and thousands of
acres of syndicated land: hut the 20 per cent, handicap,
carried easily in good times, has snuffed out nearly all of
them.
# * #
Strange stories of the banking disaster are
already beginning to roll in. One of them concerns a
shopkeeper, who had £6OO or £7OO on fixed deposit in one
of the defunct institutions, and an overdraft of £2OO or so
on current account. His fixed deposit has been “ fixed ’’
for a generation or two, and the bank has sent him notice
to pay up the overdraft at once, under pain of legal pro-
ceedings. Legal proceedings, in this case, means being
sold up and bounced into the street by the cold blooded
gang which has confiscated his life’s savings, and which
will continue to take care of them in its re constructed
hank while the fixed depositor camps in the Domain.
This is the sort of "consideration” which that bank ex-
tends to the people whose forbearance saved it from
destruction, and—what is probably worse—from an in-
dependent audit and an overhaul of the directors’ friends’
overdrafts.
* * *
Several things were lately on the cards with
the Q.N. Bank. Amongst them was a proposal that the
MTlwraith Government should take over the hank bodily.
However, the proposed “ reconstruction ” holds on to a
million or more of foreign capital that might otherwise
have been withdrawn.
* # #
An offer of 40 City of Melbourne, 22 Colonial,
86 Victoria, and 110 Commercial Bank shares, with a bonus
of £5O cash, tailed last week to elicit a single bid from one
of the scores of men to whom it was made. The offer is
still open to anyone equal to the liability, and who has
faith in reconstruction.
# * *
Judging by the enormous purchases (at discounts
of from 30 per cent, to 50 per cent.) of bank deposit re-
ceipts last week by the Melbourne money-lenders, it’s
short odds that even the banks will be in the hands of the
Jews a few years hence. Another big step towards the
sons of Israel owning the earth.
# * »
A careful comparison of the speeches made last
week at the “ reconstruction ” meeting of a certain bank,
reveals the singular fact that the eloquence of the
speakers was strictly regulated by the size of their res-
pective overdrafts on that institution.
# « *
A depositor, early the other day, drew .£5OO out
of a Sydney bank. In the afternoon, he reappeared, and
was seen sorting notes out on the counter. To him the
accountant—“ Just now, we don’t care about accepting
deposits from customers an hour or two after they have
withdrawn their accounts.” “ Oh, but I’m not thinking
of redepositing, thanks. These are this bank’s notes and
I want gold; that’s all.” The bank had to keep up the
dignity of its attitude in hard cash.
* * •
Liquidation of the Colonial Bank would involve,
’tis said, a pretty considerable haul on W. J. Clarke and
, bt-other Joe, who were splendid customers in a purely
business sense, but unwieldy clients to deal with when
the bank required capital to meet a panic rather than
interest to pay dividends with. Yet the fact that the
Colonial had so much Clarke in it ought to have been
good enough for small depositors and current accounts.
, The landholder who doesn’t calculate his miles of earth
at boom prices is a safe article for any bank to advance
upon.
r * * #
In Sydney they are actually beginning to discuss
the site of the future N.S.W. National Bank, which one
correspondent places in a certainly magnificent location—
Martin-place, opposite the Post-office.
# • *
“ We areJSeven ” —the dished Melbourne banks.
# # •
A leading English counsel says that MTlwraith
and Co. have not the ghost of a show in the Queensland
Investment appeal to the Privy Council.
« # •
Not one of the papers has noted the Spartan
fact that the manager of a money-lending establishment
is prosecuting his own son for alleged frauds on the
institution.
* * *
There seems to be some doubt as to who stole
the cash from the notorious Imperial Bank (Melb.), and
possible “ revelations ” are talked of.
# # #
Sir George Yerdon was carefully voted into the
chair at the E.S. and A. Bank reconstruction meeting.
Tackled as to whether he was a shareholder, Yerdon stated
that he held a few shares. He was there as an old friend
of the Bank, and as a representative of British creditors
—not, apparently, as the former manager, who had
happened to clear out when the fruits of the boom were
beginning to be gathered.
# # •
It was at the instance of the Victorian Crown
prosecutors, and not of Bryan O’Loghlen, that the charge
against the Mercantile Bank people was altered from a
simple charge to that of “conspiracy to defraud the
public.” Bryan’s awful silence on this point when it was
raised in the Assembly led people to suppose that it was
he, personally, who had amended the indictment issued
by his predecessor, Shiels. But the distinction between
concurring to publish a false balance-sheet and conspiring
o dsfraud is not so very great, after all, What the publics
can’t understand is the Crown’s shirking of the main
allegation against Matthew Davies, viz., that he founded
land-boom companies ad libitum and kept them going
with Mercantile Bank money.
« I •
Brisbane Courier now admits that the last
Queensland loan was floated to prop up the defunct
Q.N. Bank. This was probably why “ the Government
could not recognise the principle of the granting of food
to the unemployed. Such is a matter lor private
charity."
# # *
The reconstruction of the Q.N. Bank means the
reconstruction of the sycophantic crowd of stiffs who
hang on to the coat-tails of the Government. No proposal
for reconstruction should be entertained till a severe
enquiry into the overdraft system has been made.
# # #
One of the joys of the bank re construction
schemes is that none of them, or hardly any of them,
place any restriction whatever on the dividends which
may be paid in the immediate future. Therefore, some
day the re-constructed depositor, who is out in the cold
with his money locked up for 20 years, may hear that his
bank is paying 25 per cent, dividends to its share-
holders, though it won’t pay him a cent., and he may
rejoice exceedingly thereat.
# * *
T Rumoured that a broker of Sydney Exchange,
who advertised big business in bank deposit-receipts, was
hauled over the coals for thereby affronting the dignity of
that little-to-do institution.
• # •
A number of people in Sydney have already
commenced to speculate in sovereigns, for which 2J per
cent, premiums, either in silver or in legal tender notes,
is paid. It was in anticipation of such a move that the
Union, New Zealand, and Australasia ceased giving gold
whenever requested.
# # «
A Sunday paper is amazed that Baker’s Creek
shares should practically go begging at about 275. It is
added that the dividends of Is. per month yield to in-
vestors 13 per cent. But the people who deal in these
shares know that the mine never paid regular dividends of
Is.; that one lift is worked out before the next is ready ;
and so many have been exhausted, and development is so
little ahead of ordinary working that the future of the
mine is by no means a certainty. It is a mine with a
magnificent past, but, as the future is unseen, 275. a share
on £lOO,OOO capital is a very fair price.
# # #
Ever since Joe Clarke, with other Melbourne
men, took over the Homeward Bound mine, Yalw.T,
N.S.W., some three years ago, they have been involved
in law suits, for which an individual who calls himself a
“ peoknologist ”is largely responsible. The pecknologist,
though often beaten, is irrepressible. Strangely enough,
though the mine was in full swing, the lease-rent remained
unpaid. The pecknologist jumped the lease the other
day, and there is more trouble ahead. The battle will all
hang on this point—“ Was the lease gazetted forfeited?"
It not, the peckmlogist will probably be out of it.
• • •
Last week, several clerks in N.S.W, Mines
Deparlmsnt were kept going, issuing mineia,
rights to persons leaving Sydney for the Burra Burra
gold-rush. The daily newspapers did their utmost to
boom it.
» • *
Manager Howell, questioned by press repre-
sentatives, gave a denial to the rumour of a marked
increase having lately occurred in the quantity of gold
contained in the ore at the deeper levels of the Proprie-
tary mine, Broken Hill. The ore has, however, always
contained infinitesimal quantities of gold, which, though
scarcely equal to IJgr. per ton, is recovered at the Port
Pirie (S. A.) refinery, and yields a profit to the company.
* * *
It is said that the Broken Hill mine-owners, or
certain of them, maintain a small detective force, for the
express purpose of reporting the unguarded utterances of
workmen in the hotel bars and elsew’here in the town.
Then, when anyone remarks casually that labour is mighty
and must prevail, he is straightway entered on the black-
list, and, if employed on the mines, is fired out with great
violence.
• • •
Manager Howell, of Broken Hill Proprietary,
speaking at a recent local champagne festivity, gave
comfort to the hundreds of men in the town who, for
various reasons, are still unable to obtain employment.
He told them that the time was near when a few hundred
more men would be required by the co.—that at present
it was doing its best in the way of giving employ-
ment, and that the town in the near future would not
have in it a single idle man. Meanwhile, the owners’
black-list is still in force.
# # *
Late advices from Raub (Singapore, April 25th)
report a yield of 1100 ozs. of amalgam from 460 tons of
stone. The writer remembers the day, three years or so
back, when the finder of the Raub landed in a N.Q. city
and was followed around by the citizens, their wives and
daughters, ell suffering from the “ want to buy ” frenzy.
« • •
Mr. S. W. Vale describes the Dodge pulverizer
imported by the Parke & Lacey Co., of Sydney, some 15
months ago, and erected and worked at the Pioneer Ore
Treating Works, Pyrmont, Sydney: The pulverizer con-
sists of a hexagonal drum or barrel, into which the ore,
after being broken to suitable size, is automatically fed.
No rock-breaker is required, as the large lumps of quartz
assist in the crushing. The barrel is lined with forged
steel bars, so placed that there is a space of f-inch
between each, forming a grating through which the ore
passes to the screens, of which there are six, 4ft. long by
12in. wide. The ore, as it is crushed, falls on to these
screens, the fine passing through and the coarse being
returned tor further crushing. Lumps of quartz may be
used for crushing, but it is best to use rough iron balls
about 101 b. weight each, .about 14cwt. of which is a fair
load. The capacity of the machine is from 15owts. to
2 tons per hour, according to the mesh of screens used,
and, taken all round, it is about,equal to a 20-head stamp-
battery in crushing capacity. In all other points, how-
ever, the advantage is decidedly on the side of the Dodge
pulverizer. The first cost is about half ; foundation cost,
one-tenth; wear and tear, about one-fifth; power required,
one-half ; carriage to _ mine, one-fifth; cost of erection,
one-tenth. The machine is self-contained, and allows no
dust to escape when dry crushing, and, as the ore is dis-
charged through the screens immediately it is crushed
to the desired grade there is no sliming of ore and a
uniform granular pulp is produced. A screen surface of
over 700 square feet is presented every minute. The
machine has crushed over 500 tons of ore of all descrip-
tions, and working either wet or dry is the fastest crush-
ing mill yet brought before the public, and only needs to
be seen to be appreciated.
# * •
The public weary of the transitions of the new
Hargreaves mine. Many months ago it excited a little
sensation by the display, in Sydney windows, of wonder-
fully rich specimens. This was followed by an insignifi-
cant crushing. A few weeks ago the discovery of a big
dyke assaying 1 oz. to the ton was announced. The
Mines Department had some 4£ tons of the formation sent
to Melbourne to be treated by the Ot : s mill under their
supervision. Result: no gold at all! Under what autho-
rity, and at whose cost, the writer would like to know,
did the Mines people take this course with this particular
property?
Mt. Bisckoff has declared its 194th dividend. It
has paid altogether £lO6 per share on £1,275,000, as well
as nearly £50,000 dividend-tax.
* * *
To the recent suspension of a Sydney bank the
death of a lady is attributed. The details of the occur-
rence are pathetic and painful, but in the interest of that
mysterious thing, confidence, an inquest, as well as pub-
licity, has been dispensed with as quite unnecessary under
the circumstances.
* * *
It is believed that forgeries of the new bank-
notes are already being circulated in Sydney. The average
housekeeper hopes to pass them on her cabbage John.
• * *
A few weeks ago The Bulletin remarked on
the growing conviction in Melbourne that Matthew Davies
would really have to be prosecuted by a friendly Govern-
ment and acquitted. But Tim Bulletin was wrong.
Matthew has been acquitted by a not unfriendly Govern-
ment without prosecution.
More Australian Testimony.
THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS.
Mr. J. B. Warbrick, or “Joe Warbrick,” as h«
is familiarly known, was captain of the New
Zealand Native Football Team (better known as
“The Maoris”), which visited the Old Country
and gave such a good account of itself during the
season there of 1888-89. This team firmly believed
that St. Jacobs Oil is one of the secrets of success
in football, and kept itself in prime condition by a
free use of it. The team was so unanimous in its
verdict that the matter is worthy of special men-
tion. Mr. Warbrick, in conversation with one of
the representatives of the Chas. A. VogelerCo.,
in Sydney, after-their return, stated: “I have
much pleasure in testifying to the efficacy of St.
Jacobs Oil. I have used it constantly since ray
first visit to New South Wales in 1884, having
then injured my knee in our first match ; and dur-
ing our tour in Great Britain we have used noth-
ing else, and the New Zealand Native I ootball
Team all speak in the highest terms of its
qualities. In fact, so much did we think of it
that we hardly ever travelled without a case
of it.”
AN ENDORSEMENT.
Mr. J. R. Scott, the successful proprietor of the
leading hotel in Gisborne, N.Z. —the Masonic
Hotel —and the able manager of the above-men-
tioned New Zealand football team on their tour
through Great Britain, endorses the above by
letter, in which he states ; “ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the wonderful properties of St.
Jacobs Oil. While there (Great Britain) I got for
the team’s use nearly a dozen different embroca-
tions, but none seemed to do the men the same
amount of good as St. Jacobs Oil. In fact, we
never considered our baggage complete without a
case of it. ”


Settlement of tlxe People on tlie Land!
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION of 1893.
SUBDIVISION OS’ THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
Itfamtorok <Sc Melton Park.
250,000 Subscribers of 11 each. 251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments.
First Prize, estimated value, £30)000
Second „ „ 12,000
Third „ „ 7,000
Fourth „ „ 3,000
Fifth „ „ 2,000
Sixth „ „ 1,090
Each Share has iho chance of winning 11
separate properties, that Is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of £1
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth
IWHllltortlMWWtM
KUUU
m
nrr£i\p ■
NAMBROK HOUSE.
—Also—
-113 Prizes, “"ST
9 » ”
120 ” »
3 » »
100 » »
each JIJjJJ
from £560 to
each 553
from £340 t° 540
each 2|
Total Value, £250,000-
EACH SHARE has the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth.
PLAN OF SUB-DIVISION OF THE NAM 15110 K ESTATE
PARISH op DENISON, near SALE, GIPPSLAND.
<s£
ih
<3
c^A
00 2
T
*
#
D 0
v/
1 » on
201
SO2
902
<o .
N —.
Z i
1 S K
001
• »»
291
09!
3 :
<p.‘j
• i it
•o °
ZSI
9SI
cO
✓
0 ' ooc
•fr
® 3
tr i
R =
‘O, 2.
■oo?
£V-
i rrr
WI
lIS
UK
STIS
1115
S,2* *922
W 2
C? 3
222
991
« :
' v i«: yr
THE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
situated on the Latrobe River, Gippsland,
comprises 15,000 acres of very rich land,
which can scarcely be surpassed for agri-
cultural, fattening and dairy purposes. The
land is specially adapted for the growth of
maize, hops, root crops and cereals, and is
practically ready for the plough. The
Nambrok sheep and cattle have been for
many years noted for the excellence and
high prices obtained. The rainfall is abun-
dant, averaging about 30 inches per annum,
and the climate salubrious, being free from
extreme heat and cold. An unlimited
supply of water can be obtained at a mode-
rate depth, under 30 feet, is any portion of
the Estate.
The Thompson River, which is close to
the northern boundary of the property, can
be easily and cheaply utilised for irrigation
purposes. The Rosedale Railway Station,
111 miles from Melbourne, is within ‘l\
miles of the property, and the railway line
runs directly through the property, and
the Heyfield station on the Maffra line is
about 5 miles distant.
The!
MELTON PARK ESTATE
comprises 7146 acres, close to Bacchus 1
Marsh, in the Parish of Yancardook,
County of Bourke, and is well known in>
Victoria for its great fertility and resi-
dential attractions. It is about a couple of
miles from the Melton Railway Station,
20 miles distant from Melbourne, where an
ever ready market exists for everything
the Estate produces.
Plans of both Estates will be forwarded,
on application.
PRIZE 1 —Nambrok Estate—A superbly built mansion of 15 rooms with all necessary
domestic and 'outbuildings (cost £10,000), together with 2000 acres of magnificent agricultural
and grazing land, and adjoining the Heyfield and Kilmaney Park Estate—(see above Illustration
and Plan). Estimated value, house and land, £30,000.
PRIZE 2 —Melton Park Estate—An eight-roomed modern built house, with magnificent
stabling, containing 11 loose boxes, coach-house, &c., together with 700 acres of first-class land,
situated in the celebrated Bacchus Marsh District, 20 miles from Melbourne. Estimated value,
house and land, £12,000
PRIZE 3 —A comfortable house of 9 rooms, together with 500 acres of superior land, mostly
rich river flats. Estimated value, £7OOO.
PRIZE 4.—Three hundred acres of superior agricultural land, adjoining Prize 3. Estimated
value, £3OOO.
PRISE s.—Two hundred acres of land similar to Prize 4. Estimated value, £2OOO.
; PRIZE 6 -One hundred and fifty acres, similar to Prize 5. Estimated value, £l6OO.
PRISES 7 to 119 . —Each containing one hundred acres of rich agricultural land, ready fbvr
the plough. Estimated value, £lO5O each.
PRIZES 120 to 128.- Each containing over 50 and under 100 acres. Estimated valuaj.fromi
£560 to £990, according to acreage.
PRIZES 129 to 248.—Each containing 50 acres. Estimated value, £550.
PRIZES 249 to 251 . —Each containing over 30 acres and under 50 acres. Estimated, valuer,
from £340 to £540, according to acreage.
PRIZES 252 to 351. —Each one acre township allotment, valued at £24.
The Title Deeds are granted by the Crown, are in perfect order, as will be seen from the attached letter received from Messrs. Blake and Riggall.
n nr nFFWFR Tun Esa 130 William Street, Melbourne, September 30,1893.'.
M ‘n e *r Sir.,— We have to inform you that the title deeds to the Nambrok Estate and the Melton Park Estate are in order and complete, and there is no obstacle to the immediate transfer of these Estates4o>cm
Purchase ?. -1 ouis f* a „/*ppcwfnl Investors free of all cost and all moneys will beheld in trust until the Ballot has taken place. The following gentlemen, in conjunction with Tfem
oi.. JSSldSS'wTbep V6 LABERTOUCHE, Esq.^Melbourne ; Major 0. M. OFFICER. Melbourne ; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide ; Captain J. WHITNEY,
Shareholders, 'P . .• . -n d lt, cp on Q r about June 30, will be duly advertised, and results intimated immediately afterwards. Should the winner of any Prize so desire, the-
Le arrlng ed owner' to aK forking leasing or sale of W of the Prises for a period of three years without any charge.
Australian Applications for Shares should
he made by Registered Letter to—
E. J. de BOMPOBD,
Co J. XX- ASTROP, Marlborough. Ch.am'bers,
O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES.
State amount forwarded and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply. Do not attach Stamps if other than N.S.W Add exchange if payment is made by cheque. _
u S mi nf not be obtained the Trustees will arrange that Prizes will be allotted pro rata according to the amount subscribed and the values set out in the above
schedule Land to M to be arranged on this basis. Prize No. Ito be included in this allotment. N.8.-No Shareholder is liable to any further payment on
allotted Shares.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Anv Shareholder winning Property No. 1. who shall have applied for a Share or
date after May 10th to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus of
£l5OO
s n «f miar©holder winning Property No* 2, who shall have applied for a Share or
Shares 1 ©!! any date 10th to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus
of £375.
a«v Shareholder winning Property No. 3, who shall have applied for a Share or
Shares on any date aftcr Ma/lOth to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus
of £ll2 10s.
Columbiazi Land Oistritontion.
1893.
PLEASE ALLOT me Shares.
Name
£
Address
To E. J. dk Bomford, c/o J. H. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell-st., Sydney.
Please make remittance by Postal Note or P. 0.0. If by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed
envelope with stamp for reply. Do not attach stamp if other than N.S.W. (Cost of stamp may be added to
P. 0.0.) Register your letter.


ENERGY. AMBITION,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
jVlay be secured by all who fallow the example
of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. a6a 15th
St., Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A;
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
READ THIS STATEMENT:
** Every spring for years I have had intolerable
headaches , and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and pain. My
druggist had known me from childhood and
advised me to take, early in the spring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I commenced using it in March, and
have not had, since then, the first symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, andlperform
my daily duties with a cheerfulness ana energy
that surprises myself. I take pleasure in telling
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use/’—Lizzib W.
De Veau, Brooklyn, N. Y.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
Cheerfulness, Strength,
and Perfect Health,
- 3 nan o a
s MO VIA!
Requires No Addition or Preparation as it
CONTAINS; Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS • The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES: Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
ţ
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr., Baldwin
L.B.C.P. and S.
(Registered bttse Medical Board op N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Pee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m, ;^..r[ir .„
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables Us to sell
pure drugs, Patent medicines
And CHEMISTS' SUNDRIES
W' • —AT— -A
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
--in mu s>«n>i>o«»>»«
Dr. H. A, BETTS
Op the Philadelphia College op Dental
Surgery. ... ■ ;
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
* . » rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Pt ice
Lists forwarded upon application. _
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST,, A
BVk. brickfield hill. Jim
DEAF
A.M. HAST,
NESS i
by Peck’s
Whispers
remedies
t HEAD NOISES CURED
luvl.ibU Tubular Bar Cushions
heard. Successful when >ll
fall. Write lor book of prool*
49 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
[FREE,
White Spotless Arms
Soft White Hands
Shapely hails, an unblemished skin, and luxuriant
* half are produced by the Cuticura Reme-
cJJgs when all others and the best skin doctors
fail* In the treatment of the simplest forms of facial
blemishes, or the severest humors and diseases of the
skirt and scalp, with loss of hair, even when complicated
with hereditary or scrofulous taints, they are equally suc-
cessful; Everything about them invites confidence. They
are absolutely pure, and may be used on the youngest
infant; They are agreeable to the most refined and sen-
sitive. They are speedy, economical, and unfailing.
CUTICURA
Remedies afford instant relief in the most
distressing of itching, burning, and scaly skin
diseases. They cleanse the scalp of dandruff,
scales, and crusts, Cure itching humors, destroy
microscopic insects which feed on the hair, and
supply the roots with energy and nourishment. They
restore the pores to healthy action, and thus remove
the cause of pimples, blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin.
They heal rough, chapped, and fissured hands, with itching palms
and painful finger ends, and remove the cause of shapeless nails.
#5- “ All About the Skin, Scalp, and Hair ” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illustrations, and
ioo Testimonials, is \vrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. Cl , n
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. P* lo6 * Cuticura, the Great bkm Cure*
toe.; CuticurA Soap, an Kxquisite Skin Purifier and Beautifier, 25c., Cuticura Resolvent, the
greatest of Blood Purifiers and Humor Remedies, si. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical
Corporation, Boston, U. S. A.
Red, Rough, and Oily Skin,
humors and blemishes of infants and
children are prevented and cured by that greatest of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, the celebrated
Cuticura Soap. Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling
in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only medi-
cated toilet soap and the only preventive of inflammation and clogging of the pores, the cause of
most contplexional disfigurations. Price, 25c.
ŧ
Javen
Marvellous Effect! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£5O to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
° _ -.3 .1; fnv nart.iAlllflVft t.O
D
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to SYDNB V
FELDHEIM, GOTTHBLF & CO. .. .. •• “
REDWOOD’S REPORT. ,
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and iso.
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.— T. Redwood, Ph.U., F.1.C., F.C.S.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
Haymans
BALSAM
. IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, GOLDS, ASTHMA,'&G.
STOPS A COLD.
CUBES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. 1 sd. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and 11s'
Prepared only by A. HAVKAN & CO.,
18, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung& Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
ELECTRIC PILLS.—For Nervousness, Weak-
ness, Lassitude, &c. (Dr. Laseurs, M.D.,
Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in the world.)
Electric Pills are the most speedy and most power-
ful remedy in the world. One box will be sum-
cient, and in even the weakest, the oldest, and
most shattered, work a miracle, while perfectly
harmless, leaving no bad after effects. Guaranteed
Never to Fail. Worth their weight in gold. Price,
10s. 6d., post free, from the sole agent, W. PAK-
SONS. Chemist, 68 Bourke Street, E., Melbourne.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
S*;i
S 3" The only thoronghlj
reliable Remedy for
GOUGHS, COLDS,
BRONCHITIS
AMD
INFLUENZA,
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor;
T. H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, Georgest.
Wholesale oWEUioU Brothers. Limited
p
THE PIIF.SS : “Tim
JU i.LETIN Series, No. 'S.
List-, of Six.'
Price, Is.
SB's Maigldckchef
LiljroflheVauO
WtcUSIW lOHS*
“Emm :
LO HSE'S
MAIGIiiCKCHEH
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILET SOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high' c ' ass T er f umers -
GUSTAV LOHSE. Berlin.
The OALIQEAPH Writing Machine.
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable.
All Parts Interchangeable and Adjustable.
The writing of the Caligraph can always be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a Hat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agei.t for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph will manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph will produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph has two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Rundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Price- One Shilling.
Great Doings at Ganterbullingabberee.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Long Toil had a full beard and two mates. They
were short of tucker;
The mates reckoned that the nlariaget of the
next station had ’em “set” because of their
prominence in the last strike. They were “marked
men.” They had taken out their tickets and
were travelling under assumed names, else they
wouldn’t have stood the slightest show of getting
a shed.
It was a cominorl otit-back lie—and profitable;
The manager was probably unaware of their
existence,
Long Tom, however, had the fullest Confidence
in the extent of his own resources. He was also a
“marked man,” because he’d accidentally shot a
camel during the last strike* atid he didn’t want it
knowil that he’d been round.
He went up to the station irt His own proper
person ; had a talk with the old Scotch storekeeper*
and got some flour and meat.
Next morning he his chin, changed his
voice and went up to the station, with a pair of
side-whiskers, and a hat and coat belonging to
one of his mates; He saw the cook, and got some
“ brownie,” a bit of cooked meat and a packet of
baking powder. There was much chuckling in
the camp that night.
Next day Long Tom shaved off his Whiskers—
“ rnustarsh ” and all j and went once more to the
station with a clean face, and the hat, coat and
trousers belonging to the other mate; He told the
storekeeper that he was hard up, and wanted a
bit o’ flour to help him and his mate to the next
station.
“ It’s all right, mon,” said the storekeeper,
taking the bag, “but ye needn’t ha’ troubled
shavin’ yer beard an’ wearin’ yer mates’ duds
every time. Ha’ ye got ony tea an’ sugar?’
But you ought to hear Long Tom tell the yarn.
HENRY LAWSON.
M‘Lean, Labour M.H.R. (Maoriland), says
there are not now fifty genuine unemployed in
that country. The result of Labour legislation.
The Workman (Sydney) says that the
shock of the coining German elections may shake
the sceptre out of Wilhelm’s grasp* and the throne
from off his head.
A Brisbane daily publishes a telegram
from Launceston stating that the Hobart unem-
ployed “ refuse to work at the West Coast at 7s.
a day.” On the face of it this is a lie. What
says Hobart ?
One Mutton, of Melb., who has just be’
come a father, advertises in the birth-notices hi B
first-born’s name as “Wriothesley.” Wriothesley—
Mutton! Why not Damper And Mutton ? It
would savour of patriotism, economy, and the
eternal fitness of things.
London Hawk and Figaro steal many
Bulletin pars, without acknowledgment, which
the Australian papers then re-print and acknow-
ledge—from the London papers in question. The
Bulletin matter thus becomes sanctified by a
couple of sea-voyages.
The most original matter in evening
journalism is to be found in the advertising
columns. A case in point, from Sydney E.
N kws :
"ly/TRS. M‘INTYRE, Phrenologist, and fancy needle-
-t’J- work done. 8 Waterloo-st.
Rockhampton (Q.) has produced a com-
mon-sense police-magistrate. The police sum-
moned a stranger for “carrying firearms on a
Sunday.” The man had been out shooting on the
Sawbath. The P.M. declared that he would just
as soon think of fining a man for carrying a fish-
ing-rod on a Sunday as for carrying a gun.
No wonder Mrs. Langtry hurried to Eng-
land on hearing of the death of her friend, Mr.
“ Abington ” Baird. He had written to her on
the 7th February, saying : “ I have made my will,
and am leaving everything to you.” And yet he
didn’t leave her anything, though, strange to say,
his last will bore the date named. What was it ?
A grim practical joke ?
For years Jos. Symes lectured on Free-
thought in the old Polytechnic Hall, Bourke-
street (Melb.), and when the Y.M.C. A. bought the
site, and pulled down the hall and built their own
big place upon its ruins, the parsons, at the laying
of the first stone, thanked heaven that the heathen
and his temple no more desecrated Bourke-street.
But an awful retaliation awaited them. Symes
went round the corner and engaged the old hall of
the Y.M.C, A. in Russell-street, where he is just
now holding forth on the unctuous subject of
“ Holy Quacks.”
An odd character was Mr. P. Kittson*
proprietor and editor of the Charleston (M.L.)
Herald, who has just struck out for the Golden
Shore. Kittson was a man of parts, but the parts
didn’t co-ordinate, somehow; each one appeared
involved in a struggle for supremacy with the
other—neutralising it, so to speak; hence, from a
business point of view he would have been a
greater success had he been built more on the
harmonious lines of the jackass. His solemn,
serious visage would have got him a fortune as an
undertaker had not a pair of bright flashing eyes
and just the slightest touch of the brogue marred
its usefulness in this direction by advertising the
owner as one of the drollest “sticks” that ever
left the ould sod. His mental endowments
were interfered with in a similar way. A
printer by trade, he took to gold-digging on
his arrival in Maoriland, and having thus
thrown away all his chances of making
money, finally settled down in Charleston (a
mining township which had then seen its best
days), where,. until his demise a few weeks ago,
he printed, eaited, and published the Herald— a
four-page sheet which sometimes appeared bi-
weekly and sometimes didn’t, just according to cir-
cumstances. The columns of the Herald often pre-
sented rather strange journalistic anomalies. For
instance, an editorial on the maritime strike com-
menced in the heavy style affected by the conven-
tional paper, but before proceeding very far
broke out thus : “We should have referred to this
matter at greater length had we not been sum-
moned to assist in an operation which was being
performed on Mr. M. Flannery’s celebrated race-
horse Bucephalus, the vertebral joint of a bar-
racoota having stuck in the animal’s sesophagus
while it was nibbling some carrots in Mr. A.
Macdonald’s back premises. We are pleased to
state, by the way, that the operation was highly
successful, and with judicious treatment the
equine wonder will yet be able to pull off the big
money on the seventeenth. We may. inform the
press agency and some of our respected contem-
poraries, in conclusion, that the fancy appellation
recently bestowed on these characters (blacklegs)
will not make matters any better, because a ‘scab’
by any other name will still be the same old
sore.” R.I.P.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Colemanc and Sons, arc unsurpassed.


UTTL<i
Tmr.ni
IN
the.
Tnt HIGH
Wik^T"
SKJ F»P iNQj.
A^ /n E. %
’’ Co^ODOI^E
A
v
E
%
1 T
A B^€
t
Tut
P\* W'
w, svy(p<Gv V '
GvO To && 0
Trtt
CloW^
AT FITZGEEALDS’ AUSTRALIAN CIRCUS, OPPOSITE, REDFERN RAILWAY STATION, SYDNEY.


RECONSTRUCTION.
Herr RASSPfIUSSEN to the RESCUE I
BANE OF HEALTH.
CONGRATULATIONS.
“ The ALFALINJE VITALITY PILLS will entirely re-construct a
nroken-down Nervous System, and thus make it a veritable Bank of
Health, inasmuch as Health is better than Wealth.”
—Medical Journal.
HERR RASSMIJSSEN, Esq.
Dbae Sie, —
EQUITY OFFICES,
SUPREME COURT, CHANCERY SQUARE,
SYDNEY, MAY 9, 1893.
Having frequently heard and read of the Wonderful Cures effected by your World-wide Celebrated and Wonderful HERBAL ALKALINE REMEDIES for the
BLOOD, NERVES, &c., I take the liberty of writing you a few lines by way of congratulation and encouragement. Ido so because I consider that a gentleman who
devotes his time and talents to the benefit of his fellow ere; t ires is deserving of everyone’s esteem and regard—in fact, he ought to be looked upon in the light of a public
benofahtor. The testimonials in the public press, and the expressions of satisfaction and gratitude of those who have benefited by your advice and remedies, are a suffi-
cient guarantee of your ability and honesty of purpose in your claims for the great virtues your remedies contain. The many favourable opinions promulgated by the press
concerning the noble mission of diminishing the pain and suffering of your fellow creatures must be to you a source of satisfaction and gratification. The very fact of your
having the Parisian Academy’s GOLD MEDAL and DIPLOMA of HONOR entitles you to universal respect and approbation. I am, dear sir, with all earnestness of
opinion that a pound or two invested in the purchase of your Wonderful ALKALINE REMEDIES will be better invested and return better interest than if invested or
deposited in some of our present-day banking concerns, each-Remedy of yours may be justly termed a BANK of HEALTH.—I am, dear sir, yours'truly, E. BALY.
P.S.—You are at liberty to make what use you like of this rather hurried note.—E.B.
How to Cure
THE NERVES.
TARE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to Cure
NERVOUSNESS, WEAKNESS,
DESPONDENCY, DE BI LIT V,
NERVOUS IR RIT ABIEIT Y,
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OUSELF CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA, LO SB OF
MEMORY, WEAK BRAIN AND
NEK V KB.
•Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
~ Ordinary Course, 235. Gd.
Special Powerful Course, 435. <»«l.
Testimonial.
It. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Herr Rassmussen. Dear Sir,—l
think it my duty to inform you that
a course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills acted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
t{ieir use. Very truly yours, R.
Adams Luokham,
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS.
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
CO STT VENESS, WIN D,
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
FLATULENCY AND IRREGU-
LARITY. _
Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and 6s.
Testimonial.
Herr Rassmussen. I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They al,so cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies.—A.
Harris, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne.
How to Cure
Female Complaints. '
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Female EestorerPills
Guaranteed to Cure
111 Complaints 'peculiar
to females:
"■Boxes, 6s. "and 125. , Posted.
Testiinonia,!.
Htaß Rassmussen,— l am pleased
to inform you that ydur Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Vic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Freckles, and
wonderful for beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.—
Excellent |for Bolds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is.s posted, Is. fid.
Alfaline, Ointment. A certain
Remedy for' all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all
Affections of the Skin. Bojms, Is. and 25,;
posted, Is. Od. and 2s. 6d. '
Porous Plasters.— These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each ; posted,
Is. 6d,
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is. S
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— " Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. 6d. pef bottle.
Herr Hassmussen’s Head Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, H. S. W.
Air Air f
liS
°Ry
Sit
m
dS
€r
J 47
J 4 7
Hl' PILL ARCADE
Tw"s"YDN"£Y"iy
SYDNEY
HerrRASSMBSSEHS
PILL PALACE
E P
LOCK [VITALITY
CUREPiUS PILLS
“"W" 11b OOP
AIFMIW i
PULS
BLOOD
THE .
DISEASES NERVES
OEP
op
FOR THE
Celebratedfcßesislered ALFALIME PILLS
IteBLOOD&NERVE DISEASES If
EO|
ms
PREPARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
• HERR RASSMUSSEN *
ALFALINE
RHEUMATIC
PILLS
BCXIS2A^/»
ALFALINE
IIVERtKfDNtY
PILLS
eonmfJfuujNi
W ULI SO ID HERE IN BOTTLESatI/2/f 3jf*22/t
ALFALINE
HAia
RtSTORtR
&BCAUTIFIEP
somtst^ji
ALFALINE
COMPIEXjON
BiAUTIfIER
BOTUESi/SJOA
>/////.
H
mm
w>
%
MM
hnil'hj
&
SsiH®* l
g&T-S^
SSVSjS
'
TrriTrrTv;
rrrrTTTTnTTi
Herr Bassmussen,
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALPALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist Of Acad&nie Parisienne des Inventeurs, Prance ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U. J.P.O. ;
Honourably mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South Wales ” for Herbal Discoveries ; Awarded Gold Medal, at Sydney for his Herbal
Remedies; Author of “ The Natural Doctorformerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal," Sydney ; Discoverer of the “ Minto Process ’’
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Bixpert 13 lo curd. and Nerve Remedies —Cured. 100,000.
SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
GXJARAKTTBEO XXEflßjßLlji CURBS
FOR THE
ana NERVE
REGISTERED AND AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES :
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Head Depot:
South Australia® Head Dtepot:
New Zealand Hoa’d Depot:
lr>o Bonrke Street, Melbourne
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street. Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington
How to Cure
THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Lock Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
blood diseases, Skin
AFFECTIQNS,- SORES, BOILS
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COM-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND
OTHKRUNPL E A S A N T
SYMPTOMS OE THE BLOOD.
Boxes —6s. and 12*., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. Gd.
Slin-iiil Powerful * onr.se. 435. (id.
Testimonial.
The Alfalind Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
Real tli.—Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIfE
JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
’ Boxes—3s. and 65., Posted. _
235. 6d. per Course, Posted,
Testimonial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir, —I
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND COUGH.
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Asthma and Cough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
ASTHMA, COUGHS and COLDSj
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxps—Posted, 35., 65., and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. H. Kimm,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER & BEAUTIPIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
beards and moustaches.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Testimonials.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifler
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.— J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of
Debility.— Thos. Mudiman, 515 George-st.,
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albury, 64 Wash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfafine Vitality Pills cured me of
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.— Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible ease of Debility. —Wm. E. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son,
after many doctors had given him up.—
John F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria.
E|err RASSMUSSEBT’S
Chief Laboratory Si Head Depot for all the Colonies:
47 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


" iDfIAL.”
file MEW MODEL “HAMMOND” TYPEWRITER
POSSESSES MORE VALUABLE ADVANTAGES THAN ALL OTHER WRITING MACHINES COMBINED.
LEADING POINTS: Perfect Alignment; Uniform Impression; Type instantly Interchangeable; Visible Writing; Takes any Width Paper $42 styles of Type.
LIGHT, IW COMPACT. IST PORTABLE. 8®" DURABLE.
Tll§ gryuteat success in producing Thousands of Copies of Circulars on the Mimeograph or Cyclostile, on account of no Backing, no Folding, no Cracks, and no Varnish, as by other
Typewriters—SlMPLE, CLEAN WORK. Send for Catalogues and Testimonials.
13. B, XIXOMAS. Australasian Agent, Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
&
M
St
%
For colds,
COUCHS,
HOARSENESS,
AND ALL
Throat and Lung
DISEASES.
As an emergency medicine, a safeguard
tor children, an ever-ready remedy to be
relied upon in cases of colds, coughs, croup,
whooping-cough,, influenza, and all diseases
of the throat and lungs, Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral has no equal in pharmacy.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. c. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral—
is prominent on the wrapper, and is
blown in the glass of each of our bottles,
m INFANTS aid INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
.. *
( THE LEB rated ch.ldren's sweet)
tys zv-/y<>&sS'<mu&
CyO:n/-iL (iYt(rri.e/!^CfS* «
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C,
~<y
o.
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAXi
i FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM,
v u . V 5
Street
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Beware of imitations.
The genuine is signed
TRADE MARKir
a
Reuters Little Pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A sata cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after-
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
sion. The smallest ami easiest to take. - Forty in a phial.
ţ
*s>
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
Dress Shirts
with
Linen Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d. and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durable.
A positive Safeguard
against Chills.
When sending Orders by
Post, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage ,
Sole Agents—
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
75 Kino St., SYDNEY.
Established 1876.
ASTHMA
CURE
WRITE
D«
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ON
ASTHMA
o
*
Agents
„ "Melbourne
Rocke.Tompsitt»t°
„ "Sydney.- Elliott Bros
Brisbane: Elliottßro;>C
aide FH.Fauldinjy(?.
"Wellington. HZ Sharlana&C.
_ZHZ harland » (?. >o*®.
JH
9
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR an^SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., Hew York.
i;L¥?
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary fot the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame,
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziernssen’s “Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine ”: —
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Leube,
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—YoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other i reparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of ,all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
‘Tales of the Convict System,’
Price, Is.; per Post. Is. 3d.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. 6d.
■* fi£3b2.
\
CTOOXr
([ENRY HEMTfI
.TRADE MAB*
Sole Agents fop HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. 6d.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
G-. deS:. smi'tix & sow,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
SO2 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
QH, FOB A MOUSTAGH ElT*
Capillarine!
IST" The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day,
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free,
CIItAIG A AITKKJf, Sole Agents,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY,
M‘Arthur’s York Hotel
(Late Miltiiorps’),
Corner York A King Streets, SYDNEY.
Splendid Accommodation. The best Brands of Liquor?
and Cigars.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON, 1f-
ROBT. M ‘ARTHUR, Proprietor.
life
vmm
NATURAL COMPLEXIONS!
A NNA RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC will positively re-
move all disfigurement. Eczema (no matter how
long standing), acne (so prevalent in moist climates),
salt rheum, oilyness, excessive redness, etc., soon dis-
appear after its use. This SKIN TONIC is a healing
remedy. Every bottle is guaranteed to be as represented.
No lady should neglect her skin. Remove your tan,
freckles, etc. The action of SKIN TONIC is scientific
and healthy ; it opens the pores of the skin, so that all
the impurities of the system can exude, leaving the net-
work of the skin clean, fresh and youthful; hardens
flabby skin—in fact, gives a new appearance. ANNA
RUPPERT’S SKIN TONIC is sold more extensively than
all other skin preparations combined. SKIN TONIC is
now in its sixteenth year of unaltered success. Every
woman can conscientiously recommend it. Thousands of
letters are coming in, and are loud in their praises of this
SKIN TONIC ; old cases of acne, eczema, coarseness of
skin, etc., are being specially cured when other remedies
have failed. Price of SKIN TONIC, per bottle, 12s. 6d.,
three bottles together (usually required), £ll2s. 6d. All
letters confidential, and answered on receipt of stamped
envelope. Consultation at office free. Valuable new
“ Book of Beauty,” post free on receipt of 4d. stamps.
Call or address the celebrated American Complexion
Specialist,
ANNA RUPPERT.
Sole Agency for Australasia
153 .Strand, Sydney,
Also at London, Paris, Berlin, Barcelona, etc.
SHORTLY TO RE PUBLISHED.
“The Last of Six.”
“Rats.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Why, there’s two of them, and they’re
having a fight! Come on.”
It seemed a strange place for a fight—that hot,
lonely, cotton-bush plain. And yet, not more
than half-a-mile ahead, there were apparently two
men struggling together on the track.
The three “travellers” postponed their “smoke,
Oh!” and hurried on. They were shearers —a big
man and a little man, known. respectively as
“ Sunlight ” and “ Macquarie,” and a tall, thin*
young jackeroo whom they called “ Milky.”
“ I wonder where the other man sprang from?
I didn’t see him before,” said Sunlight.
“He muster bin layin’ down in the bushes,”
said Macquarie. “They’re goin’ at it proper, too.
Come on ! Hurry up and see the fun !”
They hurried on.
“It’s a funny-lookin’ feller, the other feller,”
panted Milky. “He don’t seem to have no head.
Look ! he’s down—they’re both down ! They
must ’a’ Clinched on the ground. No ! they’re up
an’at it agen. . . . Why, good Lord! I think
the other’s a woman !”
“ My oath ! so it is ! ” yelled Sunlight., “ Look !
the brute’s got her down again ! He’s kickin’
her ! Come on, chaps ; come on, Or he’ll do for
her !”
They dropped swags, water-bags and all, and
raced forward ; but presently Sunlight, who had
the best eyes, slackened his pace and dropped
behind. His mates glanced back at his face, saw
a peculiar expression there, looked ahead again,
and then dropped into a walk. _ - - -
# # m
They reached the scene of the trouble, and
thei-o stood a little, withered old man by the
track, with his arms folded close up under his
chin ; he was dressed mostly in calico patches,
and half-a-dozen corks, suspended on bits of string
from the brim of his hat, dangled before his
bleared optics to scare away the flies. He was
scowling malignantly at a stout, dumpy swag
which lay in the middle of the track.
“Well,,old Rats, what’s the trouble?” asked!
Sunlight.
“ Oh, nothing, nothing,” answered the old fnan,
without looking round. “ I fell out with my swag,
that’s all. He knocked me down, but I’ve settled
him.”
“Oh, but, look here,” said Sunlight, winking
at his mates, “ we saw you jump on him when he
was down. That ain’t fair, you know.”
“ But you didn’t see It all,'” cried Rats, getting
excited. “He hit me down first! And, look here,
I’ll fight him agen for nothing, and you can see
fair play.”
They talked awhile; then Sunlight proposed to
second the swag, while his mate supported the old
man, and, after some persuasion, Milky agreed,
for the sake of the “lark,” to act as time-keeper
and referee.
The person Called Rats entered into the spirit of
the thing ; he stripped to the waist, artdl while he
Was getting ready the travellers pretended to bet
on the result,
Macquarie took his place behind the old
man, and Sunlight up-ended the swag. Rats
“shaped” and danced round ; then he rushed,
feinted, ducked, retreated, darted in once more,
and suddenly went down like a shot on the broad
of his back. No actor could have done it better;
he went down from that imaginary blow as if a
cannon-ball had struck him in the forehead.
Milky called time, and the old man came up,
looking shaky. However, he got in a tremendous
blow which knocked the swag into the bushes.
Several rounds followed with varying success.
The men pretended to get more and more
excited, and betted freely ; and Rats did his best.
At last they grew tired of the fun ; then Sunlight
let the swag lie after Milky called time, and the
jackeroo awarded the fight to Rats. They made
believe to hand over the stakes, and then went
back for their swags, while the old man put on
his shirt.
• # #
Then he calmed down, carried his swag
to the side of the track, sat down on it, and talked
rationally about bush matters for awhile; but
presently he grew silent and began to feel his
muscles and smile idiotically.
“ Can you len’ us a bit o’ meat? ” said he sud-
denly.
They spared him half a pound ; but he said he
didn’t want it all, and cut off about an ounce
which he laid on the end of his swag. Then he
took the lid off his billy and produced a fishing-
line. He baited the hook, threw the line across
the track, aiid waited for a bite. Soon he got
deeply interested in the line, jerked it once or
twice, and drew it in rapidly. The bait had been
rubbed off in the grass. The old man regarded
the hook disgustedly.
“ Look at that! ” he cried, “ I had him, only I
was in such a hurry. I should ha’ played him a
little more.”
Next time he was more careful, he drew the line
in warily, grabbed an imaginary fish and laid it
down on the grass. Sunlight arid Co. were greatly
interested by this time.
“ Wot yer think o’ that?” asked Rats. “It
weighs thirty pound.if it weighs an ounce ! Wot
yer think o’ that for a cod ? The hook’s half way
down his blessed gullet! ”
He caught several cod and a bream while they
were there, and invited them to camp and have
tea with him. But they wished to reach a certain
shed next day, so—after the ancient had borrowed
about a pound of meat for bait —they went on, and
left him fishing contentedly.
But first Sunlight went down into his pocket
and came up with half-a-crown, which he gave to
the old man, along with some tucker. “ You’d
best push on to the water before dark, old chap,”
he said kindly.
When they turned their heads again, Rats was
still fishing : but when they looked back for the
last time before entering the timber, ho was having
another row with lusswag ; and Sunlight reckoned
that the trouble arose out of some lies which the
swag had been telling about the bigger fish it
caught.
HENRY LAWSON.
A Victorian legislator, the other day,
speaking at a country show, said that that district
was the best he had ever “sat his foot on.” Ho
didn’t see the joke even when the next speaker
remarked that people didn’t usually sit down with
t heir foot.


Hotel.
121 IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From lUtt-Mtreet to
€astlcren£h«gtr«ct),
Between King & Market St. 3.
SYDNEY.
m
is=s
IN THE VERY HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable, All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
JVfanageq,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Q)
t
PATENT
to
PILLS
*
*8
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lafitsrer Is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable]
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. - These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cougu
Pills a trial and the most violent Gough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeeham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. fid. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
Business Announcements.
mm
m
ttO.
ICRMfY
i WhislT
4 il
C«tt«uu fiwrHEsa
•j i »-*-.C-* 4-ri* j*j»v ««<o
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SWLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA
NOW IN THIS PRESS.
“ The Last of Six.”
Busines > Announcements
WATSON
J> 1
WHI W
m
m
4!^
E)£st on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing Sc Wine Sc Spirit Co., Limited.
///
vli
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
!obbr Party: “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
Medical.
[ROSE'S I
0$
CPI
LOT*
mmm
m
%
ť
ŧ
rPHIS valuable Lotion, teed to cure SWELLING
J- and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor.
H. A. ROSE,
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
ky
3?
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELT
y
fas
:
X
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL,
DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints. The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 days trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mHd, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
undinforming persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
! competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
! for postage.
' Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 910, G.P.0., Sydney.
Business Announcements.
k
t
ţ
PORPOISE HIDE Hi OTS will now be REDUCED from
81s. to 15s. <><l. per pair for a short time.
A. BOWMAN'S TOEPOISE HIDE BOOTS
have never been offered at this Price. Look for the
BOW-MAN on the Window.
249 Pitt Street—Send P. 0.0. and Pair will be sent
to any Address.
r ATKINSON’S >
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Re-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHAHOTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
. Trade .dark-a “ White Rose” A
and address in lull.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Weeks by the use of
ť
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
n generating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for SGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., 7,'i Gertrude
Street. Fitzroy. MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W. H. Soul&Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
ows
ar-
Le-r
1
r %010 |
'.\&VERY*WHERE*I
i/6
Men I have Smiled with.
w B STAY at J 3 ruto n’a
KHneTHOD
W.A-GO-AA.
Q.ive 353. I'd" si. xb. gr lx.-fc o 3tx
(AUSTRALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
EPPS’S
GRATEF QL—OOMFOSTIN G
COCOA
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
GRANT)
; 1 • .•
■
Mkj.bodknb.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. K. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
THE GROSVENOH HOTEL,
SydLrxey.
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desued.
Single Rooms from Ss. Double Rooms from 6s.
Inclusive Tariff 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-atreet, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors
6s. per DAY. TERMS: 30s. per WEEK.
T
ALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
»r.d has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news- i
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress : it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the clabus o f avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, aerainst the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and, the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
reader to another, I
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleoh, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi-
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


B«.V 1034, CJ.I'.O.
Telephone it':;.
&
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver Hind Electro-plated Croods
—AND—
X
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Sb.ow Rooms s
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
N° w IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
Price, One Shilling-—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is, 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wynyard. Square, SYDUTEY.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED.
ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
Terms—lOs
. 6d. per Day. Walter Sidney date of Newcastle), 4 ‘ Prop. ’ ’
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
ZXJ
*
Sj
o
o
o
X
<r
*
o
o
o
o
o
4
V
it. A. II
■rvt*y, Agent, 28 I ltt-st, Sjdnev.
Free
Preacriptlo
llg
Are to be found in the “Liijjht and t .
' ’ ~ ~ (.f DEBILITY and Kinft
,iv Of thi. .rfj^’ndred
for the S[» J fdy Cure _ _
Diseases, &c. A ci>py of this book .
Free, sealed, fur Six Penny Stamps. S6Dt
Address-
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. *
I\T OTICE. Advertisements for Current
1 cannot be received LATER than 1 n K
TUESDAY. p - ln -
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
Frue Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Merchant.
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY op EYERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers', Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of the “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
ŧ
t
ţ
Knowles’ Steam Pumjs,
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
THE CENTRE OP ATTRACTION IN SYDNEY
AND THE
Greatest Show in the Whole of Australia.
IN THE GREAT AND ORIGINAL SYSTEM OF BUSINESS CARRIED ON BY
STEViKT IIVSOI
Allpoods are marked in plain figures th'th® art ' c^e ect theworkahop to the user. At our establishment 13s. 4d. will always go as far as a sovereign spent elsewhere.
Ail goods are marked in plain figures. A child can bay with the same security as the most experienced sage. Our prices remain the same as heretofore. Not 1 cent of the duty recently put on by
the Government will be charged to our patrons.
Stewart Dawson & Co.,
Magnificent (Stock of jewellery.
ALL AT FREETRADE PRICES.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Fine Diamond
and Gem Jewellery comprises elegant Necklaces, Tiaras,
Sprays, Bracelets. Superb Brooches-birds, butterflies
and other novelties. Choice Articles for Wedding and
Birthday Presents. At prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Plain Gold
Inexpensive Jewellery is none the less artistic. Thousands
of the newest dainty articles in Brooches, Earrings, Sets,
Links and Trinkets, admired by all. Special new designs
in Hall-marked Gold Brooches at 6s. 6d., Bs. 6d. and 10s.
6d. to 20s. Exactly half the price charged elsewhere.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S most inviting Display
of Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Diamond and Gem Rings in
every size and style, all Special Value, Mounted by our
London firm, deserves your special attention. Engage-
ment, Wedding and Keeper Rings, a special variety.
All at Freetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Stock of Ladies' beau-
tiful Gold Alberts in Princess, Fob and other new designs,
comprises all that is new and elegant. Hundreds in
stock to select from. All guaranteed 15 carat gold, at
most tempting prices. 25 per cent, saved to every buyer.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of Gen-
tlemen’s 15 and 18 carat solid Gold Hall-marked Alberts,
in single and double designs, is 10 times the size of any
stock in Sydney. In this department the value and
novelty we offer is the best evidence of the large business
we do in these indispensable articles. Our stock of heavy
hall-marked Gold Links, Studs, Solitaires, and the elegant
assortment of Scarf-pins has only to be seen to be
appreciated.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Sterling Silver Plate
comprises the most recherche display in Sydney. We
hold the choicest articles suitable for wedding and birth-
day presentsin solid Silver Tea and Coffee Sets. Afternoon
Tea Sets, Elegant Salvers, Superb Cups, Bowls and Jugs
suitable for prize trophies; Cups and other articles suit-
able for Children’s Birthday Presentations. A very
extensive variety of Salts, Pepper Boxes, Brushes, Glove
Stretchers, Shoe Lifts, Scent Bottles and Ladies’ Card
Cases, Portrait Frames, Thermometers, and other fancy
articles, all in Sterling Solid Silver, at Preetrade prices.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Optical and Leather
goods are alike comprehensive. Spectacles and Eye
Glasses in every make. Our celebrated Pebbles from 4s.
6d. per pair. 9 and 15 carat Gold Folders, Specs, and Eye
Glasses at lower prices than ever before sold in Sydney.
Special new variety in Thermometers, Barometers,
Aneroids, and Clock Combinations, in most elegant
designs. Rare and Choice Designs in Ladies’ Sterling
Silver-mounted Long-shaped Purses (portmonnaies),Card
Cases, Fitted Dressing Cases, Bags, &c., Gentlemen’s
Silver-mounted Pocket Books, Card, Cigar and Cigarette
Cases, Dressing Cases, Bags, Combs, and Brushes, all suit-
able for presentation. Our Stock of choice Opera, Field
and Marine Glasses, in the most elegant designs, is the
largest in Australia.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Stock of Finest Silver
Electro-plate includes the most magnificent assortment of
Tea and Coffee Services, Salvers, Hot Water Kettles,
Dish Covers, Entrde Dishes, Breakfast and Dinner
Cruets in every style. Solid Sugar and Pickle Dishes,
Bowls, <&c., Biscuit Boxes, Butter and Jam Dishes, Fruit
and Flower Stands, Salts, Knife Rests, Liquor Frames,
Sets of Dessert, Fruit and Fish Knives, Carvers, Table
and Dessert Spoons, Forks and Knives of the best
qualities, at prices to suit everyone.
STEWART DAWSON and CO.’S Gigantic Stock of
Clocks, for Dining, Drawing, and Sitting Rooms, should
be seen by all. We hold the most superb stock of Fine
French Marble Clocks in Sydney, at all prices, from 255.
to £lO. We have several special registered designs,
most suitable for presentation, for which purpose we are
selling them daily. Your attention is most respectfully
invited, all at our low freetrade prices, a full one-tlura
lower than any house in Sydney.
Watches,
DIRECT
Dla onds, J e w ellery,
THE MOST RECHERCHE STOCK IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE-
fr om THE MAPTUPACTUBEBS TO THIS
Sllve r-p late.
PUBLIC.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S
WORLD-FAMED
ENGLISH LEVERS.
Beware of Imitations and worthless foreign watohes
advertised as English.
BUY ONLY THE GENUINE.
.pq fiS.— S. D. and CO.’S Crystal Front ENGLISH
MO u LEVER. Lasts a lifetime. Highest quality.
Well worth t’s.
pq 1 AS.-S. D. and GO'S Grand Liverpool ENGLISH
3JO IVI HUNTING LEVER ; every known improve-
ment. Gold balance. Defies all competition. Cheap at
i'6 6s. Beware of imitations.
Pd 1 n s --S. D. and CO.’S Superb ENGLISH IIUNT-
IU LEVERS. Three pairs extra jewels,
and real chronometer balance. Perfection.
.pK 1 AS.-S. I), and CO.’S Magnificent Keyless
iv HUNTING LEVERS, highest quality ; worth
JEB Bs.
£5
1 nS.—S D. and CO.'S Three-quarter-plate ENG-
1U LISH HUNTING LEVER. Unequalled.
PC 1 0 s - —®- D' an( l CO.’S grand Three-quarter-plate
±KJ Centre-seconds CHRONOGRAPH LEVER;
thousands in wear; without equal.
-Pi f) ~S. D. and CO.’S Very Highest Quality Adjusted
cw-lw. Three-quarter-plate Keyless ENGLISH LEVER.
Pi 1 1 nS.—S. D. and CO.’S English Double-minute
ovx ~ and Second Independent CHRONOGRAPH
LEVER. All English.
P,l KS.—S. D. and CO.’S Sterling Silver DEFIANCE
e WATCHES, the best low-priced Watch ever
made. Hunters ditto, £ll2s. 6d.
ptj 1 f)S.— S. D. and CO.’s Matchless 18ct. Ladies’
T Keyless fine SWISS WATCHES, the moat
superb gems procurable.
po I nS., £lO 10s., and £l2 10s., and £l4 10s. S. D.
cfc/u l v and co.’s Ladies’ Everlasting 18 carat
English GOLD LEVERS, all at Manufacturers’ prices.
Pi A 10 S -„ £l2 10s -> £l5 10s -. £25.-S. D. and
CO.’s Stuck of Gentlemen’s Fine Quality
English IS carat GOLD LEVERS have no equals,
p s c AND pcn-S. D. and CO.’s GOVERNMENT
_ KEW A Certificate Adjusted Gold
Keyless Half CHRONOMETERS are a triumph of Modern
Watchmaking.
WALTAM WATCHES.
We hold the largest stock of these to be found on the
Australian continent, and we ask every reader to compare
ours with the prices you have been paying. Notwithstand-
ing the duty of 15 per cent, recently put on by the
Government, the following will be found from 12J to
40 per cent, lower than Waltham Watches have ever
been sold in Sydney:—
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, full plate £2 7 6
Ditto ditto, good balance .. .. _ .. 212 6
Ditto ditto, compensation balance " .. .. 3 0 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, J-plate, 7 jewels .. 310 0
Ditto ditto, keyless, 3 pairs extra jewels .. 44 0
Gent.’s Silver Hunters, “Riverside," adjusted
3 pairs extra jewels, compensation balance 510 0
Ladies’ Gold Keyless Hunters, 10 carat.. .. 710 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat 12 10 0
Gent.’s Gold Keyless Hunters, 10carat.. .. 9 9 0
Ditto ditto ditto, 18 carat .. .. .. .. 1410 0
All the Higher Grades in Gold Cases at Proportionately
Low Prices.
Rotherham’s English Levers,
IN ALL THE HIGHEST GRADES,
Including Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s full and three-quarter-
plate, key-winding and keyless, in gold and silver case •
At lower prices than ever sold under Freetrade conditions.
All Watches Guaranteed.
Any Wateh in above lists sent safe per post,
paid, together with guarantee, on receipt of remittanc •
GENTLEMEN’S SILVER ALBERTS.-In tj»is Depart-
ment our Stock of Sterling Silver Alberts, Seals, Lock >
&c., and the special value we offer defy all competitio
NOTE. - Special Goods in Diamond and Gem
to order. We hold a very large Stock of Loose Diam or £
Rubies, Sapphires, Pearls, &c., and can m ake n ew
or remake old articles into modern designs in the sn
possible time at lowest prices. Repairs of Every ves v
t,ion by the best WORKMEN.
Stewart Dawson and Cl’s Watch
412 GEORGE STREET, and STRAND ARCADE, SYDNEY.
Jewellery Palace,
MELBOURNE and AUCKLAND-
