

$
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS » T 5 EACH,
GRAND NATIONAL STEEPLECHASE. 15th JULY
CAULFIELD CUP, OCTOBER .... ■
Melbourne! cup,’ novlmber (fob" horses only)
20,000
20,000
30.000
10.000
5 BACH.
5 Each.
5 Bach.
10 Bach.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose—one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
rUB XXUXVORiO WAV*-*/
“GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
OXFORD STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
67
"KIP
JC
Mining
•f
Sydney
Kent
107
Street,
„ A , , “oi cyiT* opal’s 5 and Ssiwmi.il 3!iB[aclnnery, Minm§
and Contractors Plant, Engmee AW „ plants always availai
Requisites,
AVAILABLE.
EXPLOSIVES, BTJII
ghj
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
Guaranteed PUKE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
PER Dill AII
’ FOR
list Ms
AND
Witstjrols.
GARDEN
HOSE, &c-
-270 George-st., Sydney-
. . Tn K TVTTT.V
H
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
nr tawa v 1 ti PTLLS AND OINTMENT.
the healing virtues of thes m grand medici the ordinary
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In a| the
ailments of humanity their beneficent their use
recognised.
m every disease. IP YOU burrivxvjJ- ■ Pur-
factured only at 78 New Oxfoed-st., L „ • g , in( j p o tg.
chasers should look to the Label on t % they are
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street. London, tney are
spurious
AND
CO.
J,
Ultl
i
r*-
oaJ
tH|
£■
tqS£
§sm
»»
street ’ Sy
— Proprietor.
tt TROUPE
Have you seen the LATEST PRICE LIST
OP THE
NEW SOUTH WALES
FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.,
FOR
Fish, Crams and Poultry?
A few of the Notable Lines are :—
l@f- SOHNAPPER, 4d. per lb.; MULLET, 3d. per lb. ;
FLOUNDERS, 7d. per lb. ; FOWLS, from 4s. 6d. per pair;
TURKEYS, from 5s. to 12s. each ; GEESE, from 4s. each.
IN GAME,
a Dressed BLACK DUCK can be had for Is. 9d., a TEAL
DUCK for is. 3d. WILD TURKEYS, ENGLISH SOLES
and CAMBRIDGE SAUSAGES equally cheap.
Owing to the excellent facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners, we can send
MILK,
POULTRY,
BUTTER, ICE, PISH, GAME,
PASTRY (including Wedding Cakes, &c.)
to any part of the Colony.
The Addresses are as under: Head Office, 25 to 33
Harbor-street (City). City Depots : 92 King-street (re-
freshments) ; 135 King-street (fish and game) ; 23 Royal
Arcade (refreshments). Branches: Summer Hill, North
Shore, Burwood, Waverley, and agefrts in every suburb.
H. PATESON, Manager.
fiUEI’S WEISIT
ALLSOFF’
STREET, SiroKTEY.
•- ' ? •“ Brew Waxes for MMS
Sole .A.geia.'fcs x .
Clayton axid SJauttleworth.
IW- THB
HOWARD DIGGING PLOUGH
.he Favourite Plough of the Times.
In 1,2, and 3 Furrows-
WITH HANPLE ?kAKy ST „E,
AND GOVERNOR STEERAGE,
Also in. Riding*
»sMim LL<I OMW imCDIK'
IMPROVED portable engine.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
* «
i
improved portable thrashing machine.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD,
.. , T\r»iiVvio and Convoound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compo neg . Boilers of a ll kinds.
Reliable for Deep, Wide Work,
Rightness in graught, Strength,
AND DURABILITY.
mi
Fitted with Reversible Share Points, which
can be replaced for 6d. each.
Convert able to ordinary ploughs if desired.
„ n „ K TRACTION ENGINES *r Full Catalogues oE Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery oh application.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES. LNGI p jtt Street, Sydney.
J m * ' ‘ ~ ~ '
The Bulletin
Vol 13. —No. 096. j
[Saturday, June 17, 1893.


Medical.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost thetr most essential
•foment of success, from any cause whatever, and
Buffer from bashfulnosa, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness, liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blood, Ac., should
Band for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their case most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the best means of rapid and
effectual cure, without mbroury or other poisonous
Mhos.
Late House Surgeon, Great
M'thn. Hospital, Loud.,
Invites every investi-
gation as to
bis
Qualifica-
tions,
Dr,
M. PERRY,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N.S.W.
Bend for
Dr. PERRY’S
Book. Free.
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
'Glandular Inlargamanta
His extensive experience in private and hospital
wractice, for a period of over twenty years, enables
xuxn to undertake the treatment of these cases with
the utmost confidence, and to assure his patients of a
SPEEDY and PERMANENT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treated of in Dr.
Perry s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving’ habit can be overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patients with the most per-
feet modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
m any part of the body. He supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt, from which the current can be dis-
tinctly felt, for £l.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays from 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and Saturdays.
NO CONSULTATION FEE CHARGED.
Sole Address :
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS and INVALIDS
* This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D,, F. 0.5., &c M Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Htqisnio, Infallible & Preservative.
OUBEB PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
Sold in Paris by
—J. FERRE,
Successor to Brou) Phar-macist, 102 rue Richelieu
find In Australia by all Chemists.
USE
V
v.
t. ' 9
m
WA
■i*
'll
m
mk
She: “Don’t know Mr. BATHO’S ! ”
He: “No!”
She : “Know my cakes?”
He: “Ah! Dem that make me love.”
HE BANK OE NEW ZEALAND
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. ~ £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
Sydney Branches:
£2,400,000
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Scale of Advertising 1
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly ~
One Year ~
Paragraph Advertisements
6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
25 ~ „ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
An kxtka discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
“ TALES or the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
By “PRICE WARUNG.”
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
3-.“ GRAND
NATI ONAk
SHOW,
j?
eNTRIE-S. ■ KEC EiV
I?
VS
y
A
%
CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
The Brighton of KTew Soutla Wales.
A mosfc Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well ventilated Dining,
Sitting and Bedrooms, Magnificent'Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specialty
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. K3X<]\OKirSX£<ll .... Proprietress.
A. and J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
gh
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia.
Manager foe Australia —"T. J. 297 GEORGE
STREET,
iYDNEY
wt
DO
EzS
WM
h t
Is. Always B EST
NOW IN THE PRESS AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OF SIX ”
TALES OF THE AUSTRAL TROPICS.
—BY—
wmr EEUEST rAVSWC.
With a prefatory notice by “ Rolf Boldrewood.”
Says the celebrated author of “Robbery Under Arms”:—“ln these Tales of the Austral Tropics will be found the strange
romances which write themselves, often in letters of blood, amid the half-unknown, mysterious regions of tropical Australia. That they
are not less true than terrible I take it upon myself to affirm. .
“ The writer has turned scene-painter for the nonce and limned with strongest lifelike effect the Drama of the Waste.”
Price, Is. Posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


53
Business Announcement.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G. & CO.,
. DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
"THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <Sc AITKEN,
KKW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 683 George Street, Sydney.
ANNA RUPPERTS
V'H
V/h4&
QTITT^
jg
ma
SKIN TONIC
<V T ill positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to ihe most delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s. (id., or, three hollies together, £ll2s. 6d.
Valuable new Book on “NATURAL BEAUTY,” sent
free, 4d.
Head Office—B9 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOIiE Agency for Australasia—
-153 STRAND, SYDNEY.
Hotel.
■fA
m.
,Xc
m
“ (T,he Sydney (Coffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE BOOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week, Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &o.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlook! ng Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usuallydisturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Ladies’ Tea Rooms.
THE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one of the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It will also be a great boon to Business
Men in the vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
ALES OF THE SYSTEM.
PRICE ONE SHILLING.
Medical.
0" JECKELL VINES
(F.R.0.P., M.R.0.5., etc.),
112 Phillip Street, SYDNEY,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Prof, of Electro-Medicine 2s Therapeutics,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous &, Skin Complaints,’
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Pear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Peel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Losa of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Pits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients Should Send
ONE POUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also free from
Customs Duty to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr, J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
1 CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
R3T Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING.
Medical.
Dr-Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send 6d. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
for remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
a candid and straightforward opinion of your
case. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
of which is but 6d. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
your ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
the purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
drugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 80,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
least, 16,000 persons to show their written evidence
of his success. All communications should be
addressed :
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Be sure to mention this paper when writing.
FREE, A LARGE
CONSULTATION NEED.
Shipping.
a,UN GLAN D VIA AM ERICA
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydnej
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran*
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn routi
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at tha
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal coni ract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows; —
Dates of Departure.
Steamer
POLYNESIEN L. Boulard
Arm. BEHIC Vimont
AUSTRALIEN G. D d ; er .
Y.deIaCIOTAT Chevalier .
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.— ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lordon and give them every assistrnce
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B. —Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
/rtANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
STEAMSHIP LINE.
in connection with
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY,
THE NEW NATIONAL SHORT ROUTE,
AUSTRALIA TO EUROPE,
via HONOLULU and VANCOUVER, through CANADA
and UNITED STATES, in 32 DAYS,
under contract with the Government of Canada, and
pending negotiations with the Australian Governments.
From Sydney for Vancouver, via Brisbane and Honolulu,
Positively sailing as follows: —
Thenceforward MONTHLY.
Making close connection at Vancouver with the magnifi-
cent transcontinental trains of the Canadian Pacific Rail-
way, from the Pacific to the Atlantic without change ol
cars. Choice of four routes across the American con-
tinent.
THROUGH TICKETS, at lowest rates, to San Fran-
cisco and all points in Canada, United States, and Euro-
pean continent, by all Trans-Atlantic Lines of Steamers.
' **» ROUND-THE-WORLD TICKETS by P. and O.
and Canadian Pacific lines, either via Vancouver or via
China and Japan at special rates. Passengers via China
and Japan booked through by the steamers of the
E. and A.S.S. Company and China Navigation Company,
connecting at Hongkong with the Canadian-Pacific Rail-,
way Company’s magnificent Empress Line of Steamships,
sailing for Vancouver, via Inland Sea of Japan, every
three weeks.
FARE—To or from Vancouver, Victoria (8.C.), Puget
Sound ports, Portland, or San Francisco: Saloon —Single,
£4O: return £6O. Fore-cabin—Single, £2O. WORLD'S
FAIR, CHICAGO.—From Sydney or Brisbane: Saloon,
return, £74.
For rates, maps, guide book, and full information, apply
to
BURNS, PHILP, and Co., Ltd.,
Managing Agents,
10 Bridge-street.
Miscellaneous.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. 6d.
hj
gh
jghj
(Jewry vjEAT(fl8
. trade mar*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. Bd.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three ndglig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
Gr. H- SMITH & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
SHORTLY TO RE PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


BAKER’S PATENT
Boundary Eider’s Knife.
Consists of KNIFE, with Steel for sharpening,
fitted into sheath.
PLAIN, 8/- eaoh .. AS SHOWN, 13/- each.
ggy- POST FREE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD on receipt of P. 0.0. or N.S. Wales Stamps.
W. Jno. Baker, CTJTLEB, 3 Hunter Street, SYDNEY. N.SW.
gh
I
Sim& eST
a*655T
®@VING
I m^ine
WSRI©
tH e
KKI
%
HOME
m
Before purchasing any other
sknd for circular or ask your
storekeeper to get you one
FROM
JMohnston&Co
746 GEORGE ST. (Haymarlret), SYDNEY
54 BOURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
1 167 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
NEWTON & LAMB.
Special Designs in Dining-room Furniture.
is V:> w :rX -
“s/A
ci/'w'l
'Ti
uTv
0
< j j
fe;
pp!
E>goS
i
f n \~j ~i
A
K
W,
a
O.
’o£
S=r.
* %>
AiieS
%v°;
ccv
U£>
Sa
d 69
£l9
SUITE, comprising SIDEBOARD with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK
DINING TABLE, SETTEE, two ARM CHAIRS, and six SMALL CHAIRS!
SUITE, comprising SIDEBOARD with SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK
DINING TABLE, SETTEE, two ARM CHAIRS, and six SMALL CHAIRS.
COTTAGE SUITE, in WALNUT, comprising SIDEBOARD, with BEVELLED
SILVERED PLATE-GLASS BACK, EXTENSION DINING TABLE with
SPARE LEAVES, SETTEE, two EASY CHAIRS, and six DINING-ROOM
CHAIRS.
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Cleavepb
Juvenia Soap
Marvellous Effect ! !
Preserves and Rejuvenates the Complexion.
£i>o to be given away in PRIZES to Residents in NEW SOUTH WALES.
Send stamped and directed Envelope for particulars to
FELDHETM, QOTTHELF & CO SYDNEY.
DR. REDWOOD’S REPORT.
JUVENIA SOAP is PERFECTLY PURE and ABSOLUTELY NEUTRAL, and is of
THE HIGHEST QUALITY.—T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.1.C., F.C.S.
THE
‘ Plum’
THIS brand of Razor ia something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
THE
4 Plum’
Price
(Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10 s. fid.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
i Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Reyistered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra,
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
um
TALES OF TUP, CONVICT SYSTEM.”
04 3
m*
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
it®’ The only thorough!}
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS,
imoMiims
A-ID
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is. and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor :
\ H. FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Jity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George st,
Wholesale of Elliottßrothers. Limited
Maiglbckchcfl
liljrfliieW
USTAV LOHSE
a «mix
LOHSE’S
MAIGLQCSOE
- LILY OF THE VALLEY -
PERFUME
TOILETSOAP
are the most fashionable in the world.
Sold by all high class'Perfumers.
GUSTAV LOHSE, Berlin.
M‘Arthur’s York Hotel
(Late Milthorps’),
Corner York A King Streets, SYDNEY.
Splendid Accommodation. The best Brands of Liquors
and Cigars.
FIRST-CLASS LUNCHEON, 1/-
ROBT. M'ARTHUR, Proprietor.
The OALIG-RAPH Writing Machine,
mm
-1
IB ’
m
> ■
m
mSmB
: - -
Simplest and Swiftest. Most Silent and Durable
All Parts Interchangeable ,and Adjustable.
The writing of the Oaligraph can al ways be recognised
by its peculiar evenness and regularity of impression ;
this is due to its being the only typewriter which writes
on a flat surface.
The Electric Telegraph Department of N.S. Wales, after
testing every machine in the market, has just given the
Agent for the Caligraph the largest order ever given in
Australia in one line for Typewriters.
There are now 120 Caligraphs in the Government
Departments of N.S. Wales. There are more Caligraphs
in the public offices of Australia than machines of all
other makes combined.
The Caligraph w ill manifold 20 copies at one operation
by interleaving carbon, and when used in conjunction
with Edison’s Mimeograph w'ill produce 1500 copies from
one stencil, each equal to the best original work. Send
for Mimeograph circular.
The New Special No. 3 Caligraph 1 as two interchange-
able platens, a lateral ribbon movement, and six addi-
tional keys which may be fitted with fractions or other
characters to order.
AGENTS: - Sydney, J. E. Cunningham, 49a Castlereagh-
street (two doors from Australia Hotel) ; Melbourne,
C. S. Cunningham, Ludstone Chambers, Collins-street;
Brisbane, Webster & Co., Mary-street; Adelaide, E. S.
Wigg & Son, Bundle-street ; Hobart, J. Walch & Sons.
rli.
m
• t-
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from all parts of the wor.d and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
qualities possessed by Br. Pierce’s
i-atcnt GALVANIC CHAIN
SEt'T. Read the letters:
From Australia.
Mb. W. H. Price, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W„ writes as follows:
“To W. H. Soul fc (Jo., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: S rs:—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthful in regard to
the statement that a man feels the electrical strength of
the belt ns soon ns it is placed on his b dy.forl felt the effect
of the belt ns soon as I placed it on, and believe me, X am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England. .
Mr Ohas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston bt„ Birmingham,
speaksas follows: “I can say that! have felt better, a great
deal, sinca I have used your Galvanic Chain Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not lake any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt.” From Arn erica. w w
Mr J W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U.S. A., writes— ‘Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me of bciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came on through a fall into a
ship’s hold some ten years ago. 1 fell 18 feet on my back,
and although I got upas if notlunghad happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. For one year
now I have fcLt as I used to at 20."
£3= Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce’s Belts
Call, or write for free No.2, and
please' mention th is paper when y H. Soul & Up.,
plea *e mention t/i is pa per wnen you much cro. y- ■ .
158 Pitt St., Sydney ’ Elliott Bros,, Brisbane; or, the
SVlagnetic Elastic Truss Co., San 1 Ran cisco, U. S. A,
SAYWELL & CO.
qEPO^
FOi*
MARVEL
T O B A C CO
e °CeoBCE S r S*® Ht '
IT IS MARVELLOUS HOW IT SMOKES.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Engineers and G-eneral Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Elngiues, Boilers, Gr-as E ngineSj
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
JWrite us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
IKTSTRUMEKTT M^.KEIH.S.
SURVEYING. MATHEMATICAL. ELECTRICAL.
THEODOLITES. Bent Axis straightened, guaranteed perfect. Divided Bubbles, etc.
Richards and Darke’s STEAM INDICATORS, Speed Indicators, Counters.
Surveyors’ and Architects’ Requisites in Stock. Illustrated Catalogues post FEEE.
H. A. ALEXANDER & CO., 19 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
A merican Eleva tor.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
L ight. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 Apart-
tnents and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums , Parks, Colonial
Institute, &>c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, Lomdor*, S.W. and the
South Kensina*:on Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience.
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—Nc. 690,
SATURDAY, JUNE 17, 1893.
Price, 6d.
hj
g
hj
A TEMPTING BAIT.—THE SAME OLD GAME.
“The bank-deposit interest-rate has been raised to four-and-a-half per cent.”—DAILY PRESS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.”
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £lO 0
Half-yearly ®
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tfie Bulletin Office I wcnty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., andall Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald,
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence” column all contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with A us-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 21 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal •.—The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land, South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interpi'ovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
Ne papers will be sent unless the subscript ion be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this ride.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for Ihe
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents can obtain
supplies direct from this office.
SATURDAY. JUNE 17, 1893.
Governor Duff on Land Settlement.
Less than twenty-four hour’s after his arrival
in New South Wales, Governor Doff felt
himself called upon to point out that the
people of this country ought to “settle on
the land.” For something like thirty years
past every viceroy and every politician, and
nearly everybody else, has risen at brief
intervals to offer the same observation, there-
fore there was no special originality in
Governor Duff’s deliverance. Nevertheless,
the mere fact that everybody thinks the
people ought to settle on the land, combined
with the other fact that, despite all this
valuable advice, they still do not settle to any
serious extent, lends a certain interest to the
question. A thing which everybody thinks
someone else should do, find which hardly
any one who advocates it does himself,
always is interesting, if only as one of the
most remarkable inconsistencies of the age.
At present, the point on which all the non-
agricultural classes are agreed is that the
agricultural classes are the back-bone and
the main support of the nation, its strength
in time of possible war, and the chief source
of its wealth, and that there ought, in con-
sequence, to be more of them. And the
point on which almost all the agricultural
classes are agreed is that the selector or
“cockatoo” is the poorest, most despised,
most desolate, melancholy, and Gon-forgotten
individual in the community. Also that his
life, as a general rule, is not worth living.
Therefore, every patriot in Australia yearns
to put his neighbour on the land, and yet
could not be put there himself unless he
were chained to a big tree and fin Act were
passed declaring that the instant he came off
the land he should be hanged without benefit
of clergy.
# # *
An unhealthy craving for amusement is,
in Governor Duff’s opinion, the principal
reason why men crowd into the cities while
the country districts remain desolate.
“ Men, nowadays,” he asserts reproachfully,
“will not go into the country as they used
to do. A place on the hillside which was
good enough for the father is not good
enough for the son. The son says that there
is no society in the country and settles in
the town.” This statement is doubtless true
to a certain limited extent, but if it is meant
as a reproach it is a decided failure. If the
place on the hillside which was good enough
for the father should—simply because it was
good enough for the father—suffice for the
son, then the cave which was good enough
for the father’s hundredth ancestor —the
naked aboriginal who walked the earth with
a big club and a discordant yell and with
raw cow-fat on his unkempt hair —should be
good enough for both of them. Further, it
should be good enough for Governor Duff
also, yet as that esteemed viceroy shows no
desire to run in a state of nature down George-
street, Sydney, he evidently lacks faith in his
own conservative theories. Yet he is so far
right that the lack of amusement is one—
though only one —of the obstacles to agri-
cultural settlement. The Anglo-Saxon is a
dreary individual by nature, and lacks the
capacity to make life cheerful. When he is
gathered together in large communities he
hires someone to be cheerful for him ; his
joy lies in a comedy or melodrama, or nigger
minstrel show or horse-race, or in a boxing
match where two men pound each other out
of any reasonable resemblance to humanity,
or in any other method by which a human
being can be happy through his agent. But
when these resources fail, and he is called
upon to be happy personally and on his own
undivided responsibility, the case is different.
In the ordinary agricultural centre personal
happiness is represented by the Church,
where he hears about hell, and the public-
house, where he hears about beer. And it is
a surprising fact that, in the older agricul-
tural centres, there are often more churches
than public-houses. This reveals in all its
nakedness the desolation of the bucolic soul.
Between beer, which represents a coarse and
sodden form of festivity, and sheol, which is
coarse, hair-raising horror, he prefers sheol.
There has been nothing more depressing
than this since the days of that disconsolate
sect, whose members used to flog each other
on festivals and holidays, and then take up a
collection,
» • *
The Frenchman, the Spaniard, the Portu-
guese, the Italian—the man of almost every
race except the Anglo-Saxon—can raise many
harmless joys even in a microscopic hamlet.
He can extract amusement out of an im-
promptu dance, a pair of castanets, a glass of
sour wine and a set of dominoes, and all
manner of other materials. The Australian,
unfortunately, is built on a different plan,
and consequently the small township in a
farming district is a desolation like unto the
desolation of the sepulchre. The smaller it
is the more abject its woe and lamentation,
and it is always small for a very sufficient
reason. Round every favourably-situated
agricultural township half or three-fourths of
the land is generally in the hands of city
speculators, who hold it for a rise. In the
eastern district of New South Wales many of
these estates have been held in this same
fashion for half-a-century or more—some of
them almost since the first beginning of the
province. Therefore, settlement consists of
scattered farms at long distances apart ; and
a melancholy village of one street, with
patches of straggling grass in the centre
thereof, and one depre&sed goat in the mid-
dle distance, and the ears of a forlorn horse
outlined against the far horizon, suffices for
all the business requirements of the dis-
trict. In almost every case it is the best
land which is thus blocked against occu-
pation, except at prices which are ab-
solutely prohibitive to the impecunious
“cockatoo” —and only the rocks and sands
and barren hill-sides are available for the
individual who is so constantly urged to
settle on the land. Therefore, inhabit-
ants are few and far apart, and the desola-
tion of existence is intensified tenfold. If,
by a heavy land-tax, or by the simpler and
more efficient process of absolute confiscation,
that public enemy who holds the earth, not
for his own use, but to .prevent other people
using it, in order that he may profit by the
artificial famine thus created, were entirely
abolished, the situation would be altogether
changed. Provided no one was permitted
to own the soil except for actual cultivation,
there would be room for the whole agricul-
tural population of New South Wales in the
narrow strip of land between the mountains
and the sea, and room also for all the unem-
ployed, all the superfluous city population,
all the swagmen and bush wanderers, and the
whole of that class is which urged to settle on
the land, when it might as reasonably be
told to settle head-downwards on the ceiling.
Then agriculture would become profitable
owing to denser population and shorter
distances of rail and sea freightage. And
then, too, owing to the greater density of the
population, the melancholy country village,
with suicide written large upon its walls,
and woe howling dismally along its neglected
highways, would become, in all reasonable
probability, a prosperous town of 16,000 or
20,000 inhabitants, with a theatre and
concert hall, a public library, a gaol, possibly
even a public bath, and other rational means
of amusement, and life would assume a
brighter and more civilised aspect than it
does at present.
# # #
But, meanwhile, the Fat Man prevails,
and even in the most thickly-settled dis-
tricts his great slabs of blank territory keep
the inhabitants far apart. Still, wherever a
patch of soil can be found on which the
blatant, large-stomached capitalist has not
set his flattened hoof, the people have
settled on the land, despite the desolation
and the other disadvantages. There is
hardly, in all New South Wales, one
square yard of available surface that
is reasonably fertile, that is accessible
by any decent road, and which is so
near a market that freight charges do not
absorb more than half the value of the
produce, on which some farmer is not toiling
to make a livelihood. But, by reason of the
Fat Man and his huge land monopolies, the
selector is now being thrust out into the
wilderness, where the sands are, and the
eternal droughts, and where the roads con-
sist of a wheel-track straddling into the
immensity of space, and the bones of the
dead men lie by the bush-tracks, and where
the scanty harvest that can be wrested from
the glaring Sahara is unsaleable, because it
costs £l2O in freight and charges to get £lOO
worth of produce to market. In these places
there is not only that lack of amusement
which weighs so heavily on the vice-regal
soul, but there are also no books, no educa-
tion, no knowledge of the outside world, no
civilisation, no joys whatever save hard, un-
remunerative toil, an annual horse-race some
20 or 30 miles away, and the blackened and
awful fluid which is called rum at the far-off
bush “shanty” by the side of the almost invis-
ible streak of sand that is called a road. There
the selector may dig and plough for a life-
time for the mere joy of digging and plough-
ing, and make nothing by it, and rear a
family of savages who know hardly any more
of civilisation than does the Papuan or the
local black aborigine, and hear by chance, at
long intervals, that some maundering philan-
thropist away in the distant city is still
urging him to settle on the land and prosper.
# • •
The Australian, like most of his race,
takes his pleasures sadly—when he gets any.
But the lack of amusement in the country
districts is not the reason why he does not
settle on the land ; his trouble is the abso-
lute want of any available land to settle
upon. The country is vast and the popula-
tion exceedingly small, therefore the self-
sufficient British visitor always assumes that
land must be abundant, and nothing but the
national indolence stands in the way of
settlement. But a very large proportion of
Australia is incapable of cultivation except by
irrigation on an enormously expensive scale ;
a large proportion is occupied for pastoral
purposes; nine-tenths of the fertile land
which is otherwise available is valueless for
agriculture at present, because markets are
out of roach, and almost ail the land which
is fertile and within reach of a market is
held by the Fat Man, who demands for it
prices that are absolutely prohibitive. There-
fore, when the well-meaning Governor Duff
urges the people of New South Wales to
settle upon the land he might almost as
wisely tell them to settle on the surface of the
Pacific Ocean. Still, there is this much to
be said on his behalf; he is in no way respon-
sible for the land-famine which oppresses
the country. But w r ben the average poli-
tician—the individual who holds a big estate
so as to block settlement and make money
out of the nation’s necessities —rises up to
demand for the hundredth time why the
people will not go on the land, the only
available answer to his brutal irony is to
sufficiently and righteously tax his property,
and let the people go upon it forthwith.
Mr. Reginald Black on the Financial
Crisis.
“ At ths request of a number of well-known
financiers and others,” the Sydney Daily
Telegraph has published the full text of a paper
on “The Banking Crisis and its Lessons,” read
by one of its directors, Mr. R. J. Black, before
that refuge of self-satisfied theoretical bores,
theN.S.W. Economic Association. That well-
known financiers should wish to have the gospel
of monetary salvation, according to Mr. Black,
widely proclaimed, one can understand, but
who may the “others” be? Shareholders in
re-constructed or re-constructing banks, per-
haps, who, by the dishonest seizure of other
people’s money, hope to evade their own
obligations; depositors concupiscent of gain
by any means and swinishly ignorant
of natural laws and principles, it may be.
Latterly, these people have been in peril
of a wholesale descent into what is vulgarly
called “ the soup,” Their power to draw
incomes from the labour of others has collapsed,
for the time being, and there are many who
declare that this is a good thing instead of the
public evil it is commonly represented to be.
Depositors have become “fixed” in a new
sense', and shareholders have found inadequate
shelter by spreading a few “influential ” news-
papers between their nakedness and the fierce
sun of honest, intelligent criticism. To them
Mr. Black’s comfortable preachment will be as
the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.
To most others who are not economically or
selfishly blind, it will seem what it is—a well-
meant but mistaken effort to restore confidence
in a system which never should have possessed
it.
# * #
With the technicalities of banking Mr. Black
is well acquainted. What he has to say is
made the more misleading by this fact, and by
candid admission of special faults in connection
with Australian banking, which are magnified
into causes sufficient for all that has happened.
Securities are here not so “ liquid ” and capable
of realisation at short notice as elsewhere, and
in order to obtain high dividends heavy specu-
lative risks have been taken. Mr. Black sees
this, and, in substance, says that if forbearance
is shown by bank depositors, caution exercised
by managers, safety, with low interest and
small dividends, will ultimately bring back
financial and general prosperity. His paper is
intended to be a valuable contribution to this
end, and if he had quite understood the
meaning of some sentences in it, could
have been made so. For instance, “ People
should understand that real wealth con-
sists in increased power of production ; that
the increased gold of a nation is nothing in
comparison to the increased power to produce
commodities.” Just before that he says, of
Australia : “lam sure that we all hope that,
with a return of confidence, a revival in trade,
and an improvement in the value of securities,
the business of the banka will steadily forge
ahead, and recover the high position it held
before the event of the panic.” Bank securities
in Australia, he admits, are largely “ property,
stations, stock, free selections,” &c. Let us see
how these statements don’t fit in with each
other.
• « •
A bank is a financial distributing agency—a
money-store. Those who have realised wealth
which they cannot or will not themselves
employ in any method of profit-securing, en-
trust it, as depositors or shareholders, to the
banker, who finds customers to pay them for
the use of it. If it were true that the only use
to which it could be put was to aid productive
power, the borrowers would gain on the average,
as well as the lenders. Leaving out of account
enterprises which failed and which would
necessarily form but a small proportion of the
whole, the greater the prosperity of the banks
the greater would be that of the country at
large. The more business these agencies were
doing in the way of helping people to pro-
duce more than they otherwise could, the
larger would be the volume of production.
Travelling along these lines it is hard to see
how a financial crisis could arise. If in the
aggregate the uses of the wealth loaned out
by the banks were productive, they would
leave something for the borrowers after the
lenders’ interest had been paid. Mr. Black, in
common with every other “right-thinking”
writer or speaker on this subject, including Mr.
M : Millan and Mr. Reid, doesn’t seem to
suspect that the wealth distributed by banks
can secure a return in any other way than by
increasing wealth. He deplores speculation, it
is true, but only because those who speculate
get “left.”
• * •
The Bulletin has often explained the matter,
but for the benefit of Mr. Black and other
eager darkeners of counsel, it will do so again
and again. It will go on explaining until a ray
of intelligence pierces the opaque commercial
mind and guides it to the conclusion that so-
called Commercial Banks aren’t really com-
mercial, but are opposed to commerce. Sup-
pose, then, A has a thousand pounds, and B has
a like sum. A invests his money in building
cottages to let, or in any business—that is in-
creasing production. B buys a piece of land
and waits for a rise in its value—that is pre-
venting production. A depends for his profit
on increasing the supply of ' commodities ; B
depends for his on stopping production until he
is bought off. This is showing the matter in its
simplest form. The immense majority of in-
vestors, through the agency of their banks, are
of class B, though it may not appear on the sur-
face, and they may not know it. The bank
lends their money on real - estate security.
The borrower takes all risks. Bad seasons, bad
markets, bad business, bad judgment, bad
health, all the seen and unforeseen things may
be against him. The lender is secure, and the
interest goes on for ever. In most cases, the
mortgagee becomes owner. The pastoral free-
holds of New South Wales are notoriously and
hopelessly mortgaged in most cases ; the lease-
holds are in much the same fix, and the
shadow of the Scotch depositor is upon flocks
and herds.
* » *
Real estate is the kind of investment the
banks desire, and their returns are largely
dependent upon the price they can extort for
its use. The productiveness of land is not
affected by financial transactions regarding it.
It will yield no more under a mortgage than
otherwise, or in “boom” times than
when the market is “ prostrate.” But
in the former case users are fleeced bare
of their earnings to pay rent or purchase. If
the boom goes far enough to make the banks
uproariously wealthy on paper, as in Melbourne,
it reaches a place where the users can no longer
pay what is asked) When they cease to use it,
when production fails, when financial syncope
sets in, and a few uninfluential directors get
jugged, then down goes the price of land, and
people can afford to use it again. They do so,
and prosperity once more sets in. Then up go
laud values and bank returns, and, consequently,
down goes prosperity once more. The truth is
that production is at its highest when land
values (and consequently bank returns) are at
their lowest, and vice versa.
* # *
Mr. Black perceives only that if bank-
securities were placed in the market those who
have made advances upon them would lose
heavily. That is true, but what would the
country gain ? A great increase of production
would take place, because people could get
their spades and ploughs into real estate now
closed to them by a prohibitive price, and
which is to be held closed until that price is
paid, lest the banks suffer. He suggests that
population should be brought here by gifts of
freehold laud as in the United .States. Their free-
holds would soon be mortgaged, and themselves
the slaves of the money-lender hhre as most of
them are there. Increase of population would
mean increase of the tribute wrung from popu-
lation, by the power of wealth to monopolise
land through the medium of the banks.
All such things have been tried elsewhere ;
population has come in from other countries
and brought with it growing sorrow and
menace. Australia is even yet one of the
most fortunate of the world’s countries, but
already of the few r people w r e have many go
hungry and half naked because the land-
grabbers will not give them room to earn food
and slothing in. There is a way out of this


The Parisian newspaper kiosk has just
been planted in Melbourne, at Flinders-street
railway-station.
Cable: “The Protestant and Catholic
natives of Uganda are still fighting
The propagandist work goes well,
The mission men have little care—
Teach s wages there is a Hell,
And they will send each other there.
state of affairs, but it is a way that the banks
do not approve, and ambition to show it should
be made of sterner stuff than Mr. Reginald
J. Black’s paper.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
"Drink” as a Local Industry.
A few weeks ago, a gloomy crowd of foreign
wine and spirit importers waited upon the Vic.
Minister of Customs with their grievance. The
grievance, from their point of view, was great.
The Shiels Government, actuated by a purely
selfish desire to increase the Crown revenue,
had put the last straw upon the back of the
discriminating tippler, in the shape of another
increase of duty on imported liquors, and “ the
trade” had little or no “boozer ” left to “carry ”
its merchandise. Allowing for exaggeration in
the woe of the foreign whisky, wine and beer
dealer, there is still a startling decrease in duty-
receipts to be accounted for, and although these
are obviously not drinking days in Victoria, it
can scarcely be doubted that it was Graham
Berry’s last straw which broke the drinker’s
back. Meaning, again, the discriminating
patron of alcoholic liquor, and chiefly referring
to the man who dreads local whisky. When the
final ninepence was clapped on to his quart bottle
of liquor, it gave him pause. Graham Berry
—who hasn’t many ideas outside of political
fiddlededee —thought to add another cubit to the
revenue in the same old way, but his attempt,
in a Budgetary sense, was a miserable failure.
Determined to save this extra ninepence, the
middle-class family consumer made each quart
of whisky go eighteenpence further than of
yore. He watered it more, or he held sternly
aloof from a second nobbier. Conse-
quently, “ the trade,” sorely injured in its
breeches pocket, calls upon the Government to
withdraw this fatal tax upon insobriety, and
the Government sympathises with the request,
every Government being, in its official instincts,
a rabid foreign-trader. To the total-abstinence
crank, and also to the saner community at
large, there seems no cause for dropping a tear
into the drink-importer’s cup of sorrow. Nay,
the teetotaller absolutely revels in the misery
of the grog-agent, who complains, in full, fruity
tones, that he is drifting to insolvency, whilst the
community smiles at the sight of a Protectionist
Government regretting an impolitic restriction
placed upon the annual flow of Australian money
into European vats. Ought it not to be a matter
for rejoicing that Victoria is, in the first place,
sobering-up, and, in the second place, giving
better support than formerly to the local beer,
wine and spirit manufactures? The well-
digested answer is a cautious affirmative.
“ Yes,” with a saving clause. Victorian wine,
the trade in which has received a great impetus
within the past year, is getting to be good for
the heart of man. The beers, notably a brand
of lager, are every year more worthy of mild
patriotic support. But in the important matter
of spirits it is very questionable whether a
wholesale doctoring of imported fire with
local blazes is a subject for national
congratulation. To reduce one’s allowance
of sound Scotch or Irish whisky is one thing.
To buy a Victorian substitute at a lower price,
or have it insidiously introduced into one’s
stomach by the publican (who “must do it
under present circumstances ”) is another thing
entirely. There is no recorded instance of a
Victorian physician ordering local spirits for a
patient, whilst there are hundreds of doctors
ready to testify to the murderous effects of fusel
oil on the strongest constitutions. Whisky is not
boots, or hats, or Geelong tweeds, or tomato-
sauce, or any local product which requires pro-
tection against the cheap labour of Europe, and
which may be purchased without hesitation.
Whisky is a serious matter for a lot of people.
Its manufacture is not perfected in a week, or a
year, or twenty years. The wisdom of ages
may be liquefied in a bottle of “ Scotch,” but
the secret of its virtue is not at the disposal of
every man who is starting a distillery. The
whisky theme is worthy of treatment by
the greatest writers on political economy.
Every country should learn to make its own
whisky, yet Heaven forbid that every country
should drink the said spirit, and no other, whilst
the amateur maker is striving to make it whole-
some ! Who, then, is to impair his liver,
lungs, and brain in the best interests
of his country ? Something more than
“age” is wanting in Victorian, or New
South Wales, or any Australian spirit. Good
judges will swear by their red noses that a
century of keeping would not give “ age ” to a
good deal of the raw, intoxicating stuff. But
its quality can’t be improved without the
cordial co-operation of the drinking public.
The uneducated distiller must have customers
to pay for his education, and, on the other
hand, his most enthusiastic customers run the
risk of dying young. The country doesn’t want
its people to die young, or go mad in a general
way. Neither does it wish its money to go
abroad for liquor, nor does it expect everybody
to dispense with ardent spirits. In short, the
country has never taken the trouble to consider
the great whisky question from every point of
view. It occasionally gets excited concerning
“ Rough on Rats,” but on many other domestic
poisons it has no well-defined public opinions
whatever.
The Australasian Rights Purchase Bill—sprung
on the New South Wales Assembly through the
failure of a preceding measure —easily passed
its third reading, partly from that cause, but
also because several of its hitherto professed
opponents voted for it. It is simply a scheme
to make money by Act of Parliament. On the
admission of the promoters’ own printed docu-
ment, every share is expected to be increased in
value five hundred times as soon as the Bill
becomes law. Which means that the future
electric-lighting of Sydney will be taxed,
not on the true capital —even that may
never have been fully paid up—but on a
bogus blown up suppositious capital, five
hundred times greater, given to it solely by
vote of Parliament. In the same way will
the earnings of the workers employed be re-
duced. They will be remunerated after
“capital has had its due return.” In this case,
what would be a fair return on the real capital
will be a monstrous and usurious return on the
bogus inflated capital, and the workman will
be worked to death and paid meagrely in order
to pay ten per cent, dividends on a capital that
was created only by the votes of a—well,
let us put it very mildly, crooked-minded and
ignorant majority.
The latest gory war-item comes per London
cable:—“The N.S. Wales cavalry team have
carried out a successful rehearsal of a bivouac
encounter with bushrangers.” Now, consider-
ing that we are anxious to impress the British
public with the idea that we have no bush-
rangers, only bank-directors, we quite fail to
see the value of this rehearsal. We could sug-
gest an encounter with creditors, or N.S. Wales
cavalrymen dispersed by bailiffs, orN.S. Wales
cavalry bivouacked in a sixpenny private bar in
search of bushrangers ; but this howling sham
of an encounter with armed highwaymen is too,
too much. Does not the thing indicate what a
mummery the Australian military system is?
There have been no bushrangers since the boy-
hood of any member of the team. The Kellys
were the last bushrangers worthy of notice, and
yet the non-existent is the only enemy the mind
of the cavalryman can suggest. Why don’t
they have a mimic encounter with the ferocious
black gins at La Perouse camp ?
The detective who is slowly hurrying after
Matthew Davies with a warrant is under
strict orders not to arrest that gentleman
“ should lie choose to return to Melbourne
voluntarily.” The Bulletin now waits
anxiously to hear .that the Victorian Executive
has sent a polite letter to some small sewing-
machine canvasser who is £5 short in his cash,
telling him that, owing to anxiety about his
feelings, he won’t be arrested if he will promise
to come along and be tried “voluntarily.”
If Matthew is the sort of man who can be
trusted to return under such conditions, why
send a detective after him at all, and if he
can’t be trusted, then what guarantee is there
that he won’t give the required promise and
straightway light out gaily for parts unknown !
Also, when a man is told that he must either
return voluntarily or be arrested, is there any-
thing really voluntary about it ? If Davies does
come back, there will be a howl of admiration in
the ’Erald and other papers about his noble con-
duct in returning entirely of his own accord,
and how that action proves him to be like unto
the unborn snowball for innocence and purity.
And yet it will only amount to the fact that
Matthew had a choice between going on board
in peace and dignity and being shoved on board
by the back of the neck, and then locked in bis
cabin ; and he selected the former method.
Which will be about as convincing a proof of
Matthew’s spotless innocence as the other fact
that he used to drive down to the Mercantile
Bank board-meeting instead of hiring a police-
man to handcuff him and drag him to his famous
bank by the hair.
—.—
James Service, in defence of the Crown’s “con-
stitutional ” management of the Mercantile
Bank scandal, “ wouldn’t say anything about
the poor unfortunates (Millidge and Davies)
who, for the first time in the history of the pro-
vince, were to be exposed to the fire of a double-
barrelled gun; that is to say, they were to be
shot at twice instead of once. In the one case,
a shot from a barrel which did not take effect
was fired by the Attorney-General, who did not
make up his mind until he had read the evi-
dence ; but the second shot was to be fired by a
gentleman who had already made up his mind,”
and so forth. The old, old drivel once more.
Now, James Service must have a poor opinion
of Victorian intelligence if he thinks to con-
vince a suddenly awakened public with trans-
parent nonsense of this sort. Its only effect is
to place him amongst the number of recognised
opponents of bank prosecutions. The “ poor
unfortunates” for whom his heart seems to bleed
were not fired at by the Attorney-General. The
gun was laid aside on the false assumption that
it wasn’t loaded at all, and when Isaacs took it
up and found a charge in the barrel, they threw
Isaacs out before he was able to shoot. As
regards the wearying statement that O’Loghlen
didn’t read the evidence until he was obliged
(and then read it badly), the country would
like to know how the Crown came to prosecute
anybody without knowing why a prosecution
was necessary. Also, James Service is
requested to explain why the facts that were
too strong for the long-hesitating Shiels to get
over, in the first instance, were not good enough
for O’Loghlen to let the law “take its usual
course” upon, after a magistrate had committed
Davies and Millidge for trial.
-♦
The Crown in New South Wales, while .
acknowledging the principle that it is just for
the State to defend a penniless man on trial
for his life, evidently considers that its duty is
limited to defending only to a very cheap and
fractional extent the “ pauper” whom it prose-
cutes with great vim. Look at the Burton-
street murder, for which, last week, after a
five days’ trial, Archer was sentenced to
death, in Sydney. The amount in all voted by
the Crown for defending accused was £l7. Of
this, £lO was payable to Mr. Crick, who
appeared as prisoner’s advocate in the Supreme
Court, leaving to the attorneys engaged in the
responsible task of rescuing a possibly innocent
man from the machine-like vengeance of the
Crown, with its practically unlimited resources
of money, men, and manipulation of transit and
communication departments, seven pounds ster-
ling. Why, the ordinary daily wages of one pick-
and-shovel labourer, covering the period during
which the Burton-street tragedy has been in
process of investigation, would have exceeded
the whole amount allowed by the authorities
for the defence of a citizen whom the Law held
to be innocent until he was proved guilty. On
the other hand, the prosecution was repre-
sented by the eminent and expensive Mr. Frank
Rogers,' Q.C., assisted by Mr. Coffey, stipen-
diary Crown Prosecutor, a barrister of sufficient
standing to have been selected specially last
year to prosecute the Broken Hill “con-
spirators ; ” also, the whole police-force and ■
detective battalions. It would be , inter-
esting to know (will some M.P. kindly
enquire ?) in what sum the “ brief ” of
Mr. Rogers, Q.C., was marked. Very
probably, 40 or 50 guineas, with 10 or
15-guinea “refreshers”—making, in all,
say, £lOO or so. Mr. Coffey’s salary
as Crown Prosecutor is £6OO a year ; so
that on these two prosecuting professionals
alone it is likely that “ the Crown ” spent much
over £lOO to haul taut the gallows-rope round
the neck of the man whom it also decided to
“defend,” so far as £l7 might be lost in what,
under ordinary circumstances, could hardly
have been aught but a mock defence. Very
few people are tried annually in Australia for
murder. It would not be a very bold step (and
this we say without in any way disparaging
Mr. Crick’s able defence of Archer) for the
Government, when a penniless man is arraigned
for his life, to fee on his behalf counsel equal in
status to those by whom he is prosecuted.
♦
Sydney E. News abuses lawyer Crick for
having dared, in his defence of Archer, to
suggest, as one of a number of theories comput-
able with Archer’s inncence, that the deed
might have been done by a lover of Miss
Harrison. Now, Archer is almost certainly
the guilty man, and Miss Harrison was almost
certainly a good woman. But, all the same,
the E. News should moderate its thirst for
blood. It chooses to forget the cowardly attack
it made on Buttner while he lay under sen-
tence of death—an attack calculated to clinch
his doom : “It was not the first time Buttner
had been accused of such an offence.” As a
matter of fact, there was absolutely no evi-
dence of Buttner having been previously
accused, Buttner’s Sydney accuser was proved
at the trial, by medical and other evidence, to
have been “ a virtuous woman,” yet she subse-
quently went before the Executive and admitted
what by that time was well-known in Bris-
bane—and could have been fully shown
even had she denied the fact—that she
had trotted the pavements. And, as a result,
despite the medical evidence and the Evening
News and all, Buttner’s irons were struck off
and he left prison a free man, with the miser-
able sum of £5O Treasury compensation in his
pocket, on the very day on which he was to
have been choked by the Government man-
butcher. Crick defended Buttner and
snatched him from the gallows almost as the
hour began to strike. One such experience in
a lawyer’s life should make him chary of rush-
ing to conclusions either about the virtue of
women or the guilt of men, and fully justifies
him in raising any theory under Heaven in a
client’s interest. But the history of Buttner is
utterly wasted on the E. News —and, The
Bulletin much fears, also on the general
community.
Reconstruction.
(FROM A FARMER’S POINT OF VIEW.)
So the bank has bust its boiler! And in six or
seven year
It will pay me all my money back—of course !
But the horse will perish waiting while the grass
is germinating,
And I reckon I’ll be something like the horse.
There’s the ploughing to be finished and the
ploughmen want their pay,
And I’d like to wire the fence and sink a tank ;
But I own I’m fairly beat how I’m going to make
ends meet
With my money in a reconstructed bank.
“ It’s a safe and sure investment!” But it’s one
I can’t afford,
For I’ve got to meet my bills and pay the rent,
And the cash I had provided (so these meetings
have decided)
Shall be collared by the bank at three per cent.
I can draw out half my money, so they tell me,
from the Crown;
But —it’s just enough to drive a fellow daft
My landlord’s quite distressed, by this very bank
he’s pressed,
And he’ll sell me up, to pay his overdraft.
There’s my nearest neighbour, Johnson, owed this
selfsame bank a debt,
Every feather off his poor old back they pluck’t,
For they set to work to shove him, and they sold
his house above him.
Lord ! They never gave him time to recon-
struct.
And their profits from the business have been
twenty-five per cent.,
Which, I reckon, is a pretty tidy whack,
And I think it’s only proper, now the thing has
come a cropper,
That they ought to pay a little of it back.
I have read about “reserve funds” “banking
freeholds,” and the like,
Till I thought the bank had thousands of assess,
And it strikes me very funny that they take a
fellow’s money
When they haven’t got enough to pay their
debts.
And they say they’ve lent my money, and they
can’t get paid it back.
I know their rates per cent, were tens and
twelves ;
And if now they’ve made a blunder after scooping
all this plunder,
Why they ought to fork the money out them-
selves.
So all you bank shareholder’s, if you won’t pay
what you owe,
You will find that on your bank will fall a
blight;
And the reason is because its simply certain that
deposits
Will be stopped, the bank will bust, and serve
you right!
BANJO.
N.S.W. Justice lanes professes to value
the unsworn statement of an accused person as
highly as the sworn statement of the same class of
person. This indicates a rational habit of think-
ing on the Judge’s part. But, in the case of
litigants and general witnesses, he considers the
oath a powerful deterrent of false testimony. All
testimony resolves itself, we contend, in so far as
the testifier’s relation to a court is concerned, into
the testifier’s conception of his power to make
himself be believed ; and, sworn or not sworn, it
is a legal duty to assume that he will, if he address
the court at all, work equally hard to gain his
end, whether that end be money or liberty.
CORRESPONDENCE
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“East Grey” (Narandera) : Can’t suggest a
more suitable title. What is wanted is more suitable
verse. Returned.... “ A.S.C.” (Goodna): Simply stupid ;
not even mad ... “ G.J.” (A.V., Vic.): Two good lines—
“ Who backs his rigid Sabbath, so to speak,
Against the wicked week-days of the week.”
... “ Bluey ” : The dog that told the police about the
murder of its master is too dead to wag its tail in this
paper..,. “ J.R.” : Indian war-stories are foreign matters
not appreciated by Bulletin readers “Maggie”:
“You can’t liquor-up at the bar of the House” is a
stronger “wheeze” than any that you attempt ...
“ Hy. A,” : A parable that misses all allegorical functions
is better avoided, and presented as a plain denunciation ;
which has already been doneand overdone “M. M‘G.”:
Idyll merely embalming the truism that starvation makes
men thieves and women prostitutes ... “Tup Mann ”; A
ghoulish idea, needing a more dramatic reconstruction.
“E.P.S.”: A moist failure “Strephon”:
“ Buried Treasure ” declined “John A. E.” :It might
survive paragraphing .. One who writes such
doggerel can’t persuade this office that he has a con-
science which, in dishonesty’s remorse, finds “ a hell on
earth.”... “Ernest Rot”: Your Muse needs lime....
“ M.L.” (Walgett): A too-common story ..“Ernest
Scells ” : (1): Yes; some 40 per cent, reside on their
estates, some 20 per cent, in Dublin, and say 40 per cent,
abroad. (2) Rents acknowledged even by Tory-landlord
commissions to be excessive. (3) February 25, ’93
“ H.D.” (S.A.): Thanks “Murtie Murtie”: No, you
might tell us how the Kalalpanina Mission Station, Cooper’s
Creek, is managed. We’re always glad to know. .“P.M.”:
Your veisifled punning worse than “flat burglary.’’
.“D.M'R.” : Old story “Bets”: (1) Yes, a
“ Missing Word ” competitor may choose two, or 22, or
222, different words if he likes, provided he pays with
each coupon ; or he can choose one word 2222 times over.
(2) N 0..... “ R.W.S.” : We don’t want “ardent ad-
mirers” of “our admirable paper ” to “express grati-
tude” and be “ charmed to contribute,” &c., &c., and we
don’t stew up rotten rose-leaves just because we get
them gratis “ Sandfly ” (M.L.): Tired out of Scott on
the gallows... “Tasman” wants address of “ O.L.A.
(M.L.),” recently replied to in this column, and in
whose initials he recognises those of an old friend
“ Oyster Johnnie” ; The world is too busy catching its
daily dinner to worry about the other dinners. ..
“ C.A. B.” ; The w.p.b. has knocked you out again. You
pad your gloves too much “ Miner” (Broken Hill): To
hand “L. C. Unsworth ” (Islington): Try some other
weekly — “One of the People ”: A progressive land-tax
would mend many evils. But “ the flower of the working
men ” of any community never bolts away from difficul-
ties, with £6O a man.... “ John John ” : Yes, a good will,
if signature att( sted by two witnesses, who must not be
beneficiaries under it “C.H.T.”; Stick your little
finger in your mouth, force it out against your bulged
cheek—ready, present, pop ! That’s like your story
“ Scraps” : (1) The answer was old when Methuselah was
young. (2) The Bulletin does not know whether
George Royalist Dibbs is a member of the L.0.L.; if he is,
he won’t be next year ; if he is not, he may be next week;
whether he is or not, he’ll probably deny that he ever, or
hardly ever, was.... “L. 8.” (Vie.): (1) Almost any Bench
would regard the engagement as “£1 a week and found,”
and at once class the attempted charge for “ tucker ” as
a swindle... “ Taiwai ” : Quite unsuitable “ Bernard ” :
“ Ichabod ”in outer darkness; it harped on a hackneyed
theme. Flowers par. unprintable “ Catholic The
Bulletin isn’t an ecclesiastical paper. If we printed
your long letter we’d at once get a ream from Jawbone
Neild and Zachary Barry “ Minnamurra ” : Unsuit-
able . “E. A. K.” : Name of contribution?..." Cayuga”:
Thanks “Y.J.8.” (A.): “Cannibal’s Gin” an un-
relieved and stereotyped tale of savage brutality....
“ E.E.M.” (M.L.); Thanks.... “ White Mary”: You have
a spiky style and a hair-raising gift of metre “Signior
Fabian ” : Climax ineffective. When a man is going
home to cut his wife in 16 pieces, he ought not to be killed
by a cab-horse on the way. It spoils a good tragedy....
“ Poor Paddy ” ; A dank and mouldy parody. Not one
parody in a thousand is worth anything “ Wolston”
(Mildura): Four long pages of uncouth groaning after the
unutterable—the long-winded wallowing of a befogged
and ungrammatical soul on the threshold of space. You
couldn’t explain what it means yourself, unless you
defined it as the boundings of a metaphysical kangaroo in
the mud-hole of allegory “Harold G. P.” (Melb.):
What does it all amount to ? The club baronet who con-
verses in Bulwer Lytton language, with scraps of French
in between, is a weariness “Boori” (Parkes): Cut it
short. “ She was married. Also, she was mashed on the
lodger. The lodger went away and nothing happened,
but he calls occasionally to see her.” .. “ Sass ” (Taree):
Nothing surprising about it. If 800 cattle rush over a
nigger, he naturally is somewhat flattened “ P.R.H.”
(Dubbo): May possibly use “ Barrios ” (Broken Hill):
The idea of employing convicts to clear land for settle-
ment may be feasible, but any country member who advo-
cated it would lose his seat at next election all the same
“ Thomas Cottle ” : The bard who uses “Smith ” as a
rhyme for “carving” has no reliable principles, and is
often unsound on the question of a material hell into the
bargain “A Miserable Hound”: We quote one verse
of “The Banker’s Dream:
“ Should any person cash a cheque,
And thus an institution wreck,
He should be hung up by the neck —
Consigned to destruction.”
The other three verses need reconstruction “G.M.”:
Pooh. No back-blocks Australienne ever says such
things when her love “runs a banker.”... “Tripod”:
No; Barton has never held Cabinet portfolio under
Parkes. He was once before Attorney-General (with seat
in Upper House) under the short-lived Dibbs Administra-
tion, January to March, ’B9 “Mick Adoo ” : Can we
explain why ex-bank-manager Griffith was billeted on the
Q. Civil Service, despite the new rule that all applicants
must be under 21 and must face a competitive examina-
tion? Why, cert’nly we can “ Peter Bean ” : “ Spin-
ster” is an odious word ...“Jabez”: John Wroe’s
death, in Melbourne, was followed by the Nunawading
Messiah, Fisher, taking up the mantle, as Elisha, after
Elijah. He is not dead yet, and claims to possess the
spirit of Wroe.... “ W.8.M.” (Sydney): Try something in
a lighter vein. Looks too much like “ Paradise Lost.”
“ Australian Vampire ” ; There is no demand for mas-
sive allegory in this office “ Auld Nick” (Penrith):
You are only a superannuated devil—a poor, weak,
knock-kneed Beelzebub with a tendency to be aged and
benevolent and a nerveless tail that drags wearily over
four pages of verse “A. W. Stewart”: You begin
with a joyous disregard of probabilities and facts:—
“ Free at last the worker’s sailing o’er the deep and
crystal sea,
Freed from slavery and oppression on the. way to
Paraguay.”
Whieh reminds us very much of the man who is free and
bounding gaily along on his way to gaol “ A.A.A.”
(Barraba): Thanks .. .“J.8.” (Avoca): Poem beginning
“O what a run upon the banks” is declined. Poems
beginning with “O” are always viewed with suspicion in
this office.


[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
~ _ June 14, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
. Lady Duff has a new and complicated way of
signifying her readiness to receive the raging
crowd. Vice-regalities gone before used to put it
in the newspapers that “Lady Snooks will be at
home from three to five. No invitations will be
issued'—but the new hostess thus signals the
crowd to come on : “ W ith regard to the reception
to be held by Lady Duff, it is understood that the
function will last from three until five o’clock, and
that her ladyship will welcome such of the lady-
citizens as may wish to call upon her whether
accompanied by escorts or not. ” “ Whether accom-
panied by escorts or not ” looks as if Government
House were a sort of fashionable cafe where you
are not usually allowed in without a man in your
wake. The escort idea, though, is essentially
English. The Australian woman is broken to go
unescorted because the Australee man is chasing a
salary most of the time, and even the devoted
husband of Lady Blank has to let his distinguished
pansy-blossom play a lone hand in the howling
social wilderness, now and then. If the Austra-
lian society young man were expected to fag
through a quarter of the “escorting” that falls to
the lot of the British youth of leisure he would
give up his tan boots and flee into the desert.
Lady Duff evidently means to be agreeable, or
perish in the attempt (and when I think of the
big woman with the yellow bonnet, who eats jelly
with a fork at “ recepshuns,” the latter seems a
possible catastrophe), for she told somebody that
she had come to Australia “determined to like the
place and the people.” In other words, Lady
Duff, by an iron effort of will, took us to her
bosom while we were yet quite a long way off.
We might have been copper-coloured and addicted
to rubbing noses —and our land might have been
ten miles of hot sand to one prickly-pear bush—
all the same, Lady D. set out intending to be
charmed and delighted, and nothing short of
cannibalism on the part of the inhabitants would
divert her from her purpose. It reminds von of
the Duchess of Plaza-Toro—“ I loved your father.
Several of my relations bet me I couldn’t—but I
did !”
Lady Duff must not imagine that her first visit
to Rand wick last Saturday is a hopeful augury for
the future. With the Governor and her younger
daughter she sat peacefully on the empty mem-
bers stand, unmolested by that chronic adorer of
govmentouse, the fat woman in the jam-pot
bonnet; but it was only a false and hollow peace
—her persecutors were simply ambushed, waiting
for the weather to clear. Lady Duff was sombrely
arrayed in black silk with cape of black velvet
and much trimming of jet passementerie and
black ostrich feathers, very airy and influenzaish
bonnet of black gauze, jet, and aigrette, counter-
acted by a cosy wrap of fawn-checked tweed.
Gov. Duff again sported a dark necktie, and this
vice-regal indifference to tartan when the com-
munity has burst forth into rainbow checks so as
to be in touch with the “King of the Castle,”
strikes me as a very amusing circumstance indeed.
(How the audience at Her Majesty’s did grin
when, on “command” night, Rignold, as Mr.
Robinson, the London thief, in “It’s Never Too
Late To Mend,” sported a “ Duff ” necktie so loud
that it almost drowned the strains of the orches-
tra !) Miss Heather Duff was dressed in a grey
skirt and fawn jacket—straw hat made up with
polyanthus and black-lace bows.
A few ladies braved the elements. Miss Clib-
born, for instance, in a workmanlike coat and
skirt of brown ribbed tweed with pink linen, and
a sailor hat, and Mrs. W. Mitchell, well-tailored
in fawn checks and toque of green velvet with a
Frenchily-plaeed bunch of violets. One woman
in crimson cap-k-pie almost tempted you to warm
your hands on her back. You will have a good
notion of the flatness of things when I tell you
that men were actually taking in their own wives
for four o’clock tea.
The ball in aid of Tempe Refuge (on la«t Thurs-
day, in, apparently, Sydney’s only ball-room—
the Town Hall) could hardly help being a suc-
cess, because the committee ladies had put so
much thought and spirit into the staging of the
thing. Even a woman in a long, limp frock of
flaring coloured silk and garish sleeves, with
violets stuck in her touzled hair like almonds in a
tipsy-cake—or a very fat, fair charmer in white
and colour, looking like a half-acre clover-patch—
couldn’t spoil the effect of the crowded floor. The
decorations had all been done by the committee
ladies, and were “made in the manner of artists,”
and the supper arrangements were tip-top, from
the buttercup and violet floriture downwards—or
upwards, according to how you place mind and
matter.
In full war-paint, Lady Duff resembles Lady
Galloway, but dresses somewhat in the Carington
style—dqllishly. Sheworeanot-too-decollettegown
of electric-blue, brocaded in pink roses and yel-
lowish leaves, the bodice “faked up” (as the men
say) with old lace, and a large flat bow of straw-
berry-pink velvet; necklace, brooches, and coronet
of diamonds, and a very handsome committee-
bouquet of roses. The Governor wore his mo.
waxed, and a white flower in his coat; but neither
of the vice-regalities wore tartan, although the
committee sported badges thereof in a wildly
complimentary, if rather mistaken, spirit. They
meant well, of course, but they had hit, I am
informed, on the “ Mackintosh ” tartan, instead of
the Duff, and the result was that the butterfly
badges only looked like a sort of tribute to the
weather—which was wet.
The Lieutenant-“ Governoress,” wiio opened the
ball with Gov. Duff, wore a handsome dress of
black jet passementerie, diamond ornaments, and
a posy of roses; Mrs. Bowden Smith was in yellow
brocade, trimmed with old lace and shaded ostrich
feathers; the Misses Duff in pale-blue brocade,-
picked out with pink and pure white silk respec-
tively ; Miss Bowden Smith white silk, with full
sleeves of pink, covered with white lace. Miss
M‘Garthy (one of the hon. secretaries) wore
flesh - pink silk, trimmed with green velvet.
Mrs. Louis Haigh’s effective dress of cream-
ribbed silk, trimmed with brown, was an im-
portation from ’Ome. Miss M’Donagh (who
danced in the vice-regal set with Mr. Macdonald
Cameron, in full kilts with his “ skean dhu”
stuck in his stocking, ye ken) wore cream Ben-
galine. Mrs. Williamson, in pale-blue, trimmed
with brown velvet and snappy diamond orna-
ments, brought her two daughters. But I really
don’t know why a society damsel, whose principal
beauty is_ her vivid colouring, should have been
beguiled into powdering herself, hair and all ? I
don’t mean pretty Miss Pilcher, who looked par-
ticularly taking in powder and an angelic sort of
costume of cream with a golden star here and
there.
Madame Antoinette Sterling opened hilariously
at Sydney Town Hall, last Saturday, before a
massive audience, culminating in the vice-
regalities, who, fora wonder, weren’t managerially-
bouqueted. Lady Duff sported a stylish dinner-
dress of black silk and lace, with big sleeves of
jetted lace and “lashings” of jet on the bodice,
only lightened by a small white nosegay—necklace
and hair-ornaments of jet, and a crimson opera-
cloak trimmed with black ostrich feathers. Miss
Duff was in pale-pink, with flounce of pink spotted
ne k Lei* sister in lavender stuff trimmed with
cream lace, and both had pearl necklaces and
white opera-cloaks. Mayoress Manning wore
pearl-coloured silk covered with fine, black net,
and pompadour opera-cloak trimmed with white
marabout—indeed, nearly everybody seemed to
have looked hard at her wardrobe before coming
out.
Madame Sterling has a very “homely” voice.
Hullah’s “ Three Fishers ” —her crowning achieve-
ment on Saturday—was given with almost rugged
pathos, as if the story were being told by the un-
couth fisher-folk. There was no mincing accent
of “cultivated ” vocalism to spoil it from first to
last, and when she had finished the audience was
silent for a second or so, and then broke into
furious applause. Mind you, I don’t think she
can sing everything so well. “Love's Old Sweet
Song ’ (written for her, if I remember aright) did
not suit her at all, to my mind, because her best
style, which is grim and forceful, seemed utterly
at variance with the spirit of the beautiful ballad.
However, “Up in the Mornin’ Airlie ” showed
that the songstress isn’t so tragic in her vocal
manner as to be unable to carry her audience
laughing along with her if she likes. Madame
Sterling cut a very artistic figure on the stage in a
long redingote of white satin brocaded in velvet
and cape of white satin, the whole edged with
brown fur; under-dress of cream silk, with border
of pink and cream silk embroidery ; elbow sleeves
finished with deep lace, and long gloves to meet
them ; and her hair tied with a ribbon. I confess
that ribbon surprised me. Madame regarding
even the simple hairpin as too conventional, I
expected to see her dark hair waving ci la fiddler
A 1 press.
It’s a matter for congratulation that the Barn-
dance has vanished from the dance-cards, and that
a certain degree of Terpsichorean calm has suc-
ceeded the spirit of corroboree that brooded over
one well-known ball-room last season. We are
turned by finger-tips and ceremoniously bowed to
this winter, instead of being seized, as I have seen
lumpers grab bags of potatoes, and whirled in a
dizzy circle, regardless of the rules of the game,
and the effect is much more rhythmic. 1 never
yet saw an attractive girl being spun round with
her skirts behaving like washing in a stiff breeze
—her eyes giddy and her gasping mouth wide
open, like a fish out of water.
Judging from the published “interview,” I
think Madame Sterling suffers from the Whieh-
ness of the Whence in her views of life, which
complaint is, after all, a very 20-per-cent.-discount-
for-cash sort of thing when you look at it without
a far-away expression. Madame is evidently
addicted to talking a great deal of the mystic and
hysterical sort of rubbish which so many women
affect when they endeavour to be profound. For
one thing, the great contralto believes that people
who get into gaol must not be taken too seriously
“they have only acted in some way which was
not entirely what they meantbut that’s a great
truth, anyhow*, when applied to prison characters
none of whom ever dreamt of finishing up in the
dark cells. One prisoner especially interested her
he was suffering from what he never would
have done if his Ego had had its own way—the
real man drooping at what the flesh man had
done.” This is the sort of thing I have of late
been reading in the Review of Reviews, from the
pen of Mr. Stead, who now seems far advanced on
his journey to Colney Hutch, the English Yarra
Bend or Tarban Creek. Madame S. doesn’t
believe in the flesh ; she banks on the spirit, as it
were, and it’s a cosy sort of creed that saddles all
the blame on to the old Adam who won’t let the
vital spark of heavenly flame have its own vir-
tuous way, but is continually getting it into laby-
rinths of oakum and hominy—according to the
Christian Scientists.
It’s a wise child that knows not only its own
father but its mother, too —or so one gathers from
mamma Sterling, to whom one girl complained
that her mother didn’t understand her. “ Then
she isn’t your mother,” said Madame ; “she may
be your flesh mother, but your real mother is in
the spirit somewhere.” It reminds me of the
man in “ Killaloe,” who had one father, that he’d
swear, but they said he had a pair—isn’t it ? But,
perhaps, this accounts for the failure of the average
mother-in-law to really respond to the soul-hunger
for latch-keys and Thomas cat hours on the part of
her son-in-law? Ic’s because she is only a flesh
mother-in-law ; the ideal creature is probably look-
ing through the ventilator and half the time
wondering why the old fright doesn’t let poordear
Gussie have his hat without any questions?
I am sure it will severely grieve Madame
Sterling to read the amusingly shocking disclosures
made with reference to the recent establishment of
a church of “Christian Scientists”in Christchurch,
Maoriland. Although no one can urge that there
is any necessary connection between the piquant
(if one can ascribe piquancy to an earthquake)
revelations and the religion of which Madame
has talked to us so much through the papers, the
“It is an ill wind,” Ac., is exemplified by
the large increase in the sale of Australian wines
as against imported spirits. This arises from the
necessity for economy, and we are glad of it, as
the consumption of locally-made wines increases
the internal industry of the country. The popular
brand is Innes and Co.’s, of fierce Boar’s Head
fame. We cordially recommend the wines to our
readers.
news in question must be regarded as most mal-
apropos. One chapter, as it were, of Bluebeard
and three chapters of the Mormon prophet Joe
Smith don’t make a very enticing personal intro-
duction to the faith of which we had only just
caught the name.
Ex-Chief Justice Stephen’s plea for a self-denial
week, in aid of the Sydney Alfred Hospital, (an
effort is being made to extend the benefits of the
movement to all the local charities) is sure to
become fashionable, especially since Lady Duff
has given it her patronage, and it now remains to
be seen what folks will deny themselves. Premier
Dibbs, for instance, should smoke fewer cigars;
George Reid might deny himself a perambulator,
and so might Henry Parkes, I can’t think
what Mr. M‘Millan could do without, but J. C.
Neilrl could drop moustache-salve for seven days,
and Minister Frank Suttor go without starch in
his linen or hypothecate his Windsor uniform.
And then Mr. John Davies might deny himself a
hat.
I think the most scaring phase of present fashion
is the short skirt, to which belledom is not yet
accustomed. When street-sweepers were in, you
had to hoist two feet of drapery clear of mother-
earth when you wanted to negotiate a mud-puddle
woman is a conservative creature who
relinquishes her habits very slowly. One wet day
recently I saw a society girl getting over the road
in a fashionable skirt a foot short of the old
standard, but still she had hauled it up the usual
two feet, and—well, I really couldn’t specify the
effect in a family paper like The Bulletin.
The prorogation of N.S.W. Parliament last
Tuesday morning would indicate that politicians
are losing their powers of feminine attraction, for
seats were available even at the eleventh hour.
Governor Duff proved to have a good official voice,
although he pronounces it “ Ostrailyah,” and
seemed to want to yawn now and then —but he
cut a dazzling figure in the cocked-hat and white
pinnies. The prorogation was a rather flat pro-
ceeding, perhaps because Lady Duff wasn’t there,
and the fact that the Speaker mispronounced a
word probably had something to do with the gloom
that enveloped the last parliamentary pause for
breath.
Vice-regalities are breaking out in a fresh place.
Viscount Gormanston—Tasmania’s new sandwich-
man is not coming out just yet, because his
banker and his steward have both, most incon-
siderately, rushed off to a better world. They
might have courteously postponed their dissolu-
tion until the Viscount had had enough of Hobart.
I hear that Madame Scherazade, the charming
hon-tameress, who tamed Premier Dibbs, has
given up lion-taming, and gone into Sydney Bene-
volent Asylum as a student of I’art d’accoucher.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “ It’s Never Too Late to
Mend.”
Lyceum “The Silver King.”
Criterion “ The Guardsman.”
Tivoli Theatre.. 1 tarry Rickards.
Theatre Royal "The Black Flag.”
Centennial Hall Madame Sterling.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Gaiety Company.
Theatre Royal Melodrama.
Opera House Variety Show.
A certain sameness which pervades the
melodrama is much in evidence in the ‘‘Black
Flag,” which was nailed to the mast on Saturday
at Sydney Royal. The materials of which all
melodramas are constructed are much the same ;
there is a horribly good man and a horribly bad
one, and a funny man, and a criminal code which
invariably lays the haggard claw of retribution on
the wrong individual. It does this, too, despite
discrepancies in the evidence which ought to make
his innocence apparent even to that kind of
detective who mistakes the hole where a tree was
grubbed out for the footprint of his prey. The
principal joy of the “ Black Flag ” consists in the
fact that one brother puts on the other brother’s
clothes, and thus disguised he solemnly “stoushes”
the old man with . a bed - post. When he
returns from this nefarious feat he meets his
brother’s best girl and converses with her, the
lady being entirely deceived by the clothes, and
ready to swear to him without hesitation. This
proceeding is strangely and horribly reminiscent
of that bloodstained criminal named Thomas
Jones, who effectually disguised himself for many
years by calling himself John Jones and wearing
his tie the other side out. Even the stoushed
parent is deceived, as that flattened predecessor
always is, and but for the fact that the unsleeping
eye of the funny man is upon the criminal, and
that his old suit of clothes rises out of the river in
judgment, like theghostof a dead iniquity, theother
man would probably spend therestof his life in gaol.
The fact that the two brothers can apparently
only be identified by their clothes, naturally makes
the audience want to know how they weren’t
mixed when they were being washed in childhood,
unless they were washed with their hats on.
Possibly, however, one of them had his hair out at
home as a means of identification. There are
many good scenes and a lot of good scenery in the
“Black Flag,’’ and otherwise it hangs together as
well as can be expected. The view of Weymouth
harbour in particular is an example of how every
prospect pleases and only Mr. A. Rolfe is vile.
The principal glory of the piece is Alfred
Dampier as that massive kind of hero at the sight
of whom 30 hardened villains always turn pale,
and fly in 64 different directions—they would fly
in more only the compass gives out at this point.
Messrs. Leston, Harford, Plimmer, J. Buller and
Miss Russell also deserve honourable mention, and
the vileness of Mr. A. Rolfe has already been
alluded to.
** * *
That bright and inspiriting opera, “Girofle-
Girofla,” drew a full house on Saturday at the
Gaiety, and amid much enthusiasm a vast mass of
flowers was passed up on the stage and removed
with considerable difficulty to the back premises.
“ Girofle-Girofla ” is an opera which always looks
well when reasonably well treated, and in the
present instance it receives good treatment from
almost everybody except the prima-donna, Miss
Emma Wangenheim. That lady somehow doesn’t
look the part of Bolero’s two daughters worth a
cent ; perhaps the strain of being two ladies
at once is too much for her, though she is not
too small to be Bolero’s six daughters. Bolero
himself, by George Dean, is one of the most
gratifying monarchs The Bulletin has seen
since last Christmas. Jules Simonsen’s Marasquin
awakes recollections of dear old Amies Beaumont,
though the comparison is not altogether favour-
able ; Jules has an excellent voice, but a certain
wood on ness of manner seems to suggest that he
originally learned to act in a timber-yard
Miss Lambert, a small lady with a small part as
the page, is hereby pointed out as a personage
whose vocal abilities and unexpected sense of
humour will raise her to better things • anrl
Mourzouk (Mr. Fred. Wentworth) seems a
deserving Moor and a highly respectable melo-
dramatic coloured gentleman generally. “ T. p( .
Cloches de Cerneville ” follows.
* * »
On Saturday the legend outside Harry
Rickards’ show announced that there wasn’t even
standing room inside. The Bulletin accepted
the statement, and didn’t intensify the scene of
horror by attempting to climb in over the heads of
the multitude. Rickards is doing a most excellent
business.
* * -* *
‘‘The Guardsman” will take the stao- e at
Sydney Criterion, next Saturday. Meanwhile,
Had don Chambers Idler J i.s hles.sect Lv thp
P at ' r ™ la P of Governor and Lady Duff, and a big
V.R. appears on the firm’s advertisement
George Rignold still rises in four acts to demon-
strate that it is “Never Too Late to Mend ”
and the audience which knows just as little
about Australia as did Charles Reade himself—
doesn’t worry in the least about the discrepancies
in the story. 1 *
** * »
‘‘Human Nature” passes away from
bydney Lyceum at an early date to make room
for Edward Terry, who opens in “The Church,
warden, ’on June 24. That good, old favourite
George Leitch, takes a hand in this show After
his season, which is limited to 24 nights the
Royal Comic Opera Co. appears on the scene oner
more. *
** * *
Fitzgerald Brothers’ big tent stood the
shock of last week’s gale, and came through un-
injured, which is a solid evidence, if any evidence
were wanted, that the firm is founded on a rock"
the blast blew several heavily-encumberd proper"
ties from underneath the bill of sale, but the circm
did not even totter on its foundations. Australia
has raised many big things, including the national!
deit, the bush liar, and the bunyip, and it will
also be wntten large in its history that it grew
the L itzgeralds, the pioneer hippodromists of this
continent. At a time when almost everything
is imported from England, and almost everything
English, right up to the royal family, bears
the legend, “made in Germany,” it is refresh-
ing to meet with something that is abso-
lutely of local manufacture. The Fitzgeralds’
circus is Australian from one end “to the
other, the proprietors, the horses, and the
learned goat included. Considering what can be
done in this line with purely Australian material
Ihe Bulletin hereby draws attention to the
necessity for a 15 per cent, impost on imported
circuses, and a specific duty of fid. per lb. on the
boneless man who is brought here from Europe to
compete with the local contortionist and dislo-
cator. The programme this week consists ol
twenty-four separate acts, so that the show
keeps going all the time. None of the acts
are unduly lengthened, and that elaborate
joke which the ordinary circus clown takes 15
minutes to get off his massive chest has been con-
densed into something less than three minutes.
Commodore, which intelligent animal is the
mascotte of the firm, still prospers, and is full of
knowledge and guile. The show includes a ladder
performance, in which eight ladies and one gentle-
man gather together on two perpendicular ladders
which are balanced on the earth and rest against
nothing in particular. As each performer has one
leg on each ladder it seems to follow that, should
the supports suddenly go apart, the performers
will split up the centre, and nine halves of
them fly in each direction. This effect hasn’t
yet come off, but it looks as if it might happen at
any moment. The contortion acts by the boneless,
gentleman, and the lady who dislocates all her
vertebrae and then sets them again, the somer-
saults over 20 horses, and the steeplechase, are
performances which also arouse general satisfac-
tion. Sixteen horses take part in this last act,,
and a footnote at the bottom of the programme
urges the audience to keep their seats till it is
finished, else, in leaving the tent, they may get in
front of the steeplechase and be run over. It is
to be hoped the audience will make a careful note
of this. The man who gets maundering in the
track of Fitzgeralds’ steeplechase has just about
as good a show for his life as if he sat down and
went to sleep in front oi the Melbourne Cup.
1 robably, the only deficiency about the steeple-
chase is the want of a bookmaker, laying the odd?
in the centre of the ring, but the clown might fill
this situation with advantage. There are more
nice-looking girls in Fitzgeralds’ circus than there
are in most big opera companies, and, as a moral
and educational leg-show, it can give points to a
burlesque. Also, what is of the utmost im-
portance, the girls appear to be real and
n °j l m(^V ng > they are mostly young
and healthy. Just here an idea occurs to The
Bulletin. Novelty is the great desideratum,
of the show business. How would it do, for a
one-night sensation, to have the steeplechase with
old women in the saddle—ancient hags, toothless ,
harridans, witches, and goblins, dressed in blue
spectacles, poke bonnets, rags, bursted carpet-
slippers, and stockings down at heel ? This in-
spiration is presented to the firm absolutely free ■
of charge.
** * *
Melbourne people look back in amazement
to the time when Mrs. Armstrong sang at occa-
sional afternoon concerts in the front first-floor-
room (then unused for business purposes) of the
Equitable Co-operative Store in Collins-street.
But even then there were plenty of amateur critics
who said that the coming “ Melba ” had the
finest voice in Australia. Heaven knows what
the professional critics said. Will somebody take
the trouble to turn up their valuable opinions of
.Nellie Armstrong Melba’s tones ? ”
* * nt
The trustees of Melb. Public Library have
arranged to give another month of free quarters to
Joshua Lake’s picture show. That wily display
of British art, together with the terrible produc-
tions of Queen Victoria, will remain on view until
the middle of July. Anon the use of the gallery
is to bo granted to the Vic. Artists’ Society, inas-
much as the trustees can’t refuse the application,
much as they might like to make invidious dis-
tinctions in favour of dear old England.
** * *
borne of Melbourne’s oldest greybeards
assert that the wraith of one Richardson has come
back, in his winding-sheet, from the undiscovered
country (a place mentioned by Shakespeare) to-
take the reins of management at the Royal
between his grisly fingers. Richardson, when a
mortal, vyas famous for supplying wholesome fun
in the guise of lurid melodrama. The memory of
his famous Show, identified with many a weather-
beaten tent, and the sound of a drum that is still,
haunts the sites of a hundred English fairs, which
the jerry-builder has long since claimed for his


NEWYORK LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Is A PURELY MUTUAL COMPANY, and all Profits belong to the Assured.
ancHfl invnJv.l B93, its cumulated funds amounted to £28,282,0X6 ss. lei.,
t?J , CS over cdl Unities to £3,457,800 ss. XcX., being the LARGEST
P ■ ietd by any purely Mutual Life Insurance Go. in the world.
ie LARGEST Endowment and Annuity business of any Company in the world,
conclusively proving the superior excellence of its contracts.
Before insuring elsewhere, send for particulars to any of the Agencies of the Company, or to
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager Department of Australasia,
BOND STREET CHAMBERS, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
nsuranoe’Dprw'ia-minf 0 01 -m, Company holding an Official Certificate of Examination, of recent date, from the State
he State hv Pho t en ' - "l? '^ SBe^9 i Accounts and Surplus to Policy-holders have been certified to under the seal of
■senate by the Insurance Superintendent.
■IS
Edinburgh.
The Oldßlervd
Whisky
of tKe
wh ,teHoT®
JLTVW MJ1039
3\ind '3MVflt 3HI SXVMIV
syanixsio wont iDaiiw
avail)
The drama according to Richardson was a
uWU ' o thine Merrily ran the gore stream, 0, at
ifftSSof a man in long, black curls and
the ibaeKV boots. Sweet, though melancholy,
C „ the twitter of the persecuted maiden when
Ilf hired assassins discovered her hiding behind
f® Greenwood tree. Characters chased one
fnther across the stage, with an energy that
tired, until a bell rang the bell
n6V lfving that the audience had received
fill g three -pennyworth. Then the audi-
,ts 1 reluctantly withdrew, and the same
j nC was nlaved again, backwards, to another
Th/brelzy humour of Richard-
or “ prions plots was in all cases toned down,
S u° n Mr bv skilful touches of “comic relief.”
Cm time to time the bloodthirsty baron sheathed
KS and daggers whilst the first low
minedian drew the tear from every eye. All the
France of the present season at Melbourne
RoSl supports the theory that Richardsons
Zde has returned, under an alias, and taken the
I Katre for a term. His original villain, altered
~n to date in some few respects, pursues a modern
edition of the original maiden to the same old
hitter end. The jet-black curls have been cut off,
hut he carries false papers and proofs as of yore,
•md the monster cries “ Away with her! in all
Ms nristine savagery. .The hero lover is consigned
to chains and darkness for awhile, that he may
rise the more triumphant at the finish, after the
bad baron has received a death-thrust under his
outstretched arm, and laughter is withered once
again by the scorching breath of ‘ comic relief.
“ White Slaves ” was a drama rich in traditional
business, but “Rebellion,” staged on Saturday
night, is written in the very best Richardson man-
ner No farcical comedy of recent years has
boasted a scene that would compare with the
Battle of Richmond in the last act of this spark-
ling production. The conflict in question, which
commences with the capture of a fortress by four
troops, and terminates with a waving of the Star-
spangled Banner by a stray photographer, is a
fitting close to a round of innocent merriment.
Other antique drolleries of “ Rebellion ” are too
numerous for specification. It is a capital little
play throughout, and although two or three of the
company appear to misunderstand its motif, the
bulk of the performance deserves unstinted praise.
On Thursday night a topical trifle, entitled “Re-
construction,” will be introduced as a curtain-
raiser to the extravaganza in chief.
** » *
Business at the Alhambra remains about
the same as usual. A weekly change of programme
doesn’t seem to bring matters much forrarder.
The two darkies, Pope and Sayles, have generally
a large say in anything funny that is going, whilst
the white people, male and female, struggle after
variety with indifferent results. The show has
reached its fifteenth week, however, and may yet
win the reward which occasionally comes to him
who waits. The latest special announcement is
Billy Emerson, and Billy is hereby requested
not to sing “Maggie Murphy’s Home ” when he
reappears on Saturday. A dreadful ditty under
all circumstances, it is worse when Maggie appears
as a Christy Minstrel in evening dress.
** * *
Veteran John Wallace appears to have
engaged the Victoria Hall, Melbourne, for a show
that will aim at “London music-hall style.”
Also, he has added the word “Pavilion” to Vic-
toria, so that the local dudes may acquire the true
cockney custom of dropping into the Pav. The
curtain rises upon this experiment at 7.30 p.m.
next Saturday (17th), and the price of the florin
front seats is to be reduced to half-price at a
quarter-past nine, in time for the ballet, or the
Great Somebody’s famous song. Meanwhile, the
Gaiety hall is said to be “ still delighting happy
thousands,” although the man who feels unhappy
when he goes in is the person they ought to try to
please.
** * *
A few weeks back the Melbourne dailies
published promises of many new operas in
store at the Princess’, yet the supply of this
season’s novelties is to end with “Vicar of
Bray.” To-morrow (Friday) night the curtain
descends upon “The Vicar,” and then a well-
loved company will forsake their deur old home
lor another long period. Perhaps Melbourne may
oei finally stone-broke ere it is time for them to
return so the present parting is full of dim fore-
K ln P ex * ;ra misery. Moreover, the new
church and stage story has not nearly exhausted
as popularity. People would fain see more of the
ttev. Barlow and his fresh young curate, whose
duet and dance with Florence Young is so very
remindful of Phyllis and Strephon’s reconciliation
jn iolanthe.” The interesting Tapley, though,
as the speaking voice of a delicate-chested man,
and will probably be all the better for a change of
r ’. This is a suggestion thrown out casually as a
g am of comfort for the unfortunate girls in front.
** * *
. fhe pang of losing the comic-opera artists
wnl 11 v S '^ the fact that they are making
y tor an absolutely last appearance of the
burl y Lonnen and his companions in
wifK eSC * Ue i , ve B° ne away and turned up again
n , r sac , dull monotony that the Melbourne
a . , 10 talk of emulating the worm which turns.
Diem do. Since ids last appear-
in k ,n the indomitable Lonnen is said
nffl aV6 r entured kRo a Dunedin (M.L.) newspaper
dimf’ ''“ ere ' ie > n °t unnaturally, met with an in-
wbqvlu Protest from a compositor who had
nf it. ed , Tl ' was Die only rea l opinion
filar, that has been passed upon the come-
itoKo'! 100 J l ®. Icrossed 1 crossed the line, and if perchance
w ~ aS mP ed s Phit of humour, all may yet be
a. j t 5 Gaiety Company will play each of
mpn,.; Ur for four nights apiece, com-
mencing with “Faust.”
** * *
Mr own Hall, the recently-married
hi« “T l ” S ?. ave a second and final exhibition of
oninir,« a vI Ve \ OUS P° wers ”on Saturday last. An
Anstrar vj f x P resse d, in some quarters, that
she on a j’fc!' k now what she was losing when
Entrlar,ri VeC^ ltfcs marvellous powers to
England. In truth, Australia didn’t lose much.
The oftener one hears this fortunate gentleman
imitate the twang-twang of the mandolin, the
more one feels that he found a suitable patron and
admirer in J. L. Toole. His limited entertain-
ment, unrelieved by a line of patter or g gleam of
originality, is just what might be expected to
charm J. L. Toole and the London sassiety in
which he moves. Fitts is a music-hall “turn.”
There is but one turn in him, and his unaccount-
able success in England (exaggerated though it
be) will doubtless produce a crop of other young
men, able to produce similar noises, and otherwise
better endowed with entertaining qualities.
The Wild-Cat Column.
As Thb Bulletin at once foreshadowed, some
people have found an easy way of making money by copy-
ing N.S.W. Treasury and other clumsily-executed legal-
tender notes. Upwards of 20 have already found their
way into one Sydney bank, which is strong proof that
hundreds are in circulation. N.S.VV. will have cause to
curse the speed and slovenliness with which the notes have
been issued.
» # •
One of the remarkable features about the A. J.S.
Bank reconstruction is the entire wiping out of the old
bank’s alleged reserve-fund of over £500,000. This is
done “ to meet depreciation in the value of securities.”
Yet the last balance-sheet, and every balance-sheet which
went before it, set forth that provision had been made for
bad and doubtful debts which, unless the English language
is a delusion, certainly means that the depreciation in
securities had been already provided for. Therefore, it fol-
lows either that the extinction of the reserve-fund is un-
necessary, or else that the former balance-sheets were
deceptive. In the latter case, what reliance can be placed
on the present or on any future balance-sheet, and what
guarantee is there that the capital isn’t lost as well as the
reserve fund? And, in the former case, what is the pur-
pose in view ? Is it to scare the depositors into enthusi-
astic re-construction by showing them that there is no
margin for liquidation expenses, and that to liquidate
means a heavy and inevitable loss, or is it a move to bear
the shares on the market, or is it pure incompetence or
impudence, or what is it ?
# # #
Melbourne Chamber of Commerce urges the
Government to relieve the banking difficulty by printing
legal-tender notes, and lending them out to the banks on
the strength of securities to be deposited by them with
the Treasury. The Bulletin was the first to advocate
this device as a means whereby the banks could obtain
money—or what will answer the purpose of money—on
good but temporarily unrealisable securities, at a nomi-
nal interest, and without risk to the State; and it still
regards it as the only system which will meet the exigen-
cies of the case.
* * *
The banks in Victoria now charge 2s. exchange
on N.S. Wales notes—their own notes among the rest.
This is another of the blessed advantages of that famous
Bank Issue Act which “saved the country.” No one can
get notes changed into gold in N.S.W. ; the only way—
until a few days ago—was to take them across the border
and get 19s, fid. in coin for each pound. But the yearning
for coin had to be suppressed, and the fid. discount
didn’t suppress it sufficiently, therefore 18s. is now the
cash value of, a N.S.VV. note on the other side of the
Murray. This action suggests that the banks possibly
don’t consider their own notes to be worth more than
18s., and also that they must be in worse straits than is
commonly imagined when they have to take such
desperate measures to save their gold. The number of
notes cashed across the border at the old 2£ per cent,
discount was always very small, and the bank which
can’t melt a fraction of its paper at 19s. fid. in the £
to-day has a joyous prospect ahead some five months
hence when it will be called upon to take up the whole
lot at par.
# # #
Even Brisbane Coubiee and Melbourne Argus
now acknowledge that the last Queensland loan—that
ruinous affair which was floated ar, a loss of something
like £l2 on every £lOO —was apparently undertaken
chiefly in the interests of the Queensland National Bank—
which is, presumably, a subdued way of saying that the
money was borrowed and the interest upon it paid by the
nation, so that it could be deposited in the bank—most of
it without any interest at all—to keep that blessed institu-
tion afloat. It is also alleged that, if the bank could have
kept alive a little longer, another loan of a million was to
be floated at 20 per cent, discount for the same purpose.
The Q.N. Bank is to Queensland what the Pacific railway
is to Canada; the State stands the loss and “private
enterprise ” gets the profits.
* * «
Melbourne Gas Co.’s shares going down, down,
down ! A result of the City Council’s electric-lighting
scheme. Can you wonder at the diplomatically-sup-
pressed frenzy with which the Sydney Fat Man, in press
and legislature, jumps with both feet on the local Cor-
poration’s Electric-lighting Bill?
« * *
But Sydney Fab Man has got one leg in. Thanks
to the treachery of a section of the N.S.W. Labour-mem-
bers, he will now be able to levy toll on the City Council
when it does get its bill through—no other electric-light-
ing bill will, we trust, ever get through the N.S.W.
Assembly. Fat Man (having, with the assistance of part
of the single-tax faction—the name of one officer or late
officer of the organisation is included in the syndicate’s
list of shareholders) has grabbed a virtual monopoly of
the cheapest means of power-production—the fast-run-
ning waters of the Colo Valley. The job was finally
accomplished last week, so far as N.S.W. Assembly is con-
cerned. The rest should be easy.
* * #
Q.N. Bank directors, in their “reconstruction”
scheme, instruct themselves to make a call on the share-
holders “as soon as possible.” The shareholders should
now make a call on the directors " as soon as possible.”
If the directors would only censure the shareholders for
not having censured the directors for not having called on
the shareholders, the chances are that the year before last
might be “ as soon as possible,” and that the day after
yesterday might eventually overtake the day before to-
morrow, with a bulge in the betting in favour of the 14
days after last Sunday fortnight.
# * #
The coolest item in the “reconstruction”
scheme of the Q.N. Bank (an institution that has consis-
tently held from one to three millions of Government
money, mostly without interest) is the provision that the
Government may not draw out one penny of its very much
“ fixed ” deposits for six years. Meanwhile, the Govern-
ment has got to find, about the end of the year, £600,000
as interest for English debenture-holders, who, by-the-
way, may or may not be able to influence the English
money-market should MTlwraith ask for a fresh loan,
principally to pay their dues. At any rate, it makes the
loan chances rosier, and it is understood that Mac doesn’t
intend to ask for the small sop necessary, but means to
offer debentures up to 1J millions. If he gets this amount,
it will be worth while noticing whether the balance (after
paying the debenture-holders) is all banked with the
Q.N.8., untouchable for six years. If so ?
# # •
Is the absolute silence on the question of
directors’ overdrafts in suspended banks to be accepted as
sufficient proof that none exist?
When the A.J.S. Bank suspended, the Q. Govt,
drew out in sovereigns—every penny that bank
held of public moneys. When the Q.N. Bank suspended,
the Government, whoso rights were not affected by that
act of (ywa«£-insolvency, drew out in sovereigns—how
much? “Pouf ! Zare you haf, it, sare.”
# * #
Dear Bulletin, —The hundred million pounds
sunk in the suspended Australian private enterprise
banks, will force the various State treasurers to prepare
for a Government paper issue. Our revenue is sufficient
for interest purposes, and the part payment of old loans,
the balance of which must be renewed and perhaps with
little difficulty; but the successful foreign issue of any
new loan for works purposes is very improbable.
Therefore the necessary carrying on, and payment
for, public works must be by Government green-
backs. Will N.S.W. Mr. Private Enterprise Lyne
call for tenders for a cable tram between Circular
Quay and Redfern Railway Station as an experi-
ment, payment to be made in irredeemable State notes,
of from ten shillings and upwards, to be declared legal
tender in all cases, so that the contractor could pay wages
and material with same? The interest to be at five per
cent, and payable, in coin, every quarter. The result
would be to drive private enterprise paper out of the
market and bring the State greenback to a premium, as
the periodical quarterly interest-day arrived. I suggest
high interest, as it is far different paying our own people,
the greater bulk of the money remaining in the country,
than providing for enormous foreign interest. If
the fare for the suggested line were made a penny,
the average dividends would be 15 per cent. The
wage-reduced employes of the private enterprise ’bus
company, which would be driven off the route, to have
first chance of the tram billets. As soon as the Govern-
ment guarantee of private enterprise notes expires,
the State must insist on receiving all revenue in
coin, or State notes, so that the basis of Government
issues will be the fat, golden sovereign, and we could defy
the Hebrew' financier to point a defect in the solidity of
our State currency. Of course, it would follow that our
State payments in the country would be of a similar
character, the chief point being whether, to save confu-
sion, all notes should be interest-bearing? This would be
a serious item, as an addition to our huge salary pay-
ments, and necessitating much consideration. —Frederick
Jones.
* * *
Joe Hume writes; “Has it occurred to any-
body to ask wnat will become of the enormous unclaimed
balances held by the hung-up banks? According to law
the statute of limitations helps the banks to appropriate
forgotten credits of the kind six years after the last
cheque was drawn. Perhaps these dead balances so
to make up the mysterious “inner reserves” like that of
the National Bank?’’
# * *
The Age barks vehemently at Judge Williams
for altering the Bank of Victoria reconstruction scheme
for the benefit of the depositors, asserting that “he
should not assume to have the knowledge of men w'ho
knew' their own business best.” We never heard Syme
advance this argument for the protection of the ex-
perienced and ingmious burglar.
# * *
Chief Justice Madden’s warm sympathy with
Melbourne bank reconstruction must be very gratifying
to the Government that hoisted him into his high place.
Madden’s judicial opinions are evidently in cordial co-
operation with his Acting-Governor sentiments on the
glorious bank-holiday fizzle. He is, indeed, regarded as
the chief father of that fizzle and defender of the faith in
banks.
• • *
Lively “ Jim ” Moloney, at the Colonial Bank
meeting, repeated the old ory that there is nothing the
matter With Victoria except “panic.” “Everyone had
fallen a victim to the panic, and to such an extent that
the national honour and credit had been threatened by
it.” Mr. Moloney confuses the effects of “ want of faith”
with the rascality of the little mob who made faith com-
patible only with idiocy. They did more than threaten
honour and credit. They knocked ’em out for the time
being.
# # •
The most singular feature of the Standard
Bank’s “ re-construction ” is the sudden conversion of its
old enemies into new friends. Certain people are working
with the dreadful energy of despair to prevent the collapse
of this twice-suspended bank. The rank-and-file of deposi-
tors seem very crushed and feeble, however, and it is
possible that daylight may still be shut out from the real
state of Standard affairs.
# # #
Somebody wrote to the Argus enquiring for
English press opinions on the escape of Matthew Davies,
and that paper stated, in a footnote, that no opinions had
been cabled out. It can’t be that the purveyors of news
at this end were persuaded to overlook the story of
Matthew and the Salier, can it ? Out of consideration for
the feelings of the British money market, perhaps?
# * •
The N.S.W. banks have raised the rate of in-
terest on fixed deposits, as an inducement to the public
to rush in with its loose cash where angels fear to tread.
Only about three weeks ago the last bank burst through
the fixed-deposit madness, and w'as understood to have
sworn off for ever. And now’, before the old unpaid
depositor has been fairly reconstructed, the wily fisher-
man is angling for the new fixed depositor, and the same
old game begins afresh.
* « •
M‘Cracken’s City Brewery (Melbourne) 80s.
shares, paid up to £l, are now selling at Is. fid. on the
Exchange. Yet the Co. does a bigger business than any
other brewery in Victoria. The old case—a flourishing
private co. is turned into a public one.
# * *
It is now said that Embling, M.L.0., in his
historical “miserable hounds” speech, referred not so
much to the general body of depositors as to an influential
family which drew its thousands in as great a hurry as the
poorest hundred-pounder.
» * *
A Brisbane savings bank depositor states that,
being troubled with doubts about the durability of the
institution, he went to draw out his money, but, before
he could get it, he was rushed out of the building by a
policeman, who threatened to arrest him if he came there
any more. Regarded as a means of keeping up publio
confidence, this scheme has much to recommend it.
* * #
Between now and October, the Victorian
Treasury, to keep faith in London, must provide
£2,887,675. N.S.W. must find, with interest, £1,000,000,
to take up Treasury bills in January.
# * *
The scheme of the Hopetoun (Vie.) railway, to
be built by Mr. Lascelles on “ private-enterprise-land-
grant” terms, seems to have collapsed. £4OOO is said to
have been expended in “ earthworks and land ” up to
now, and “ Mr. Lascelles offers to hand over to the
Government the whole of the earthworks already con-
structed, and the land necessary for the completion of
the line, free of cost.” Somewhat vague, this. How
about those thousands of acres which the “ private enter-
prise ” lessee was lately offering to sublet in the London
market?
* # *
The Goulburn people are harping on their
silver-mine. In this country everything is a silver-mine,
no matter how high the lead percentage. The ore goes
as high as 75 per cent, lead, and never higher than 7 ozs.
silver; nevertheless, a man would risk his life if he dared
in Goulburn to call this show anything but a silver-mine.
# * *
A Sunday paper complains of the little informa-
tion given of the Wentworth mine at Lucknow, N.S.W.,
and proceeds to supply the deficiency. “It may interest
our readers to know that the company is running 100-
head of stampers, and that dividends amount to ss. per
share.” The battery is a 20-head one, and ss. dividend
would amount to £i25,000. The mine is doing well, but
not quite so well as that. The writer also quotes the
mine as an evidence that gold is being worked at a great
depth in N.S.W.—whereas, nearly all the gold obtained
there came from within 200 ft. of the surface, and the
bulk of that won by the English co. was got above the
300 and 400 ft. levels.
* * *
Again The Bulletin asks—when does the
N.S.W. Mines Department intend to make some radical
change in re the distribution of the Prospecting Vote ?
Hitherto thousands of pounds have been wasted in pros-
pecting tor coal-seams whioh, if found, would have had no
market. Prospecting for coal in a country where a
number of coal miners are Idle, and others working two
and three days a week I Perhaps some members will be
good enough to ask the extent to whloh the Department
has assisted the Oreraorne syndicate's coal-prospecting
operations.
mm*
M‘Donald, J.P., of Mercantile Bank renown,
said, at a meeting of Bank of Victoria depositors, that
shareholders who had deposits packed and swamped the
meeting.
* * #
Alleged that the new Hargreaves mine has
received much sustenance from the N.S.W. prospecting-
vote. A correspondent now asks who provided it with a
diamond-drill.
* * *
Philp, the new Q, Mines Minister, has little
knowledge of mining, but he is a good speculator. The
defeated I.issner, who has lived amongst miners nearly
all his life, better understands the wants of a raining com-
munity.
* * *
Big-insolvent Yencken (Melbourne) 12 years
ago worked as an of Brooks, Robinson and Co.
Starting a colossal establishment in the same line, he for
a time did the old firm harm. Figuring amongst Yencken’s
creditors is a brother of one of the B.R. and Co. people,
who put his money in the venture,
* * *
Touching James Mirams and his cry of “ unjust
prosecution by the Crown,” the Argus says: ‘‘We printed
at the time a statement from Mr. Purves, Q.C., who
averred in set terms that the political influence exercised
in connection with the Premier Permanent prosecutions
was not creditable to the community. Surely this sort of
thing should stop. The learned counstl made a forcible
appeal in our columns—founded on this and other inci-
dents—for a complete removal of the criminal law' from
political control, and to-day this reform would be most
welcome.”
* * *
A Sydney daily publishes a letter, “ How gold
is lost,” re a crushing from the Homeward Bound at
Grenfell—s9 tons returned 730 z. A sample of tailings
sent to .the .Mines Department averaged nearly 20z.,
therefore the correspondent is satisfied that 115 oz. were
lost by the battery. It is easy to select a good assay
sample of tailings, while to get one on which reliance can
be placed involves more trouble than many men care to
take. It is always in the tailings and never comes out of
them.
* * *
The proprietor of the Sydney Quarterly is •
trying to get up a joint-stock co. with £2OOO capital to
buy the magazine.
* * *
Tributing is the order of the day at Mount
M'Donald (N.S.W.). It is usually the last stage of a
mining field, and often it is better than the first. A
recent crushing of 28 tons from the old Balmoral mine
gave lOCozs. There are other tributors not doing so
well.
• # #
Contrary to anticipation, the bank smashes have
improved Gympie stocks —now considered safer than
banks. The percentage on investment has always been
higher at Gympie than elsewhere. When banks were
thought safe as churches, it was over SO per cent. It is
now 26 h—i.e., on total dividends paid, and, all calls
deducted therefrom, investment then shows a 8| per
cent, profit.
# « *
The coming big thing in Australian mining is
Mt. Lyell, Tasmania. London is asked to furnish the
capital to make a 20-mi!e railway, build enormous reduc-
tion works, and develope the mine for a huge output.
The bulk value of this formation is estimated by Dr.
Peters at Sdwts. gold, 3oz. silver, and 4J per cent, copper.
Motive power will be generated by water five miles away,
and if the estimate is maintained by future development
it will be one of the biggest mines in the world. Every-
thing depends on that and the price of copper. To the
unduly sanguine the writer would whisper that of the
M.L. mine, Te Aroha, much was anticipated, and a woeful
liquidation resulted.
# # #
Some 33 tons of ore from Mount Lyell, shipped
to Dry Creek, Adelaide, smelting- works, contains 33,8100 z.,
silver, or over IOOOoz. to the ton, besides a heavy percent-
age of copper and a little gold. Let Dr. Peters explain ;
“ The co. is at present raising a certain amount of rich
ore from the footwall of the deposit. This rich ore was
originated by the water percolating through the deposits
dissolving a certain amount of silver and copper, and re-
depositing it in a concentrated form on the footwall of
the vein. The co. takes no account of this rich ore in
extending operations, although it will probably yield a
large nett sum altogether.” Such a reflection is charm-
ingly and refreshingly novel in Australian silver-mining.
Invariably the explanation comes when the bonanza has
pinched out and the baby is nursed by the other man.
w tt •
At last N.S.W. appears to have a big tonnage
gold-mine—Peak Hill, whose late crushing of 1000 tons
returned 5300z5. Much better that way than if the gold
came from 20 tons stone.
# * #
At last the Tasmanian silver-mines are turning
out fairly large quantities of payable ore. The bulk finds
its way to Sydney for transhipment to England, Germany
and Aldershot (Q.) Smelting Works. Perhaps nothing
will be found to justify a second boom ; but it is consoling
to know that hundreds of miners can earn wages on the
fields, which, says Dr. Peters, will pay when worked on a
larger scale with pumping machinery, a market tor low-
grade ores, and reduced railway-freights.
# # *
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo, last crushing, 1320
tons, 5360z5. Like unto ail other dividend-paying mines,
it is the tonnage that tells here. Many hundreds of thou-
sands of tons of similar stone have been crushed from the
old mine for a few tons of gold.
# * •
After spending £5OOO in plant and labour for
five tons of tin, the Native Youth Tin Mining Co., of Cook-
town, has suspended operations, and installed a woman
as caretaker.
tt * *
Dear Bulletin,—Two mates and I worked
about six months for a surveyor, who skedaddled, leaving
dishonoured cheques behind him, and owing us wages
ranging from £2O to £6O. The P.M. advised us to sue
under the Masters and Servants Act, but as that Act
requires a summons to be served personally on a defen-
dant, and as he was non est, the course was impracticable.
Other creditors sued in the Petty Debts Court, having
only to leave their summonses at his last known place of
abode, and got verdicts, on which they sold up his horses
and camp-gear, and left us to go on the wallaby stone-
broke. How’s that for “wages having first claim?”—
Yours, Bunny Snapper.
* * *
The Mining Standard has seen fit to apologise
for the action of its Melb. representative in securing the
“Tambour Major” forfeited lease, on which was a
quantity of tailings. Because of the loss of this lease,
Lanseli has withdrawn his reward of £5OO for a profitable
tailings process. Hence the M.S.’s regret and assurance
that Mr. Marks, the person referred to, acted on his own
behalf. Well, as soon as any lease becomes forfeited, it
is open to anyone, and Marks had as much right to it as
Lanseli. If the latter has withdrawn his offer because of
his own neglect, he is the man who should apologise.
Meanwhile, the writer wishes Marks, whoever he is,
Lansell’s luck.
(“Wild Cat ” ontinued on page 15. j


5 ES3jag»g
GrO to HEXjL-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Gd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN Sc CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
NS. W.
Personal Items.
Zox is Speight’s chief bottleholder.
Is anybody sure that Matthew Davies left
Adelaide at all ?
“ My client s*ands before you a ruined
man.” —Duffy on Speight, flow re costs?
“My fortunate lot” is Governor Duff’s
favourite phrase. Praise a fair day at night.
Marcus Clarke’s unpublished literature
includes the plays of “Plot,’’ “Peacocks
Feathers,” and a comedietta.
A certain well-advertised N.S.W. “nerve'
specialist ” now claims to have in his possession
the dishonoured cheques of ten local M.’sP.
Mr. W. J. Lyne, N.S.W. Secretary for
Works, is on the list of eligibles for Queen Vic-
toria’s recognition. He will, however, decline a
O.M.G.
The “Australian Abroad,” James King-
ston, who takes so fatherly an interest in the
Commercial Bank of Australia, has entered his
70th year.
W. H. Groom is the only member of the
present Bananaland Assembly (the 11th Parlia-
ment) who was also a member of the first Q.
Parliament.
The valiant G. R. Dibbs’ ideal of a public
man and a to-be-loved-by-posterity statesman is
old John Robertson, of Clovelly. So far as com-
mand of unofficial vocables is concerned, Dibbs
does no discredit to his ideal.
Speight v. Syme suggests M‘Guigan v.
Vic. Board of Land and Works. The special jury
devoted a month to it, and conscientiously gave
£20,600 damages, whereupon the Banco Court
jooliy knocked off the £20,000.
Canon Handheld, of St. Peter’s, Melb.,
says he taught Purves, Q.C., his Latin delectus in
the church-school, 40 years ago, and that Janies
was then a quiet, nervous little lad. The child
isn’t always father of the man.
N.S.W. Minister Copeland not alone does
most of his secular work on Sundays, but, as in the
ease of his Village Settlement Bill, brags of the
f ict in the House when he can. That is probably
because his father was a clergyman.
THE LATE “JOHN MADDEN.”
Your predecessor scorned the gaud
You grasp at, as insensate fudge.
We knew he was a better man—
We know he was a better Judge !
The breezes that blow o’er Ceylon’s isle
(vide missionary hymn) are more “ spicy ” than
usual just now. They blow round the exciting
question as to whether Matthew Davies will be
landed there or otherwise. Hail Colombo !
Parkes and Mayor Manning, M.L.A.,
have buried old enmities and are now friends of
the hand-clasped pattern. Parkes attributes his
change to the intelligent parliamentary form the
Mayor has displayed since entering the House.
About the maddest man in S.A. just now
is Speaker Jenkin Coles. It was his dearest
ambition to meet the new Parliament wearing a
title, and later on to astonish London as a second
Garfield—from plain police-constable to a gilded
knight!
At an
election for
East Mel-
bourne, years
ago, a touter for
the other man
called Zox a blanky
Jew. Zox was too
stout and sick to reply,
but he gave ss. to a
hawker named Isaacs
(who was yelling fish
in the street) to punch
the touter’s head.
Isaacs sent him to a
chemist’s in one
round.
The sole reason
for scissoring out of
an English exchange
and publishing in
Sydney Echo a cer-
tain short story one
evening last week,
was that a leading
personage in the tale
was named Barton,
and that he was soft-
headed, flabby-man-
nered, and stupidly
goody-goody. The
general office instruc-
tion for the selection
of such pieces no
doubt is : “ Try to
catch a tale with
something locally sug-
gestive in it.” Sydney
Echo would be a
ghastly rag if no
Yankee mail ever
came in.
In the Benevo-
lent Asylum, at New-
cas tl e, N. S. W.,
Parkes discovered an
octogenarian who had
been his schoolfellow
at Birmingham, long
years ago. The two
old gentlemen had a
long chat. It was
very nice of the old
gentleman in the
Benevolent Asylum
not to repudiate all
knowledge of Henry.
There are 32 (out of a total of 72) native
Australians in the Queensland Assembly.
When is the Australian press to be
“honoured?” Sir Reading Fairfax and Sir
Samuel Cook would sound well, and Sir David
Syme and Sir Alfred Bennett wo dd give
Eleasure to all. Also, Sir Watkin Lynne, Sir
laohhvn Brient, Sir Randall Carey, and Sir Buza-
cott, and Sir Davies, and, above all, Sir Langdon
Bonython. The day is surely coining for these
wormy events.
Governor Hopetoun is coming out as a
humourist. On swearing in Agar Wynne dim
I aacs resigned, he said, “The last Solicitor-
General was sworn in with his baton, while the
present enters on liis duties with his hair off.”
The egg-headed Agar couldn’t see the joke.
Duncan G illies came to life again last
week—at a Melbourne banquet. That is just
where one would expect Duncan to reappear in
the flesh. Wbitst the bai.ks were luir.stnigand
the Davies scandal was in full blast, this discreet
stager remailiedf to al i political intents and
purposes, as dead as Ids “ boom ” Budgets.
Government Astronomer Ellery, of Vic.,
y io _ a] establishments, after he was attacked
by conv i cts at Williamstown, and pronounce him
dead. At the time, Ellery ran a one-horse ob-
servatory at Williamstown under Gov. Hotham.
Aliaon . Smith , who has just lost his billet
as Locomotive Superintendent of Victorian Rail-
W ays, and Vic. Treasurer Downes-Carter were
a | ways patronised by Henderson Afrieanus as
fellow countrymen of his. The trio were from
Jamaica, and when they met, used to exchange
“ rum ” yarns. Generally Garter supplied the
rum. .
“Orpheus” Atkinson has married W. iv.
Thomson’s daughter. Thomson was a prime
Southern magnate, up to the first crack of boom,
when he went under, and M Bam initiated ic
£lO,OOO subscription raised for Mrs. Thomson,
No luckless man of these times w more respected,
and everyone is gratified to see W. K. once more
usy a out e ourne '
jlpropos S. A. Postmaster-General loads
bebaublement. Henry Ayers, president of S.A.
Legislative Council, was enhandled years ago for
his services in connection with the construction of
the transcontinental telegraph-line, and Todd was
overlooked, although Ayers bad vehemently
opposed the idea from the start. Why A>ers was
singled out will always be a mystery,
The Age was about the only paper in Vie-
toria which did not “notice” the death of
Ballarat Courier Bateman. The Argus, against
which the deceased journalist wrote most causti-
cally at times, spoke of him at some length,
Bateman used to “give” it to the Age, and
frequently pointed out the Janus-facedness ot the
Svmesian utterances to the working man.
J
The man Townsheud, who appears to have
attempted Gladstone’s life, was for years in the
employ of a Sydney firm. He was rather
erratic at times, and one day threatened to
throw a fellow-employee down the lift-shaft,
He went off m a mysterious way from his
situation and h.s wife did not hear of him for a
fortnight, when he was traced to a N.S.W. back-
blocks township.
, . Recently Judge Boucaut (S.A,) in one of
b,s letters in S.A. Advertiser, described meeting
Hdy in England who shared his dislike for
Gladstone Ihe old dame said aho would willingly
provide the rope to hang the G.O.M. H’m,
rejoined the Judge, “and I would do the
hanging!” To Adelaideans this seems mere
“ skite,” as Boucaut has never tried a case which
reached the hangman. And, by the way, Judge
Bundey shares the honour. Way is actually S.
Australia’s only hanging Judge.
AN AMATEUR SCARECROW.
1ST FARMER: “That scare of yours doesn’t seem to frighten the
cockatoos much, Mr. M'Gaffin."
2ND DITTO : “No, bad luck to ’em, they’re eatin’ up th’ crop like winkin’.
How do you manage to keep ’em out o’ your paddock?”
1ST FARMER: “Well, you see I walks about the paddock a good deal
myself.”
Pefo o the then plain Graham Berry,
M.L. accepted Victoria’s Agent-Generalship,
Mr. Bateman, of Ballarat Courier (now deceased),
wrote persistently that he (Berry) would not take
the office —with a view of “bulging’’the other
journals which as persistently declared that
he would. Bateman felt riled at being “ had ”by
a man whom he, as a journalist, had helped to
“ make.” He waited long for his revenge. It
came. On the expiry of his term of office, the
now hebaubled Graham wrote asking “ What
prospects have I politically?” Bateman replied,
“Stay Home—the country is better without you.”
In due course, both found their way to Melbourne.
o:ie evening when Bateman —he had now left the
Courier— was strolling St. Kildawards, he met
the knight. It was about the time when the
Daily Telegraph was gasping out its lastcolumns
of religious hogwash and devil - dodging drivel.
Berry wanted Bateman to join him in running the
rag, hnt he declined. They never spoke after that.
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Allison Smith has received his notice to
quit the Vic. railways under circumstances cal-
culated to suit the Age party in the big libel
action. He was more or less 'associated with ex-
Commissioner Speight in the public mind, and the
Government has turned him out of his billet
much as Speight was removed from his billet
directs after having served David Syme with a
writ. Allison Smith and his locomotive manage-
merit were a weariness to the flesh for many years.
Whether he was a valuable servant or otherwise
is a matter quite beyond ordinary human ken,
because so many people have always called him
incompetent and such a number of others have
declared him to be a maligned expert of pheno-
menal ability Anyway, he was a nuisance to
newspaper readers in consequence of this awful
conflict of opinion. Of late he found a good deal
of sympathy, seeing that a Board sat upon his
ease, and the palpable inclination of the Board
was to sd on him too much. Also, it was felt
that Allison Smith would go, whatever the Board
might say-and he has gone accordingly. As
regards what the Board did say there is exactly
the same conflict of opinion as always raged round
Smith.
One would
like to possess a
photo, of Y.R. as
she appeared when
“ passing ” a title
for the Daily
News man.
The scientific-
ally - great Prof.
Tyndall, who, as
per cable, wants
Gladstone’s head
on the traitor’s
block, is an in-
stance of a Radical
inoculated with
Tory virus hy
marriage. In days
gone by he was a
teacher of whom
Church and State
stood equally in
awe. A blue-
stocking daughter
of the North of
Ireland Hamil-
tons, the head of
which crowd was
the then Marquis
of Abercorn, be-
gan to pester the
Professor with
scientific and reli-
gious doubts
which he at first
replied toby letter
and afterwards
answered in per-
son, and all of
which he, in the
end, conclusively
settled by letting
the girl marry
him. Since then,
Tyndall has gone
on speculating
with some auda-
city, but has
missed no oppor-
tunity of advanc-
ing the politics
of the Duke of
Abercorn. Had
Tyndall married a
commoner’s
daughter it is
Salisbury’s head
he would now be
yelling for.
Purves’s indictment of the ex-Victorian
Railway Commissioner was full of solemn humour
for those who know how the political land lay
when the Shiels Ministry came into office. In
tones of deep respect the Q.C. quoted from Shiels
(as though he had been Shakespeare) on the sub-
ject of Richard Speight. Why, the evanescent
Premier said whatever the Age told him to say
about anything or anybody.
In the old days, Joe Raphael, alderman
and M.L.A., was waited upon by a census-taker
when he kept a clothing store in Lower George-
street, Sydney. “Your name?” “ Joe Raphael.”
“Born?” “Petticoat-lane.” “Occupation?”
“Clothes-dealer.” “Religion?” “Now, look
here, s’belp me, I tell you my name is Raphael,
that I was born in Pettiooat-lane, that I am a
clothes-dealer, and now you ask me my religion.
I’m a Wesleyan, that’s what I am.”
Bob Carr, one of the oldest of Bendigo
mining-managers, died there the other day.
Twenty years back he pinned his faith to the
Hustlers line of reef, then generally poor. A
number of small miner’s rights claims were amal-
gamated and named the Great Extended Hustlers,
Carr taking the mining management. On the day
the big body of rich quartz was struck, the shares,
28,000, were selling at 6d. In a few days they
were Gs., in a few months, J 26, and, if the writer
is not much mistaken, they reached i>l6. Cakes
of one, two, three and four thousand ozs. were
rolled out fortnightly for years.
Chief-Justice Griffith proposes spending
all the time he can afford on an exhaustive study
of socialistic principles, and with that object i n
view has ordered copies of the works of most of
the advanced writers on the subject. If Samuel,
C. J., really desires to understand the inner mean-
ing and significance of socialistic doctrines he
will assist his arm-chair studies by attempting, for
a year or two, to live an honest life, outside the
privileges of guilds and parties, by the direct
exercise of his intellect or muscles. A Wilhelm
Meister apprenticeship in the competitive factory
of modern life is a good foundation on which to
raise the superstructure of a leisured philosophy.
Baron von Mueller—Baron von Muffler.
Robert Corrie, the newly-appointed British
Resident at Butaritari, the largest island in the
recently-annexed Kingsmill and Gilbert Group,
is the well-known “Bob” Corrie, of Maiana, a
Scotch trader of undoubted honesty and un-
dauntable resolution, and who exerts an extra-
ordinary amount of influence for good among the
natives. Boh is the best equatorial linguist in
the South Seas, and is the white man best trusted
by the natives, since the decease of Bob Randolph,
the Apiang trader. High-Commissioner Thur-
ston’s appointment of Corrie has given umbrage
to sly-grog and other firms, because Corrie will
neither take bribes from labour-vessels, nor
become complaisant to “ respectable ” British
“ trading-firms”—a synonym for heartless swind-
lers of ignorant natives. Thurston evidently
had a free hand allowed him in respect of this
appointment; but, then, Thurston's own appoint-
ment as Governor of Fiji was in defiance of all
established precedent, and was merely meritorious.
About the merits of the recent seizure of
the schooner Norval by the Maiyalogalo
, T i u\ i m ,
(L ? lhyn s I , sland > P eo f le >. The Bulletin knows
anc * sa, y s nothing; but the incident recalls the fact
that, for long', the South Sea natives have been the
victims of a cruel system of swindle at the hands
of American, German, and Australasian firms
W | lQ i, ave a (;
various times sold vessels to them,
The game is very simp]e . A vesse i is offered for
say £XOOO to be paid in produce such as copra
and pearlshell; time, three years. At the end of
the three years the unfortunate natives generally
fitld thafcj although the =£looo has been handed
over> there is a curious thing that the white men
call “ interest ” which must be paid ere the shin is
absolutely free. And this, properly “ worked ”
that at the end of another three years the
craft is st in unpaid for. Then the vendors
“ advance ” t he interest-and take a bond on the
ship for security. The late King of Apamama
wa s a perfect milch-cow in this respect to some
Maoriland and Californian firms. In one case the
price of a vessel was £BOO (she was worth about
.£400) but the vendors, by a system of “ thrift ”
made him pay =£Booo.
REDUCTION.
Scene—Pub. after races: 17-stone man, who has “lost his stuff.” seeks for
gore, and offers to fight the best man in the room.
SMALL JOCKEY ( 6-stone ): “Look here, you waste down to my weight,
and I’ll thump the - head off you.”
(Big man has started to waste.)
Technology.—Science of marriage.
| JPrince Christian, runs the story, lately
refused to let himself be introduced to a Glad-
stonian nobleman. Christian has only one eye
left, but that solitary optic is carefully fixed on
his aged mother-in-law and the main chance.
S a Russian gunboat recently visited
Palmerston (N.T.), and its tars were given a dayV
leave ashore, they misunderstood the Port Darwin*
vogue of leaving house-doors open, and, evidently
under the impression that every unshut premises*
was a pub, would enter and take possession.
Lady Wolverton, widow of the enormously
wealthy Baron Wolverton, is going to give
Princess May a fine estate in Surrey as a wedding-
gift. It should be easy now, by the way, for
Gladstone to introduce bills legalising in England
marriage with a deceased wife’s sister and with a
deceased husband’s brother; likewise the Mosaic
custom of “raising seed to one’s brother.”
The George Washington cherry-tree yarn
has been translated into the Papuan language,
but instead of a cherry-tree there is a cocoa-nut
tree in the story. It being against the laws of the
Administration to destroy cocoa-nut trees, it was
thought that it would have a good moral effect.
Unfortunately it has been quite the reverse. The
New Guinea niggers cut down the trees in order
to prove that they cannot tell a lie.
Dear Bulletin, —The s.s. Birksgate last
week brought l(i Rotumah boys to Sydney, under
engagement for diving work in connection with
the pearlshell fisheries in Torres Straits. How
many of the 16 poor devils will be left alive this
day twelve months? The terrors of the “deep-
water patches ” around Darnley and other Straits
islands (where 13 coloured divers have died within
a few months) are now too well-known to Malay
and Manilla men ; hence the supply of divers is
falling short, and those that are left want bigg® l '
wages than ever. But here is an almost new field
—the island of Rotumah—which can furnish the
pearling industry with an unlimited supply of
flesh and blood at very moderate rates. Rotumah
is a sort of appanage of Fiji, and when the High
Commissioner—who is now visiting the Gilbert
Group—returns to Suva, there is likely, let us-
hope, to be “something” further occur in the
matter of these 1G Rotumah boys.—Yours, &c.,-
Fifa.
Editor Bulletin, —Touching your par re
female compositors in Maoriland, the following
extract from the current number of the British
Printer treats of the female question from a
medical (not a trades-union) standpoint:—
Some curious statistics appear in a report recently
presented to the Biological Society of Prance, hy Dr.
Luys. The doctor says lie has investigated the ultimate
results of 141 cases of pregnancy amongst women etm
ployed in printing establishments, and no less than 82 of
these ended in miscarriage; there were four cases of
premature birth, and five of still birth; of the children 1
born alive, 20 died in the first year, eight in the second,
and seven in the third, one a little later, and only 14 are
now living, but 10 of which have passed the age of three-
years. Dr. Luys aryius from these figures, sufficiently
shocking in themselvis, that the atmosphere and mode of
life in a printing-office is not suited to pregnant females.
If not suited to them, why to females at all.
—Horrible Man.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Hoya,l Arcade, Sydney,
COO— *
Price for Ordinary Cabinet Photographs,
15s. per Dozen,
„ Platinotype Cabinet Photographs,
QAa nf'r DoZBU*
■“lnvest Your Money in Land.”
HORT’S TOWNSHIP.
On Railway Municipality o( Hurstville, only 10 miles
from the City of Sydney. Next Public-school.
Gas and City Water.
Title Certificate lodged with Registrar-General as security
for purchasers. 6 Vol, 1060 ; Folio. 170 ; Official Plan, 2921.
Prices range from £5 to £lO 10s. per Lot.
TERMS -£l CASH; 10s. MONTHLY.
T o-uarantee no forfeiture if you are sick or out of work.
Clients in the country can rely on faithful selection. No
rooks gullies, or swamps, or money returned in full.
Deeds sent to any part of the world ; personal attendance
unnecessary at Sydney. You can pay as you like. This
is a genuine offer to those who have a few pounds to
anare. No fencing clause, no land-tax, and Torrens
Title which cannot be jumped even if you do not turn up
In- a’-es It me D >eds made out in names of children or
wives. Free Plans post free from
E. C. V. BROUGHTON,
Licensed Auctioneer, 391 Pitt Strkkt, SYDNEY.
FLEMING’S
Reliable Buggies,
PHAETONS
WAGGONS
HARNESS, &o.
88 it 24 Clarcncc*street,
SYDNEY.
t
gh
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing Eigs on. sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various
strata. WILLIAM
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
jg
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Argus talks of “the absentees who
own our railways.”
“The sale of the Victorian railways would
pay the National Debt.”—L. L. Smith. Jusso.
“ Backbone Patterson” —unconscious sar-
casm by Melb. Standard, the Pattersonian
poodle.
“This crisis is through 50 city traders
thinking they can live on 50 country producers.”
—Rev. Marshall.
According to Purves’s figures, 56,880 dead-
head tickets were gathered in at the Vic. railway-
st itions during 1890.
J. M. Toohey, ex-M.L.A. (N.S.W.), says
he will vote for absolute prohibition, if a vote be
jailed for in his time.
A distinguished Northern politician now
nearly lives in the chambers of a certain dis-
tinguished judicial official.
A great statesman has found a new
financier—a dark-haired, be-spectacled young man
ambitious of entering Parliament.
The N.S.W. Labour Bureau has sent 25
butchers up to replace the strikers at .Riverstone.
And Dibbs brags of State neutrality in industrial
conflicts.
Purves, Q.C., extolling the public spirit
and purity of the Age newspaper is an interesting
sight— for anyone who can think back to three
years ago.
It is reckoned that Griffiths, the new
member for the Northern Territory (S. A.), spent
jg 1000 to win his seat, or at the rate of about i>B
for each vote he received.
M'llwraith vows that Queensland will
never know one-man-one-vote, during his lifetime
at any rate. Then crape will be wanted by the
MTI wraith family shortly.
Last session of N.S.W. Parliament has
seen the birth of one political reputation and the
death of another. The first is R. E. O’Connor’s ;
the other is—the missing word.
Let the N.S.W. electors mark well those
M.’sP. whose names have been suspiciously
associated with the promotion of syndicate-
interests by means of private bills.
The Victorian public are assured by Isaacs
that, if they knew all the circumstances of his
retirement from the Ministry, the Government
would not hold office for another 24 hours.
The Sydney Morning Herald : “ Who is
the leader of the present Ministry ? An opponent
of Federation, except under an independent flag.”
In a word, the Herald affects to believe Dibbs is
still a Republican.
“What’s the use,” asked a Sydney Ex-
change man of a morning paper reporter, the
other day, “of getting rid of old man Dibbs?
You’ll only get old man Parkes.” “ But what of
Reid ? ” “ What of a ward in Chancery ? ”
Every unpolitical thinker who visits Ire-
land comes back convinced that the antagonism of
the “Orange” parson and the national priest is
the most distressful feature of the country now
that British landlordism has begun to dry up.
For a time it was feared that the Saber’s
standing as a German warship would make her
captain’s behaviour in the Davies fiasco an interna-
tional affair. The Bulletin has long felt that
only a European war can settle the Mercantile
mess.
The “sell the railways” howl has now
broken out in Queensland. Let us have a grand
federal world’s lottery on our whole railway
systems and be done with them. A pound a
ticket —each ticket to have a chance of winning
the lot.
Strangely enough, not one Labour-member
appears on the long list of Vic. M.’sP. who politi-
cally endeavoured to influence “ Dicky ’ Speight,
with a view to getting a station here, a slice of
land there, or a warm departmental corner for a
“good constituent.”
At Melb. election meeting. Coarse voice
from rear of hall ; “ Are you in favour of paying
me that thirty-five-and-sixyou owe me ? Candi-
date : “I thought it was fifty-three-and-nine. but
the answer is—Yes, out of my first month s Par-
liamentary screw.”
Mr. J. S. M‘Gowan, M.L.A., is looked
upon by “ both heads ” of the N.S.W. J reetrade-
party as the “honestest” of the cross-benchers.
M'Gowan is an Irish-Sootch-Viotorian-New South
Waleser, who still further complicates matters by
having been born at sea.
Altogether, 78,810 votes were polled at the
late Q. elections. Of these, the Ministerialists
secured 32,112 ; Opposition, G0(>0 ; Independent,
14,0(58; Independent Labour, 5534 ; and straight-
out Labour, 21,036. At least 10 per cent, of the
Ministerial votes were plurals.
Why are barristers in N.S.W. Parliament
referred to as “ honourable and learned ? A rule
of the House makes them honourable members,
but no rule makes them learned; and, besides,
they are by no means learned as contradistin-
guished from other members. __
The secret release from gaol, after 62 days’
confinement, of James Maraland, sentenced to a
year’s imprisonment for harbouring bank-defaulter
Bennett, affords yet another illustration of The
Bulletin’s contention that all commutations of
sentences should be gazetted in advance.
At a recent N.S.W. political meeting the
chairman started a long speech. An elector
interrupted, calling for the member’s address.
Another elector: “Sit down, sir, we have come
here to hear the truth,’’ First elector: “We
have not; we have come to hear Mr.
Lands Minister Copeland (N.S.W.) snubs
the dairy-farmer deputation of to-day only to
enthuse over the frock-coated, white-chokered
deputation of to-morrow, though both ask the
same concessions for similar purposes. This is
understood to be “ Yorkshire backbone.”
The Argus on New Australia :
Every man is told that he has no claim on anyone for
the return of his £6O. And we dare say the main reason
for trying the experiment in the heart of South America
. . . is to leave the colonists where they will be utterly
helpless should they feel disposed to grumble and be
unwilling to put up with any terms that necessity may
dictate.
“ H.F.” writes (anent Parkes’ recent
statement in N.S.W. Assembly that, if a member
of the British Commons sat, as Crick, M.P., was
found sitting, d la Yankee, it would almost mean
expulsion); “A friend of mine who visited Eng-
land, a few years ago, saw Balfour, then Chief
Secretary for Ireland, sitting with his feet resting
on the table, almost under the Speaker’s nose.”
John Douglas, of Thursday Island, who
was in N.S.W. Parliament before straying North,
has just resisted with difficulty the temptation to
re-enter Queensland politics. He was a member
of the second Queensland Ministry and held
office (including the Premiership) in half-a-
dozen subsequent Governments. He also served
as Agent - General in London. The recent
Northern complications offered him an ex-
cellent chance. He perceived it and seriously
pondered the question, but with the result that
his address still is Thursday Island.
O’Loghlen must
go.
The Income Tax
Bill being dropped, the
N.S.W. Council’s irre-
concilables longed to
get the Election Bills
back again, in order to
eradicate “ one-man-
one-vote.” Hearing
this, the Labour-party
accepted the Bill with-
out going to a confer-
ence over the disfran-
chisement of seamen
and nomads.
The little “ push ”
of Victorian legislators
who had it in their
minds to whitewash
James Mirams were,
plainly speaking,
“knocked silly’’when
the Argus shouted,
“ Our manifest duty
will be, not to support
the proposition (as re-
quested), but to oppose
it at every stage as au-
dacious and in spirit
also illegal.” Seeing
that that venerable
Tory, James Service, is
at the back of the
“ Mirams reconstruc-
tion ” scheme, and had
undertaken to support
it in Parliament, the
promoters thought they
were dead sure of the
Argus. Now they will
probably give up the
idea of passing what
would practically be a
resolution upholding
crooked balance-sheets
and condemning Crown
prosecutions. The game
is too thin, and one may
well groan at the spec-
tacle of Service and
Deakin finding any
fault with the Premier
Building Association
scandals, except the
fault that they didn’t
bring more people to
gaol.
In assenting to assisted settlement clauses
in the Village Settlement Bill the N.S.W.
Ministry have once more evidenced the educa-
tional force of the N.S.W. Labour-party, whoso
efforts have been to give legislation the humani-
tarian colouring that it previously lacked.
The “land-grant” railway -swindlecate
shows in Tasmania. The contemplated lines will
run as an extension from the Derwent Valley to
the West Coast. Tne “scheme involves the
alienation of much over half-a-million acres-bOOO
acres for every mile of line made being one of the
conditions. _
Queer that the most captious criticism ot
the N.S.W. Labour Parliamentary Party comes
from the so-called labour papers. The capitalistic
organs don’t give away the faults of their party.
They are too busy looking out for faults in the
enemy to notice the faults of their friends. With
the labour organs, they are too busy looking out
for the faults of their friends to notice tnose ot the
enemy.
Andrew Carnegie, it is cabled, professes to
think that Queen Victoria might be induced
to abdicate her throne in order to bring about a
union between Britain and the U.S., “ to dominate
the world and banish wars.” So might we pro-
fess to think that Carnegie could be induced to
abdicate his millions in order to promote in-
dustrial co-operation. Everybody wants every-
body to be virtuous but himself.
In 1889, the N.S.W. railways and tram-
ways returned .£925.603, after paying all working
expenses; in ’9O, ,£1.012,140; in ’9l, .£1,196,221;
in ’92, .£1,249,543. No wonder that the syndi-
cates hunger to posses i them. In private hands,
by lengthening hours, shortening wages, raising
fares, and running inferior rolling-stock, the
profits would easily reach two millions a year.
A Parliamentary grant is mooted for
Graham Berry on the score of his political ser-
vices. There will be a stiff fight over the pro-
posal, which will end maybe in some such action
as Fellows and M‘Bain took re their political
opponent Grant, by leading off the subscription.
Berry, never anything but a politician, has been
financially knocked out and seems to have practi-
cally naught but the stipend of an M.L.A.
w. P. Crick, N.S.W. attorney and M.L.A.,
declined to sue Editor Ferguson civilly for alleged
libel, stating that the newspaper man was without
money. When, however, a fine of ■£•><) was im-
posed on a criminal prosecution, Crick put in his
claim for a portion of the cash. Had Minister
O’Connor not summarily extinguished this round-
about way of getting “there,” the unoccupied
attorneys of Australia would find matter of cri-
minal libel in every sheet they open,
Brisbane Worker’s astounding tabulated
indictment of Brentnall, M.L.C., who has lately
accepted at the hands of the M‘llwraith party the
political douceur of Committees’Chairman in the
Council, is concise and brutal in its inter-con-
trasting details. If these are true, the WORKERS
pen-portraiture should be leafleted, and circulated
by thousands among the electors, as a gibbeted
ensample of the hollow hypocrisy that so often
rears high its whitewashed frontage.
The New Australia expedition to Paraguay
seems to The Bulletin foredoomed to failure, if
only by reason of the utterly incompatible ele-
ftjBLISHIfO |3/-l| t y
5 1 RN Drrd
S?£IC|IT USYME
Jf
CONTEMPT OF COURT.
1ST MELBOURNE UNEMPLOYED : “What’s this case of Speight vee
Syme?”
2ND DITTO : “Speet was a hengine driver, and Joe Symea is a Hatheist
who chucked ’im out of ’is billet for saying there was a
Gawd, so he wants damages or something.”
merits it contains. Here yon have on one hand
socialist Lane and his followers, and on the other
that equally doughty individualist, single-taxer
M‘Naught, and his coterie. You might as well
mix sulphur and chlorate of potash in a mortar
and expect peace, as ship off together such irre-
concilables with a view to founding a Utopia.
The Tories in the Commons, true to the
instincts of Irish landlordism, tried to prevent the
future Irish Parliament having power to tax
absentees. Their amendment was lost by 35 votes.
Then the coercionists attempted to get the power
of appointing the Irish Judges, so as to pitchfork
men like Norbury, “So-help-me-God Keogh,”
Chief Justice Peter O’Brien and Lord Justice
“ Charlie” Barry (who prosecuted James Stephens
in ’65), on to the Bench. That game was spoilt
by a majority of 63.
South Carolina, U.S., has taken a moment-
ous step, the State having assumed the manage-
ment of the whole liquor-traffic, the reason given
being negro intemperance. All the publicans
have to hand over, on terms fixed by Government.
Bars are abolished, the substitute being somewhat
of the stamp of a chemist’s shop. No drinking is
allowed on the premises. The compensation
awarded the public-house interest is criticised
elsewhere as sufficiently liberal, and apparently
the thing will stand.
N.S.W. ex-Minister Inglis considers that
that illuminated address sent him by Quirindi in
his days of glory, but never received by him, sug-
gests a satisfactory solution of the fate of the un-
acknowledged congratulatory address sent to
President Cleveland by the Sydney Freetraders.
It is true, a cable was despatched to the President
telling him the document was on its way : but
letters also reached the Minister five years ago,
to a similar effect. Inglis likes the facts to
be taken, each as elucidating the other. Memo :
Let some N S.W. Protectionist of political stand-
ing write Cleveland on the subject.
The soothing restorative effects of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral are realised in all cases of colds, coughs,
throat or lung troubles, whi'st its powerful heal-
in' qualities are shown in the most serious
pulmonary disorders
Premier Patterson gets lost when he drops
into metaphor. In his latest attack upon Isaacs,
he virtually accuses that unromantie lawyer of
being an incurable buckjumper who attempted to
scuttle the ship, and who went about tilting at
windmills, and also sat upon a serpent’s egg and
hatched a scorpion. That was a week or two ago,
but now that the buckjumper has got safe into
harbour, Patterson probably realises that he has
warmed a broken reed in his bosom which after-
wards turned round and stung him.
As soon as there is a Labour-Minister in
Victoria, or other remote possibility of getting
decent legislation, an Act of Parliament will have
to be got to abolish Fitchett. The trail of this
parson-editor is over everything social, political,
religious, and even sporting, and the odour of
Fitchett taints all things. Partisan Herald,
Sectarian Southern Cross, and Cosmopolitan
Review of Reviews all bear the mark of his
hand, each in turn having been used, more or less,
as a medium of whitening the Mercantile would-
be sepulchre. Moreover, Fitchett superintends a
Methodist Ladies’ College, is a trustee of the
Public Library, and several other things insignifi-
cant in themselves but profitable in bulk.
The Patterson fiction that Solicitor-General
Isaacs “rushed” into notoriety for his self-glory
without any honest warmth of feeling, was very
easily knocked to pieces. On the day (May 18),
when the O’Loghlen decision not to prosecute
Davies was published, he (Isaacs) “ begged of the
Premier to call a Cabinet meeting to consider the
position, but Mr. Patterson refused, and made
light of the matter, saying that it would only be
a three days’ wonder.” So now we know that the
disgust of Isaacs did not become public property
until he had given his virtuous Premier a chance
to avoid a scandal. But the Premier, quite aware
that O’Loghlen’s action would be a “wonder,”
said it would only last three days, and preferred
to bluff it out.
The Australian Tory press has ceased to
dance upon the imaginary grave of the Q. Labour-
party, which has enough Parliamentary vitality to
have prompted Premier MTlwraith to state that
his Government would meet the Labour-party in
every way that it possibly could. Mac knows that
a compact sectional vote of 16 in a House of 72 is a
solid wedge anywhere, and a formidable make-
weight at critical times ; to say nothing of a philo-
Labour vote on occasions of 23, with perhaps some
stray accessions from men who need to make now
and then a demonstration in Labour’s favour.
Here are the parties, analysed : —MTlwraithians,
40; Labour, 16 ; Opposition, 8 ; Alleged Indepen-
dents, 8. Of the latter, 7 are to be counted as
sworn foes to Labour, always ; and the other is a
doubtful man who, however, claims to be a Labour-
democrat. Of the Opposition, two-Cadell and
Cameron—have not yet earned Labour’s trust; the
other six may be relied on occasionally. It may
thus happen that, on a purely Labour question,
Labour may sometimes count 23 votes; on a purely
Opposition question, the Opposition may some-
times rely on 25 votes— their own 8, Labour’s 16,
and one Independent.
“There have been more twins born in the
families of the Sydney unemployed these last two
years than in twice the number of families in any
other section of the community.” And Satan
finds some mischief still, &c.
The Speed of Thought.
In its origin the expression “ Quick as thought”
no doubt referred to the lightning-like transfer of
the attention from one person or locality to
another far removed. There is, however, no com-
parison between the subjective act of thinking
and the objective distance thought of. Looked at
scientifically, the speed of thought can only be
considered as the speed with which the nerve-
impulse travels along the nerve-track of the brain
and there registers its impression. This has been
very accurately measured, and is found to vary,
according to the sensibility and education of the
person tested, from 120 to 200 feet per second.
Herr Bonders, of Utrecht, has devised a most
ingenious apparatus for registering the thought-
speeds of various subjects, and, according to his
results, it takes an average person l-20th of a
second to see a white light, l-10th to see a picture,
l-Bth to see a letter, l-13th to judge between the
blue and the red, l-9th to recall a word seen in
print, l-6th to remember the name of a picture,
and l-4th to bring up before the “mind’s-eye” a
letter lately seen or mentioned. Of course these
are only the most mechanical operations of the
intellect and senses combined. Above these is the
mind proper, whose mysterious workings can
neither be measured nor stated in any terms
known to mechanical science. Does it not strike
the most casual observer that an organism
capable of such rapid action must be very
susceptible to complication. This may be of
various forms, the human body is the most
elaborate machine in existence, and the various
parts are liable to diseases of various kinds. The
symptoms are too well-knovyn to need numeration
here. We need only mention a few such as sour
stomach or indigestion, palpitation, diarrhoea,
sluggish liver and so on, for all of which Clements
Tonic is an absolute safe and quick cure, as proved
by Mr. T. J. Smith, storekeeper, Hamilton Com-
monage, New South Wales, who writes on
January 31st, 1893 About eighteen months ago
I had a severe attack of pleurisy. On recovering
from the above I was very weak, I was unable to
eat, and what I did eat seemed not to do me any
good. I was advised to try Clements Tonic. I
did so, and found that I regained my strength
before I had finished the third bottle, and found
myself improving daily. I believe it is the best
nerve strengthener in "the world, and as an aid to
appetite I don’t think there is anything to beat
Clements Tonic.—Yours faithfully, J. T. Smith,
storekeeper, Hamilton Commonage, New South
Wales.


'pVii/a'f c if fe|er-
",ol.
the lfTii> e>)ci of
i^T
StEtPS® 5^
»« s sS
ViW**
,B' LL -
I*l /5§
* <s yd p» oi4 p
“When tjwas coming a,Vray my little girl
told me to ba sure and learn the Australian
lehguag* while I was here.
Jfh)d fyvejo uyns
s(ediW r atlfe jttf
Of a" Tusji" pro«ss° r "j
"
/htttitius
//.SfilCOUj
/ fJoiv Neffte re beat" /frs <?*•€ biWfty
'Sentence aw Sty *•
'‘sUll I We <x M
bi-.clf aM5> a^ n
Sjpit ifyrouQl) J<tr teeffr fr/pe ; ee -
Inquiries were made in the Assembly yes-
terday by Mr. Black as to whether the cur-
rent rate of interest was added to the £lOO9
recently paid into the Treasury to cover the |
cost of the Premier’s foreign tour, and, if I
not, to what fiHad would the loss be charged ?
To which Sir George Dibbs replied with
considerable warmth: “I decline to give
any more information upon a matter which
does not concern the honorable member, and
I consider it a piece of gross impertinence on
his part to make the inquiry.” (Minis-
terialists : “ Hear, hear.”)'
%
'UcL "Ra£”fr* 3u\l "
hj
&
ghj
p]r ' JHftfcC' sfyfro <*■ **eef of Se^~
/Jy e ff <^f^> <&y^
Ueo, Ked ,
(llit
j-dr a />V).
(arKf-s itjitjjt
parihliff-Mi
iwH /r
Stuff
i Wtr ,
V
%>/v-
K;
Difanjii
\
s
SAPt
' Okakob, Sunday..•-Mounter] Trooper Lord
arrived Hero at daybreak from Cargo. 85
miles away, with information to the effect
that the Australian Joint Stock Bank at
Cargo had been broken into at 3 o’clock this
morning. The manager was stunned and
overpowered by three masked men, one of
whom kept guard while the other two broke
open the 'safe, decamping with about 1000
sovereigns and notes. The inspector of
police hero immediately sent assistance.
The "manager is now, recovering from the
effects pf the assault.
Q[V(S 5 jnr^ciou.^
for;"" J> a ‘A e, " s
do rohbiyo^
Liytpa apc(
hfocicl datf I c(^/) fl
jba h r i^ieThs-
1?)
D
/=\
G
'p 0 ' f
3. li^a 9 <//krf/e
(2 2 c { / 2^ rJr j ! 'f) 3°- . ~J). l/
A LOOK ROUND IN SYDNEY.


g
hjg
hj
gh
C R if\ m q
JU R V
*°W SITTi N C
AN ANXIOUS TIME FOR MELBOURNE’S FAT MAN.


gcutsckJUstralischc
Ersoheint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Preis So!.
Zu haben bei alien Zeitunga-Agenten.
Abonnement 10 sh. jiihrlich direkt bei der
Foreign Publishing OJice, 20 Hunter Sir, Sydney.
To The Dkak. —A Gentleman vvhooured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 30 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Advice to Younpf Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
Thc equitable
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY of the U.S.
STANDS ABOVE ALL OTHERS!
Assurance in force, January 1, 1802 .. £1C7,086,380
New Business, 1891 48 5««,3I»
Surplus, January 1, 1892 5,450,871
Apply for “JON Tl N E TRIUMPHS"
and Specimens cf Actual Remits
SYDNEY BRANCH:
(Temporary Offices during erection of Society’s perina
nent building)
Junction of Hunter, Pitt Sc O'Connell Streets
Society
Ex-Governor and Lady Jersey, at latest
advices, were in Chicago doing the Exhibition,
It is now many months since the Jerseys resigned
and started m red-hot haste for England because
their steward was dead, but though the steward
presumably still continues to be dead they don’t
make much progress Bull-wards, Perhaps, how-
ever, the steward isn’t quite so severely dead now
as he was when they bolted from this horrid
country.
* # *
On the only occasion on which Lord Jersey
passed through Wollongong (N.S.W.) he was, so
Sydney Echo informs us with a sob, obliged to
remain in the station for about 10 minutes, and
“ departed without a single cheer.” Ten minutes
without a cheer ! Why were not the necessary
arrangements made to ensure him a British cheer
or two? There are people in Wollongong and
elsewhere (of unimpeachable loyalty, too) who
would cheer the Impenitent Thief for a pint of
beer,
# # #
The Queensland Government House people
have been pretty hard hit over the Q.N. Bank
smash. It is supposed to hold both Lady and
Sir Henry’s private coin as well as a lot of the old
General’s official screw. Someone whispered the
Gov. before the flounder, but he preferred to take
his chance with “ the miserable hounds.” Conse-
quently, the Birthday guzzle this year was not.
The dugong exhibited in Hunter-street,
Sydney, last week, was a good evidence, if needed,
of how little Australians know of Australia.
The dugong—familiar on the east coast of
Queensland —was labelled “Name Unknown,”
and but few recognised and knew it. Finally
the “ monster ” was carted away to the Aus-
tralia Hotel to take the place of “ the marble
man ” in the affections of Mr. Harry Stockdale.
It may not be generally known that the late Arch-
bishop Vaughan pronounced dugong a permissible
Friday food for Catholics; consequently, there
has always been a quiet, consistent demand for it
in a prepared state.
# # *
Some day an Australian novelist will write
a most charming book, illustrating the peculiari-
ties and eccentricities of our unique flora and
fauna. But it will not be Mrs. Campbell Praed,
who is as big a cockney in describing our birds,
beasts, and plants as if she had never been nearer
the Australian bush than Paternoster Row. Thus,
in “ Outlaw and Lawmaker,” she speaks of “the
bottle-brush of the ti-tree ” ; in another {dace of
“ the holes in the ground of the paddymelons ” ;
and in a third of ‘' the tree-lairs of the opossums
and wombats.” Fancy a wombat climbing into
his tree-lair !
* « •
Dear Bulletin,
—Re the Hobart un-
employed. It is a lie,
that telegram in the
Brisbane daily. Here
are the facts. The
Tasmanian Govern-
ment offered to the
unemployed work on
the West Coast at ss.
a day. Some 70 or 80
men eagerly snapped
at the offer, and were
duly employed in
making a road to
Mount Lyell. The
work—performed un-
der the most trying
conditions, in an
eternally wet climate,
and through the
roughest country —
naturally proved im-
possible to some of
the workers (town-
bred “light work”-
men), and they bad
to give in. The
others struggled on.
Thus the circum-
stance of a few poor
fellows, breaking
down under unaccus-
tomed toil, gives a
splendid opportunity
for the daily papers
to break out into
“cross headings,”
under which they de-
nounce the unem-
ployed as “a set of
agitators,” and so on.
A lie adding a shilling
or two to the amount
“refused” is but the
seasoning to the
“stuffing.” In Ho-
bart, as in Sydney
and Melbourne, there
are men who would
stoke a furnace in hell
for their “ tucker.”
H.S.
Someone makes a fuss in one of the papers
about Lady Duff’s first reception having been
fixed for the afternoon of the day on which
Sraedley was hanged, at Sydney, for wife-murder.
However, even had the reception been appointed
for Monday, the unhappy Smedley, as a very
recent widower, could hardly have attended.
Moreover, Gov. Duff had nothing to do with the
hanging of Smedlev, and so no argument can be
deduced from Gov/Carington’s thoughtful action
(as recorded by the Marchioness of Stafford in her
book) in suppressing all festivity at Government
House on the night before the Mount Rennie boys
were slaughtered. For, you see, the Mount
Rennie slaughter was, in the end, purely Caring-
ton’s own doing, and came about (as The Bulletin
has at least once previously remarked) because
Carington had a hard heart and a soft head.
# # *
Cabled that Prince Luigi Amadeo, Duke
of Abruzzi, nephew of King Humbert, is to give
Sydney society a passing thrill. He is serving on
board the Volturno. Which reminds us that when a
certain Italian man-of-war visited Australia, some
of the olive-faced Italian officers made a complete
moral wreck of a certain boarding-house. Two of
the young ladies who assisted to entertain them
went —after an interval of some months—to the
Italian Consul for information as to the cheapest
road to Italy, and the name of the lowest-priced
avocat in the law-courts. They didn’t get any
further than the Consul’s office, though, and were
further disgusted when the housemaid and laun-
dress (who also formed part of the wreck)
admitted having been given £4 Is. 6d. between
them—the united contributions of five officers.
The gentlewomen could only show some cheap,
frosted-silver jewellery, a gunny-bag full of love-
letters, some photographs, and some anticipatory
little garments.
» « •
Robert Louis Stevenson’s latest Poly-
nesian weep is over the heavy prices charged to
the Samoans for their Bibles and other Scriptural
literature by the London Missionary Society;
whereupon the chief parson of Apia, Mr. W. E.
Clarke, answereth wrathfully, and explains that
the stiff figure charged for the Terewth in Samoa
is because of the heavy binding and the gilt edges
thereof; the gilt edges “ afford an armour plating
against the cockroaches and white ants. The
Society makes no profit out of Bible sales.” He also
states that the heavy binding is needful in native
houses. The latter statement is quite correct. A
Bible in a Samoan house fulfils at least one useful
function other than its original purpose, it being
frequently used nowadays as a pillow, in place of
the bamboo aluga, which is round and hard. In
Lelepa, a little village on the outskirts of Apia, a
white visitor went one day into the dance-house
when the people were having an afternoon siesta.
Of six persons, male and female, two had a
wooden aluga between them, two had each a gin-
bottle, one the small of another’s back, and the
last a big Bible.
* * #
Rev. Dr. Watkin (Melb.) lecturing the
Pleasant Sunday Afternoon Association on “Is
the World Growing Better?” asserted that it was,
because in ancient Rome charitable institutions
were unknown. Rev. Watkin’s structure is too
big for his premises. He simply proves that the
old Romans had neglected a magnificent adver-
tising medium.
» * *
The Victorian police are now hunting up
the batons issued to and feloniously detained by
the special constables enrolled during the great
strike. ’Twas ever thus. There was the same
trouble over the bits of wood distributed at the
Eureka time. Some of these were said to
have been brought out for the Melbourne labour-
difficulty. The things are kept as mementoes,
and are handed down as heirlooms from generation
to generation in snob families, and eventually
evolute to silver-mounted and inscribed drawing-
room ornaments, or to pot-sticks, according to the
family fortunes.
# * *
At the last Hopetoun reception a society
lady brought with her a ten-year-old adopted
aborigine and introduced the little nig. as “ My
little boy. Lady Hopetoun.” “By a former
marriage, I presume ! ” said Lady Hopetoun.
i-j f'"j‘\
A VIGOROUS POLICY.
JACK: “Well, mate, we’re down 150 and ain’t struck her yet. and it’s
June again; will we sling her, or go on?”
BILL (with six inches of rum in him ): “Go on (hie) ; ’course we’ll go on,
’till we hear the cocks crowing in hell.”
During the Darley vice-regal regime, a
visit was made to a certain inland town. On
three cheers being demanded for Her Gracious, the
local Mayoress skipped to the foreground and
excitedly cried, “ Hang the Queen ! Three cheers
for Lady Darley ! ”
# # •
The option (to testify or not testify) given
by Justice limes to Mrs. Archer at her (now con-
demned) husband’s trial for murder in Sydney
Criminal Court last week, raises the same question
which the N.S.W. Full Court is now considering.
If she declined to testify, the inference would have
been drawn against her husband ; by testifying,
she contributed to damage his prospects. Possibly,
she did her husband less harm by speaking than
by refusing to speak ; but the unhappy woman’s
position raises the question whether the Court
should continue to deal in “options ” of the kind.
# # #
Sydney Evening News observes that
“most of the leading journalists of the city”
were present in Sydney Town Hall last week at
the Mayor’s luncheon to Gov. Duff. A couple of
capable writers were, it is true, present, and these
attended because they represented stalf positions,
and were indirectly obliged to serve their em-
ployers in this respect; but the rest of the “lead-
ing journalists” were the newspaper proprietors
themselves, among whom are men whose simple
business letters have to be corrected before they
are allowed to reach “ customers.” Shop !
• # #
A Sydney “|doctor” advertises :
IV/TY DEATH having been reported, I take this
opportunity to say I am, after 40 years’ practice,
able to CURB all Ulcerated Legs, or I will return the
money.
The man who, after 40 years’ practice, is still able
to return the money, ought to remain alive as long
as possible. So very few doctors have even learned
the art of returning the money that this kind of
practitioner deserves encouragement.
# # *
Murderer Bertrand has returned to his old
quarters at Darlinghurst. He also is a victim to
having kept a diary.
• * *
A wild - eyed man
arrived at a Western
station, the other day,
about noon, and, in a
state bordering on frenzy,
declared that his mate
had sunk out of sight
in a quicksand some
miles away ; he had tried
to dig him out with a
sapling, but had only
lacerated his own hands.
(Bleeding hands were
exhibited as collateral
evidence). The manager
ordered up the wag-
gonette and started for
the scene under the
stranger’s directions,
carrying along shovels,
etc. Suddenly the visi-
tor leaped out with a
yell, and started trying
to shovel a tunnel through
a granite boulder. Then
he banged the obdurate
surface, cooeyed to im-
aginary echoes, and pre-
sently flung down the
shovel with a cry of
“ Snake !” After which
he pulled off his trousers
and tried to break the
back of the shovel with
them. Whereupon, the
boss and the station-
hands manned him and
bound him. It proved
to be a very ordinary
case of jim-jams.
* # #
What humourists
are the clergy ! N.S.W.
Bishop Smith’s prayer
for the removal of the
depression, was read in
Darlinghurst pri s o n
church by Canon Rich,
who asked the supplica-
tions of his congregation
for the bursted banks.
Baby-farmer Herod Makin has had his
irons knocked off pending the result of his appeal,
but is kept in “separate treatment” with one
hour’s exercise per day. He was lately visited by
N.S.W. Acting-Governor Uarley who told him
he would surely be hanged should the Privy
Council appeal fail. Mrs. Makin, sentenced to
life-imprisonment, is at Bathurst.
# » *
A wonderful girl now appears on the Mel-
bourne Block —in puce velvet, with a foot depth of
lace collar, a song-and-dance hat, and ethereal
shavings hair. She must be a genius.
# # • •
From a recent S.M. Herald ;
On April 26, at Glasgow, the wife of John M’Leod, M.D.,
late of Sydney, of a son.
This is the much-married John, hero of the
famous divorce appeal case, in which he succeeded
at great cost, after doing 15 months out of the
three years to which he had been sentenced for
alleged bigamy.
# * #
More men—and women—have been ruined
by keeping diaries than by any other description
of literature. A case in point is that of a hoary
old reprobate named Albert Pinkstone, who
recently, in Sydney, was sentenced to five years’
penal servitude for assaulting a girl under 14.
Pinkstone, who was in the sere and yellow leaf of
infamy, was married to a girl of 13 years and a
few months, and among his other sins he kept a
diary. He kept this lamentable document for 26
years before it helped to bowl him out and clinch
his doom, and at the end of that time it turned on
him and rent him. According to his own record,
he had assaulted 146 children in the course of his
career. He used to name each girl in his day-
book when he assaulted her, and then post her
into the ledger, and when the page got full he
would carry the girl over to the next vacant leaf.
Consequently, the police are now making inquiries
about these 146 girls, and among them there will
probably be found evidence enough to make Mr.
Pinkstone miserable for the balance of his exist-
ence. He is now aged 60, and a man who started
keeping a diary at 34 and hadn’t enough sense to
leave off before he reached the age of three score,
is too foolish to be left at large.
* * *
Even if the thing be only make believe on
the part of the authorities, it's a nasty knock
to Matthew Davies to have Detective Whitney
sent after him to Colombo with a warrant.
Whitney is a burglar practitioner, who prowls
about Little Bourke-atrcet, professionally yarning
with Chinamen’s girls and getting “ information
received” from Nancies about their “blokes.”
The Crown Law Department keeps a perfumed
detective of its own, Duncan—who has a room
all to himself in the Crown Law offices. He con-
ducts the “gentlemanly” inquiries and makes
arrests only in nice cases —such as that of a clergy-
man or a K.C.M.G. It was, for instance, “Pro-
fessor ” Duncan who served the criminal sum mens
on the Collingwood parson accused of illegally
marrying a minor. Had Duncan la eu sent after
Davies, it would have been rather a compliment
to the ex-Speaker. In a wife-poisoning case at
Hotham, 25 years age, Duncan produced a lot of
things bottled and labelled, and F. L. Smyth, the
prisoner’s counsel, insisted on referring to him,
throughout the case, as “Professor Duncan,”
which sobriquet has stuck to him ever since.
# # •
A Sydney advfc. : —“ Wanted a companion.
A Christian, but cheerful.” Three volumes in
four words.
# # *
From some of the mail-bags carried in the
R.M.S. Cuzco from N.S.W. and Queensland were
abstracted by rats wedding-cake and kid gloves.
From the way in which other packages were
tossed about, it is concluded that the rats must
have vainly sought for white ties, bridal veils, and
other necessary hymeneal superfluities. We have
not been asked to the wedding. It will be strictly
private, and no cats will be admitted.
* * #
The Bulletin prophesies that many of
the New Australia argonauts will try to get back
here for next shearing.
* * #
Thank Heaven the banks put off their
bursting until Sarah Bernhardt had come and
gone! Sarah is a golden memory for Australia,
anyhow, and it will ever be pleasant to look back
upon the time when the Fat Man puffed up in his
hansom-cab to bid =£3 for a dress-circle seat.
' ?O*T MELBO 0
TUB MUSTC °
7 ro n LONDON
f Today
CONSIDERATE.
MR. SHORT: “I thought you were going by the mail-boat for a trip
’Ome.”
MR. LOSTALL : “Can’t afford it. All my money was in the Gone-
bung Bank. Just came down to-day to see the ‘un-
fortunate’ manager and director off.”
’Twas already the dose of the halcyon day. The
sun was setting, but its parting crimson glow was
more beautiful than the ruby on the Fat Man’s
middle finger.
* * #
One officer of the Paraguayan argonauts’
barque —or was it his brother ? was for-
merly captain of an Anglo - Australian trader.
He married in Brisbane, gave up the sea,
and plunged into the deadly terrors of
keeping a Sydney boarding - house. A good-
natured man, he had some curious experiences. A
whole family of about eleven remained with him
for months without paying a cent. Just as he
was thinking it about time to get some, the police
came in and arrested pa and ma, and left the
children with him for another three months
Such things as these make Paraguay look green.
* # #
Sam Bonstead, the recently-deceased host
of the St. Bernard hospice in the Victorian Alps,
is chiefly remembered by many visitors to his
place for his commercial trick of doubling the
price of a night’s use of one particular bedroom —
he leaped from 2s. fid. to ss. in one act —because
Lord and Lady Loch once spent a night there.
* • •
“ When Adam delved and Eve span,
Who was then the gentleman ?”
When Melbourne was camped on by Batman,
Who was then the blessed Fat Man ?
# * #
Neat phrase from Sydney paper:—“A
brass band was in attendance for National Anthem
purposes.”
# # #
A Maryborough (Q.) man, just gaoled for
being illegally on premises, appeared to follow the
inscrutable occupation of boring auger-holes in
the walls of married-people’s bedrooms! Was he
a divorce-scavenger, or merely a member of ft
Social Purity Society ?
• # m
Was not Matthew Davies, anyhow, as
much an offender as Sleath ?
* * *
The cabled report that Cardinal Moran
purposes establishing an Australian R.O. College


The use of cocaine, as an alternative to
nitrous-oxide gas, in dental operations, is daily
practised by J I. Marshall, dental surgeon, Iving-
street Arcade (George-.st. entrance), Sydney. Mr.
Marshall has gained reputation as the author of a
popular treatise on ‘' The Teeth. ”
Messrs. Colemane and Sons’ Eucalypte Extract
is the only known cure for ASTHMA, GONSUMI HoN,
BRONCHITIS, and all affections of the Chest and
Lungs. For Palpitation of the Heart, Gravel and
Kidney complaints it has no equal. fevers of all
kinds, Coughs, Colds, Rheumatism, etc., are banished
by its use. Awarded Medals and Diplomas Adelaide,
Sydney and Melbourne, beating all competitors. Children
should have Eucalypte Honey or Eucalypte Lozenges.
Adults will find Lucalypte I ills peails of
great price. I For external use try Colkmask and
Sons Special Oil. Sole Manufactory, Cootamundra. N.S. W
i
w
/mm
JBS3
LARGEST
are the
IMPORTERS OF
AUSTRALIA.
PIANOS IN
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere,
the “VICTOR” AND “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEINWAY and SONS, JULIUS FEURICH,
UEBEL AND LECHLEXTER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” and THE “ BELLING.'*
Pianos by ail Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
Limrest Stno.k of New and Pannlor
in Rome has inherent reasons to rest on. He
intends, it is true, to have an Australian College
in Australia, but the Irish Hierarchy has a
native college in Ireland, and also an Irish House
in Rome; and the Cardinal himself, though an
Irishman, passed the chief part of his student-
ship at Rome—a fact which is supposed to
specially qualify for preferment in the church.
# # *
A N.S.W. country M.P., understanding
that the reorganisation proceeding in his district
in view of the operation of the new Electoral Act
is adverse to him, has written exhaustively to his
committee. He recapitulates a number of legisla-
tive exploits which he desires to have placed to his
credit, but over and above all other claims upon a
continuance of the electors’ loyal support he
urges that, although he has now resided two years
in Sydney, he has not yet once been publicly
named as co-respondent in a divorce-case.
A Melbourne tailor advertises: “Gent’s
clothes taken in part payment.”
* # *
The biggest whisky ad. in Christchurch
(M.L.) is on the side-wall of a temperance hotel.
It stands out in fat, black letters, eight feet high :
“Ask for ’s whisky,” and the thirsty man
sees it afar off and hies unto the spot, and then a
sour-looking individual on the door step offers him
ginger-beer. There is more concentrated blas-
phemy on the doorstep of that temperance hotel
than in all the rest of Christchurch.
• • •
Chief Justice Madden says that private
detectives (he might also have included public
detectives, not one in fifty of whom seems to live on
his official pay) are “ distinctly dangerous.” He
gave one a month’s gaol last week for trying to
intimidate a co-respondent. Of late years, the
private detectives in Melbourne have been mostly
ex-policemen and superannuated detectives. A
year or two ago a newspaper man started in that
line down South, but he wasn’t a success,
• m m
A Melbourne evening journal commented
upon Chief Justice Madden’s undignified manage-
ment of the filthy Tobias divorce-suit, and hinted
ttiat the bookmakers present (who at times
invaded the press-box) enjoyed themselves more
than seemed absolutely necessary.
* * •
The British Dress Reform Association
announces that every inch taken off the length of
a woman’s skirt reduces her apparent age by a
year. If two feet were taken off the skirt of a
lady aged 23, how old would she look on this
basis ?
You know a man by the company he keeps
—especially in the case of the companions of
Michael and George. You also know him by the
Loan and Mortgage Company he keeps.
• # *
Dear Bulletin, — Since my last infliction
on your space, some years back, I have been
mostly in gaol—and am still there. I used to
wonder what you meant when you frequently
advocated reforms in the penal code. I think I
understand something about that matter now. I
haven’t seen your “ red cover ’’ for many a month.
You see, when we do manage to get you sneaked
in, you are minus the tell-tale cover, and all the
purely advertising pages. Couldn’t you manage
to print a special weekly gaol-edition—-to look as
much like tracts as possible—and oblige a lot of
poor fellows whose chief fault is that they’ve been
found out ’—Yours, Prisoner ooX Xoo.
« # *
On the steamer Manapouri, en route to
Maoriland, a well-known clergyman was conduct-
ing service on a recent Sunday. In reciting the
Lord’s Prayer, he had got as far as “give us this
day our daily bread,” when his face assumed a
pallid hue. He stopped short. Attempted to go
on, failed; then explained : “lam so sorry, my
friends, but I have forgotten the rest —and, oh !
I feel so ill The next moment he was studying
“ the deep blue sea.”
* * *
An illegitimate baby has been found at
Port Melbourne wrapped in a copy of the august
Argus. The penny racket has some disadvan-
tages, after all.
A great increase of dressmakers’ signs in
Melbourne and suburbs, but there is also a gteat
increase of home-made dresses in the streets.
# » #
At the hearing of a notorious Australian
divorce-case, the other day, it was stated, in evi-
dence, to prove the respectability of a certain
house, that the Speaker had been a visitor there.
Now, we have known Speakers—but that is
another story.
# * *
There are some thirty Jews of all grades
now confined in Darlinghurst prison. They are
never shifted to country gaols, the Rabbi desiring
them to be kept near at hand for synagogue. They
are nearly all employed in clerical billets, and are
great traffickers in “flat.”
Since the Gregory episode during the
Johns’ trial at Darlinghurst, no female Bible-
reader has been admitted to the gaol, the Sisters of
Mercy, who always visit in couples, being the
only privileged of the sex.
« « *
Primate Smith lately paid an official visit
to the church in Darlinghurst Gaol. When firmly
installed in the pulpit, he appeared to suddenly
remember something, and with crook’d finger in-
vited the ear of Canon Rich. The little canon
nearly tumbled down the stairs to the vestry,
beneath the church, and reappeared smiling, with
the bishop’s gold watch, which had been forgotten
by its owner. The consternation amongst members
of the “congregation ” may be readily imagined,
and the “loss” sustained by some of the crowd
will never be made up.
# # «
The Maoriland Anglican Synod can’t agree
about anew bishop, so has passed on the job to
two English bishops, with the reservation that no
past-Maorilander need apply.—
Says High Church unto Low Church :
“I’d sooner there were no church,
Than let your man assist.”
Says Low Church unto High Church :
“And if it can t be ray church,
I’ll pill the Ritualist.”
It is an old story
about a certain grim,
taciturn keeper of the
old Breakwater Pier
lighthouse at Wil-
liamstown (Melb.).
So notoriously un-
sociable was this now
dead-and-gone iden-
tity, that a number of
Williamstown resi-
dents hit upon the
humorous idea of in-
viting him to a com-
plimentary “spread,”
He duly accepted the
honour, did the silent
man of the light-
house. They gave
him the place of
honour on the chair-
man’s right, and one
after another they
rose up and extolled
his genial qualities,
concluding with
“He’s a jolly good
fellow ” and three
cheers. Th e n the
guest of the evening
came out of his shell.
In “ well -chosen
words” he thanked
the gentlemen pre-
sent, nodding to each
separately, for their
kind expressions of
goodwill,&c. “But,”
said he, with sudden,
solemn intensity,
“ you s, do you
meanit?” Theyswore,
by everything holy,
that they did mean
it, and for the rest of
his days the light-
house - keeper was,
comparatively speak-
ing, a merry old soul.
Thelittle joke touched
a long-hidden spring
in his salt sea heart,
and made him lively.
Should Mr. Way take the S.A. Governor-
ship, he will still live at his present house, only
using the vice-regal mansion for State functions.
# # *
The usual N.S.W. eleemosynary hospital
passport :—“ To- the matron. Non are requested
to receive A. 8., his maintenance to be charged to
the vote for sick paupers.” Then they lift up
A.B. tenderly, &c.
* • *
At Wyndham (W.A.), recently, three
aboriginal prisoners died “on the chain ” within
a few hours of each other. Anticipated verdict—
Death by the visitation of God. It always is that, or
heart-disease, or syncope, or chronic malingentis,
or something you” can’t hit at, whenever cold-
blooded officialism is in the other balance.
# * #
An information was recently laid, and a
conviction obtained against, a stallholder on a
Melbourne railway-station for selling a bunch of
flowers on Sunday !
« * #
Broken Hill alderman, protesting against
the Council’s method of dealing with a motion :
“Mr. Mayor, your system is rotten.”
‘# * •
At Melbourne, the other day, when the
divorce case of Tobias v. Tobias was in progress,
Mrs. Tobias fainted under a violent cross-examin-
ation and fell backwards, head first, out of the
witness-box. As the box was about two feet
higher than the floor, her brains would probably
have been knocked out by the concussion if some
one had not caught her just in time. Next day,
two pieces of clothes-line were stretched across the
entrance to prevent the lady falling out any more,
and the case proceeded. Considering*the dreadful
manner in which the average counsel bellows at a
nervous witness, and the kind of questions he asks
her, this precaution seems distinctly advisable.
Another piece of clothes-line tied round the neck
of the barrister would also be beneficial in many
instances.
* #
Nearly all the Victorian friendly societies
raise levies for the unfinaneial members, who have
to be excused.
The Eucalypte Lozenges for colds, made by
Golemane and Sons, are unsurpassed.
Judge Hodges, in charge of the great Vic.
railways libel-case, has received an anonymous
letter, “making insinuations against the jury.
It is Melbourne’s own fault that people will think
anything about any jury nowadays. One lot ot
good men and true didn’t agree about Matt.
Larkin, and a third jury was necessary before the
“Plum” (a very clear case of burglary) could be
fixed up. 'ln each of these cases, too, there were
plenty of insinuations knocking about beforehand.
* * *
Sydney Evening News says that the
theory about a possible lover who possibly
murdered Emma Harrison is a stale and common
invention, and the lover himself “generally a
creature first of the imagination of the criminal,
not of his counsel.” The News evidently doesn t
know what it is talking about. The mysterious
individual who kept tapping so persistently on the
window-pane, as if by some preconcerted arrange-
ment, if lie was an invention at all, was invented
by Jeater, not by Archer. Until that man of unac-
countable signs and signals is found, the Burton-
street tragedy is not fully explained. If there was
a lover, he was most probably that lover, and the
hint that he was “ invented ” by Archer is a dis-
tortion of the truth.
♦
The Adelaide religious editor has agreed
to work his office under the rules of the typo-
graphical Society. A conscience-spasm, or a
desire to get more votes when next he stands for
Parliament ?
As a safeguard against death from deep-
sea diving the Thursday Island shelling companies
intend supplying their divers with “ an appliance
which will enable divers to work in very deep
water in comparative safety from all ills save
probably rheumatics in the legs.” Save probably ?
The Manchester Unity Order of Odd-
fellows has, in S. A., 12,470 members, and funds
worth .£201,417. Last year, £15,200 was distri-
buted in sick-pay, the total for the last quarter of a
century being £242,020; while £139,361 went to
surgeons, £125,907 was paid at death, and £7452
was given to relieve distress.
One of the side-results of Philp’s nomina-
tion as MTlwraith’s Minister for Mines and
Works (Q.) is thai Nicholas Tooth (M.P. for the
E>EW^m>
NEAR TATTERS ALL’S, IN SYDNEY'.
VISITOR TO TOWN (to one of the talent) “Am I in Pitt-street, please?”
TALENTED ONE: “Yes, this is Spit-street.”
VISITOR (after looking at pavement) : “Ah! so I should think.”
Burrum and “ Mines-expectaht-as-was ”) already
sits on the cross-benches. Annear, the Mary-
borough man who was Tooth’s election-mate, has
been mollified witli the Chairmanship of Commit-
tees, Years ago, at a dinner, Annear proposed
as a toast, “ The Two Nicks—old Nick and Nick
Tooth.” To which Tooth: “The Two Jacks —
Jack Annear and Jack Asa.”
Dear Bulletin, —How men lie about
“grass and water” along a track ! Next bush-
man you see in your city, ask him, “ How’s the
grass ?” up his way. Then, if you want to give a
pal “ the straight griffin ” on the subject, tell him
the exact opposite.—Yours, Drover (Q.)
Two more “decorations” for Adelaide.
That indefatigable self-advertiser, Postmaster-
General “ Toddlekins,” chiefly famous for kindness
of heart and bad puns, has been knighted. He got
the preliminary bauble about a quarter of a cen-
tury ago, in recognition of his connection with the
establishment of the Adelaide-Port Darwin tele-
graph-line, and ihe latest gewgaw is presumably
meant to mark the recent completion of fifty years
of public service. Dr. Stirling is branded because
of the medical care he bestowed on Gov. Kintore
during the recent picnic trip across the continent,
and as Todd officially provided the horses and
traps which took the featherbed explorers from
station to station along the wi -j, besides providing
an operator to give them < ity lews at each camp-
ing-place, the bebaubleiumt is at least as
much the reward of “grovel” as of merit.
In Stirling’s case, C.M.G. may be taken to mean
“ Cooking My Grub,” or “Concocting My Gruel.”
Stirling is a squatter, a University professor, and
many other profitable things, and for three years
helped Hawker to represent North Adelaide in
Parliament. Even effusive loyalists grumble at
his selection for Royal favour, as they reckon that
in Australia, at least, reward should be given for
public and not for merely personal service. A
little more of this sort of thing and the few
Imperialists remaining on this side of the world
will be converted to the democratic principle
which condemns all titles not conferred by the
general body of the people.
The best medical authorities acknowledge the
value of Ayer’s Pills, and prescribe them with the
utmost confidence, as the most effectual remedy
for diseases caused by derangements of the
stomach, liver, and bowels.
THE MOMENTOUS QUESTION.
In circles parliamentary,
On ’Change, and at the clubs,
In day schools elementary
For knowing, growing cubs :
In train, and tram, and omnibus,
In church, or at the play,
The question Dick and Tom discuss,
Commencing with “I say I”
Is —“ Shall we see Sir Matthew,
Will they ever find Sir Matt. ?
A lot of friends lie hath, yon
Cannot get away from that!
Their reason for devotion
To his cause is pretty plain.
Do you think the briny ocean
Will bring Matthew back again ?
Ho ! ho ! No, no—
Change of climate for the brain.
Consider the facilities
He had for getting clear,
And all the possibilities
Still waiting in the rear !
Consider well the history
Of this long-winded case,
And be prepared for mystery
Suggestive of the Mace.
O, where is Matthew Davies-
Will they ever find Sir Matt. ?
Perhaps he on the wave is,
But we wouldn’t swear to that.
The prayers of pious boomers
Are not often prayed in vain ;
And the air is full of rumours
That he’ll not be back again.
Ho ! Ho ! Lie low—
And a healthy place is Spain.
“Does the World Grow Better?”
(“The world is better to-day than ever it was before.
Take the Pyramids and the works of antiquity. They
were the result of slavery. In ancient Rome charitable
institutions were unknown.”— Rev. Dr. Watkin, of Mel-
bourne.)
Are we better than the people were when Pharaoh
ruled the earth,
In those distant days of story, ere the Nazarene
had birth,
When the tillers from the fields were torn, the
fishers from the seas,
To raise up mighty monuments a monarch’s pride
to. please ?
Are ye truer men, more human, ye who order, ye
who own,
Than the Roman lords and masters, when the
poorhouse was unknown,
When the leisured class the food and wear to
humble labour gave,
And the worker knew his bondage, and confessed
he was a slave ?
Whilst the farmer sings of freedom now, his lord
reaps what he sowed ;
The poor man vaunts his liberty but bears the
rich man’s load ;
In asylums grim for worn-out slaves, of toil’s fair
fruit bereft,
Stern Charity returns them part of Privilege s
theft.
See the workers by the forges shaking nations
with their blows,
Or down the dim, hot drive, or where the molten
metal flows,
Striking mountains from their pathway, bidding
life up from the sod,
Or riding on the riven seas, and battling there
with God.
See them slaving on the scaffold high, and striving
in the field—
Not theirs the stately palaces, not theirs the
golden yield—
A hundred million servitors whom work no glory
brings,
Building pyramids for ever for the pleasure of
their kings !
Melb. '
E. DYSON.
There would be a great deal less harm
done in this world if more people stuttered. —
American Philosopher.
That the Columbian Land Distribution
has “caught on” is evidenced by the fact that,
bad times and bank reconstructions notwithstand-
ing, the shares are being rapidly taken up. The
scheme, which will be found fully detailed in our
advertising columns, is in the hands of reputable
business men of standing, and is worthy of the
influential support it is receiving. The promoters
court the fullest enquiry as to their bona-iides.
Blackwood’s Magazine publishes a
heavily humorous paper on Parliamentary pro-
ceedings in Tonga. The writer gives an alleged
description of a debate on the suppression of
“flirting”—a penal offence in Tonga—by the
native police. “Flirting,” as a term applied to
illicit amours, reminds one of a certain dreadful
story about an enterprising commercial traveller,
a young lady, and a railway journey. “Olyou
flirt.”
Our Boys.
To see the large crowds anxiously scanning and
minutely criticising, the various telegraphic
advices of the progress of our Australian
cricketers, which are placed outside the various
news agencies, is one of the daily experiences of
Sydney life, and the interest evoked is not un-
warranted, for “Our Boys” are, once more, mak-
ing the Old World players, play second fiddle at a
game peculiarly their own. Their skill and stamina
spring from the possession of strong nervous, as
well as physical power, and so long as the Aus-
tralian Eleven continue to brace up their nervous
and muscular systems by the use of Australia’s
premier remedy, “Marshall’s Tonic Nervine,” so
long will the spectacle be witnessed of delighted
crowds gazing at the records of their wondrous
successes. Concerning “Marshall's TonicNervine”
Professor Cansdell writes :
“ It gives me great pleasure in recommending to my
athletic friends your well-known ‘TonicNervine,’ which
is the best strengthening tonic I have ever taken.”
And this eminent athlete’s opinion is verified by
the redoubtable and unconquered Larry Foley,
“ who should know, you know,” for he states :
“ I must candidly admit that I have used it for years,
and always found it wonderfully effective when feeling a
little off, and I not only speak from my own experience,
but have heard numbers of the boys (athletes) say that,
for training purposes, they have found nothing equal to
it when taken in a little water twice a day.”


AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT
SOCIETY
ESTABLISHED 1849.
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
Directors— The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT Esc • A W MFKKS ■ kart
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECB, F.1.A., F.F.A. ’ . twin.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling. Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504 000 yielding Reveraionarv
of over One Million sterling. ’ ’ y g R&ver « onar T nonuses
Head B7 FITT STREET, SYDNEY. ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
TATTERSALL’S
Grrazid 3NT ational Hurdle Flciulnctou, .Inly 8, 1893.
50,000 at 20 50,000
GrrandL UNTational Steeple chase -Flem., July is, 1893.
50,000 at 10 50,000
1
ONLY ADDRESS:
“ TATTEKSAU,”
C/o Geo, ADAMS(Ovvner),Tatter-
sail’s Hotel & Old Club Premises,
Pitt-st., Sydney N.S.W,
ADAMS’
I TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
-A- above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings, Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Pitt Street, Sydney.
“ The Bulletin’s ” Missing
Word Competition.—No. 4.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the para-
graph on the subjoined coupon—which coupon is
to be cut out and forwarded to The Bulletin,
accompanied by one shilling, will be paid the total
amount received in response to this advertisement.
Should there be more than one successful com-
petitor, the total amount received will be divided
amongst such successful competitors pro rata.
Coupons will be received at The Bulletin
Office within three weeks from Saturday, June 17,
1893. Should any coupon other than this be used,
the sender will be disqualified, and the amount
added to the prize.
The missing word is placed in a sealed envelope
in the custody of the manager of the Bank of
New Zealand, Sydney, and the contents are
known only to the manager of this paper.
As no one succeeded in naming the missing-
word in No 3 Competition, the whole of the cash
received {,£49 45.) will be added to this Com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded by
Post-office order or stamps of any province; when
the latter are sent, an additional penny to be
added for exchange.
‘ BULLETIN ” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
“The Bulletin’s” Missing Word
Competition Coupon.—No. i.
Gut this out, fill in the missing word, and
forward coupon with One Shilling, or 13 penny
stamps, to Manager, Bulletin Office, Sydney,
in time to he received by Saturday, Ist July,
1893.
The Burra Burra (N.S.W.) 'kish has been
pronounced a duffer. Hundreds of men who rushed
there because of the sensational newspaper descrip-
tions, had to beg their way back. Pitiable stories
of hardships bordering on starvation are told, and
some newspapers have been roundly cursed for
'heir It is one of
the easiest things in the world to start a gold rush
when there are thousands of half-starved men in
the country.
Name...
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing
word will promptly get a cheque for the total
amount received — no deduction whatever
being made. Should there be more than one
successful competitor, the total amount received
will be divided pro rata amongst such com-
petitors.
No replies rvill be admitted except contained
on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to
secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to other-
wise conduct the competition in a manner worthy
of the reputation of the paper.
Amusements.
i V O L I THEATRE
(Castlereagh Street, Sydney).
Sole Lessee and Manager .. Mr. Harry Rickards.
unprecedented phenomenal success of
I Mr. HA I! It V KIUKA lt l> S (
And his New Tivoli Minstrels and Specialty Company.
Million Prices, Drtss Circle and Orchestra Stalls, 2s. ;
Stalls, Is. ; Family Circle, 6d. Plan at Paling’s.
N.B.—Always Vacancies for really First-class Artists.
Business Manager, JOHN C. LEETE.
r* R I TER I O N THEATRE.
v Lessees & Managers, Mr. Brough & Mr. Boucioault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS !
of
“TIEIIE IDLEE.”
By Mr. 0. Haddon Chambers.
Box Plan at Nicholson’s, where Stall Seats may be
secured six nights in advance.
■Ti H E A T R E ROY A L.
Lessee .. Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. J. H. RAINFORD.
THIS (THURSDAY) EVENING, and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“ The Black riag.”
ALFRED DAMPIER, Miss LILY DAMPIER, Miss
KATHERINE RUSSELL, and the full strength of
Popular Dramatic Company.
Box Office at the Theatre. Day Tickets at Mackay’s Hotel,
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 2s. : Stalls, Is. ;
Family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
TT ER MAJESTY’S “ TH EATR E
** Sole Lessee .... Mr. George Rignold.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS !
of
Charles Reade’s Famous Play,
“it is never too late TO MEND.”
Mr. George Rignold as Tom Robinson.
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEA TR E
* (Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTS !
of
“ HTJTIWCA.3XT NATURE.”
PRICES AS USUAL.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
ip o w N H A L L.
The Musical Event of the Year.
ANTOINETTE STERLING CONCERTS.
A Magnificent Reception of England’s Queen
of Song,
MADAME ANTOINETTE STERLING.
Assisted by
Miss May Habgood, Miss Isabel Webster, Mr.
James Wood, Mr. H. R. Holder.
Einal Concert in Sydney
&S* TO-MORROW, FRIDAY.
Box Plan and Day Tickets at Palings.
Thos. P. Hudson, Director.
■piTZ GERALD BROS.’ GRAND CIRCUS
* AND
MENAGERIE OF WILD, SAVAGE LIONS.
EVERY EVENING at 8 O’CLOCK.
MATINEES WEDNESDAY and SATURDAY
AFTERNOONS at 3 O’CLOCK.
The Greatest Success in its Line ever known in Australia.
“A HIT! A PALPABLE HIT!”
ENORMOUS CROWDS at EVERY PERFORMANCE.
Our ALL-STAR TROUPE are without Equals
in their Profession.
Prices: 45., 35., 25., and Is.
Proprietors: THE FITZ GERALD BROS.
Agent: Mr. JOHN MORRIS.
Press Representative: Mr. 11. P. LYONS.
£49,460 worth for £l.
MONSTER FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS IN THE
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
Incorporated According to Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue—los,ooo Shares at .£l.
Anyone Can Apply ! !
No Liability ! ! !
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Committee :
Hon. B. B. MORETON, Hon. JOHN DON-
ALDSON, J. J. KINGSBURY, Esq., M.A.,
M.L.A., JAMES HIPWOOD, Esq., J.P.
AITCHESON OVEREND, Esq., C.E.
Solicitor :— Hon. A. J. THYNNE, M.L.C.
2403 PRIZES, Valued as Under ;
No. I.—Magnificent Offices and Banking
Chambers, corner of Albert & Adelaide-streets,
at cost .£30,000; rental value, .£l5OO a year.
Nos. 2 to 2403.—Residences, Shops, &c., and
Picked Land in and near Brisbane, at cost.
First Prize, £30,000.
2 of =£lo,ooo
1 of .£5OOO
4 of £2500
5 of £lOOO
5 of £5OO
10 of ,£250
50 of £lOO
100 of £5O
100 of £25
125 of =£2o
1000 of £lO
1000 of £5
Total, *105,000. No deduction ! Clear Titles ! !
Apply to SECRETARY", Albert-street, or
CORRIE & CO., Queen-street, BRISBANE.
State amount forwarded, and enclose Two
Stamped Addressed Envelopes. Register letter.
EVERY SHARE will have a chance of 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, so that
£1 may win £49,460 worth.
Amusements.
11° w TO GET STRONG
rnls > Back, Abdomen, Legs, and every part
nl r ade Big and Strong by using PRO
LESSOR P LOOSE’S PHYSICAL EXERCISE CHART
(copyrighted.) Result of 25 years’ experience as Physical
ijueotor. Special exercises for deepening and widening
tne Chest, and making the Shoulders broad. Invaluable
to all persons, young or old, who wish to be strong and
vigorous and keep so. Specially adapted for athletes, or
° e athletes. Most complete work up to date.
V/ s ' T^ h - V p° st > 4d - extra. Address, F. Loose,
Box 6735, P. 0., Sydney. ’
ALBERTS’ Violins, real Cremona Copies, 10s.
6d., 155., 255., 355., 505., £3 155., £5 to £7
4,Js4 > cash or Is. weekly. Special discount to trade.
ALBERTS’ Mandolines.—Best Neapolitan and
French, 255., 355., 555., 755., 955., to £7 10s.
I .largest stock. Cash or Is. weekly. 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ Accordeons.—Brilliant tone : 12s
6d., 18s. 6d., 215,, 355. to 455. Cash or Is.
weekly. 118 King-st, Largest assortment in Aus.
ALBERIS’ Autoharps, with tuning-boards,
enables any novice to tune his own instru-
ment, 18s. 6d. (canvassed for 305.) 118 King-st.
ALBERTS’ accept all intercolonial Bank-notes
and stamps without any extra charge for
exchange. J. Albert & Son, wholesale importers.
118 King-street.
CHEAP MUSIC!
PAXTON A CO,, 19 Oxford Street, LONDON.
Australian Branch: 251 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Unrivalled London Edition.
1000 Songs, Duets, Waltzes, Polkas, Marches, etc. To be had
of Music-sellers, Booksellers, Stationers, etc., throughout
the Colony, or, if not obtainable locally, 3d. each post
free from PAXTON & CO., 251 Swanston-St., Melbourne
Catalogues post free. Wholesale Price-lists, etc., sent
on receipt of business-card.
ADAM BE DE ’ S
Consultatioxia.
All the Year Round on Principal Events
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address,
CAXJTIOW.
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our ''l
ONLY Us
Address J
A.dam Bede,
Post Office Chamber
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
S.EACH.
jgh
5. EACH
MON*
tfSiSEfiH-
jg
ON THE
Canterbury Handicap.
June 24, 1893,
At 5 each 4,000 At 5 each
First .. .. 300
Second .. 200
Third .. .. 100
S. and NS. d. equally 400
Less 10 per cent.
N.B.—Clients are desired to send as soon as possible so that
No. 2 and 3 can be filled. Subscribers may witness these.
Register Letters to “GALA,” c/o. H. Alexander,
67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M.&J. MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
£3T Commissions Executed on following events
ROSEHILL, NEXT SATURDAY.
COUNTY & MIDWINTER,
250 TO 1,
ALSO,
HURDLE <sc STEEPLE,
100 TO 1.
Straioiit-Out ox Each Event,
FLEMI NG TON, 15th and 18th JULY.
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle and Steeple,
200 TO 1.
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) this DOUBLE.
{SIT THREE CHANGES.
S. T. JACOBS
(Member of Tattbrsall’s Club),
72 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Executes Commissions on (ROSEHILL)
County & Midwinter,
250 TO 1.
Hurdle & Steeple,
100 TO 1.
V.R.C. Grand National Hurdle and Steeple,
200 to 1. If Not.
Cauldeld and Melbourne Cups,
1000 TO 1. If Not.
STRAIGHT-OUT on CAULFIELD and MELBOURNE
CUPS, and V.R.C. DERBY.
Letters and Telegrams attended to. l-ir All Telegram?
must be prepaid.
Note the Address ;
72 Oastlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The most thoroughly unsatisfactory of the
Australian Eleven performances have been their matches
with Oxford and Cambridge. The amateur bowlers of
Oxford got them out twice for moderate scores, and the
Cambridge batsmen slogged Giffen, Turner, Trumble, and
Co. in a very alarming manner. It would seem absurd to
think of two young University teams in turn making a
fine display against “All England,” yet if “ Our Boys ”
manage to put down “ All England ’’ their victory, or vic-
tories, will be accepted as convincing evidence of the
superiority of Australian cricket. The fact is, the best
Australian Eleven is not much different from the best
English Eleven, whilst England has a lot more players
who are as good as the best—at times.
* * *
Until the full story of the billiard-match
betw'een Roberts and Ives comes to hand it is impossible
to say how the English champion was beaten. On the
face of cable-reports the American merely fooled with
him until it was time to go in and win, and then, working
the balls into a “ trick ” position, made 1250 cannons, or
so, in succession. Roberts has merely introduced a little
of the American (i.e. French) cannon system into the
English game, and although he could beat his own
countrymen at the “niggling” work it was often sur-
mised that the best exponents of the small cannon-table
game might be able to find a way of “ doing ” any players
of the other school on their own ground. Roberts was
barred from the “ push his best stroke, but allowing
for this disadvantage, he was, seemingly', knocked all to
pieces. He has been hitherto quite unequal to making
1000 consecutive cannons. Now we are waiting to bear
how the other man did it, and whether Roberts was fairly
out-played or out-generalled.
# # *
Megaphone, whom Donald Wallace recently
offered for sale without getting a buyer, has been entered
for the Cup. How will Dakin handicap him with
Admiral?
# # *
Redleap has been entered for the National again
this year, but it is the prevailing idea that the entry was
only made in order to ensure an easy handicap, and thus
get Miller’s second string, Sir Wilfrid, in light.
* * *
Alec. Bannerman, after all, is the chief strength
in the present Australian team. When Alec “ maintains
a splendid defence " the other fellows seem to hit to some
purpose. But the unfortunate effect of Alec, is to make a
good innings last so absurdly loi g that there isn’t time
left for putting the other side through. It was really the
“little stonewaller” who caused the second Yorkshire
match to end in a draw instead of in a brilliant win.
Time chowsed the Australians out of a victory, and
Bannerman played on Time’s side. He batted four hours
and a half for 20 odd runs.
« * •
The three places in the English Derby were
filled by three bay colts.
# * •
Abington Baird lost one million, and left one.
» # *
Hisses greeted a member who complained, at the
V.R.C. meeting, of the expense of the gubernatorial
luncheons. Both sides hissed. The Governor’s last
luncheon at the club’s rooms at Flemington on Cup Day
cost £120!
# • *
Daft’s “ Kings of Cricket,” just out, mentions
somebody as better than Blackham, whereupon the
Saturday Review says Blackham is perfection.
• * *
An Oriental was top scorer for Cambridge
University against the Australians.
# * #
Scene—Bulletin office. Enter young man,
who enquires; “ Mr. Blank, sir ?” He appears. “Well,
yer don’t remember me, Mr. Blank?” “No! can’t say I
do!” “I used ter sell papers here onst. Yer used ter
chuck me out then. I'm Griffo—will yer chuck me out
now, hey?”
* * *
A member of the present Australian Eleven is
said to have been laid by a wealthy barracker a consider-
able sum to nothing that he will not keep straight
during the tour. Judging by his scores up to date, he is
evidently doing his best to get the money. In addition,
the Eleven have agreed to a fixed scale of fines upon
members who banquet not wisely but too well.
# * *
Superintendent Pedder, chief of Hobart police,
endeavours to resuscitate ploughing matches in Tasmania,
and proposes to hold an “ Interprovincial Ploughing Con-
test ” for large prizes. The most successful such contest
ever held in Australasia was that of 1872, in Tasmania,
under the secretaryship of Mr. Pedder, himself an ex-
ploughboy. # # #
“ Verax !” writing in the Sporting Times (Lon-
don), says that Highborn was originally hacked about
Sydney, and at one time sold for £9 10s.
# * #
An Australian “Mounted Infant,” the other
day, won a rifle-match, with a handicap of eight points.
The local war-correspondent reported it that Private X
won the match with eight yards start.
• # *
When H. C. Dangar, in the N.S.W. Council,
anathematised “sweeps” as “ the most pernicious things
in regard to horse-racing that have ever been invented,”
Pilcher, Q.C., took up the parable and smote Dangar.
The Q.C. suddenly remembered that Dangar “ partly
presided” over a Randwick institution where “they
have notices on the trees that cash-betting is not allowed,
and that is the particular resort of bookmakers who are
taking money and popping the sovereigns in their bag all
day long.” “ Book-betting,” roared Pilcher, “ although
illegal, is to remain untouched,” while “ sweep-betting,
which the public never sees, and which the public never
hears of unless it chances to go into the sweeps, is to be
put down.”
• # #
Poor old Abe Hicken wants to fight “Professor”
Miller. Hicken was a veteran when Larry Foley made
his reputation by defeating him in a mill with the raw
'uns, fought on the N.S.W. Border.
# * *
The latest is, that Corbett is suffering from
tuberculosis, and is “done."
Dan O Connor was, on Saturday, fairly let
loose in the Winter Stakes, at Rand wick, to land a big
Cup. Before he got fairly going he fell, and spoilt the
much-hacked double, Shamrock and Dan O’Connor.
When Shamrock got home in the June Stakes, the Dan
O’Connor party were jubilant: “He can only lose in one
way—by falling down,” they said. Prophetic!
* * *
W. W. Naughton thinks Griffo’s show with
Dixon at the best a 2 to 1 chance, and, in the same
breath, remarks that the most desperate battle he ever
saw was the live rounds between Dixon and Abe Willis.
Given Griffo in anything like his old form, it would be
safe to lay 10 to 1 he would beat two Willises, one after
the other, in five rounds without receiving a scratch-
allowing that they stood up to him, as Willis did to
Dixon. From W.W.N.’s article, it is evident he has no
conception of the phenomenon Griffo is—or was.
* # #
Dick Sandall, the heavy-weight lifter and
boxer, died in Auckland a few weeks ago from heart-
disease. The fight of his life was an eight-round go with
the Sydney amateur champion, Gecrge Seale, at Foley’s
Hall. At once Seale opened fire, and dealt out more
punishment to poor Sandall in the first two minutes of
the round than was probably ever put into the time be-
fore or since. Sandall fell helpless ; but somehow the
gong sounded “ corners” before the fight was claimed by
Seale’s seconds, and Sandall was bustled into his corner.
When round two was started, Seale, thinking his man was
done, went into finish him off; but Sandall’s splendid
constitution stood to him, and he caught Seale a heavy
chance blow. Thenee out Sandall gained strength, whilst
Seale weakened, and the call of time at the end of the
eighth round just saved him from defeat.
* # #
Under present conditions, football in Australia
is a farce. The big clubs get the big gates, and the little
clubs, who get no crowds, are insolvent. In Adelaide, the
Norwoods, South Adelaide, and Port Adelaide teams each
has about 35 players to pick 20 from, whilst the smaller
teams struggle to get 20. The explanation is simple.
Capable players hang around the wealthy teams on the
chance of a trip to Melbourne or Tasmania. The remedy?
Divide the gate-money equally between the playing teams
who form the Association.
* * *
The recent successes of Cremorne, Paris, .and
Highborn are an argument in favour of abolishing the
gelding allowance.
* * *
Lucky for Australians that Slavin did not get
on a championship match with a “foreigner.” It would
have been worse than a bank-hurst. Now that Slavin’s
star has set, will he ever again he an Australian black-
smith ?
* * #
One of the chief features in the Australians’
cricket is the consistently brilliant form of Graham.


Soap .Makers .
A
By Special Appointment
TO
HER MAJESTY
The Queen
AND
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE
Prince of Wales.
Years ago, a certain Bendigo (Vic.) mine, in a
fitofforced economy,appointed Joe manager. Joe was
then grocer’s cartman ; but he took up the new role with
confidence. After a few weeks he reported to the direc-
tors: “ The property’s good, and I’m going to strike the
lode at about 70 feet, if you let me have my fling.” He
got it, and presently let a contract to sink 50ft. This
completed, the contractors waited on Joe for their
money. “ How does she lo >k now ?” asked Joe. “Not a
d bit better ; poor as flint.” “ Look here ; sink 10ft.
further. I won’t pay you a d cent until you’ve got
down 60ft. I know you’ll strike it, and, anyway, if the
co. don’t pay you for the extra 10ft, I’ll pay you myself.”
Tha contractors returned to work, and when down within
a few inches of the 60ft. they struck a jeweller’s shop.
This gave Joe such a.reputation that ever afterwards he
could get a show in any new venture for just putting his
name to the prospectus.
« « *
Hitherto, on Bendigo, mine-owners have paid a
2£ per cent, on capital value for mining under private
property in view of possible damage thereto. A recent
warden’s decision, however, says that damages cannot be
awarded until they have occurred.
* • #
Mr, Dowell, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), who worked so
valiantly to get the Australasian Rights Bill pushed
through N.S.W. Assembly, was, it will be remembered,
one of the individuals who laboured so hard, not long
since, to push through the Assembly a bill to incorporate
a certain historical bank—and so confer upon it the right
of note-issue.
* * *
Barter is the law of exchange up Condobolin
(N.S.W.) way. The other day, a selector was seen lead-
ing a leg-roped hog behind a dray which contained one
ewe, a bag of potatoes, a dozen pumpkins, and a side of
bacon. “ Where are yer goin’ with that lot, Jim?” “To
see my loiar! He always takes his stuff in advance,
banks or no banks.”
» • *
A 30-years N.S.W. branch-manager of the E.S
and A.C. Bank, in an up-country town, resigned shortly
before that institution “suspended,” and a young officer
was sent in his stead. When the old local depositors
found that they couldn’t get their money out, they, with
one accord, told him—“ We oughter’ve known that our
money wasn’t safe when old Stubbs sold his bank to a
d whippersnapper like you ! ”
# * *
A electioneering incident of the Cook district,
N.Q. “ W.W.,” in the Cooktown Courier, scathingly
asked:—“What is the name of the man who tried to
jump my claim, and, with five others, tried to bully me
land my mate by saying that six were better than two?”
Whereupon, Labour-candidate Shanahan picturesquely
replied in the Cooktown Independent I am that man
all right. Place—the Starcke. Time— June ’92. Cause—
a fraudulent monopoly, by —— brothers, of 400 ft. square
of the most likely-looking ground on the Starcke for a
fossicker to set info on the chance of a “ spec.” We had
the moral support of all the men on the field. We
chanced the two six-shooters of the two terrific despera-
does, we risked rubbing the edge off the sacred law of
unjustly-acquired property, we worked there for half-a-
day, we broke the lease, a fossicker got a 38oz. nugget
inside the boundary sometime afterward, and
brothers, after sending me a threatening letter, coffin,
bones, and all complete, vamoosed from the Starcke with
the hearty ill-will of every man on the field. As I did
then, I would do again, and let not brothers, or
grasping monopolists like them, forget it.”
* * *
“A denial has been given to the statement that
H.R.H. the Duke of Edinburgh was a heavy loser by the
financial failures which have occurred in Sydney.” Cer-
tainly. Edinburgh’s investments are about to be “ re-
constructed stronger than ever.”
• * •
Spagnoletti: I met a balloon to-day, with the
■gas out. Not he who broke the Monte Carlo Bank, but
.he who had £lOO,OOO worth of tram shares.
# * *
Wanted : A new Sermon on the Mont de Pi&te.
Hunk from Mining Standard (N.S.W.); —
“Generally it is hoped the work of the Government
geologist here of late will illustrate his report of the
Broken Hill lode by as many actual and ideal cross-
sections of the lode and its rocks as possible. It will be a
great stimulus to prospecting, and it may be this is what
the far-seeing manager of Block 14 is waiting for. _ There
is no doubt he contributed all the information his mine
exposed. One noticeable feature, not made much import-
ance of at the present time—the character of the ore in
the different veins varies widely, and garnet sandstone is
typical of ore that is, and always will be to those that find
it ; and this company are very likely to be included as a
shareholder in a much less refractory ore than sulphides.
* # #
In a recent N.S.W. divorce suit Lawyer :
“ You have been insolvent four or five times, have you
not?” Witness: “No, only twice—just as many times
as Premier Dibbs, and not half as many times as ex-Pre-
mier Parkes.”
* * *
A Tasmanian working miner was suddenly dis-
charged by his mining-manager, suspeotedly because he
called in a sawbones who was a professional rival of one
of the boss's chums. At the office, being paid off:
“ What’s the reason of my discharge ?” “We never give
reasons.” “Well, sir”—(very humbly)—“ I hope you
won’t sack my brother as well.” “Where” —(looking
hurriedly over the pay-sheet)—“where is your brother
working?” “On the Croydon, in North Queensland,
boss, thank you.”
# * *
Extracts from manager’s report of last half-
year’s work at the Raub mine—the great Raub that used
to be spoken of as a huge quarry of gold mixed with
slate :—“ The ore is equal to any yet got in the mine, and
if crushed by itself would yield sto 6oz. per ton. On the
strength of the original reports on Raub, and from the
statements made by Rajah Impeh and other Malays, ‘ that
good gold was to be got,’ I was induced to fix a pump on
the old workings and clean them out. . . . After
pumping out and clearing up the place I made a thorough
examination but could find no gold or anything likely to
carry it, so drew the pump and abandoned the whole
thing. . . . One clean-up of 833 tons has taken place
during the year, yielding 2940 z. Sdwts. smelted gold.”
But saddest of all is the truly pathetic peroration :—“ In
conclusion, gentlemen, should the present favourable pro-
spects continue, I hope, before the end the present
year, to see the company paying dividends.”
* » •
14,033 tons of stone were crushed on Charters
Towers (Q.) during May for a return of 23,8220z5, and
£39,725 dividends were declared against £6OOO calls.
Results like these are certain to lead to—a reduction of
wages. The better the dividends the greedier grow the
speakers.
r * * *
Ship-owners have long been hungry foi* a big
per eentage off their stokers’screws. The wages of the
men who raise hell in the average steamer are compara-
tively heavy, and risks to life and limb have ceased to be
a consideration between master and man in other
spheres, you know. If the owners could only be make to
stoke a trip !!
# * *
Broken Hill Extended having spent £140,000,
principally in sinking for the lode, has applied for £lOOO
from the N.S.W. prospecting vote to enable it to continue
operations. If successful, a portion of the grant will be
expended in cross-cutting towards Block 10, probably at
1330 ft. Completion of present contract for sinking will
bring the shaft to a depth of 1850 ft. ; present depth,
about 1330 ft.
# # *
Complaints are made that much of the best
ground at the White Cliffs (N.S.W.) opal field is monopo-
lised by syndicates holding 40 and 80-acre leases. It is
claimed that, at the rate the field is at present being
worked, it will not be exploited to a depth of 10ft. for 200
years, while the country has been proved opal-bearing to
a depth of 40ft. It is suggested that each holder should
be granted one claim of 100 ft. square, which would be
sufficient, working to a depth of 10ft., to last for three
years, and would enable the field to support 1000 men
instead of 100, as at present. The flel'd is said to have
produced £30,000 worth of opal during the last three
At Poverty Point.
On the first night of “White Slaves,” at Melbourne
Royal, there were several unrehearsed effects. Nancy
Gallagher (fair daughter of a local pub.) put so much
dramatic energy into an attempt to box the ears of the
wicked Jew “sweater ” that she fell down. Nancy, being
cast for the part of a toiling slave at six shillings per
week, had sported a new pair of expensive boots and
forgotten to sand-paper the shiny soles ere going “ on.
For one brief instant the heart of a young pressman in
the circle stood stock still. He thought Nancy had
broken her arm—the strong right arm that she draws the
froth with. Then she rose to her feet, smiling and
uninjured. “Thank God! Nancy’s all right,” said the
journalist. The headlong descent of Sarah Bernhardt
down an accidental “trap” wouldn’t have alarmed him
half as much.
The second time that Antoinette Sterling gave “The
Last Chord” in Melbourne her voice was very tiiel,
through singing overmuch to hospital patients during
the afternoon. Ernest Wood, at the organ, worked his
Vox Humana artfully, however, and nobody knew to
what extent the accompaniment was pulling the vocalist
through a high note. By the way, the critics who lauded
(and they were safe in so doing) the “musicianly ” perform-
ances of Ernest Wood, whilst groaning over the “ catch} ”
ditto of Miss Habgood, may be shocked to hear that
Wood, for his part, thought well of the lady’s playing.
The Baptist Union of Victoria is agitating for the sup-
pression of Snazelle’s rational Sunday evening entertain-
ment. A pious municipal counsellor remarks that Premier
Patterson is “a man with a backbone,” who will uphold
the sanctity of the Sabbath if they can only induce him
to view the matter carefully. These Baptist bigots hag
the delusion that they are men of backbone themselves,
instead of being men ly flabby arguments in favour of
everything they object to.
Melbourne Age says that Edwin Booth, whose death is
cabled, took alternate parts with Irving, as Othello and
lago, for two years. This would mean a career of COO
nights for the tragedy. As a matter of tact, Booth
appeared at the Lyceum when “Othello” was running
down, and exchanged characters with Irving for a short
season. His decided American accent made a strong
contrast to the other man’s vocal peculiarities, and in the
name-part he was much admired, although his presence
might have been more imposing. Irving, on the other
hand, was an irresistible lago—a perfect work of art in
melodramatic villainy.
This Gaiety-Dunedin rumpus fetches to mind one of the
yarns, perfectly true, which Dick Lee, Australian jour-
nalist, used to tell against himself. Dick happened to
turn up at Cowtown, and Sugars, proprietor of the Fili-
buster, declared he was just the very man in the nick of
time, for, look you, Mrs. Bullfinch, the talented but un-
scrupulous editress of the rival newspaper had been
scarifying him. So Dick wrote a magnificently slaugh-
terous leader, beginning : “ When a female baboon squats
in a gutter and slings mud at respectable journalists .”
This appeared on Friday. Dick drew the money on
Saturday, and was lying under the fruit-trees in Sugars’
garden, next the printing-office, the day being sultry,
when he heard a terrific row in the establishment—crack-
ing of whips, smashing of trade-furniture, and yells of
the proprietor. Dick bolted straightway out of the town.
Afterwards he heard that it was Mrs. Bullfinch’s two
brothers smashing Sugars.
George Darrell to Adelaide Quiz“ The drama is dead
to the Upper Ten ‘ Sassiety ’ will not patronise it. . .
At the conclusion of my present season I shall go into
winter quarters and prepare the construction of a great,
moral, purity, temperance play. With the spring onions
I shall emerge, and you and your contemporaries shall
herald my return. On my arrival I shall be serenaded by
the old Men and old Women’s Christian Association; I
shall step lightly on to my balcony, and assure my
serenadefs that, although I have known them so little, I
have never loved anyone so long. Next day I shall visit
the Stockade and recite to the prisoners ‘The Death of
Eugene Aram.’ The following day I shall receive a
deputation from the United Temperance Societies. I shall
acquaint them with the horrors of ‘Nights I have
Known?’ and prove to them the fallacy of mixed diinks,
and when the stance is over I shall step round the corner
and wet—that is, wink the other eye. On my first Sunday
I shall wander through the wards of the Hospital, and
whether the patients like it or not, I shall sing them my
new version of ‘The Old Sexton.’ On Monday I shall
produce my moral play, thousands will be turned from
the doors, I shall purify the stage, gull the public, and
enrich myself. Eureka! The great charily dodge has
been wol . ked foi . aJ | i t j 8 worth.—Yours reformedly,
Gborgb DarrelL- ,
Bentley is over-flaunting his pure white samite
Gallery boy claims to have discovered Pattie Browne,
“ Frank Thornton disengaged.”— Era. Would he here
bu t f or f ei . ry _
Potter’s photo., at four years old, is in the Strand
ne. Sweet in nocence!
When Lola Montes went to hor.oi.hlp Se.k.mp, B.ll.rai
editor, Ins wife thrashed Lola.
Madame Antoinette Sterling, interviewed at Sydney:—
<< j> in n 0 cut-and-dried prima donna—no pet dogs, no
parrot, no lady’s maid for me! No kangaroos or’possums,
you ask? No, sir ! No menagerie of any kind, not even
a husband. ... I love to feel that 1 knL people s
sails together with the golden thread of some heavenly
thought, and thus bring peace and joy to sorrowing
hearts, with some tender message that flies to their breast
on music’s fluttering wings.” Front seats, four shillings,
Wh-o-o-p!
“There is small prospect of Paderewski, the celebrated
p j at) ist, making an early visit to Australia. He can do
bu . better nearer home.” Our oath 1 yes.
Melbourne dailies were very lofty on the subject of
May Hahgood’s pianoforte playing at the Sterling con-
cerxs. One said that her pieces provided “no food for
the intellect.” Another spoke scornfully of a “ transcrip-
fcion of American airs—including ‘ The Swanny River.’ ”
Hobart a crowd of youngsters played the “Pirates
o{ p with suc b success that they had to repeat
. . t A lot of latent
llis t rion i c talent' was brought out, and the
of the girls was a real surprise,
s *
Fitz Gerald Bros., of circus celebrity, pay for Sydney
Benevolent Asylum grounds, £5O a week,
When Walter Bentley landed in Brisbane, he was met
a t the railway-station by five Highland pipers, and “ was
deeply affected.” At the extravagance of his advance
age nt ?
George Miln had a genuinely cranky admiration for
Edwin B ooth, but Louise Jordan, who had played Ophelia
(round tbe states) to the great man’s Hamlet, was less
enthusiastio on the subject. Miln and Louise (she left
h - m in lnd j a ) weve enjoying their brief good time in
Melbourne when the cable announced that Booth was
stricken by paralysis. That night, at supper, poor
old George M. solemnly reprimanded his lady for being
lively in spit# of the great Mur’kan calamity. “ For all
you know, Booth may be dead !” said emotional Miln.
And she laughed—Heaven and Earth! she laughed as
though a defunct tragedian was of no consequence,
“Jearaes” is, we think, the only play of Ed. Terry’s
Australian repertoire which has yet been done here,
Fred Marshall acted it at Melb. Bijou,
utUnf? . g “ White Slaves ”is good, but purely conven-
tjonal-the sort young Douglas Jerrold used to write for
the at SOs. ap .
Mine. Nordica, after waiting seven years for her bus-
band (he left in a balloon) will marry again,
Conjurer Morritt, now a London eminence, says a
mesmerist’s principal boy, castor-oil-diinker, tar-eater,
piu-stickist, and general nastyist, came to him for en-
gagement. Morritt: “ But I’m not a mesmerist.” Boy:
“ No more ain’t my boss.”
Mortis Mahon, comedian of Lewis’s Comio Opera Co.,
now touring Vic. provinces, is youngest son of the late
w. O’Callaghan, M.L.A.
Stagestruck! From Sydney Evenxno News :-“ Matri-
mornal &c.-A Lady (age 20) of prepossessing appear-
ance and good income, wishes to make the acquaintance
of a gentb man with view to matrimony ; an actor pre-
Photos, exchanged. Miss Bartie, G.P.O.
Matrimonial or only &c..
At a time when British dramatic art, putting aside the
absurd Ibsen craze, is less subject to foreign inspiration
than at any time during the last 40 years, the S.M.
Herald labours hard to prove that French influence is
still paramount. Out-of-date. French influence has been
dead these two years. The Times, of April 7, partially
quoted by the Herald to prove its contention, would
have shown that only one piece of e> e . remotely French
origin was being played at anv London theatre


Settlement of tlie People on tlxe Land.!
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION of 1893.
SUBDIVISION OF THE WELL-KNOWN VICTORIAN ESTATES,
MTci.xxi.'bz’ols. «Sc. Melton Paris..
250,000 Subscribers of 11 each. 251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments.
-
■
: ■ ■
. V!
'*•- * By/*: K *
' U U.::. V ' ■■.: : ■■■ A. :■ .:A.. A...
mm.
NAMBROK HOUSE.
PLAN OF SUB-DIVISION OF THE NAMBROK ESTATE,
PARISH of DENISON, near SALE, GIPPSLAND.
First Friz©, estimated value,
Second „ „
Third „ „
Fourth „ „
Fifth „
Sixth „
139.000
12.000
7.000
0,000
2,009
1.000
Each Share has the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
All Investment of M 1
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth
—Also—
-113 Prizes,
9 » j>
120 ” »
3 » »
100 » »
each £lO5O
from £560 to 990
each 55fl
from £940 to 940
each
Total Value, £250,000.
EACH SHARE lias the chance of winning 11
separate properties, that .is to say, each series of
properties are drawn for separately.
An Investment of £1
MAY RETURN
£58,324 worth.
%
%
v'
cP \
<2
£
T
V
-O „
pb «i
£
K S
231
W 2
CO _
* tN
S- »
a t *5 w f as Hirs K
1 m 29J
MB
• 1 u
tSJ
E -
001
E-' ;
£9!
? -:
* t ts
IS)
« f W
■ss»
A'i
8 JJ
8 :
» §
a :
0 • 0 ■ ooc
'lr
* r
t a
[ ->
sj s
■S* f
k :
<
S 3
Q
g
£ ?
C 3
N 3
t/3
odff
t—>
cc.
i mu
981
M »S
u oci r mt
UK SIC
SH iW,
WJS,
(.W
Sr2S s92
U?
::
491 $9l
, 3
951
981
V2I
_J
muLi
5 J
» z
g s
S f
w 3
THE
NAMBROK ESTATE,
situated on the Latrobe River, Gippsland,
comprises 15,000 acres of very rich land,
which can scarcely be surpassed for agri-
cultural, fattening and dairy purposes. The
land is specially adapted for the growth of
maize, hops, root crops and cereals, and is
practically ready for the plough. Th«
Nambrok sheep and cattle have been fot
many years noted for the excellence and
high prices obtained. The rainfall is abun-
dant, averaging about 30 inches per annum,
and the climate salubrious, being free from
extreme heat and cold. An unlimited
supply of water can be obtained at a mode-
rate depth, under 30 feet, in any portion of
the Estate.
The Thompson River, which is close to
the northern boundary of the property, can
be easily and cheaply utilised for irrigation
purposes. The Rosedale Railway Station,
111 miles from Melbourne, is within 2|
miles of the property, and the x-ailway line
runs directly through the property, and
the Heyfield station on the Maffra line is
about 5 miles distant.
THE
MELTON PARK ESTATE
comprises 7146 acres, close to Bacchus
Marsh, in the Parish of Yancardook,
County of Bourke, and is well known in
Victoria for its great fertility and resi-
dential attractions. It is about a couple of
miles from the Melton Railway Station,
20 miles distant from Melbourne, where an
ever ready market exists for everything
the Estate produces.
Plans of both Estates will be forwarded
on application.
PRIZE 1. —Nambrok Estate—A superbly built mansion of 15 rooms with all necessary
domestic and outbuildings (cost £10,000), together with 2000 acres of magnificent agricultural
and grazing land, and adjoining the Heyfield and Kihnaney Park Estate—(see above Illustration
and Plan). Estimated value, house and land, £30,000.
PRIZE 2. —Melton Park Estate —An eight-roomed modern built house, with magnificent
stabling, containing 11 loose boxes, coach-house, &c., together with 700 acres of, first-class land,
situated in the celebrated Bacchus Marsh District, 20 miles from Melbourne. Estimated value,
house and land, £12,000
PRIZE 3 —A comfortable house of 0 rooms, together with 500 acres of superior land, mostly
rich river flats. Estimated value, £7OOO.
PRIZE 1 —Three hundred acres of superior agricultural land, adjoining Prize 3. Estimated
value, £3OOO.
PRISE 5- Two hundred acres of land similar to Prize 4. Estimated value, £2OOO.
PRISE 6.—One hundred and fifty acres, similar to Prize 5. Estimated value, £l6OO.
U.eSf Lu *““<*** *B riOTltal “ l !“■«>. ««dy for
ov ” 50 aDd m,der 100 acres - Est "" ated «*”•. *•»
PRISES 129 to 248. Each containing 50 acres. Estimated value, £550.
f 249 to 251. —Each containing over 30 acres and under 50 acres. Estimated value,
from £340 to £540, according to acreage. *
PRISES 252 to 351. Each one acre township allotment, valued at £24,
The Title Deeds are granted by the Crown, are in perfect order, as will be seen from the attached letter received from Messrs. Blake and Riggall,
C. M. OF Fit 'Ell, Jun., Esq. 120 William Street, Melbourne September SO 1802
Dear Sir, — We have to inform you that the title deeds to the Numb role Estate and the Melton Park Estate are in order and complete, and there is -• • • - - -
Purchaser. — Yours truly, BLAKE <(• RIGGALL.
'■'‘■'‘'J iv%sy KJC-JJI/VUI/VVr tJWy JOl/A',
no obstacle to the immediate transfer of these Estates to a
Shareholders,
Auckland, ( _ f , ..... ...... uu.civiocu tmn tcsuiis inuinetced
immediately afterwards. Should the winner of any Prize so desire, the Promoters have arranged with the late owners to act as agents for the working leasing or sale of any of the Prizes for a period of three
years without any charge. “
\o— arCS slM> " marte by E. J. de BOMFOBD,
C ° Jr - :E3C - ASTROI 5 , Marlborough Chambers
O’CONNELL STREET. SYDNEY, NEW SOUTH WALES.
State amount forwarded and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply. Do not attach Stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is made by cheoue
Should the full complement of Subscribers not be obtained, the Trustees will arrange that Prizes will be allotted pro rata according to the amount subscribed and the values set out in the ah
schedule. Land to be treated at an average value per acre, and prizes to be arranged on this basis. Prize No. Ito be included in this allotment. N.B.—No Shareholder is liable to any further oavmentnn
allotted Shares.
IMPORTANT NOTICE.
Any Shareholder winning Property No. 1, who shall have applied for a Share or
Shares on any date after May 10th to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus of
£l5OO.
Any Shareholder winning Property No. 2, who shall have applied for a Share or
Shares on any date after May 10th to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus
of £375.
Any Shareholder winning Property No. 3, who shall have applied for a Share or
Shares on any date after May 10th to the date of the ballot, will receive a Cash Bonus
of £ll2 10s.
Columbian Land Distribution.
PLEASE ALLOT me..
£
To E. J. ok Romford, c/o
Please make remit!
envelope with slamp for
1*.0.0.) |ST’ Register \
Shares.
. 1893.
Name,
Address
•L 11. Astrop, Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell-st., Sydney.
ance by Postal Note or P. 0.0. If by Cheque add exchange. Enclose addressed
our letter altat 1 BliUllp lf other than N.S.W. (Cost of stamp may be added to
APPLICATIONS MUST BE POSTED NOT EATER THAN JUNE 30.


RECONSTRUCTION.
Herr RASSMUSSEN to the RESCUE!
bane of health.
“ The ALPALINE VITALITY PILLS will entirely re-construct a
hroken-down Nervous System, and thus make it a veritable Bank of
Health, inasmuch as Health is better than Wealth.”
—Medical Journal.
HERR RASSMUSSEN, Esq.
Dear Sir,—
CONGRATULATIONS.
KING STREET,
SYDNEY, MAY 9, 1893.
Having frequently heard and read of the Wonderful Cures effected by your World-wide Celebrated and Wonderful HERBAL ALFALINE REMEDIES for the
BLOOD, NERVES, &c., I take the liberty of writing you a few lines by way of congratulation and encouragement. Ido so because I consider that a gentleman who
devotes his time and talents to the benefit of his fellow creatures is deserving of everyone’s esteem and regard—in fact, he ought to be looked upon in the light of a public
benefactor. The testimonials in the public press, and the expressions of satisfaction and gratittde of those who have benefited by your advice and remedies, are a sufti
cient guarantee of your ability and honesty of purpose in your claims for the great virtues your remedies contain. The many favourable opinions promulgated by the press
concerning the noble mission of diminishing the pain and suffering of your fellow creatures must be to you a source of satisfaction and gratification. The very fact of your
having the Parisian Academy’s COLD MEDAL and DIPLOMA of HONOR entitles you to universal respect and approbation. I am, dear sir, with all earnestness of
opinion that a pound or two invested in the purchase of your Wonderful ALE ALINE REMEDIES will be better invested and return better interest than if invested or
deposited in some of our present-day banking concerns, each Remedy of yours may be justly termed a BANK of HEALTH.—I am, dear sir, yours truly, E. BALY.
P.S.—You are at liberty to make what use you like of this rather hurried note.—E.B.
How to Cure
THE NERVES.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed to Cure
NERVOUSNESS,
DESPONDENCY,
NERVOUS IRRITABILITY,
SPECKS BEFORE THE EYES,
WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE,
MELANCHOLIA, L OSS O F
MEMORY, WEAK BRAIN AND
■ NERVES.
Boxes —6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Testimonial.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well - known and popular
representative of the Sydney Bulle-
tin, a gentleman whose testimony
carries especial weight, writes thus to
Herr Rassmussen. Dear Sir,—l
think it my duty to inform you that
i course of your Alfaline Vitality
Pills aeted very beneficially on my
nervous system, and, in consequence,
I have recommended them to many
friends who have all been cured by
their use.—Very truly yours, R.
Adams Luokham.
How to Cure
COSTIVENESS.
TAKE A BOX OF
Alfaline Liver & Kidney Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
OOSTIVENESS, WIND,
BILIOUSNESS, INDIGESTION,
FLATULENCY AND IRREGU-
LARITY.'
Boxes posted Is. 6d., 35., and 6a.
Testimonial.
Hebe Rassmussen. I have
much pleasure in informing you that
your Alfaline Pills completely cured
me of a very obstinate case of nervous-
ness, wind biliousness of several
years’ standing. They also cured
several friends whom I recommended
to try your wonderful remedies. —A.
Haebis, Tobacco Merchant, 160
Elizabeth-st., Melbourne,
How to Cure
Female Complaints.
TAKE A COURSE OP
Alfaline Female Restorer Pills
Guaranteed to Cure
ALL COMPLAINTS PECULIAR
TO FEMALES.
' Boxes, 6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
Here Rassmussen,— l am pleased
to inform you that your Remedy has
entirely cured me, and everyone says
that I do not look the same girl.—
M. Anderson, Muckleford, Vic.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
—A guaranteed pure and harmless remedy
for eradicating Pimples and Ireckles, and
wonderful for Beautifying the Complexion.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas
Excellent for Colds, Coughs, Asthma,
Bronchitis, and Consumption. Pleasant to
take. Boxes, Is. ; posted, Is. (id.
Alfaline Ointment. A certain
Remedy for all kinds of Sores, Burns,
Pimples, Cracked Skin, Ulcers, and all
Affections of the Skin. Boxes, Is. and 25.;
posted, Is. 6d. and is. (id.
Porous Plasters.— These Plasters
are especially powerful, and will relieve
pain almost instantly. Is. each ; posted,
Is. 6d.
“The Natural Doctor.”— A valu-
able Medical Work by Herr Rassmussen,
which contains much valuable advice and
many useful hints on all complaints.
Price Is.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.— Superior
to any other. Posted, Is. 6d. per hot tie.
Uerr RASSMUSSEM’S
Chief Laboratory & Head Depot for all the Colonies:
Herr Eassmussen’sHead Depot, 547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Also at
355 Burke Street, Ilsltarne,
SI Mon Q ay, Wellington, N.B.
Also at
ISO Queen Street, Brisbane.
151 Bundle Street, Adelaide
A^Ai l j fr \
*>
J"4 7
J 4 7
mi' PILL ARCADE
tfr Sydney"^
SYDNEY
LOCK
CURE PILU
FOR
VITALITY
PILLS
FOR
BLOOD
DISEASES
THE
NERVES
111 0£ ii
r FORTHE r V™ LUBWL
Celebraled*. Registered ALFALINE PILLS
Ite BLOOD&NERVE DISEASES [i
)| Iml
igPREPARED FROM PURE HERBS ONLY BY
11 • HERR RASSMUSSCN•
(fa SO I.D HERE IN BOTTLES A. 1/ 2j c 5 6 . * 2J£a
E ROOKS
ALFALINE
HAIR
RESTOKR
IBEAUIIFIEF
BOTUESWJ!
ALFALINE
RHEUMATIC
PILLS
BQ<tS2>o/»
ALFALINE
COMPLEXION
BEAUTIFIED
eomsszii#
ALFALINE
iIVERIKIOHV
PILLS
ROXONEMIWN
t 1
i
iliViitiWttitlftmHijjfffl
rHMJI MIWHMNI 11
w.
c
DECERNEE
&
Sit
itov
m
irrm
rrrnTrnWEnijil!]^^^^^^
1
ti
/ i
\ ! 7-- •'' " vff; i
IWhi
The CELEBRATED DANISH HERBALIST,
DISCOVERER and SOLE PROPRIETOR of the CELEBRATED and REGISTERED
ALFA.
INB
REMED I E S!
Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents.
Expert Blood and Werve IRemedies —Cured. 100,000.
SEND FOR FREE PAMPHLET, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
CURES
V E S.
GXIALRA-KrTEEID HERBAL
FOR THE
Xj O O 33 and 3XT E
REGISTERED and AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN.
1
Victorian Head Depot:
Queensland Hold Depot:
South Australian Head Depot:
New Zealand Head Depot:
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wellington.
How to Cure
THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Lock Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOO I) 1) ISE ASES; SKIN
AFFECTIONS, SORES, BOILS
AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT
RHEUM, “OLD BLOOD COM-
PLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND
OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful «oiir.se, 435. Cd.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely
cured me of a severe Internal Affec-
tion, and completely restored my
health. — Neils Larsen, Ithago-st.,
Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure
RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills-
Guaranteed to Cure
RHEUMATISM, GOUT,
SCIATICA, NEURALGIA, STIFF
JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
Boxes —3s. and 65., Posted.
235. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Testimorrial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir, —1
can truthfully assert that since using
your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic
Pills, I have experienced an im-
munity from my attack of Sciatica. I
have recommended the Alfaline
Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all
whom I hear complaining of Rheuma-
tic attacks. With kind regards, I
have the honour to remain, yours
truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
How to Cure
ASTHMA AND COUGH.
TAKE a box of
Alfaline Asthma and Gough
PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
ASTHMA, COUGHS and COLDS'
BRONCHITIS, CONSUMPTION.
Boxes—Posted, 35., 65., and 12s.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d., Posted.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Asthma and Cough
Pills cured me of a severe attack of
Asthma and Cough.—P. H. Kimm,
Parer’s Crystal Cafe, Bourke-street,
Melbourne.
ALFALINE
HAIR RESTORER Ss BEAUTIFIER.
A guaranteed remedy for preventing the
Hair turning grey and falling off, and won-
derful for producing rapidly luxuriant
boards and moustaches.
Posted, 3s. and 6s.
I’estimonials.
The Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifiei
prevented my hair falling out and made it
grow again.— J. Coleman, The Lounge
Hotel, Bourke-street, Melbourne.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of
Debility.—Tiros. Mudiman, 515 George-st.,
Sydney.
The Alfaline Remedies cured me of a
serious complaint.—R. Albury, 64 Wash-
ington-street, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of
Nervousness of 22 years’ standing, after all
gave me up.—Wm. Atkins, 211 Crown-road,
Ultimo, Sydney.
The Alfaline Vitality Pills cured me of a
terrible case of Debility.— Wm. E. Bishop,
New Reedy Creek Mine, Palmer, S. Aus-
tralia.
The Alfaline Remedies saved my son
after many doctors had given him up.—
Jons F. Anderson, Port Campbell, Victoria.
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.


Matthew Davies’ wife has latterly been
doing all the house work in the cottage occupied
by her husband and family. She has even done
the washing and ironing. In boom-time they had
eleven servants.
It will be absolutely necessary for Glad-
stone to hang someone presently. Salisbury has
told Belfast that he is in a position to inform
the meeting that 18 admirals and 62 captains in
Her Majesty’s navy had sworn that the navy
should never be used against the Irish loyalists
—when they rebelled against the Queen.
Furthermore, he said 737 retired officers had
promised their assistance to the Ulstermen should
occasion arise.
NKSTI.KS FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a Diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle’s Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VIL
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Prof. Wm. O.
Lkpbk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.—YoI. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
‘‘What form of artificial feeding ought to be
sel cted ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner,”—Prof.
Birch-Hirschfeld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
.School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes ;
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I ha'.-e hipierto used, besides being free from the heavy
naus ous odour characteristic of others.
this is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It Is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
v hie.
Of all Chemists at Is, per Bottle.
Carter ft Co?
XwauTabiiE
NON REVERSIBLE
'T'HIS Ingeniously Constructed KII.LI.IKU
L T t lil.K is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction, Billiards have no equal, combin-
inggentle exercise with an elegant and scientific recreation.
The PRICES—3S to Gii'iieas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collias-St., Melbourne. Factory, Uaiversity-St.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
c>
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE celebrated ch.ldren s sweet)
L'ancet
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
hj
Reuter’s Little pills
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease o(
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest, do not after
but by their general action please all whe
standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Prof os-
»t and easiest to take. - Forty in a phial.
wards constipate
use them. The i
Tion. The imalk
The Best Dressing
HAIR
VIGOR
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
uriance,
and color
to an ad-
van c e d
period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
3 lied by nature, in youth and health, as
nn chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. G. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
ggp” Beware of cheap imitations.
The name— Ayer — is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
m
“Tri-ir
.... s£K
u
'••os
#5
eSrt
.X
r
EDWARD MALONE, MARY KATE
MALONE, MAGGIE MALONE, MARY
LEPAGE.
ALL of the above Persons, relations of MAR-
G ARET MCCARTHY, Deceased, will hear
of sum thins greatly to their advantage on com-
municating with
MARSLAND AND MARSLAND,
Solicitors, Charters Towers,
#niil
mm*
t?
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
i her hard day’s work !
! Noio ready, post f ree Is Cd,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
la Sydney Barmaid
i To he had only of
M<hn. PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
7
m
Sample
copy sent
Gratis & Post
Free to any ad-
dress. State whether
you would like Sc mg,
/ Plano Solo, or Dance Music.
This is done simply to intro-
duce the now list of
gh
GIVEN
AWAY
POST
FREE.
BROOME'S:MUSia
INTO THE COLONIES.
BROOME, 15. Holborn, London. Eng,
RELIEF FROM COUCH IN TEN MINUTES.
jg
BALSAM
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &0.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. Hd. 2s. 9d.,
4s. Cd., and 11s
Prepared only by A. HAYKAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., S. Hoffnung&Co.,
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
DEAF
nto3 & lii.AU NOISES CURED
by Feck's Invisible Tubular Kar Cushion*.
Whispers heard. Successful when all
remedies fail. WHU for book of prowls
A. M. NASI, 49 tLIWBETH BT«m
Public Notice.
ALA’S MONSTER LISTS.
Replying to numerous enquiries regarding
GALA’S well-known and popular Consultations,
we desire to advise our patrons and the public
generally that we have completed satisfactory
arrangements for the continuance of our business.
Applications should be made as usual, and if
any alteration becomes necessary, full particulars
will be duly advertised for the guidance of our
clients.
Address: —GALA, c.o. H. Alexander, 67
Oxford Street, Sydney.
Now open on Canterbury Handicap, June 24
(for Horses only), 4000 at 5 each. Please apply
early.
SELF-DENIAL WEEK.
(In Aid op the Prince Alfred Hospital.)
IN Order to give effect to the noble scheme,
proposed by the Right Hon. Sir Alfred
Stephen, P.C., G.C.M.G., C. 8., our fellow-citizens
and colonists are invited to set apart the week
beginning on SUNDAY, June 25th, as a term of
self-denial, and to devote the proceeds to the
urgent need of the above Hospital. I have been
requested to act as Treasurer of the fund collected
and President of the Working Committee of
Ladies. I have gladly consented to do so, and
to give my hearty assistance to this charitable
movement, I propose to attend at the TOWN
HALL from MONDAY, June 26th, between the
hours of 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. with one or more of
my colleagues to secure self-denial contributions.
Remember, “ Every little helps.”
NORA MANNING, Mayoress of Sydney.
CROMARTi
v,o.
CROMARTY
Whisky:
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR '
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
qh, For a moustac h Elf
Ca.pill arine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer. IBS
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. Cd., Post Free.
€IUIC. A AITKIN, Sole Agents,
680 and 082 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney. June 13, 1893.
f I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
I SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.in. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 28.
Bridge, Stoney Creek, road Bega to Bodalla
Bridge, Dry Greek, road Be.ga to Bodalla
Construction of Dam, Engine House, and
Fencing, Nyngan Water Supply
Construction, &c., of Pumping Machinery, to be
made within the Colony, Nyngan Water
Supply.
Completion of Lockup and Police Buildings,
Corowa. Time extended.
Erection of Boiler-house, &c., General Post Office
Construction of Elevated Service Tank, Jerilderie
■ Water Supply
: Construction of Engine-house, Staging, &c,
I Contract No. 2, Jerilderie Water Supply
! Re-covering Roof, &c., Lock-up Gaol, Queanbeyan
WEDNESDAY, JULY 2(5.
| Supply of Hydraulic Machinery, Naval Station,
i Garden Island. (Time extended)
WILLIAM JOHN LYNB.
Shipping. __
gTEAM TO CAPETOWN AND LONDON.
Fast full-powered Steamship
PORT PI RIF,
Will be dispatched on or about JUNE 30, TAKING
SALOON and THIRD-CLASS PASSENGERS for
CAPETOWN and LONDON.
Quickest Routo to the Goldfields.
DIRECT RAIL COMMUNICATION FROM CAPETOWN.
This Steamer is fitted with a Refrigerating Chamber,
ensuring a plentiful supply of fresh provisions during the
voyage. Surgeon and Stewardess carried.
For rates of freight or pissage money, apply to
Gibbs, Bright & Co., Managing Agents in Australia,
or to
THOMAS COOK and SON, Hunter Street.
DEWAR’S WHISKY.
Diploma of Honour and Gold Medal. Highest. Award over all Competitors, Edinburgh, 1890.
UNDER COMPETITION, the ONLY SCOTCH WHISKY DRAWN at the BARS of SPIERS and PONDS, Ltd.
Dewar’s Wlilsky.
30 COLT) And PRIZE MEDALS awarded at INTERNATIONAL and UNIVERSAL EXHIBITION
Sydney Agents: ... ... CURCIER. ADET & CO., 13 Macquarie Place.
Ex-Chlef Justice Stephen to the People
of Sydney.
Fellow Colonists,— Many of you may not be aware that
the Prince Alfred Hospital is at present in such dire dis-
tress for want of funds, that without immediate and sub-
stantial help some of the wards must ere long be closed.
In other words, many of our suffering poor may be_ left
unrelieved and unattended to suffer and die in our midst.
In consequence of the serious depression now so unhappily
existing throughout the community the directors of this
noble and useful institution are reluctantly compelled to
realise that they cannot expect to receive this year more
than one-third of the usual amount given by the annual
subscribers. What then can be done? The want of which
we speak is pressing. If relief is to be given it must be
without delay. Think of the scene, should scores of
sufferers in serious illness or overtaken by some terrible
accident, crave admittance to the Hospital and find
the gales barred against them ? With failing
hearts they would turn away perhaps to die
in the streets ; and this in the winter season when special
care and comfort are most needed. May we not do well
to follow the example lately set us by our brethren and
sisters in Melbourne, where, for one far smaller hospital
with exhausted funds, the united community, as in one
bond of brotherhood, raised in a.single week no less a
sum than £5500. I propose that a similar scheme shall
be carried out here in aid of the hospital above-mentioned.
There are ladies among us, including the Mayoress, who
are prepared to undertake the work of organizing and
carrying it out; and 1 appeal to you most earnestly,
on the grand principle of self-denial in a holy cause,
to set apart one week during which every individual,
whatever his means, however small, should contribute
something by the giving up of some luxury or indulgence.
The poorest can in such a case do their part.
Pence as well as shillings go to make a pound. A child
may here take its first lesson in charity—the great lesson
that we do not live for ourselves alone. One of the most
beautiful towers in Rouen Cathedral was built by the
abstinence of the multitude from butter for one season.
I ask pardon for my intrusion, but I am a citizen of
Sydney and would not see her surpassed by any city when
rivalry may be a virtue.—(Signed) Alfred Stephen.
24 College-street, Bth June, 1893.
Government House,
Sydney, Bth June, 1893.
Dear Sir Alfred,—l have just received your letter,
explaining the scheme by which you hope to raise suf-
ficient funds to keep the Prince Alfred Hospital open for
its present number of patients. I need hardly say how
cordially I wish you success, or how willing I am to assist
you in your philanthropic effort. —Believe me, yours
sincerely,
L. DUFF.
The sole survivor of a wrecked pleasure-
boat, containing seven persons, deposed before the
Sydney coroner this week that lie was the only
bibber on board, and he “only drank when lie felt
inclined.” The six drowned men were all tee-
totallers, and all reputedly good swimmers. The
sometimes-touch-it was the only jetsam.
Premier Dibbs has kept his word. The
N.S.W. Council refused to recognise their own
progeny—The Menindie Irrigation Bill—on
account of the Assembly’s insertion of leasehold
clauses. Why this move ? The world will see
the reason later on, when a certain Murray private-
enterprise scheme reaches Parliament.
Many possessing undoubted knowledge of
the actual requirements and potentialities of the
trade between Australia and the States and
Canada believe that, despite Australian and
British subventions, the new Vancouver service
will go out with a doleful wheeze in 12 months.
And those who don’t think this and support it
boil over with indignation with anyone who says
“ job.’’ However, the thing has been very
smartly managed, and would have been just about
impossible but for the assistance of F. W. Ward,
ex-editor of Sydney Daily Telegraph.
“O’er all the chills of life victorious” are
those sensible people who have provided for their
winter’s wearing the justly-celebrated Orient
clothing, now being offered at reduced rates lay
David Jones and Co., Orient clothiers, opposite
the G.P.0., George-street, Sydney. The present
transitional times of “ re-construction ” have
advertised the hitherto occult fact, that the prices
charged by this sterling establishment are as
moderate and reasonable as at places of less
fashionable reputation. “Orient clothing” is in
itself fast becoming a sort of society passport, if
not exactly a “legal tender.”
A progressive asymptote that nears the
memoried curve of old round-the-Cape sailing-
ship days is the establishment of a new steamship
route from Australia to London, vid the Cape of
Good Hope. On or about June 30 the s.s. Port
Pirie will leave Sydney for Capetown and London,
taking saloon and third-class passengers. There
is now direct railway communication between
Capetown and the South African goldfields—the
present premier diggings of the world. The Port
Pirie is fitted up with a refrigerating chamber,
and all modern luxuries, while the route is now a
novelty to the steamboat globe-trotter. Gibbs,
Bright, and Co. are the managing agents in Aus-
tralia ; or applications for particulars relative to
voyage expenses may be made to Thos. Cook and
Son, Hunter-street, Sydney.
The Sydney Socialists have sent Governor
Duff a copy of an address of welcome, and ask
him to appoint a day and hour when he will
formally receive the same. They claim to “repre-
sent the feelings of the great bulk of this com-
munity much more closely than any others which
you have hitherto heard,” and, in that attitude of
representation, they inform the Governor that
N.S.W. is a miserably poor province, bled to
whiteness by the Fat Man, and machined “from
the Prime Minister downwards ” by the mono-
polist ; that “bread riots have occurred in Sydney
streets, and 8000 men are now officially registered
as slowly starving in Sydney for want of employ-
ment,” &c., &c»
To these, and all other features of colonial life, we bid
you heartily welcome. Until we know to the contrary,
we will honour you by supposing that, as the representa-
tive of the Queen in'this hitherto misgoverned colony,
yon are animated with a desire to govern it well and
wisely.
The rtocialists then warn His Ex. not to waste his
vice-regal time in banqueting the idle rich while
the Hungry and destitute may go hang. If he
only would receive this deputation, the “respect-
able” press would choke with rush of anathema
to the throat.
A big mining official in an influential
mining-town “ razzle-dazzled ” the other evening.
Starting with a pub, he threw out the barmaid,
broke up fixings, and took general possession,
until a friend, who came along, managed to coax
the madman home. Arrived at that ’friend’s
house, however, he had a new spasm, smashed up
everything before him, and gave his host “the
father of a thrashing.” A couple of policemen
came to the rescue, and were laid out in short
order. Reinforcements arrived, and half-a-dozen
officers managed to land the slayer in the
cells about midnight, just as the authorities were
about to wire for Samson Haynes, M.P, to come
up by telegraph. But the drunk was influential,
and, in a short while, four lawyers, three doctors,
and the P.M. were assembled at the station, and
the reveller was bailed out as drunk as when he
was first incarcerated. And, later, at 8 a.m.,
before the P.M., in the P.M.’s private room, an
enquiry was held in camera, and a fine of JHOO
satisfied all complaints. The fine was paid, and
locally the word is “mum.”
The Physical Exercise Chart, published by
Professor Loose (whose advt. appears in our
columns this week), is quite a new departure. It
is not in book form, but is arranged as a chart to
hang against the wall while the various exercises
are being performed. Professor Loose’s know-
ledge of anatomy and physiology has enabled him
to group the exercises so that every muscle in the
body will get its due amount of development.
The charts (which are graphically illustrated)
should prove a valuable aid to all persons in
search of health and strength, as well as to those
who wish to attain athletic proficiency.


Perfect Food.
HORLIGK'S (S®-
MALTED
MILK.
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS.
For TRAVELLERS.
Malted milk is made from the i
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked, 1
no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
Malted milk is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.’'
— Lancet, April 4,1891.
Malted milk, as a food for in-1
valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely In any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents : —
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane.
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
DOGiORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
INVICORATor
CORSET*
LADIES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says “ 1 think them such very
good stays, and those you sent for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’00: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They arc delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin., says lie be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGHT LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty in
Obtaining from Drapers' write Patentee, 15,
olaremont, Hastings, England.
Itching Skin Humors
Torturing, Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospitals, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and irri-
tated surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cuticura
Soap, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces.
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. Hence, the
Cuticura Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
jggp-“ How to Cure Diseases of the Skin And Blood,”64 pages, 300 Diseases, 5° Illus-
trations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura. 50c.; Cuticura .cap,
550.1 Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug& Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. S. A.
ted, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails
are prevented and cured by Cuticura Soap, in -
_ _ Comparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling irt delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive Of toilet and hursery soaps-
The only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging Of
the pdres, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin, and simple humors of infants.
J
S'
iC
/
Pimply Skin
Established 1876.
AS
CURE
write tor
D?
HAIR’S /
TREATISE/
i ASTHMAj
<V
hjg
Bri
/'Melbourne
RockeTompsirtt-fiT
"Sydney- Elliott Bro? i
"Adela! y (?
Sharland a (? , jys.
Mill send Treatise and Testimonials free.*?'
Jaan/Addres^.
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. and S.
(Registered bt the Medical Boardop N.S.W.)
May be consulted at tlie moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefoie,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
AND CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
—at—
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Op the Philadelphia College of Dental
Sgrgert.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
Upper .or Lower Sets from £2 2s.
Full from £4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application.
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
PHYSICIAN", CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
674 GEORGE ST,,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
More Australian Testimony.
THE SECRETS OF SUCCESS.
Mr. J. B. Warbrick, or “Joe Warbrick,” as lie
is familiarly known, was captain of the New
Zealand Native Football Team (better known as
“The Maoris”), which visited the Old Country
and gave such a good account of itself during the
season there of 1888-89. This team firmly believed
that St. Jacobs Oil is one of the secrets of success
in football, and kept itself in prime condition by a
free use of it. The team was so unanimous in its
verdict that the matter is worthy of special men-
tion. Mr. Warbrick, in conversation with one of
the representatives of the Chas. A. Vogeler Co.,
in Sydney, after their return, stated: “I have
much pleasure in testifying to the efficacy of St.
Jacobs Oil. I have used it constantly since my
first visit to New South Wales in 1884, having
then injured my knee in our first match ; and dur-
ing our tour in Great Britain we have used noth-
ing else, and the New Zealand Native Football
Team all speak in the highest terms of its
qualities. In fact, so much did we think of it
that we hardly ever travelled without a case
of it.”
AN ENDORSEMENT.
Mr. J. R. Scott, the successful proprietor of the
leading hotel in Gisborne, N.Z. —the Masonic
Hotel —and the able manager of the above-men-
tioned New Zealand football team on their tour
through Great Britain, endorses the above by
letter, in which lie states : “ I have much pleasure
in testifying to the wonderful properties of St.
Jacobs Oil. While there (Great Britain) I got for
the team’s use nearly a dozen different embroca-
tions, but none seemed to do the men the same
amount of good as St. Jacobs Oil. In fact, we
never considered our baggage complete without a
case of it. ”
THE WATERBURY WATCHES
have established for themselves an unrivalled
reputation as ACCURATE, RELIABLE, and
INEXPENSIVE TIMEKEEPERS, and for all
practical purposes are UNEQUALLED by any
other low-cost watch in the world.
Pallon’s Missus: A South Sea Sketch.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I stayed once at Rotoava —in the Low
Archipelago, Eastern Polynesia—while suffering
from injuries received in a boat accident one wild
night. My host, the Rotoava trader, was a
sociable old pirate, whose convivial soul would
never let him drink alone. He was, by trade, a
boat-builder, having had, in his early days, a shed
at Miller’s Point, in Sydney, where he made
money and married a wife. But this latter event
was poor Tom Oscott’s undoing, and in the end
he took his chest of tools on board the Thyra and
sailed away to Polynesia. Finally, after many
years’ wandering, he settled down at Rotoava as a
trader and hoatbuilder, and a noted drinker of
bottled beer.
The only method by which I could avoid his
incessant invitations to “have another” was to
get his wife and children to carry me down to his
work shed, a lovely spot surrounded by giant puka
trees. Here, under the shade, I had rny mats
spread, and witli one of his children sitting at my
head to fan away the flies I lay and watched
through the belt of coooanuts that lined the beach
the blue rollers breaking on the reef and the snow*
white boatswain-birds floating high overhead.
* * *
Tom was in the bush one morning when
his family carried me to the boat-shed. He
had gone for a log of seasoned toa wood to another
village. At noon he returned, and I heard him
bawling for me. His little daughter, the fly-
brusher, gave an answering yell, and then Tom
walked down the path, carrying two bottles of
beer ; behind him Lucia, his eldest daughter, a
monstrous creature of giggles and adipose tissue,
with glasses and a plate of crackers. Lastly, old
Marie, the wife, with a little table.
“By—, you’ve a lot more sense’n me. It’s
better lyin’ here in the cool than foolin’ around in
the sun ; so I’ve brought yer suthin’ to drink.”
“Oh, Tom,” I groaned, “I’m sure that beer’s
bad for me.”
The Maker of Boats sat on his bench and said
that lie knew of a brewer’s carter in Sydney who,
at Merriman’s pub., by Miller’s Point, had had a
cask of beer roll over him. Smashed seven ribs,
one arm and one thigh. Doctors gave him up j
Undertaker’s man called on his wife for coffin
order: hut a sailor chap said he’d pull him through.
Got an india-rubber tube and made him sdck up as
much beer as he could hold ; kept it Up till all his
bones “settcd ” again, and he recovered. Why
shouldn’t I—if I only drank enough?
“ Hurry up, old dark-skin to the faded
Marie. Uttering merely the word “Hog!” she
drew the cork. I had to drink some, and every
hour or so Tom would say it was very hot, and
open yet another bottle, At last I escaped the
beer by nearly dying out, and then the kind old .
fellow hurried away in his boat to Apatiki—
another island of the group—and came hack with j
some bottles of claret, bought from the French
trader there.
With him came two Visitors—a big, wiry half- 1
baste of middle-age, ahd his wife, a girl of 29 or
thereabout. This Was Edward Pallou and Lis
Wife, Taloi.
* * #
1 was in the house when Tom returned,
enjoying a long-denied smoke. Pallou and his
Vife entered and greeted me. The man was a fine,
well-set-up fellow, wiry and muscular, with deep-
set eyes, and bearing across his right cheek a
heavy scar. His wife was a dainty little creature
with red lips, dazzling teeth, hazel eyes, and long,
wavy hair. The first thing I noticed about her
was that instead of squatting on a mat in native
fashion she sank into a wide chair, ahd lying back
inquired with a pleasant smile, and in perfect
English, whether I was feeling any better. She
was very fair, even for a Paumotuan half-caste, as
I thought she must be, and I said to Pallou, “Why,
anyone would take your wife to be an English-
woman !”
“Not I,’’said Taloi, with a rippling laugh, as she
commenced to make a banana-leaf cigarette, “ I
am a full-blooded South Sea Islander, I belong
to Apatiki and was born there. Perhaps I have
White blood in me. Who knows?—only wise
tnothefs. But when I was 12 years old I was
adopted by a gentleman in Papeite and he sent
me to Sydney to school. Do you know Sydney ?
Well, I was three years with the Misses , in
street. My goodness ! I was glad to leave—
and so were the Misses - to see me go. They
said I was downright wicked, because one day I
tore the dress off a girl who said my skin was tal-
lowy like rny name. When I came back to Tahiti
my "guardian took me to Raiatea, where he had a
business, and said I must marry him, the beast.”
“ Oh, shut up, Taloi !” growled the deep-voiced
Pallou, who sat beside me; “ what the deuce does
this man care about your doings ?”
“Shut up yourself, you brute ! Can’t I talk to
anyone I like, you turtle-headed fool ? Am I not
a good wife to you, you great, over-grown savage ?
Won t you let a poor devil of a woman talk a
little ! Look here, Tom, do you see that flash
jacket he’s wearing? Well, I sat up two nights
making that—for him to come over here with and
show off before the Rotoava girls. Go and die
you ! ’ ’
The big half-caste looked at Tom and me. His
lips twitched with suppressed passion, and a
dangerous gleam shone a moment in his dark eyes.
“ Here, I say, Taloi,” broke in Torn, good-
humouredly, “just go easy a bit with Ted. As
for him a-looking at any of the girls here, I knows
better—and so do you.”
Taloi’s laugh, as clear as the note of a bird,
answered him, and then she said she was sorry,
and the lines around Pallou’s rigid mouth softened
down. It was easy to see that this grim half-
white loved, for all her bitter tongue, the bright
creature who sab in the big chair. Love! someone
will say, what could such coarse natures as his
know of real love? Well, wait and see.
# * *
Presently Taloi and Lucia went out to
bathe, and Paflou remained with me. Tom joined
us, and for awhile no one spoke. Then the trader,
laying down his pipe on the table, drew his seat
closer and commenced, in low tones, a conversa-
tion in Tahitian with Pallou. From the earnest
manner of old Tom and the sullen gloom that
overspread Pallou’s face I could discern that some
anxiety possessed them.
At last Tom addressed me, “ Look here, ,
Ted here is in a mess, and we’ve just been a
talkin’ of it over, and he says perhaps you’ll do
what you can for him.”
The half-caste turned his dark eyes on me and
looked intently into mine.
“ What is it, Tom ? ”
“ Well, you see, it come about this way. You
heard this chap’s missus—Taloi there—a-talkin’
about the Frenchman that wanted to marry her.
He had chartered a little schooner in Papeite to
go to Raiatea. Pallou here was mate, , and, o’
course, being from the same part of the group as
Taloi, she ups and tells him that the Frenchman
wanted to marry her straightaway ; and then I.
a’pese the two gets a bit chummy, and Pallou tells
lint that if she didn’t want the man, he’d see aS
hoVV she wasn’t forced agin her will. So when
the Vessel gets td Raiatea it fell calm, just about
slmset. The Frenchman Was in a hurry to get
ashore, and tells his skipper to put tWo men in the
boat and some grub, as he meant to pull ashore td
bis statidn. So they put the boat Over, and
Frenoby and Taloi ahd Fallon and tWo native
chaps gels in and pulls for the land.
“They gets inside Uturort. about midnight;
“Jump out,’ says the Frenchman to Taloi ; but the
girl wouldn’t, hilt ties herself up around Pallod
and squeals. ‘Sakker,’ says the Frenchy, and
lie grabs, tier by the hair and tries to teat her
away. ‘’Ere, stop that,’ says Pallou, ‘the girl
ain't willin’,’an’he pushes Frenchy away. ‘Sakker’
again, and Frenchy whips Out his pistol and neatly
blows Pallou’s face off’n him; and then afore he
knows how it was done, Ted Sends his knife home
into the othet fellow’s thrdat. The two native
sailors named away ashore, atid Pallou and Taloi
takes the oars and pulls Out again until they
drops. Then a breeze comes along and they up
stick and sails away and gets clear o’ the
and brings tip after a lot of sufferin’ at Rurutil.
And ever since then there’s been a French gun-
boat a-lookin’ for Pallou and he’s been hidin’ at
Apatiki for nigh on a twelve month, and has come
over here now to see if when your ship comes back
jtou can’t give him and the missus a passage away
somewhere to the westward out o’ the run of that
there gunboat, the Yaudreuil.”
• • *
I promised I would “work it” with the
captain, and Pallou put out his brawny hand—the
hand that “ drove it home into Frenchy’s throat ”
—and grasped mine in silence. Then he lifted his
jacket and showed me his money belt, filled.
“I don’t want money,” I said; “if you have
told me the whole story I would help any man in
such a fix as you.” And then Taloi, fresh from
her bath, came in and sat down on the mat whilst
fat Lucia combed and dressed her glossy hair and
placed therein scarlet hisbiseus flowers ; and to
show her returned good temper she took from her
lips the cigarette she was smoking and offered it
to the grim Pallou.
A month later we all three left Rotoava, and
Pallou and Taloi went ashore at one of the Heryey
Group, where I gave him charge of a station with
a small stock of trade, and we sailed away to Pit-
cairn and Easter Islands.
# * •
Pallou did a good business and was well
liked, and some seven months afterwards when
we were at Maga Reva I got a letter from him.
“Business goes well,’’ he wrote, “ but Taloi is ill ;
I think she will die. You will find everything
square, though, when you come.” But I was
never to see that particular island again, as the
firm sent another vessel in place of ours to get
Pallou’s produce. When the captain and super-
cargo went ashore a white trader met them, with
a roll of papers in his hand.
“Pallou’s stock-list,” he said.
“Why, where is he—gone away?”
“ No, he’s here still; planted alongside ids
missus.”
“Dead ?”
“Yes. A few months after he arrived here
that pretty little wife of his died. He came to me
and asked if I would come and take stock with
him. I said he seemed in a bit of a hurry to start
stock-taking before the poor thing was buried ;
but, anyhow, I went and we took stock, and he
counted his cash and asked me to lock the place up
if anything happened to him. Then we had a
drink and he bade me good-day and said he was
going to sit with Taloi awhile before they took
her away. He sent the native women out of the
bedroom, and the next minute I heard a shot.
He’d done it, right enough. Right through his
brain, poor chap. I can tell yon he thought a lot
of that girl of his. There’s the two graves, over
there by that fetau tree. Here’s his stock-list and
bag of cash and keys. Would you mind giving
me that pair of rubber sea-boots he left ?”
LOUIS B.
A Hebrew in one of the Australian
capitals, who had just arranged a 999 years’ lease
from the local Council, rushed into the municipal
solicitor’s office a day or two after and suggested
that it wouldn’t cost any more to add the words,
•' with the right of renewal, ,r


1
CLOTHED WITH AIR
Cellular Cloth
D ress Shirts
with
Line:i Fronts and Cuffs,
6s. 6d, and 7s. 6d.
Healthy, Comfortable, and
Durab'e.
A positive Safeguard
against Cliills.
When sending Orders hy
Po-t, mention size of Neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Solo Asrents —
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
lACTO-CLYCOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
<1
3&_ &
% > eRV
y ' r s
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOP
\ FRANGiPANNI PS!
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
D O
ft v°
Street
Be wa re of imitations. The genuine is signed
rRADE MARK;; musk deer.
hj
gh
Requires No ADDITION or PREPARATION as it
CONTAINS: Starch Gloss, Borax, Gum, Wax, &c.
PREVENTS ■ The Iron from Scorching or Sticking.
PRODUCES : Beautiful White Glossy Linen.
SAVES: Time, Labour, and Uncertainty.
Sole Agents for New South Wales and Victoria
T. H. MATE & Co., Ld.,
Albury, Sydney, and Melbourne.
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ah 1 SKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin,
i Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., New York,
jg
Semite
%
%
w.
Mr. JAMES L. TURK,
Of the Commercial Gazette Office
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Describes the Suffering and Distress
of His Daughter
How these are Exchanged for Health
and Happiness by the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.
“I wish to state to you what your blood-
purifying' Sarsaparilla did for my daughter.
Some two years ago she was attacked with
diphtheria. A physician was called. He helped
her a little, but not much. Finally, I called
another. She got over the soreness in her throat,
but a large swelling came outside of her throat,
hard and angry looking. We poulticied it for
three weeks, but it looked no better. She then
lost her voice, and her throat swelled inside
again. The doctor lanced the swelling, and it
discharged for two or three weeks. She then re-
gained her voice, but was paralysed in the lower
limbs. I became discouraged, dismissed the
doctor, and sent my daughter to the country.
My wife, knowing the purifying qualities of your
Sarsaparilla, determined to give it a thorough
trial; and after using two bottles, the news
came to me that my. daughter had begun to im-
prove. From that time on, she continued to
gain, until she became sound and well again, and
she has enjoyed good health ever since. - I have
used Ayer’s Sarsaparilla in my family many
years, and I know it to be the best blood-purifier
extant.
Ayer*s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell Mass., U.S.A,
Has Cured others, will cure you.
Cancel all our Regular Price Lists!
•we: are now belling our
CELEBRATED
Orient €£ Clothing
-—FOR—-
. ■ ■ ■ • ' ■' i . , :
MEH’S & BOYS’ WINTER WEAR
i . ' |»» __ ,c
OEIETTJXITE COST PRICE
THE BARGAINS ARE WONDERFUL!
DAVID JONES & COMPANY,
ORIENT CLOTHIERS,
Opposite the General Post Office, GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S. W.
The Phoenix Foundry, Ballarat, has
planted its 318th locomotive on the railways.
A Mrs. Edward Kennard, of England, has
taken to writing sporting novels after the style of
the late Hawley Smart. Her knowledge of sport
may be judged from the fact that in one of her
latest stories, the wicked Baronet is out partridge-
shooting and his gun bursts; the doctor after-
wards remarks : “ I have succeeded in extracting
most of the bullets.” As if the man had got in
front of a Catling.
“ Everybody has had a slap at this item,”
said N.S.W. Premier Dibbs, “from the leader of
the Opposition even unto the drummer-boy
thereof.” “Who is the drummer-boy?” asks a
Sydney daily. Dibbs was evidently thinking of
Dailey’s historic attack on Parkes, the variety of
whose indebtedness, as disclosed by his insolvency
schedules, reminded one of the potentate who
“could take, with the same grace and the same
ingratitude, a million francs from his Imperial
Majesty of France and twopence-halfpenny from
a British drummer-boy.”
Dear Bulletin, —Please don’t gush quite
so much over ex - Solicitor - General Isaacs
for his attitude in the Mercantile case. Those
who know him assess his action at its true worth.
The name, Isaac A. Isaacs, is the keynote of
this smart lawyer’s character. He only moved in
the matter after the Argus and Age had con-
demned O’Loghlen’s decision and he was assured
of the trend of public opinion. He must have
known that his action would place O’Loghlen in
an unenviable position, and would weaken, if not
wreck, the Ministry. He was indebted to the
former for much kindly advice, and also for, in a
sense, taking upon his shoulders the duties of both
offices, in order that he (Isaacs) might be un-
hampered in his extensive private practice, now
largely increased since Madden’s elevation to the
Bench. . Therefore, from a manly point of view,
there was little to boast of in his action. He
poses as a “ Liberal ”in the House. Instead, he
is merely one of those parasites who reap the
harvest sown by the reform pioneers. A member
of the Bar Association, he was one of the prime
movers at the meeting which condemned the
Maritime strikers. He also assisted the other
members of the Bar in trying to block the Amal-
gamation of the Legal Professions Bill. He
plausibly got the miners of Chiltern to elect him
on the “dual” vote ticket. He sat behind the
Shiels Ministry—and what was his political con-
duct the night of the defeat of that Ministry?
He has got his reward.— Bush Lawyer.
I A London writer, commenting on the
great prevalence of suicide in all armies, attri-
butes it to the fact that every soldier has a deadly
weapon in his possession. “ The sight of means,”
&c. :
.Probably the great check upon suicide at present is the
inconvenience of it. Few people know how to cut their
throats properly; a rope and a place to attach it to are
seldom handy—in fact, for hanging youiraelf you really
need a garden and a tree ; poisons are nauseous and
uncertain in their effects, besides rendering you liable to
be operated upon by that most objectionable instrument,
the stomach-pump, the ridicule attaching to which would
be keenly felt by sensitive natures. Of one thing we may
be sure—if suicide were not within the reach of all, it
would be regarded as a privilege to which the human
race might legitimately aspire, and perhaps even pray
for.
The latest trouble of the Crick-Willis-
Norton faction—a small but vociferous Sydney
party consisting of three men who are always either
slanging each other, or throwing each other down-
stairs, or prosecuting each other, or getting
walloped by Haynes, or running libel-actions, or
bawling in Parliament that they have done a lot
for the working man—took place the other night
in King-street, Sydney. On that occasion Norton
and Willis met with much enthusiasm, and are
reported to have clawed each other in a variety of
places, and filled a hotel with hair and ears and
other debris. This is according to the Evening
News report, that journal setting forth that
Willis’s ear was in Norton’s mouth for a consider-
able time, and had to be taken out at last by the
police. Norton, however, denies the ear episode,
and asserts that his opponent’s listening organ is
entirely undamaged. He says :
I neither bit nor attempted to bite Willis. lam not
aware that Mr. Willis made any attempt to bite me. I
don’t believe he did. Yet the perfervid fancy of the
reporter in question prompts him to paint Mr. Willis and
myself like a pair of dog fiends, frantically fighting
literally with “tooth and nail,” and seeking to tear each
other to pieces in true terrier style. I made it my busi-
ness to at once seek out Mr. Willis. Having found him, I
made, with his permission, a careful scrutiny of his
physiognomy, and am pleased to say that I found his
features pretty much in their normal state. The pro-
boscis was in perfect order, the. ears intact, not a lobe
missing, and in precisely the same condition they were in
when first proudly exhibited in Parliament as belonging
to a representative of Bourke. Mr. Willis and I made
mutual explanations, and frankly admitted that the affray
was the outcome of a misunderstanding caused by the
machinations of third parties.
The Bulletin is glad to hear that Mr. Willis
wasn’t chewed in the course of the discussion, also
that, as a man of taste, he didn’t attempt to taste
Mr. Norton. But, at the same time, it thinks the
case is one for Legislative interference. The only
remedy for the Crick-Willis-Norton trouble is to
exile the combatants by Act of Parliament, and
send Crick to Bokhara, and Willis to Morocco,
and Norton to the city of Mexico, each having to
find heavy securities that he won’t leave his place
of exile until the other two are dead. Otherwise
all New South Wales will presently divide
into three factions with Crick, Willis, and
Norton for their respective k*aders, and a
gory civil war will ensue, and the country will be
full of ears and human wreckage, and one party
will yell for the man who bit Willis, and the other
for the man who bit Crick, and the third for the
man who bit everybody. And, finally, the nation
will be so weakened by internal strife, that it will
fall an easy victim to the first foreign enemy who
comes along, and when he has crowned himself
Emperor of Australia he will hang Crick, Willis
and Norton in a row, and impale Willis’ ear on a
pike, to stand on South Head as a warning to all
comers through succeeding generations.
Just-published letters by John Dickens,
Charles’ father, show how exactly he was taken
off in Mioawber ; and Dickens caricatured his
moth< r as Mrs. Nickleby.


Hotel.
™ IMPERIAL ARCADE HOTEL
(From ntt-street to
Eastlereugli-street),
Between King <h Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
m.
I
¥
.SS&3S!
IN THE VERT HEART OF THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
d la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
OOKE}, jVfanageii,
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
Medical.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
I such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, oos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
PATENT
PILLS.
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable’
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “FACTS” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &0., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bekcijam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
En eland, in boxes Is. l&d. (containing 56 pills), and at
2s. ~9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere,
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH , STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORED
In Four Wttks by the tist of
t> e R I CORDs
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one for S6s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry <b Co., 7o Gertrude
Street, Eitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
NOW IN THE PRESS.
“The Last of Six.”
Medical.
ROSE’S
#
%
%
%
hj
THEONLYI
ghj
PFXIABII
g
'Ktm
iBSS
rpms valuable Lotiondsjguaranfeed to cure SWELLING
x and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS.
DIMNESS OF SIGHT, &c. It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by the leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. -A.. R.OBE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses.
Established 1858. By Post 3s. 6d.
i3f” Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS MEN.
i
31
EUREKA
ELECTRIC
BELTH
N. . \Vn^
y
\!>iS
'
N
A NEVER FAILING CURE EOR ALE.
DISEASES OE THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from £1 and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Back, Lum-
bago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt l>y
the wearer. It has great improvements over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 d-ays trial,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what we represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the specific purpose of producing a continuous,
mild, soothing current of electricity through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cured in three months.
It is more convenient to wear than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will be forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 916, G.P.0., Sydney.
3XT o Cur e, IKT o IP e&j y.
TTffWTt\f^
gmaraSS
electro
belt
mms is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
x cure all NERYOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH- This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. . We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the moat
sceptical. AddressV
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
The Most Useful Ointment in the World,
Ear Mone.
•9
a
OLD
RMS
jUNBU
. CHAE
fing
-V
&.C
£Ar£
Y
P *op
r, Etors
Edward Row U Co.,
s YXDisriHiir,
E P P
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Buxines* Announcements.
prsoN's
i
Oil
waisßy
H
».fw
SSw.^-
Best on Earth
Sole Agents—
Allt's Brewing Si Wine Si Spirit Co., Limited.
///
NliU
ALL HIS OWN FAULT.
Sober Party; “Why didn’t you keep to
Robertson’s Whisky ?
Look at me ! I drink nothing; else! ”
Coupon with Every Case.
ATKIN80M .
WHITE HOSE
is now universally preferred to the
German hinds. It is more fragrant,
more lasting, and very much more re-
freshing. Use none but, Atkiit son’s.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
, Old Bond Street, London.
JTI05S I—Oniy genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
The most refinedof all .Perfumes.
Sweet as the Rose itself. Imitated the
world oyer, but equalled by none.
ATKINSON’S
EATJ DECOLOGNE
v Trade Mark—a “ White
and address in fu
Men I have Smiled with.’
w E STAY at 33 ruton’s,
NHnamoD
WAGG-A.
33. KT sl, xi lx -fc o an,
(AUSTR ALIA HOTEL), A CALL.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Ho
'■■■Hi-
iffl
:
IS*
MELBOOKNB.
Board and Residence, £3 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto, 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A. I l '. BEKER, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
THE GROSVENOR HOTEL,
Inclusive or Separate Tariff as desired.
Single Rooms from 3s. Double Rooms from 6s.
Inclusive Tariff 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. per diem.
Special Terms for Permanent Boarders.
W. A BOULTON, Proprietor.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &c.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
ALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM
SydLn.ey.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE BULLETIN.
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Vulqno Weekly—Australia’* Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Austral i:« ns.-—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap n uger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System —one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
1 ne Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter which is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains>
and has become a vast property, because it pos-
sesses a vitality lacked by the countless news-
paper-ventures in which Australian capitalists
have unavailingly spent large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of nationa
progress; it is the forceful summons to the,
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication _ and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
One reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast m&'ss of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


.
u»x uu,
Telephone 97».
W. MAMMATT &
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated Goods
—AND—
f-rr-r-PT .ttp.-v
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms :
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
XTOW IN THE PRESS, AND WILL SHORTLY BE
PUBLISHED,
“ THE LAST OE SIX; ”
Tales of the Austral Tropics,
BY
EBUEST IF 1 IE USTO,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
94 Pitt Street. Sydney.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
Wyn.ya.rdL Square, SYDKTEY.
[Established over a Quarter of a Century.]
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
0T Terms—l«s. 6d. per Day. Walter Sidney flat© of Newcastle), “Prop.”
Look out for “ The Last of Six.”
A
sj
o
o
o
<RAc»{asocK>
4-
o
o
c
o
o
4
V
JK. A. Hervcy, Agent, 88 I'ltt-st , Sydney
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &o. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
'VfOTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
True Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
OLIIMIITIBID),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Maclilnery Merchant.
H )pL K-m
Importer of all kinds of -American IVlachinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY op EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Machinery, Engineers’, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Eequisites.
Proprietor of fixe* “ Pioneer ” Oro Treating -Worlds,
FYBMONT, SYDNEY, tor the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
jg
OTvf
hj
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LIFE IS SHORT I
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople require a trip —ruralise in the country. Country folk, on
the other hand, imprpve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. Now, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
be—a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs—Boots, etc.—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Buff’s or Bibbs’ position \ every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. lam POY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in eivery outlay of Ten Pounds
in BRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc.—that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Nkak HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
Medical Coils & Batteries
} ' g . r . x
</
R'
We have a Complete Stock of these for Home or Professional Use-
No. 903.—Dr. GAIFFE'S (Pails) Portable Battery for the Pocket, very powerful
and easily used. A thoroughly serviceable instrument £1 12
No. 994.—Ditto, Double Cells, with set of Electrodes for the Spine, Ear, Head, &o.
Strongly recommended... ... ... ••• ••• ••• sE2 2
No. 992.—Dr. SPAMER’S Batteries, complete with full set of Electrodes, in >
Polished Walnut Case, with lock and key ... ... ... £2 lO
No. 995.—Dr. MACKENZIE’S, a Splendid Machine, either for home or profes-
sional use, as illustrated ... ... ... ... £3 lO
CONSTANT CURRENT BATTERIES (all Sizes) IN STOCK.
■ \w
°
O
Repairs to every form of Battery a Speciality
Send for our Catalogue, 150 pages, profusely illustrated, Post Free.
FROST STSHIPHAM,
Blectriciazxs, Opticians, Spectacle HMCetls.ex’ei
AND
PHOTOGRAPHIC STOCK DEALERS,
462, 474 AND 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
