

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
llpl
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS «■ 5 EACH.
DECEMBER HANDICAP, ('ANTEIiRURY, USOBMTVER 3nu. • M 3 Each.
Summer gup, ka.ndwk’k, qeckmbe!? A <fi s each.
Register Letters and Address to “GALA,” cd H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Queensland.
B.
Mining
O, 'W.A.'B'XUX'JS <SZ> 00. 9
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR —
and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
vx
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
zxj
%
&
o
O
o
<RAc^A^ocK>
A
o
o
o
*1
o
V
o
c;.
K, A*. Hervey, 'Agi'ut, tfS S’ilt-ot , Sydney.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “liljpht ami Life,’
•for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will" be sent
Tree, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address—
s. WARD Js CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
7G HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
"VTOTlCJE.—Advertisements for Current Week
d cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
I*
i
r*Jl
2--> k
a
hbesb® o^'
The Oxford Hotel, King
IT. THORPE .’.
Proprietor.
-THE-
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
mill ..
iki;am ..
It E
■ti I I I K
FISH
«.4UE
I’OILTRV
PAxTttl, Av. .
<LIMITED>
FOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
Tlie Clearest Crystal,
“Golden Star” Creamery, Begd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American;
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exqu'sste.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SCBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered hy the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to ail
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME.
Boxiltry, Rastry, etc.
Ist July, 1593.
11. IMitXD,
Manager.
cvxc
J.
Solo
A»ut. Sew South Wales for Messrs.
Clayton and aiiuttleworth.
V.
HOWARD'S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, winnowers, rakes,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS.
-i
CLAV.TOu' jl iHUTtUtHOMH U»COV.« V 'JLssMS’- '
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE;
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
mrErS
■wSe>S3flC-«
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specmll.V built to suit the requirements of N.B.W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Send Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes,; Ujidertypc Engines; Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elevators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shellers.
Nf-iJii?
E*£A
3S»
■
HOWARD’S SOLID STEEL FRAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, ETC. etc
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENGINES. WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. tc; Full Catalogues of Engines. Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application,
j' ss C. Howard, Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13. No. 719. J
[Saturday, November-25, 1893.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


f
SHAKEN DON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
*3713 0 ZOatrigflx-fcoanL of DKTo-w Soiith Wales*
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, Large well, ventilated Dining,
Silling and Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Pishing. Parties, sp.T.dly
suitable for Families.
1 ::ST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &0., BILLIARD TA BLB.
—o-
TMEi-s. ZSZZI-.IMaCISrSTBU.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT L O'CLOCK.
.... prietreas^
A. Ajsi) J. STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
rand.
vx
The only TtJBES tised by all the Governments of Austi-.'h.
SiAKAein FOR Australia-"a?. JT. Mac William, 2970i0< i?. sr;:-;:;3T,-- SYDXRV
TRADE MARK
REGISTERED
3B*. o.
HAVING -succeeded to {lie Business of i..4*AItUS A CO.» and tin ir Scientific System of SICHT-TBSTINti and
SPECTACLE-MAKING, CORRECTS the most DIFFICULT CASES of DEFECTIVE VISION.
A Practical Optician employed on the premises for Cases of Compound Aslif/mafism;
Agents of the late Fijrrrt Supplied with “ SpEcialitb ” Goods at Reduced Prices;
AH Rights and Trade-Marks covered. Unauthorised persons are hereby cautioned against any infringement Of same
FrEiid. c. pasbau,
OCULIST OPTICIAN, 491 George Street, SYDNEY-
BRAZILIAN PEBBLE SPECTACLES, 4 0 per Pair. Oculists’ Prescriptions executed in Dioptric measure.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
*T APPLY Foil
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTKD FEES BY
Dr. M.PERR7,
145 Elizabeth-St. . SYDNEY.
EPPS’S
CtRATEFOL—COMFORTING
cocoa
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY,
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the Healing virtues of thes a grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers, la all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
ih every disease. IF YOU SUFFER. TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London, |3P“ Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious
Universally admired. Other Odours
pal) upon the sense, but Atkinson’s
“ White Rose ” is ever fresh and sweet.
ATKINSCHS
EAIT DE COLOGNE
Renowned for a couple of centuries,
this l erfumc has given rise to a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English—the finest.
Of all Dealers.
& E. ATKINSON,
C * Old r and Street, London.
C/iUTIO i i*-Only genuine with shield
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a.“ White Hose,
tv and address in full. A!
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOT)
we have examined.”— Oh as. FT. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F. 0.5., &c. Wm, Johnstone
Ph.P , E.C.S., <fec., Public Analysts.
OR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MiscdJ.-i cous.
Sole .
— ; : : :
AseiKs for HENRY HEATH. [
as. tidl.
i§Mc £(ft)o3>"
(ietimfEßnfa
.TRADE MAR*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Bb. 8c L.
A Splendid Hat for floating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three neglige shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many s > called pocket. iials, this will
really go in the pocket it is made of the tint si felled
fur, so beautifully felted as to have (he tcxluie of velvet.
gj-. H. & sokt,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
II.
WHAI
CupiD
S^ 1
“ Romance of a Fair
tf hi’ lia throorn. ’ ’
Price, 1/6 •< post free,
“ for 4 in*
By ZO LA.
10 ; by post, 2
JSblii’s Works, 1 6 each ;
by post, 2 - Mysteries
C'otl l l of Loiliion, by ().
w. Kyvnolds, 2 - ; by
103', 26. Score is of
N.i’iiro revealedl I! i.ok
of Nature, Guide: to
Marriage Life arid luda-
lions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, bv 1 I, M.
.B.vtii, ;{6 ;by post, 4 - Private Companion hi- .Mai tied
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1-; by post,, 12.
’blie art of Boxing-, Swimming-, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price I . Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free TO. Mrs. Benint's Law of Population, 1 post 12.
Aristotle, complete, 36, post 4.-. Maria Monk, 10, post
19. Marriage as it was, as it is, and us it should be, by
Annie Uesaut, 1 by post 12. Wonderful Song Book,
extra largo, 16. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 10. Every Man
lii» own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One s Self, illus-
trated ; price 10. Modem Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &c., 10.
‘ Tlie Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1 0,
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1 posted 1 5,'
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own priyate use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
h : ee - BEAR, Central Book Depot,’
16 Park Street, SYDNEY. 1
MANHOOD.
’■KSStVUVJ.m.
RiCORqV
cE °f IiFE--
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Bicord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important dements of the humanframc.
In cases of 12s, or four quantities in one. for ,IGs. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry rf; Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
Agents for N. S. Wales— W. H, Soul &Co M Pitt-st., Sydney.
Tales of the convict system
PRICE-ONE SHILLING,
Medical
a. l 13 nxr e s
Cured and Prevented with
“ DE3 A. -O* 3E31 o si
It renioven the cause, viz.: Congestion of the Follicles
and provides food for the hair. 5 j lei . Htottle ’
GREY' 3K AIR.
Whiskers, Eyebrows, *&«•„
Quickly resum ■ their own rich natural
colour with
Morn’s “ Acesnm,”
Non-poispnotis, free from grease and
smell, does not stain the skin.
3 <i and 5 .
SUPERFLUOUS HAIR
Completely destroyed with
‘‘Horn’s SSair ttolvnit ’ (Ueg.‘)
Leaves no mark.
3 (» and 5 - per Pottle.
Testimonials.frdm Medical Men Clernn
men. and analytical reports ami press
opinions with cch he,Me. Theseind con-
fines the most sceptical. Prepared bn
Dr. O; E. HOEN, Hair Specialist
Newport, Isle of Wight, Eng.
To be obtained of Felton, Grim wade and Co., Melbourne
and the New Zealand Drug Co., Wellington, Christchurch*
Auckland, and of Elliott Bios., Ltd., Svdnevand P,isbane'
or for 16 extra from the Proprietor. A valuable Treat is’
on “The Hi max HaiiC’ (illustrated), post, free for si*
stamps. ' N
m
m
NERVOUS
ri J
iw
//
EUREKA
ELECTRIC BE!
tl r
%
\ \\
/Q
A NEVER FAILING- CURE FOR ALL,
Diseases of the nervous 'system.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances front t I „ n ,|
upwards. This famous Electric Muuuetio Belt will cur.
DEBILITY anil WEAKNESS, Pains in the Ba- k, I.me
hago, Giddiness, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladd ■■ ■ -, it . ■
plaints The currents are steady and c ndaiill.v felt la-
the wearer. It has great improvements over all oMn r
belts. We are willing to furnish (hose hell sop
30 olEsoy-si tria.l,
and accept payment after they have pinrd ih'in-
selves what ve represent them to. he. Those: di- Ith a ,. c
made for I he specific purpose of producing aca (nhnicw
mild, soothing current otelecl riciiy through all the weak-,
eiied parts, restoring them to health and \ igorhnsy-troiigili,
even the worst' case permanently cir el in lhr o? mnidlis!
It is n.orc co iveuient to war‘than any other Beit, A
Book illustrated, containing full infoiTlvdion and tesli,
menials from prominent people l liicmi-jlion 1, An-tn.li:i,
and informing persons how they may obtain these hells
without paying for them until they have proved Ben
competent to cure any disease of (he Nervo s .System
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stain
for postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY.
Box 9U>, G.P.0., Sydnbv. i w
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE
Beecliam’s Pills
patent
pills.
*
*
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling, after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. Tlie
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to he
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry oft all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female, should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system,, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes ified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the Ircst guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beeohnm's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Fills.'
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
md Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pins
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and * ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkeciiam’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), an " a,!
Bs. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.
T
IALES or THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Pricss—One Shilling.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinct ire Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government;.
One Person, one Vote.
Gomolete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prised
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World;
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinamah, the cheap nigger, and the
bheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to bh a
Statemonopoly,
fhe elec: ■< of. M inisters i>y Parlia-
ment, instead uf Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction;
0 ‘\v Parliamentary System -‘one House to!
be , I cted by constituencies as at present;
t,;c Other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A I niVer 1 System Of Compulsory Life
Insnrat:' e.
The entile Abolition of the Private Owner-
, ship of ! . oid.
The Referendum.
J he Abolition of Titles of sO-oalled “nobility- *
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
I he Bulletin is all aggressive; Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti ■
bally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started R) years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
Jhe Bulletin’s! conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparin'*
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the, date of The Bulletins inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. 1 hey are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local .ml dis. inotly universal Australasian news-
paper.
Ihe Bulletin proprietary have spent somf
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced , the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla’ins of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any’postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently reunified from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most;
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription, (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum,
Business communications to be addressed to
William Maoleod, Managing Director, to ichor. i
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi
aliens to be addressed to J. F, Archibald,


Medical.
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
md Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
lology. Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
\uthorof “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Ilealth (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vao-
■inator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
Tins eminent Specialist (whose experience of
*33 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
: ,f every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his popular work on
‘Nervous <£ Skin Complaints,’
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for i fs
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should bo careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flashes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
oiie pouig
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free from Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vines will, on receipt of
ONE POUND,
send his world-famed “Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vines
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
T V '! e , ar em one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
jeay be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
Press, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
I CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
■Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persons who suspect taint in their blood, or
e jrjn ess . should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
"a treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
uu thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs (.'oiisaUation s
°nday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—!K3O a.m. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
ft turd ay—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon,
renings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 P.mi to 9 p.m.
Address all Communications :
&r. JECKELL VINES,
3.12 Phillip Street, Sydney.
t’tKASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBOKTS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and _ the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and _ Scottish Universities, and comnleted his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXJJXTC3- 3^EB33XT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
i-ound a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A Large, Handsomely-Bound Book,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR- GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed lay Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Cases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
Dr. GIBBONS,
Locked Box 230, G.P.0., Sydney
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION EREE.
Hotel.
5£«S
srft
1
.
" Sydney (Coffee Palace” -Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Orescent,
lower Domain, Sydney, Australia.
A. QI’IN, Proprietor.
TARIFF;
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 80s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s eacli per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
i»i:m Kirnvi;.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlook! ns Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
.vith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Business Announcement.
BEEF IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic ami Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY TUBE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
53
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G- rnnLIDIRXIDGKKI & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post f rom all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Medical.
3XTO Cur e, 3XT o ;i=*Ea,y.
a
-/■
cn *■
I?/'
rpIIIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Beit which will
1 cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly 7 what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE.— Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
RUPTURE CURED!
IfIEHCES:
Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated Mag-
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture in all parts of the
world and giving relief to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
couidbefilledwithletters like these:
A Resident of London.
Mb. John King, of No. 17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’s Estate, S.E.,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Truss I
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. It fitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have gota
Truss on. I don’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses,! can j urap
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; i t holds everything firm and sure.”
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mb. J.Tomasellx, of the Government He use, under date
of Decembers, 1892, writes: —“OnthelTth of last April Igot
one of your trusses and it has already nearly cured me of a
very bad rupture of about 26 years’ standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your Truss has
done what doctors and trusses have not been able to do in
26 years. You may publish my letter for the good of the
afflicted.” .
Latest from New Zealand.
Mb. T. W. N abbey, of Akaroa,Can terbury.in aletter dated
Feb. 21,1893, says: “IreceivedtheTrussiagoodorderandam
§ \s,A\jOS,a,y itjits me like qg/ove. I can ride with ease, lift,in fact,
o anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses forme while I can get one of yours.”
D®"Oall or write to-day for our free “111 ust. PamphletN o.
1,” and pUase mention this taper. Address the Australian
agents Messrs. W.H. Son 14 00.. 158 Pitt S't.. Sydney Elliott
Bros., Brisbane; or, the Magnetic Elastic Trwra Co.,
Wfo. 704 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Cal... U. S. A
Deafness Completely Cured ! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited test imonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most sue ess-
ful rvi r brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.VV.
Woman’s Salvation.
The Greatest Discovery of the Age! His Treatise posted
FREE, undercover. Write. Prof. UOBT. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 45 Collins Place East, MELBOURNE.
Shipping.
England via America
IN 3 7 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and Sau Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
.tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey, at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng
land :
SALOON £O3 and £O6.
Combination Ticket. £o2 10s. and .£57 13s. Id.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager,
MESSAGERIES MAR HIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAHE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatch!d monthly as follows;.—
Steamer
ARMAND
BEHIC
AUSTRALIEN
V. de la Ciotat
j Dates of Departure.
Commander [Sydney (Melbourne I Adelaide
j Noon 1 p.m, I 1 p.m.
Delacroix.. Nov. 27)Dec. IDec. 3
G. Didier ~ Dee. 27|Dec. 31 Jan. 2
Fiaschi . JJan. 27'Jan. 31 Feb. 2
Passengers hooked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 0 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for Lo don and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their lugsrage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent
Miscellaneous.
CROMARU
V.O.
CROMIYi
Whisky:
Greenlees Brothers
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA,
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHEI:
Ca pil 1 !
The Lightning Moustache Producer. “LSI
Reliable, Safe, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine— los. 6d., Post Free.
nnn; A AITKIN, Sole Agciils,
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSInCT CHAIR
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers o>
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-lookinir chair, and i.
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used In
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE
680 A 683 George Street, Sydney.
SST NOW PUBLISHED,
“ The Last of Six.”


MORE LIKELY TO BREAK DOWN.
Who hasn’t heard of the good old Deacon in
America, and his idea of how a chaise should be
built so as to run for ever without repairs? I dare
say we all have* yet it hasn’t quite gone stale yet.
He said, you remember, that the reason chaises
broke,down and didn’t wear out was that there
was always a weakest spot somewhere about them.
Now, saitl the Deacon, the way to fix it is to make
that spot as strong as the rest. Then the Vehicle
might wear out, but couldn’t break down. He
built a chaise on that principle; it never broke
down; it ran a hundred years exactly, and then
one day it went to pieces all at once ; all at once
and nothing first, just as bubbles do when they
burst. Its time was come ; for, as the man says
who once told the story in rhyme, “ little of all
We value here, wakes on the morn of its hundredth
year, without both feeling and looking queer.”
Yes, and long before that time most of us begin
to look and feel queer. And it’s all on account of
that weak spot, too. If it wasn’t for that wo
should be like the Deacon's chaise we should run
till we wear out. As it is we break down on the
toad, often beyond repair. But not always.
Otherwise a certain man could never have used
these words, “I Jeel as smart to-day as I did
thirty years ago." His story, in his own words,
runs this way :
“From my youth I was never properly well.
1 had a bad taste in the mouth and pain after eat-
ing. Often I couldn’t touch food when it was set
before me. I felt a gnawing at tile stomach and a
tightness at the chest and sides. Sometimes my
bowels were so swollen I had to loose my clothes.
I had Violent pains in my head for days together.
This continued for years and years. About thirty
years ago I began to have rheumatic pains all over
me, especially in the back and legs. I got so bad
1 couldn’t walk without a stick, and on my way to
and from my work I had to sit down and rest.
“I got no proper sleep at night owing to the
pain. Day nor night, I never knew what it was
to bo free from pain. As time went by I became
quite crippled. Doctor after doctor gave me
medicines and rubbing bottles, but none of the
things I tried did any good. The doctors said my
ailment was rheumatism and lumbago and made
light of it, but it was serious enough to me. For
thirty years I suffered dreadfully. My wife used
to rub me before the fire night after night and
apply flannels, relieving me only for the time. I
gave up all hope of ever being well again, when
in November, 1887, I read of the good Mother
Seigel’s Syrup had done in so many cases. I
began to use it, and after taking a few bottles all
my aches and pains left me and have never re-
turned since. This medicine seems to have driven
all the poison out of my system, and I feel as
smart to-day as I did thirty years ago, for which
I thank God and Seigel’s Syrup. Had I used it
sooner I should have been saved years of suffer-
ing.” (Signed) William Stoddart, Douglas,
near Cork, Ireland, January 7th, 1892.
Mr. Stoddart is gardener at Mrs Ed wards’, the
Island, Roehestown, and has a shop at Douglas.
He is a very respectable man and has been in
service at Mrs. Edwards’ twenty years.
In his letter he further states that from boy-
hood he was a victim to indigestion and dyspepsia.
This fact explains the rheumatism, as it was the
cause of it. The bile acids from the torpid
stomach and liver filled the blood, lodged in the
joints and muscles, and gave ri<e to all the con-
sequences he describes. The effect of the Syrup
was to expel the acids from the body and set the
digestive machinery healthily at work, for the
first time in this man’s life.
This was the way the human vehicle broke down
in Mr. Stoddart’s case, but fortunately for him he
came across something that had power to repair
it. Better watch the weak spots. Delays are
dangerous.
The people of Queensland, in
Town and Country districts, are invited to
send their orders to, or visit the Establishment of
FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
(Brislb atie),
where the, FINEST ST( ;v in the Colony of
General Drapery, Blankets, Tailoring, Clothing,
Mercery, Shirts, Hats, Carpets, Floorcloths,
Linoleums, Mattings, Furniture, Bedding, Bed-
steads, Glass, China and Crockery ware, can be
seen in all qualities, from low : priced lines to the
very best.
Sound, good wearing Materials at LOWEST
CASH PRICES!! This can be proved in the
mostsatisfaotory manner, by comparing FINNEY,
ISLES & CO;’S goods, qualities and prices with
others, and is the only reliable test. Everything
in their line can be had at FINNEY, ISLES &
CO.’S except shoddy goods.
Rich or poor, young or old, can get what they
require in all Departments sent to.any part of the
Colony on receipt of order, with careful descrip-
tion of what is- required, and remittance to cover
amount.
Address all orders, and make Post Office Orders,
Ijlank Drafts, &c.. payable to FINNEY,
ISLES & CO.
Samples,, self-measurement forms, with full
instructions for taking measures for, men’s or
Women’s clothing, Price-list'*, also Instructions for
Shopping by Post, will be immediately forwarded
on application to
PIMHEY, ISLES & CO
(P;r.Ecr Importers and Manivacti rkrs),
Hrisbtiue, Mart/borouf/h <(■ lAunlon.
Business Announcements.
“ A Sweet Smoke is Bliss Untold !”
TA YLOR BROS.,
PIPE MAKERS & Amber Turners,
24S PITT STREET,
SYDITBY.
TZ'v
ONLY MAKERS of AMBER MOUTHPIECES in
AUSTRALIA, supply the Trade.
Australian Native Woods made inlo gpod Smoking Pipes.
Needle Wood (llakea Leucopterra)
(with Silver Mount a id Vulcanite Stem), 4 «
Myall Wood Pipe ditto 4.(i
Varran Wood Pipe ditto 4 0
fSi l.tr Moot Pipe ditto 4 6
(Above Pip s with Silver Mount and Amber Stem, * 6)
Stria r Knot I* ip tvs, L. StC). in circle, 4 5 «/-, I -
The N eedle Wood Pipe is self-ahsorbent, cool smoking,
and will not crack. Makes a novel and original present.
The Briar Root is sweeter than any other known.
Pipes Silver-mounted, Re-Ambered and Repaired.
When ordering, please state shapes. Sharks : —
Square Block, Horn of Plenty Round Bent and Round
Bent Push, and Flat.
On refccipt of Postage Stamps or Postal Order, a SINGLE
PIPE will be sent (post free) to any address.
We are Purchasers of Needle-Wood Root.
Special Advertisements.
»»>
Limit?
M
iX-l) Oil-quick windm g*-
kterbury-wakh-requrres
abouffive-becondsfowind
U is now cased in coin-silver
filled grolol,^nickel. Low-
pnceaaccurate
(HStANf
wiij.
V£ ■AN p. (t, ■ Nea R,A L<i w
l^i/v^A^O' ,a
OP\‘sTlff r «Pv
/VVWl£> OR^
&
m
i
sS /
n
cv
BARRY’S IfflCOPHEROUS
FOR THE
HAIR
SKIN
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, g'ay hair, and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft. Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine has trade-mark Barclay & Co., isew York,
<?
from
every flower that
breathes a fragrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
\ FRANGIPANNI PSIDIUM/
May he obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
Stre^
Bewareofimitations. Thegenuineis signed
xcv
“GRATEFUL RESULTS **
Mrs. Lydia M. Tarbox, of Altoona,
Pennyslvania, U. S. A.
A Life of Suffering and Misery, without
Sleep, without Appetite, with Bowels al-
ways Out of Order.
Restored to Health hi) the use of
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
“Last Sprint. I was grievously _ afflicted
with Biliousness and Liver Complaint. My
mouth was in a terrible condition every morn-
ing, my tongue thickly coated, my b eath was
offensive ; food distr ; scd me, I suffered much
from headache, my sk a wai sallow, and my
bowels wen always out cf order. Sleep did
nut refresh me, no? did the many r, medics,
recommended do me any good. At last I com-
menced using Ayer’s Sarsap.rilla, and my im-
provement began almost from the first dose. It
relieved the distress about my liver, regulated
my bowels, caused food to set well on my stair ach,
cured mv headache, improved my complexion,
and restored my appetite. These unlocked for,
but grateful, results were accomplished by only
two and a half 1 ottles of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla.”--
Mrs. Lydia M. Taubox, Altoona, Pa., U. S. A.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
Has cured others, will cure you.
—THE—
Most Useful Ointment in the World!
Bar TNT one.
PREMIER OINTMENT in the SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE. But, as many new arrivals
have lately made New South Wales their home, it
ulay be as well to let them know that there is such
an article as JOSEPHSON ’S OINTMENT purely
the prod action of the colony, com posed of wild plants
indigenous to the country and nowhere else, the
principal of which is the EUCALYPTUS, now
so famed thoroughout the world.
WHO SHOULD SUFFER FROM PILES,
when one application will relieve you.’
Reap this letter and Try for Yourselves
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
Dear Sirs, —I have tried your Jo-ephson’a Oint-
ment for Piles, and have found much relief from
using it. You are at liberty to use this if you feel
disposed.
1 remain, yours, etc.,
L. P. SOLOMONS, HerAld Office.
BAD LEGS, OLD SORES of long standing'
have been cured by using tins Ointment.
SORE EYES, or Sandy Blight. —There is
nothing known to man eonal to JOSEPHSON'S
AUSTRALIAN OINTMENT.
Row’s Assorted Bitters
CONTAIN
Row’s Dandelion Bitters.
We recommend these BITTERS to be taken
two or three times a day; a wineglassful for ah
adult, smaller quantity for children.
For General Debility, Dyspepsia, Rheumatism,
and Cutaneous Affections.
The action of dandelion, more especially upon
the liver and kidneys, is more reliable for remov-
ing all impure secretions than any other medicinal
plant known.
Persons suffering from Skin diseases will find
these Bitters invaluable.
DIRECTIONS FOR USE.
One wineglass two or three times a day after
meals diluted with same quantity of water. For
young people about half the quantity twice a day.
They Purify the Blood and Liver.
See what a Medical Gentleman says
about them.
Messrs. E. Row and Co.
With thanks for forwarding me a bottle of your
Row’s Dandelion Bitters, and consider them most
excellent, and superior to many others that I have
previously tried. Yours faithfully, HENRY
CHARLES CURTIS, M.R.C.S., England.
Port Adelaide, October 30, 1886.
Row’s Steane’s Bitters.
STUDY HEALTH BY TAKING ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS.
The great demand throughout the colony for
these pure Bitters shows they are superior to all
others and equalled by none.
Facts Speak Louder than Words.
Read this sworn testimony from a well-known
citizen:—
Statutory Declaration.
“I, George Hewett, do hereby solemnly and
sincerely declare as follows :
“That I feel it a duty I owe to the public to
state that I have been suffering for many years
from weakness of the stomach, so called INDI-
GESTION or DYSPEPSIA, and have been cured
by my taking two or three glasses of ROW’S
STEANE’S BITTERS a day in a little water, and
1 hope others suffering from the same complaint
will be as speedily cured.
“(Signed) G. HEWETT,
“ 215 Pitt-street,
■ .. iiijumhi ~:*ie****ua»*ii~~ ■■
Row’s You’ll Do Bitters.
All who suffer from Chest Complaints, Cold, Coughs,
and general weakness of the Lungs, will gain more ease
and comfort from a wineglass of ROW’S YOU’LL DO
BITTERS than any cough medicine tried before.
Baron Berzilius’— —=
—=“=— Buchu Bitters.
BARON BERZILIUS’ REPORT.
They are chiefly given in complaints of the Urinary
Organs, such as Gravel, Chronic Catarrh, morbid Irrita-
tion of the Bladder and Urethra, Diseases of the Prostrate
Glands, and Retention or Inconvenience of Urine, from
the loss of tone in the parts concerned in its evacuation.
These Bitters I also recommend in Dyspepsia, in Chronic
Rheumatism and Cutaneous affections. The action of
Buchu on the human frame is more effectual on al
diseases of the Kidneys and Bladder than any other herbal
plant; and it also assists persons suffering from Skin
Diseases, causing a healthy action of the secretions amt
inducing perspiration.
Read what Medical men say about them-
BJERKIN, M.D. Ttie Bitter is pure, and not like
others in overdoses. Ithas a remarkable influence on the
liver, promoting the secretions of Bile, and correcting U
when deranged, ai d restores healthy evacuations in eases
of habitual costiveneis.
D. ECKfcTHOM, M.D. —8888 —I find tinB3 Bitters a
most valuable and wholesome tonic, being pure ana
strengthening; a stimulant to the liver, assisting tug's-
lion. 1 therefore thus recommend them. .
G. B. WOOD, M.D.-lt is the purest of Bitters, ana
exeiti a peculiar
Row’s Pepsine Bitters.
All who suffer from Weak Digestion will soon
be cured by the e Bitters, taken three times a day
before meals.
Row’s Or'ental Bitters.
A Splendid General Tonic, with a tmub er o
water makes a drink equal to any best Champagne.
Row’s Steane’s Wine
Is a safe and sure stimulant for the female sex or
children, for it raises and strengthens depresse
systems without producing a temporary excite-
ment to be followed by greater depression.
Persons suffering from loss of appetite an
eneral depression of spirits cannot do better tua
take „
ROW’S STEANE’f WINE.
It cannot barm you, but must do good to a
delicate persons. Younci Ladies can take tins
when suffering from general debility. It s on j
pure tonic. Try it. .
Teetotallers will find this newly-mven ■
TONIC answer all the purposes of a stmnna >
without its intoxicating quality. It will -salD y
the cravings of nature and create a desire tor
instead of drink. As an anti-febrile is uns
passed.
CAUTION.—When you call for these ask for
ROW’S, and take no substitute.
EDWARD ROW & CO.,
Sydney.
Jackson’s Troubles.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Jackson was very hard up—in Melbourne, too,
where credit died a violent death many moons
ago.
“I’ll call on Robertson,” he said to himself.
“ Robertson’s an old friend of mine. Besides, he’s
in a good position and cart help me if he likes.”
At ten o’clock he called on Robertson, who was
manager of the Antipodean Land Investment
Society.
Robertson listened quietly to his story and,
when it was finished, remarked, “And you really
tell me that you haven’t been able to sleep through
thinking of your troubles? Poor old Jackson 1”
Jackson replied gloomily, “ Of course I’ve not;
But, old man, I can’t and don’t expect you to
understand or even try to feel the kind of fix 1
am in—Clod forbid 1”
Robertson, with a sneer on his lips, stared
coldly at his friend for a moment, and then, smil-
ing half-eynioally, half-sympathetically, observed!
“ Poor old Jackson ! How much?”
“ I hate to say it, old man, seeing how good you
have been to me and mine already, but the fact
is ”
“Oh, say it!” exclaimed Robertson, playing
impatiently with his paper-knife.
“Well, then,” said the other, “if you can
manage it I really want ten pounds. I could do
with less, but, you see ”
“ Yes, I know—your troubles would worry you
again at the end of a week or so. Take fifty, and
postpone them.”
Robertson wrote out two cheques, e.ach for fifty
pounds, one of which he gave to Jackson, unen-
closed, and the other in an envelope addressed to
Mrs. Jackson.
“ With my best respects to Mrs. Jackson,” said
Robertson, in reference to the latter.
Jackson took the money, and with the fine,
genial glow which possesses every man who has
coin in his pocket, observed with feeling in his
voice! “Robertson, old man, you, too, seem to
have troubles.”
“Nothing to talk of,” replied Robertson,
curtly.
“But, my dear fellow, you look pale and hag-
gard,” insisted Jackson, “Aman in a good billet
like yours shouldn’t be worried in the same way
as a poor devil like me.”
“ Not at all,” answered Robertson, in a tone of
grim irony ; “ but, for God’s sake, Jackson, if you
have nothing further to say—go 1”
Jackson left, ,slightly offended by the hrusquerie
of his friend, and over a glass of whisky with
another friend, Avhorn he had asked to join him,
observed; “Damned if I can understand some
fellows. Now, there’s Robertson—you know him
—manager of the Antipodean Laud Investment
Society. He holds a good position, and yet,
when I called upon him just now about a
little business we had together, he looked, I give
you my word, 00 years old.”
“Drinks secretly, you may depend upon it,”
said the other, a man with an amorphous red nose.
Next morning Jackson, trifling over his toast
and ham and eggs—a repast suitable to a man of
his wealth-saw the following paragraph in one
of the morning papers :
Late yesterday evening the caretaker of the Southern
Cross Buildings, noticing that the door of the offices of
the Antipodean Land Investment Society was slightly
ajar, went in and found the manager, Alexander Robert-
son, sitting dead in his chair with an empty laudanum
phial in his hand. The police were called in, and an
inquest will be held to-day. The reason for the rash act
was given in a statement addressed to the directors of the
Society, left on his table by deceased. It was to the effect
that during the last two years he had fraudulently appro-
priated money to the extent of £3OOO belonging to the
Society.
Jackson read out the paragraph to his wife—a
handsome, black-haired, Herodias-faced woman.
“Poor old Robertson !” he said. “It was as I
told a friend of mine yesterday — he had his
troubles, too.”
“He had,” remarked Mrs. Jackson, white to
the lips.
And over the fire in the kitchen she burnt a few
lines of writing, which had accompanied the fifty-
pound cheque, and which read as follows ;
“ Dear Emma,— I send you the last 1 can lay my hands
on. I can stand this life no longer, . You will know all
about it in the morning.”
C REEVE ROE.
Colemane & Sons’ Eueal. Loz. are for the voice.
Last year Germany drank 1,051,000,000
gal. beer; Great Britain, 855,000,000; Austria,
30,000,000; France and Belgium, 220,000,000
Australia, 22,500,000.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
A lieutenant of Vic. militia has achieved
the great end of a military existence and killed,
somebody. The wisdom of allowing this gentle-
man to defend his country can be judged from
his readiness to resist an invasion, of his back-
yard, at Moonee Ponds (Melb.) Vague stories of
a phantom intruder were circulated in the gentle-
man’s household, so after a while “ he determined
to lie in wait for the trespasser, or trespassers,
and if necessary to shoot them with his Martini-
Henry rifle.” He did lie in wait. The unknown
intruder (who seemingly haunted the premises)
was seen for more or less, of a certainty to enter
the back-yard and: clear out again. When this
mysterious figure had carefully escaped, the
lieutenant rushed into a right -of - way,
and “saw, as he thought, the robber
within twenty or thirty yards of him. Wishing
to cu, tnre him, and thinking to frighten him into
submission, he pointed the riHo at the man, who
walked towards him hurriedly as though about to
atlark him. Fearing attack, the officer fired, in-
tending to hit tin* man in the logs—and lay him
out. Also, he reloaded his gun so as to be “ pre-
pared for any emergency.” However, there was
no occasion for a second bullet. The lieutenant
had fatally wounded an auctioneer in the stomach
with his first shot. And this is oneof the warriors
called out during the “strike ” to keep the work-
ing man from doing any mischief. The Bulletin
is sorry for him, of course, but even more sorry
for the auctioneer :
Lieutenant, from the tears you wore,
We may surmise you often swore
To shed a fellow-creature's a ore
In warfare grim and lawful.
“ 0, let him like a soldier fall I ’
You probably were wont to bawl.
You meant no harm, but, clash it all!
This incident is awful.
You polished up your sword with zest:
You longed, if truth be full oonfess’t,
To stick a medal on your chest
When gallantly you’d won it.
You skirmished round the other night
In search of secret toe to fight;
You meant to lay him out all right—
And now you’ve gone and done it.
Pray, bid adieu to martial “ fun,”
Get rid of that accursed gun ;
To plans for making Russians run
Be evermore a stranger.
You’ve shot a harmless neighbour dead :
In point of fact you lost your head.
’Tis soldiers such as you we dread.
(Lord, keep us out of danger !)


xcvv
MBUENBY. WALLIS and CO.
(JW. M'BTJJtNBV X
JET, S. WALLIti \
J, HENSON J J
15 to 29 years with the late Firm of MORT & CO., and GOLDSBROUGH, MORT & CO, (Limited)
WOOL
& PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Liberal Cash Advances if required.
SPECIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Eacli Department managed Dy a member
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses ; Margaret Street. Produce Stores : Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department.
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
The Best Dressing
«K*****fc.*
1J 52*^
3*3
&sso^S£
„ , 5
wr'
Sv i
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
wiry, and
preserves
1 its rich-
ness, lux-
uriance,
and color
to an ad-
vanced
period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
3 lied by nature, in youth and health, as
jrn chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & CO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
sg|p“ Beware of cheap imitations.
The name—Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
Established 1876.^
ASTHMA
CURE
wain rod
D?
HAIR’S
TREATISE
ASTHMA.
o
V
’^Agents. 1
Melbourne
Rocke.TompsilM,
, Sydney: Dliottßro?
Brisbane: EiltoKßro*»C*
Reuter’S Little Pills
cn
FOR THE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
enough for the strongest,donot after
Wards constipate but by their general action please all whc
use them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profes-
sion. The smallest and easiest to take. . Forty in a phial.
J\ Perfect Food.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
x
A
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For the AGED.
For INVALIDS.
FOR TRAVELLERS.
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
MALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
All no milk is to be added ; it is quick I j
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
MALTED MILK is the best food for In
Ail fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.
— Lancet. April 4, 1891,
MALTED MILK, as a food for In-
ill valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
• palatable, and free from adulterants.
—British Medical Journal , April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents :
Elliott Bros., Limited, Sydney & Brisbane
MALTED MILK CO., 39, SNOW Hill, LONDON, E.C.
Ooleraane & Sons’ Euoalypte Ex. is tlie strongest.
PERRINS
m
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus ;
AsR for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper,
Wholesale and for Export hi/ the Proprietors. Worcester; Crosse d- BlacJcucll, London, se.. %o.;
and bp Grocers and Oilmen ihrcujhout the World.
Agents: Messrs. VIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN ; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY
AND
WOMEN
WHO HAVE USED “ FUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND CONSTIPATION
Cure” have found it a certain cure for all Liver Com-
plaints, Flatulency, Costivbness, Bilious Headache, Dis-
agreeable Taste in the Mouth, Alternate Chills anp
Flushings of Heat, Loss of Appetite, Alcoholism, Indiges-
tion, Disturbed Rest at Night, Nervous Tremors and
Debility. By continued use it cures Constipation
permanently.
Ladies will find it invaluable for the relief of
many Uterine Complaints and Efficacious in Producing and Restoring that
Regularity of Hab;.t which is all important to their wellbeing.
"We refrain from piil>lisliins' any of tfhe many Testimonials
we receive dally from persons wiso have taken this Valuable
Medicine, as the Public has no guamutee of the senuinem**!
of Testimonials pririted by Patent Medicine Manufacturers; but the
unprecedented success “Puss’s Liver Restorative and Constipation Cure
has met with in all parts of the world, has induced the inventor of
this unsurpassed preparation to offer to any purchaser ot if the
refund of the Price of 3s. Otl. if the Medicine fails to cure
the aliments we recommended it for.
SOLD BY ALL RESPECTABLE CHEMISTS ASP PATENT MEDICIHR VENDORS.
Should it not be procurable locally it will be sent Carriage Paid to any pait of the
Colony on remittance of 3s. for one bottle, or 15s. for six bottles to the
COSMOS APOTHECARIES COY.,
the Agents for the Australian Colonies. 674 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY.
A NEW DEPARTURE I
Rare Opportunity to Country Residents.
J. E. COLLINS & CO. (late Summer field’s)
A fnrw..r<lliw CARRIAGE PAID, to anv Seaport or Railway Station in the Colony
MENU Youras- and%YB’OOMFLfeTE OUIFfaS at HALF USUAL PRICES.
Read Carefully the following Lists, and send us a TRIAL ORDER.
Our Special 30s. Ctent.’s Outfit—
Comprising SEVENTEEN ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed Sac Suit, 1 White Shirt, 1 Coloured Shirt,
1 Straw or Soft Felt Hat, 3 prs Sox, 3 Collars, 2 Soarves, 2 Undershirts, 1 pr Braces, 2 H k chfs.
Boys’ and Youths’ 225. 6d. ( T ™“lr s ) Outfit—
Comprising TEN ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Sac Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, 1 pr Braces,
2 Collars, 3 prs Sox, 1 Straw or Felt Hat.
<e— Suit to fit
years
)-
Boys’ 12s. 6d. Outfit (in Jac Boyg from 4to 12*„
Comprising NINE ARTICLES, viz., 1 Tweed or Serge Suit, 2 Coloured Shirts, 2 Collars, 2 prs
Stockings, Ipr Braces, 1 Straw or Felt Hat. Send age of Boy, and say whether stout or otherwise.
TA.ILOR.I3WG' DJESPARTMEN’T.
We are MAKING GENT.’S TWEED or SERGE SAC SUITS TO ORDER from 50s.
TROUSERS TO ORDER, 12s. 6d.
PATTERNS and MEASUREMENT FORMS Free on Application. This is an exceptional
opportunity of purchasing your Drapery and Clothing at less than Sydney Prices, carriage free.
J. F. COLLINS & CO..
235,
(Late SUMMERFIELD’S),
237, 239 PITT STREET (near Market Street),
SYDNEY.
THE
4 Plum ’
THe
THE
4 3R lum*
riAHIH brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public.
1 Pure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and we
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them-
elves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
~ ■ _ ( Single Razor, in strong leather case, lUs. <id. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 2ls.
uee \Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful ease, 20s.
Reyinkred and mil Tost Tree to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
“S,,
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Even! —A Story of Borneo.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“Tire not thy tongue, Dusi-Mota ! My
daughter’s word is my word. All good be unto
thee, but when everything is said thou art but a
Kayan, and the Sea-Dyaks like not to mate with
the seratohers of the soil!”
Little Dusi’s innumerable brass rings clinked as
he struck his hands together above his head, and
his answer spluttered fiercely through his file-
pointed teeth.
“Glad enough are the Sea-Dyaks to use the
Kayan swords ! There is not a man among ye—
Saghais and Illinoans and all —that could forge
such a parang as that at thy side, O father of
Sinsha ! No better are your own blades than the
rotten steel of the white man !”
Muniad turned a fond eye upon his weapon,
bedecked with tufts of dyed human hair. “Truth
is with thee,” he acknowledged. “From the
grave of a Kayan chief came this, and never did a
better one cut pig.* But, what of that ? Cowards
may well make weapons for brave men to use !”
The Kayan’s yellow face turned green, and his
hand went to his side, but brought therefrom only
his rattan-knife, with which from the bunch of
pendants at his ear he cut away a tiger-cat’s
tooth, spat thrice upon it, flung it at Muniad’s
feet, and went.
“Do thy worst —son of a crocodile’s uncle!’’
the Sea-Dyak called after him. “ Sinsha laughs
at thee, and Sinsha’s father fears nob thee nor all
thy filth-eating tribe!’’
* * •
The white man sat on the platform of
Muniad’s house and talked of many things, while
the moon climbed out of the dusky eastern forests
and sparkled against the faces of the long rollers
marching rhythmically in upon the beach below.
The white man asked questions, the brown man
answered them, and Sinsha winnowed rice and
listened. The broad equatorial moon sent a sheen
off her glossy skin, struck fire from the brass
wire coiled upon her shapely arms, and deepened
the shadows of her long-lashed eyes. “ What a
pity that another ten years will see her a withered
old hag !” thought Medlow. But he might have
spared his commiseration on that head.
Talk turned upon the sumpitan, and Sinsha,
dropping fan and shovel, ran to fetch the instru-
ment. Medlow looked anxiously at the eight-foot
tube, with its heavy spear-blade fixed, bayonet-
like, outside the line of propulsion, and Muriad
laughed to see how respectfully the other handled
the sago-thorn darts. No danger with these
arrows, explained the Dyak. The no
poison after a few hours’ exposure to the air. And
then he brought the little bamboo tube into which i
the potent upas-sap had been trebly sealed with j
wooden plug, beeswax, and lizard-skin. A “ hand j
of the sun ’’—about fifteen minutes—a man might
live, he said, if the poison were fresh upon the
arrow that wounded him.
Medlow laughed incredulously. He was but a
book-naturalist at that time, and his knowledge of
the stryehniferous Astocarpce was theoretical.
“I’ll believe it when I see it!” he said, and for
answer Sinsha clapped a hand to her neck, sprang
to her feet, and held out to her father—a sumpitan
arrow ! “What dog has ’ the old man was
beginning furiously, when, piff! another of the
tiny darts stood in his own shoulder. Then he
guessed. “ Dusi!” he shouted.
“ Ay, Dusi!” said a voice from below, where
stood in the moonlight a squat, dark figure, with
the deadly tube still levelled at the platform.
Medlow whipped out his Dean-and-Adams, but
the Kayan went with a ten-foot spring into a
rhododendron-clump.
“ I see thee, white master ! ” he cried in Malay;
“ but thou canst not see me. Therefore shoot nop,
neither come down hither, unless thy skin is
thicker than Muniad’s —or Sinsha’s ! ” and the
little devil cackled hideously amongst the
branches. .
But Sinsha was already past hearing, and the
old man, swaying as he stood, repeated his slayer’s
advice. “ Why shoulds’t thou die also, and use-
lessly?” he said. “As for me, lam old, and my
daughter goes with me into the mists.”
“Good God ! ” cried Medlow, “ is there nothing
to be done?”
“Nothing that thou canst do. Take now thy
tirne-measurer and wait to see if ray words were
truth.” . ,
Medlow looked at the dying girl and sighed,
but then—scientist to the marrow—he took out Ins
watch. The moonlight showed the half-hour after
seven. When the hands stood at ten minutes to
eight he knew that Muniad was right!
CAPHICORNUS.
Colemane & Sons’ Yio. Ointment is marvellous.
Mashonaland Blue Book contains the full
text of the messages between Dr. Jameson, of the
Chartered Co., and Lobengula. The Matabele
King complains at length of being robbed of
cattle, and, generally, of unfair treatment. His
last dispatch reads : —
July 27th.-My own messengers have arrived, and they
tell me that the captured cattle you complain of as belong-
ing to the Company have been duly returned ; but you
did not tell me that you had a lot of the Amahoh cattle
hiding with you, together with their owners, and that,
when my indunas claimed them from Captain Lendy, he
refused to give up either cattle or men, and told my
indunas that the Amaholis and their cattle did not
belong to me any longer and then turned his cannon on
to my people. Arc the Amaholis then yours, including
their cattle ? Did you, then, send them to come and steal
mv cattle? Capt. bendy said you had bought them tor
money. Where, then, did you place the cash? Whom
did you 'dve it to ? Let my cattle be delivered to my
people peacefully. I wish you to let me know
at once. I thought you came to dig gold ; but it
seems that you have come not only to »olcl
but to rob me of my people and country as well. Remem-
ber that you are like a child playing with edged tools.
Tell Capt. Lendy he is like some of r*, own young men.
He has no holes in his ears and cannot or will not hear.
He is young, and all he thinks about is a row’. Hut \ou
had better caution him carefully or he will cause trouble,
serious trouble, between us.
* With a downward stroke of the parang many Dyaks
can cut a moderate-sized pig clean in two.


Business Announcements.
“CLOTHED WITH AIR”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing.
Recommended l>y tlie Medical Faculty.
A l*«sillvc Safeguard against Chills.
Li lit Make for Spring and Summer.
SCRU COTTON SINGLE IS (Half Sleeves), 4s. Oil-
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS (Long Sleeves), ss.
ECRU COTTON UNDERPANTS, ss.
This Line recommended as, being easily washed,
UjiSHRiSKABiiE, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Caps, Pyjamas, Braces, Belts
and Hosiery.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, and include in Remittance, amount to Prepay
Carriage.
Prioe-lisls, pamphlets and full particulars, post free
from the Sole Agents :
SHAHAM & MUTCH, 75 King-st., SYDNEY.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE— Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Business Announcements.
manufacturer
ittF H'ATSIi
s
MERCER^-
PRIDDY'S
HATS
al uuc«
I*llo claim
THE
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
W orld-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lasaetter’s),
AND 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Pose carefully attended to.
I
TREADLE
AND
NEW NATIONAL HANfI
Sewing - Machines
BEST on EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent,
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat-
alogue with full
Particulars.
6® A
K<
&
&
a
O*
<b K *o
h^# v
*U
<* e
o° J?
&
Oil,
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
f-••!<[,•
SELF THREADING shuttle
FOR THE
/ NEW HOME and NEW NATIONAL
SIMPLICITY ITBFI F
BAKER’S ENGLISH SHEFFIELD RAZOR.
It recommends itself. Try one. «/- each, post free throughout Australasia.
W. JNO. BAKER, CTJTLER, 3 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
NEWTON & LAMB.
High-class Artistic Furniture.
f A<'.i'V - A v.r.>v V.
..I C '
r . \
' <e-
r C_
■i^' tl.-fiik .-===
'7l Aif r -I" V
= (
:C
- \-7r £T -T
■itile
I'm.
?
fA
e r-
A
- I*s
£~. i
B mm -
<PSi
&
FASHIONABLE DRAWING-ROOM SUITES, elegantly upholstered in rich Tapestry
and Plush, Cotaliue and Plush, etc., <£3 10s., £lO 10s, £ll 10s., .£l6 10s., £2l,
and upwards.
Cabinets. Overmantels, Cheffonier Whatnots, Canterburys, Davenports, Sutherland
and Occasional Occasional Chairs, Wall Mirrors and Brackets, etc., etc ’
at Lowest Prices. "
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
11. P. GREGORY & CO.
Xjii.xxxit.ec3.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Stea xxx Engines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
*3T Write-ns with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Medical.
mEETH.-A COMPLETE SET, ONE
X GUINEA.-THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/0; precisely the Baine
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, uainlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost, by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages :
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HACKETT writes:—“The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post, free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours: from 9 a.m. to 0 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &c.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF H CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
I’ILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
& CO.,
MANUFACTURERS, t
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY, YOU.\G, N.S.W.
SMEBIIE IWiMßlom' llsss
(Made of Strong Polished Metal, lined ivith
Silk Velvet).
Snake-Bite Case!
L.BRUCK, SYDNEY.
srnrcHME '/a
For Dr. MUELLER’S suc-
cessful I reatmenl of Snake-
bite by the hypodermic in-
ject ion of strychnine, con-
taining patent poison
sucker, best hypodeimic
syringe, two bypndeimic
medles, glass mortar and
pestle, two tubes ol strych-
nine tabloids, which will
keep for years, and full
DIRECTIONS FOR USB.
l*rlcc, complete, A*l— Postage paid to all parts of
Australia.
L- BEUOK, 13 Oastlereagli-st., Sydney
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches;
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. .. £900,000
Reserve Liability ... .. 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Bank of New South Wales.
Established 1817.
Head onice:-«EOR<;E STREET, SYIHVEV.
Authorised Capital .. £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital .. 1,250,000
Reserve Fund .. ~ 1,010 000
Directors:
Thomas Bucklaud, Esq., President.
James R. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq.
James Milson, Esq.
Thomas Cadell, Esq.
Robert C. Close, Esq.
Auditors :
Alfred G. Milson, Esq. James S. HarrisOh, Esq
Loudon Office :-OLI> ItttO iD STREET.
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India, and the East,
the United States, Hamburg, and the United Kingdom,
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in
public securities in the Colonies or Great Britain ; under-
takes the Agency of other Banks ; issues drafts, circular
notes, and letters of credit; and conducts all customary
Banking busini ss.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
•.20, negotiable on the continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
GEO KG E MILLER, General Manager.
Hotel.
Actions’ Exchange Hotel Co.
LIMITED,
sydm: y, ms, wales.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool
Rooms.
Sale
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. lid. per Day or £3 3s. per Wetk.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
The EMPIEB HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets, Sydney,
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
JBoarci blxxc3L Residence at Moderate Charges.
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc.
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Boarders.
fSI
_ r Y
INCLUSIVE or SEPARATE TARIFF , AS DESIREE .
Luncheon, d la Carte , from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D’llote, „ 6 p,m. to 7.30 p.m., 3a.
£2T Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may alwavs rely upo«
getting a First-class Meal.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
V01.13-H0.719.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1893.
Fv?M, 6d.
a' Sh lUf ’
QUEENSLAND SEPARATION.
N.Q.: “Well, if he gets the apple, I’m bound to get my share.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
terms to subscribers
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum £f o 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
S tilings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
°te* or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail , but is entirely
m the ha nds of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
Correspondence ” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Vetse, Short dales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:-jR. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers In Victoria, Queens-
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 2s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
Tfe'&ulletzn.
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1893.
The Central Division.
Whenever the “ unemployed ” problem
assumes a more than usually aggravated
form in New South Wales the question of
throwing the Central Division open for
selection invariably comes to the front.
The “unemployed” question is always
present in all the Australias, both in good
seasons and in bad, though of late the seasons
have all been about equally bad so far as the
labourer is concerned. But most of the
time the difficulty is allowed to take care of
itself. It is only when some paper that is
unusually short of a sensation sends out a
representative to count the sleepers in
Sydney Domain, and to interview the home-
less vagrant in his barrel or his gin-case,
that there is a spurt of activity upon the
subject. Then the situation generally
resolves itself into something like this ; The
industries at present existing will not absorb
all, or nearly all, the workers ; the social
system has somehow got out of joint and a
million consumers no longer supply employ-
ment for a million producers—no one knows
exactly why. The Treasury is empty, and
the old device of absorbing “surplus labour”
on unprofitable public works, paid for with
borrowed money, is utterly impracticable
—also, past experience has shown it
to be futile as well as impracticable. The
ancient Soup Kitchen device is ruinous and
utterly hopeless. The only prospect is,
somehow or other, to find the famished
multitude employment on the land—the
multitude which has no capital, no tools,
and in many cases no knowledge of agri-
culture; to shunt as many as possible of them
out into the wilderness with a spade and a
hoe, and leave the rest to Providence.
Therefore, there is a periodical attack upon
the squatter who bars the country against
the agriculturist, and a demand that the
Central Division shall be “thrown open.”
* # *
There is very little semblance of logm
about this frequent war-whoop. Moreover,
in these days, the squatter is by no means so
bloated as is commonly supposed. In many
ways, no doubt, he has managed to make
himself a public evil. He has done his
utmost to boss the West after the manner of
the Virginian cotton-planter in the good old
days before M‘Clellan’s legions appeared
in the Peninsula, and the first signs of the
downfall of the Slave Confederacy began to
be apparent. He is generally a cheap-
labour man of the cheapest and most
aggressive description. He is almost
always a J.P., and his legal decisions
are only fit, as a rule, to be burnt
by the common hangman. Also, he invari-
abl} 7 does his utmost to extinguish trades-
unionism and to abolish political liberty, and
to support the subservient Chinese leper
and similar disasters. Yet, despite all this,
the squatter is not the unmitigated curse he
is commonly represented to be. He is at
least a producer, and his industry brings
almost as much money into Australia as all
others combined. If the State would only
take some radical measures to prevent him
being swallowed up by banks and British
money-lending corporations, which now
scoop in half the profits of the wool industry
and use them to pay big dividends in Lon-
don ; and some reasonable limit were put to
the size of individual leaseholds, and the
absentee wool-grower were suppressed with a
strong hand, and the pastoral J.P. utterly
wiped out, he would even be comparatively
unob j ectionable.
* # #
Moreover, the present advantages of
throwing open the Central District are more
than problematical. Much of it wants an
expensive system of irrigation to make it
anything like a reliable field for agriculture.
It is too far from the principal market, and
the selectors produce, if it is to be carried
at rates which will make farming operations
reasonably profitable, must also be carried
at rates which will make the railway system
a dead loss, which loss must be recouped out
of the general revenue. The proposal to re-
sume half of each run means that the great
plain is to be dotted over with scattered
agiicultural settlements, and the agriculturist
on the more remote of these settlements
must nay freight on his produce over miles
and miles of pastoral country where every
mile means a steady diminution of his profits.
The country is not especially fertile, so far as
is generally known. And when the State
has thrown open a great portion of the land
and thereby done considerable damage to
the wool industry, and seriously diminished
the country’s most profitable export, the
chances are that the selector will promptly
go to wreck through remoteness, drought,
want of sufficient roads, and other disadvan-
tages.
• * «
. is no fc the Central but the Eastern Divi-
sion which wants to be thrown open to the
agriculturist. The land is the only resource
of the multitudinous unemployed, but the
region on which they should be settled is the
well-watered coast-lands—the country where
rain is plentiful, and roads are good, and
railway couirnuiiication is comparatively
easy, and freights are light because a market
is close at hand. There is still enough room
in the Eastern Division for every unemployed
citizen of New South Wales who is capable
of making a livelihood by agriculture and is
willing to do so. The oft-repeated tale
about the scarcity of land is a lie and a
myth, for the unoccupied soil is there in
abundance. When all the coast region
which is suitable for agriculture is occupied,
then it will be time to begin moving the
squatter back into the West. And when
it is so occupied, because of the density of
the population and the increased railway
traffic which will follow, it will be possible
to reduce railway freights to a point which
will make agriculture profitable in regions
further back, without making the railway
system a dead loss and a burden on the
revenue.
* * *
It is not the squatter who wants to be shifted
wholesale at present to make room for the
farmer, but the land speculator and the loan
and mortgage society and all the other
associated pawnbrokers and pawnbroking in-
stitutions, local and foreign. The pastoralist
at least supplies a small revenue to the
State, and furnishes a certain amount of
employment, and supplies an article of ex-
port which brings a vast amount of money
into the country, and he can, if Parliament
is wise enough to so decree, be allowed
a purely leasehold tenure for a certain
number of years at a largely increased
rental, without further dissipating the
public estate. But the land-speculator in
the fertile coast-region supplies no State
revenue, furnishes no employment save to a
few clerks, creates no wealth, and is nothing
save a curse and an incubus. Also, in his
various capacities, he exercises more political
influence, and exercises it to worse effect,
than the whole pastoral interest of New
South Wales. If the Democratic party in
I arliament will lay it down as the first axiom
of its faith that the man or syndicate or cor-
poration or bank that holds land for the mere
object of creating booms, and thereby blocks
the settlement of the people on the soil, is a
public enemy, and is to be taxed out of
existence, then it will be nearer a solution of
the unemployed difficulty than it has ever
yet been. Its object should be to turn the
entire Eastern District into a region of small
farms, with a limit of (say) 640 acres, each
cultivated by its owner ; and to tax the land-
holder who lets his land to sweated agricul-
turists and the landholder who does not let
his land, but keeps it for speculative pur-
poses, till they will both be compelled to sell
out and move on over the rim of the earth.
* * #
The apparent enthusiasm with which a
certain section of the Sydney press has taken
up the demand for the opening of the
Central District is merely based on a desire
to accept the less of two evils. It is neces-
sary to find room somewhere in New South
Wales for an agricultural population, or else
there are possibilities ahead which are too
dreadful to contemplate. And if the Central
District squatter, or the Eastern District
speculator has to be sacrificed, it is cheaper
to sacrifice the former. Nearly every
business man in Sydney is more or less
interested in land banks or land syndicates,
and a policy which would break up the
whole land-jobbing industry is too dreadful
to be seriously considered. It is simply the
alternative between breaking one’s own idol
and breaking the other man’s idol, and the
other man’s idol is naturally the one to go.
But, compared to the city land-speculator, the
pastoralist is a man of liberal ideas, a
blessing to his country, an ornament to
society in general, and a brilliant example
of enlightenment and progress. And, com-
pared to the unoccupied coast-lands which
the speculator is holding for the next boom,
the Central District is an arid hell, where,
under present conditions, the agriculturist,
instead of being able to find work for the
unemployed and a home for himself, is only
likely to arrive at general bankruptcy.
The Electric-Lighting Swindle.
The famous Colo Yalley electric-lighting grab
has now got to its second stage in New South
Wales Parliament. The first stage was finished
a few weeks ago by the passing of the “ Aus-
tralasian Rights Purchase Bill,” a deliberate
fraud upon posterity which will keep green
the memory of many a legislator who might
otherwise have dropped into speedy oblivion.
As an example of dishonest inconsequence
and unprincipled anti - climax, that measure
stands absolutely alone. The ostensible
reasons for its existence were that gas-lighting
is inefficient, costly, out-of-date, and otherwise
objectionable, and that Sydney and the adjacent
towns are much in need of a cheap and reliable
illuminant. Therefore the measure proceeded
to give away—not to sell, but to hand over with-
out any semblance of compensation—the only
available cheap source for the production of the
only illuminant which will answer the require-
ments of the case. Which, in the utter in-
coherence of its professed logic, would be about
on a par with an Act providing that, whereas
crimes of violence require to be repressed with
a strong hand, therefore any person convicted
of robbery and assault shall receive a banouet
and a purse of sovereigns,
# # n
The Sydney Electric Lighting Bill, which
turned up last week, was the natural corollary
of the previous job. This measure professed to
giveto Sydney Corporation authority to light the
city with electricity as a municipal undertaking,
the profits of which would go to the community
at large. If it had been introduced before the
nefarious Colo Valley scheme, the possibility is
that Parliament might have been compelled to
reject the latter, as being altogether too naked
and shameless an operation to carry out in
daylight. Then, the Colo water-right leases
would probably have been conferred on the
Corporation, which would thus have owned its
own electric-power, instead of having to buy it
from a private syndicate at almost any price
the syndicate chose to demand; and the Colo
Valley marauders would have lost a nett spoil
of at least £500,000, which amount would have
been £500,000 of clear gain to the community.
But, as it is, the syndicate owns the only avail-
able source of supply, therefore the principal
object of the Electric Lighting Bill is to furnish
said syndicate with something like 400,000
reliable customers who will supply it with large
dividends and involve the outlay of very little
capital. The syndicate, in fact, gets its power
which is really 99 per cent, of its plant, sup-
plied gratis by the State ; it gets its monopoly
from the State, also gratis ; and it is furnished
with customers on a compulsory system, by Act
of Parliament.
* * *
But the octopus monopoly wants more than
this. Even with the tremendous handicap of
having to buy from the Colo syndicate at its
own price what the Colo syndicate has got for
nothing from a brazen Legislature, there still
remain to the municipality the profits on
the distribution and sale of electricity. And
private enterprise wants to control both ends
of the monopoly. Therefore, a proviso is
inserted in the Bill providing that the City
Council may lease for a long term (42 vears was
seriously proposed by one bulky capitalist) the
privilege of lighting and supplying electric
power to the New South Wales metropolis. As
the Colo Valley Co. has the only available
supply, it will naturally get this privilege.
Ihere is no serious attempt in the Bill to limit
the price to be charged, and there is an utter
absence of any guarantee that no member of
the Council shall be interested, as a shareholder
or otherwise, in the great water-power corpora-
tion. The Bill simply provides that the
Council may give away an immensely valuable
privilege on practically any terms it pleases, to
any persons it pleases, and with any restrictions
or no restrictions at all, as it sees fit—or pro-
fesses, for reasons not stated, to see fit.
* * *
This leasing proviso was negatived last
Inday, in a very thin House, by 24 votes to 19
—the majority consisting mainly of the Labour-
party. But the defeat is only temporary. The
leasing coup is the real object of the Bill, and
the lighting of Sydney is a mere secondary con-
sideiation. therefore, when the Labour-party
amended the measure—despite the most strenu-
ous efforts of the Ministers present—to read
that the work should be done by the Corpora-
tion as a public enterprise instead of a private
make, its further consideration was imme-
diately postponed. When it comes up again,
every advocate of “private enterprise ” who is
not, sick or dead, or otherwise urgently engaged,
will be on hand. And if the Democratic party
is true to its faith, it will also be present to the
very last man, if onlv * .
enabling the electors of a r) il! r ,, the Purpose *
mark the dividintr-lm,. i ? lun dered conm 6 °*
and the wolves. The ] w, Ween tbe Watch*d t<3
be defeated in any ease Will Sfiff 1
go down with their colon™ 18 th «ir dntv,
sure that their defeat i, and to
to treachery or neglect. attrib utabl e either
T, . * »
it is estimated by Mavnr at *
m charge of the Bill, that /L MaNNing > who I
Sydney with elected ° l Sa PPbC
figure which may possihW t
£250,000. And tL V SWe
leasing proviso is the alleged« ff 0 " for the
English capitalists to lend » d ,^P° sit ion 0 f
amount. Apart from this aco nr hls P a ltry
Manning the city councillors ' are *> Mr
an overwhelming desire to do the sUof5 Uo f wit h
public undertaking: it is the’r fi he , Wor k as a
alone which make S them content S? 1 troubl <*
a private speculation. This arm, Z 11 into
too abject to be worth refuting tu IS c , alm °st
capitalist is not “ indisposed » to W? En gtoh
especially for honest and reason! fit niol ‘ey,
supported by the credit of a large cit? l^" 86
certainly indisposed just now is
cent, securities at par, but whei N? P $ P er
Wales recently offered a very sliSrtfn* ‘ S ° Uth
former rates, he nearly broke SiJ b ‘ nc F ease °n
rush to offer several millions more ,? the
asked for. Also the Government of 1?“ Was
whose credit is just now at about t hlf° ria >
ebb was lately threatened with S ° West
ceedmgs by disappointed subscribers S i™'
get a chance to lend their money to w / 1
tressful province, and who considers . d ‘ B '
selves defrauded as a consequence. Mo r ? em '
there is not the least necessity r Ver -
English capitalist in the matin ° r rn lle
experience of Treasurer See shows that
money could be procured loeallu at ttle
slightest difficulty ,if fTor Tl the
offered it could b? got A
the electric-lighting system could easilv i
made to pay 10 per cent. dividends -the p L?
company will probably make it nav Jiviil
m London of anywhere between Vand
cent on the capital mifficimlf
could, in about lo years, have its whole electric
system for nothing, free of debt, and yid w
noble revenue which would be available for fha
improvement of the city. 1 r the
* * t
The Australian SiAR-an organ of private
enterprise and an inefficient Balaam that
always at hand to curse on behalf of every such
glaring scheme-has already raised the old "id
anathema about the conduct of the Labour
members, in blocking an enterprise which
would have furnished work for the hungry
unemployed.” The statement is so utter a
perversion of the truth that it is hardly likely
to impose on anybody. The Labour-members
7 , tbe , l , r pass all that part
of the Bill which promised to find work for the
unemployed. They were willing and anxious
that the municipality should get its Bill through
and proceed to supply work on the instant,
ihe Bill was blocked not by them, but by the
nineteen “private enterprise” members who
professed profound anxiety to have the under-
taking conducted by the Corporation of Sydney,
and yet refused to go on unless they were per-
mitted to sell the public rights to a syndicate,
and erect another blood-sucking monopoly in
the land. The difference between the two
parties was that the Labour-members wanted
to supply work for the people and profit for the
municipality, while the Star and its proteges
obviously wanted to supply boodle for private
enterprise, and if they couldn’t get it, then the
workless masses might starve as heretofore.
The plea of the boodle-party, no doubt, will be
that the Democrats should have accepted their
private job for the sake of the employment which
that job would incidentally provide ; but if the
sixth clause had provided for murder for mere
grab, the plea would be equally logical. The
attitude of Dibbs, Manning, “ Jack ” Want,
and the rest of the 19 can be described in three
sentences. They say to the unemployed : “ You
are hungry and hopeless. If a private company
gets the privilege of bleeding the people for 21 or
42 years they will possibly furnish employment
for a few of you. Otherwise, you may go
hang.” And there, for the present, the matter
remains.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
About to be Born.
It is cabled that the murderous British South
Africa Co. (among the directors whereof are
Fife, son-in-law of Wales, and the Duke of
Abercorn) is doubling its capital. __ Before
the “ war ” £1 shares were selling at 155., hut,
as soon as the co. started out buccaneering,
they recovered; which altogether puts the
alleged “trouble” away. No company or
nation’s credit improves during any trouble o
the sort in which the cable-man makes out tie
co. is at present involved. In fact, the war,
i.e., the battue, was necessary to keep the co.
alive; the greater the “trouble” the_greae
the territory to be afterwards grabbed as m
demnity, when the Matabeles have ee "
thoroughly machine-gunned. The co. is mere y
warming-pan for J. Bull, and as soon as l l
done all the dirty work, and gorged itself wi
the good things as part-payment, and drawn
fair-sized population into the looted coun iy,
will agitate that a colony be formed uu
the Crown,” with a Constitution, a Coven ,
and other paraphernalia. Then, to re ..“ r ” *
compliment, the Imperial Parliament wi e 1
that the co. be bought off at a huge P pice
developing the country and to protect P ll ‘ ,
interests—and the colony will finally be s 1
with a decent-sized public debt as a V »
just to show that it is a colony ; and i ' .
on increasing the burden, after the mam -
all colonies. It is all mapped on . > ,
critical Britain in the back-ground, as . ‘ ;
laughing at the wholesale murder and g> ,
rubbing its hands in anticipation of the p 1 •
That godly nation’s prestige, and the ti S
calls its conscience, won’t allow of i „ '. .
Matabele-land openly, so it charters t *,, ,
South Africa Co. to do the job, and * no 0 f
wards step in as “ peacemaker, m tic 1 *


. 11lir the lot, leaving the dukes and
Gop. ftDd , ioaoroblea and co. to sweat the
earl B and
colonist 8, -*■
The Homeless 900.
f rl'imD night certain delegates from
OKar* ,y al( fg Labour Conference rambled
New fOo' iev and found over 900 homeless
round in the open air, most of them
persons i the cold blast for a blanket. Of
witb disposed in the Domain behind
these, , n r , (iiedral; 129 were in the vicinity
St Macquarie’s Chair; 225 at the man-of-
of Mrs. Me q afc the ruit Market; 51 under
T'Sreme Court ; 119 on doorsteps in Sussex-
the bupre' reg( , scat tered in different direc-
stre6t; Most probably, if the explorers had had
tio “ S ‘t maKe a thorough investigation, they
tinlo , i Lve found another thousand or so ; the
"' OUW . on was only a hurried and perfunctory
inspection w^s t< J gince then nothing in par-
-oDeiateiat lias been done to relieve these 900
rtnnates but they are being extensively
1111 5 ID a,s a reason why the Sydney
, 1,-iP lighting private enterprise job should
6 IhrouMi unquestioned “ in order to furnish
fmployioent,” and any man who urges that the
t should be done as a municipal undertaking
Vi up to scorn as a bowelless person deaf
f the cry of the poor and the oppressed,
iko the Cremorne bore will probably get
me more State assistance, on account of these
SoO homeless wanderers; and some private
railway grab will be run through purely out of
vmnathy with their sufferings. And if any-
Sy blocks or threatens to block the
Jew Banking Bill, and wants to know
why the unsecured I O U’s of a number of
lately-white washed institutions should be made
1 compulsory legal tender, Government will
rise up to ask him if he realises that 900 of his
fellow-creatures are homeless and starving in
the great, damp metropolis, and how, knowing
that fact, he dares to raise such untimely objec-
tions Then the unemployed agitation will fall
to pieces again, and the vagrant will be left un-
disturbed in his ash-barrel, until someone has
another log to roll, and he is dug out again to
| ge rve as another advertisement for “private
.enterprise.”
Dummy Directors.
The defences in the Mercantile Bank case
varied remarkably. For one of the direc-
tors counsel urged that “If the balance-
sheet was false or inaccurate, it was not
so to his knowledge.” Another advocate
also pleaded that there was no evidence of
his client having “ authorised or adopted the
publication of the balance-sheet,” and again,
that “there was no implied authority on the
part of the manager to issue a balance-sheet in
.the name of the directors, but, if there were, it
would only be an authority to issue a true, and
not a false, balance-sheet .” Melbourne, pro-
bably, is the only important city in the wide
world where such financial doctrines could be
advanced without exciting a general hubbub.
An admission that the Mercantile balance-sheet
might have been false was rational enough. Con-
trasted with the Matthew Davies an clMillidge
statements, in which the same sheet was
■described as a pattern of honest candour, it
was a rational admission. But to argue
that a director was not supposed to know
anything about the accuracy, or otherwise, of
the bank’s report, and that another director
was legally responsible as a director for truths
only, and not for misrepresentations, was
tantamount to saying that the signatures at the
foot of a balance-sheet might as well be supplied
by the old lady who washes the board-room
floor. Public opinion supports the statement
that Messrs. Bell and Anderson knew (for
certain) very little about the state of their
bank’s health. As men and brothers they have
the sympathy due to people who allowed
themselves to get into a mess which they
have not wilfully created. As directors,
Messrs. A. and B. are not strictly en-
titled to any sympathy at all. They
may ask for it, and the world may charitably
give it to them, but all the same they are far
from being martyrs. In this Mercantile case
there were repeated references made to the
“name of an honest man.” Any director who
had become legitimately possessed of that ex-
cellent article was said to hold a talisman
against which no criminal law might prevail.
Unfortunately an honest name, attached to a
bank director who takes the truth of balance-
sheets for granted, is but a delusion and a
snare. The more honest the name the more
it is, under such circumstances, likely to be re-
sponsible for the misplacement of public
confidence. When a gentleman takes a lucra-
tive seat at a “board,” on the strength of his
honourable name, he owes at once a special
duty to his name, even though he doesn’t under-
stand that he owes it to himself likewise.
Messrs. Bell and Anderson have declared,
from the mouths of their lawyers, that they
didn’t thoroughly fulfil this duty, and if they
are 1° he neld utterly irresponsible for the Mer-
cantile Bank smash, The Bulletin would like
0 know what is the meaning of directors’ fees,
what is the official value of the name of an
honest man ? As Matthew Davies, Millidge
and Muntz have been committed for trial, these
wo pertinent questions are directed at the
other four defendants—the ones who have been
acquitted of all suspicion of dishonesty.
‘‘ Medi-ouss,” writing to the S.M. Herald,
tion WS Some urt dier light on the camel ques*
r,> l t U 3 as an example of one of Mr. Millbn’s “ex-
];n(, ° na } mutes ” all that district bounded by the Dar-
the’en 8 ea9 b the Wilcannia to Mount Browne road on
lino j, ’ *d le S.A. border on the west, and an imaginary
lino ? lavvn due east and west, say 50 miles north of the
' . ,?. ween Queensland and N.S.VV. Now the roads all
over V nmense tract of country are mere beds of sand,
teams 'j , k comparatively light loads can be pulled by
at tho’ anCl amount of traffic must be considerable, as
thia <> P resen .t bme over 1000 camels are kept busy over
trie! ex °cptional ” lot of routes. . . . Take the dis-
Isni \? un d about Hungertord so short a time since as
in Hii. 00rara Nation had at the beginning of the shearing
Year’s r.i ' ear ove . r bales of wool from the previous
BelivoQ ii a,| d tliis is far from an exceptional case. . . •
e . e , n Boorara and Currawinya the teamsters had to
conM 1 e 'hank,” as the road is so heavy that 20 bullocks
inw sr . et through with a fair load. Take the follow-
sliow Jipcs'tion—a true one—and I defy Mr. Millen to
ctiat it is the cheapness of the drover that makes
-20 hmiLu! 0 " B .S roads as are in this district:
to Bonrkp . k m k ’ B , ay ’ ' n dilys to draw 40 bales of wool
{" el !u Wlll Ca S ry 20 bales and make the
10 campl, d Ir ,‘ 0l ler words . taken on an average, the
rn I - m i^ e t - WO . roUnd tri P s while the bullock,
hnl ll n f k . F th , e sin g>e trip in. When the carrier’s
builock gets injured or too old, he is worthless and must
limL P T d ’ T hu oalnel Wolks from four to five
times as long as the bullock, and, as staled in my former
letter, drops a calf every year till she is 40 years old, the
calf bemg put to workat the age of 15months. Atßeriwinia
sta-hon last year (1892) the manager informs the writer
that he had in the shed 250 bales of wool from the pre-
vious shearing which he could not get conveyed to market,
although he was paying £lO per ton. But a few months
since a carrier took 11 weeks to come from Bourke to the
station with rations, and to avoid famine a fresh lot was
ordered to be sent by camels. The camels started seven
weeks later than the team, and then reached the station
two weeks before it arrived.
Evidently an animal like this has come to Aus-
tralia to stay. The Asiatic camel-driver may
be got rid of, but the camel will remain. If the
ungainly beast with the hump is a cause of
alarm to horses, then so much the worse for the
horse; the camel can’t be abolished on his
account any more than can the locomotive
because it is a cause of wild surprise to a goat
drawing a hand-cart.
Three extracts from the Freetrade Camper-
down (Vic.) Chronicle :
As showing the importance of the dairying industry in
this district, which has been developed by the wisely
directed assistance of the State, it may be mentioned that
the amount paid to the producers last month exceeded
£7OO, while the pay-sheet for this month will reach about
£lOOO. The butter-factory here is proving the saviour of
the farmers.
That’s Protection in its most undisguised form.
Next :
The farmers of this district are reminded that Mr.
Hirscii will lecture here next Tuesday night on the
benefits and advantages of Freetrade. In these days,
when it has become apparent that a protective policy
spells ruin, the lecture should be brimful of interest.
That’s Freetrade. Next item is an extract
from Hirsch :
Protection is demoralising to the community generally,
but especially disastrous to the farming interest. If
returned I will oppose all duties or grants towards
starting butter factories, wineries, meat freezing or beet
sugar industries, not because these are not desirable, but
because freetrade teaches that all such should not be
interfered with by the State, but left to private enter-
prise.
Which effectually damns the first paragraph,
and knocks the bottom out of that local butter-
factory that is proving the saviour of the
farmers. It is very hard to be a Freetrade
paper, for every Freetrade paper wants Protec-
tion for its own local interest and Freetrade
for the rest of the country.
Leprosy.
Dear Bulletin, —“Medicus”’ brain must surely
have been woolgathering. There is not the
slightest record of there ever having been 500
lepers in all Australia, much less in N.S. Wales.
As a matter of fact, although the medical pro-
fession in Australia have been constantly on the
look-out for the disease, and though the country
has been ransacked for lepers, only 73 cases have
been officially recorded on this continent during
the last ten years, and 54 of these have been
Chinamen. In N.S. Wales, in the last ten years,
there have been but 43 known cases of leprosy,
of which 22 were reported during the years
1891-1892. In their report laid before Parliament
on 25th March last, N.S.W. Board of Health
says :
The Board does not regard this large increase—in '9l
and ’92—as any indication of the spread of the disease, as
many of the cases recently admitted must have been suf-
fering from the disease for some years past; but it was
only when the reporting of these cases was made com-
pulsory by law that their friends and medical attendants
notified the Board.
Moreover, neither the senior nor the junior sur-
geon at Little Bay has anything to do with the
interning of lepers under the Leprosy Act. Ih.
Act is administered by the Board of Health, who**)
Inspector, Dr. Ashburton Thompson, is the
leprosy-ex pert, and it is admitted by all who
are capable of judging that Dr. Thompson is
singularly well fitted both by knowledge and
training to diagnose leprosy at any stage of the
disease. There is no necessity whatever to send
anyone away from N.S. Wales to study leprosy;
as well send someone to study measles.
“ Medicus ” writes : “ Were an expert in leprosy
to visit all the Chinese camps he could a tale
unfold,” &e. Such a visitation took place last
year, by order of the Board of Health, of all the
N.S.W. Chinese camps, “ and no further cases of
leprosy, or diseases resembling leprosy, were
found.” There was no necessity for “ Medicus
to work up a leprosy-scare. Leprosy is a declining
disease all the world over, and to us in N.S.W.
is of far less importance than consumption. In
fact, the Indian Leprosy Commission has just
reported against the contagiousness of the disease.
[Queer that Fat her Dam ien became a leper.—Ed. B. J
In Maoriland, leprosy has almost burnt itself out.
Wi Mahi, the aged chief of the Ngatirangiwewehi,
living at Awahou, on Lake Rotorua, lately de-
clared —
There is no ngerengere now as compared to what it was
when I was a boy. I have known it carry off whole hapus.
I attribute our immunity to the fact that all the old men
who knew— wero-ngerengere— how to communicate the
disease have died out. My father was the worst of them.
He destroyed numbers by giving them ngerengere. His
plan was to make his enemy a present of a mat or some
r!ihpr article of clothing that had been worn by a ngeie
S. and the disease wassure to follow. [Anotherproof
of the contagiousness of leprosy.— Ed. B.J
The Maoris believed that the disease was intro-
duced to Hauraki by a sailor marooned from a
whaler, at the end of the 17th century, and that
it was spread by wero-ngerengere— which is the
act of communicating the disease by puncture or
inoculation. The Maoris do not believe leprosy
to be contagious nor hereditary. At the London
Hospital, where Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson always
kept* one or two cases of leprosy for educational
purposes, they were treated as ordinary patients
Fn the general wards. These facts may reassure
Sadars whom “Medicus” may have
frightemdl-Yours. 4o„ Newcastle,
N.S.W.
A correspondent suggests that the “Zareba
attack ” at the late N.S.W. military tournament
L part of a General Hutton scheme to tram the
Australian lobster to go and fight the Afghan
camel-drivers.
Dear report of crew desert-
nobbled I i mman bones on his little
t d arttts
ttoSele eLS were descended from the men
wKo hidlee owned those bones.-Yoto H.S R.
[Yes ! And did they eat the turnips . Ed. B.]
To His Excellency.
Tiresome is the twaddle in Melb. press re Gov. Hope-
toun’s dilettante attempts at agriculture. This nice
young man had about three and a-hail acres of richly-
manured land in the Domain put under crop to work ex-
periments for the benefit of the farming interest.
Numerous State agricultural experts and specialists and
much machinery were employed, and no expense was
snared to make the crop worthy of His Ex. Horny-
handed and impecunious farmers were invited to roll up
at the harvesting, and see what could be done with three
and a-half acres, industry, and intelligence. The hay-
seeds came and scoffed openly and venomously at the toy
Governor and his little farm. “Turn ’im loose on a
Gippsland selection, and where’d he be?’’ said one old-
timer :—
Would you be the King, the strong man, first in
council and in toil,
To the men who war with nature for possession of
the soil ?
Take an axe upon your shoulder, take a billy and
a rug,
And go forward in the forest where no man has
cut and dug,
Where the scrub-ferns grow like magic, and the
gum-trees you must fell
Have their topmost boughs in heaven, and their
tap-roots deep as hell.
Take the land the darned Department would
devote to Smith or Brown,
Two miles or more from water and a hundred
miles from town ;
Fell, and scrub, and hew, and hunger, and when
seven weeks are gone
You may have a clearing large enough to build a
hut upon.
Then you furnish it with saplings and you carpet
it with loam,
And you bring the kids and missus to their charm-
ing country home !
Rising early with the jackass, like a man of pith
and push,
With axe in hand you sally forth to face the
mighty bush.
’Tis ten thousand trees against one man—the odds
are hard enough—
But the settler must be stubborn and the settler
must be tough,
And he strikes from morn till even with his strong
arm bare and brown,
And the ranges roar a cheer back when the big
gums rattle down.
So you slave and strive and suffer, for it’s fearful
work and slow
Ere the cabbages are solid and the spuds have
room to grow.
By and bye to fruit and fowls and swine, as city
swells advise,
You resort to make a fortune; but the venture
proves unwise,
For the fruit-trees blight and wither, and the pigs
die in their pens,
And the drought destroys the ducklings, and the
dingoes eat the hens.
Years go on and still the bush-wall rings your
narrow clearing round.
But you’ve won a few good acres and a crop is on
the ground,
And you harvest single-handed and you rake the
stubble clean,
For you have no cash to fork out and no dandified
machine;
Still you’re thankful for small mercies— though
you’re often sorely pushed—
When the missus hasn’t sunstroke and the baby
isn’t bushed.
Then, at last, when worn with work and warped
with years, and very grey,
When you’re mastering the mortgage and the rail-
road runs your way ;
When your farm is looking home-like, and your
sons are grown-up men,
You may talk to brown-faced farmers —you may
try to teach them then.
And if any kid-gloved lordling starts to give you
points on grain,
And a little hot-house farming does to make your
errors plain,
ifou will rise up with a waddy, and you’ll sympa-
A n xii udu »»
thiae with Cain.
E.D.
The youthful Sydney wood-vendor has one
unfailing dodge to effect a sale. Knocking at th e
kitchen door, lie pulls a long face and asks the
housewife to buy, “just a couple o’ bobs’ worth,”
as “ the tire o’ me wheel has come off an’ I can’t
get ome again ter-night.” And ashe has carefully
split all his billets in halves he generously offers
her 40 pieces for the “two bob.’’ The average
woman can’t resist buying anything cheap-even
billet-wood—so he generally effects a sale. Then
he goes next door with the same story.
Dodds, the Active Service Brigade leader,
who asserts that only by making themselves a
nuisance and a menace to the community can the
unemployed gain attention to their wants, is a
disciple of the S.M. Herald, and voices the
literal sentiments of that journal. The Herald’s
principle in dealing with the unemployed has
been and is, that their want of work is their ovn
concern, but that if a time comes when “ the
comfort-possessing inhabitants are rendered less
secure by reason of the presence of distressed
people.” then it is the duty of Govt, to do some-
thing. Dodds says the time has come, and exhorts
his fellows to prove it.
Parson Paton, on the other end of the
Kanaka trade:— ......
Yerv many natives who go to Queensland from this
nlace (New Hebrides) die. lam often awake at night,
hearing the death-wail of natives for Kanakas who have
died abroad. The Almighty, I believe, hears those walls
also Some come back dying. One, returned by the last
shin is in the final stages of consumption. We have many
strong hoys up to twelve years of age ; then comes a ter-
rible gap ‘‘Died abroad” is the almost invariable
answer. How is it strong men leave here, to diem Queens-
land before six months or a year ?
A Yankee pressman tramps on the chest o
Clement Scott, of London Daily Telegraph’
lately honeymooning in America
c* For additional identification of the Scott person, it
may be explained that he is the chap who recently, after
a few weeks’ residence in the foreign quarter of Yoko-
u ‘ a made in print a long and exhaustive comparison
between the women of Japan and those of his own island,
somewhat, strange to say, to the disadvantage of the
former In truth, this true patriot and typical smugwump
wrote of them what, had it been written of the women of
England or America, would have been set to dance-
music upon the back of him. For this slander he
found American editors swift to bid and generous to pay.
The stuff was an insult to a friendly and refined people.
It was obviously worthless, for if a lifetime of intimate
association does not enable one to know the women of
one’s own nation how is one to know those of a foreign
nation in a few weeks? In point of fact, it was false by
the testimony of all observers in whom competence ana
omiortumty have met, including Mr. Scott’s really dis-
tKshed chief, Sir Edwin Arnold. But its author was
from the Isles of the Superior Beings: it was swill, but it
was E^ri'dishswill. Enough-the swineherds of the press
know what that great hog, the American public, steals
loudest and longest for. With a wise purveyance, they
■ o .j tbp oMiff and. had the eminent satisfaction to
STSTt2?£S/S gullef with both forefeet In the
trough. Lot us leave it gratifying.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Eiffa” (Melb.) : Doggerel in brine doesn’t
make a sea-song, despite a few nautical terms. Rouse her
up and blow half-a-gale next time... “Me.”: Utterly
stupid turf-stories are millstones round the necks of fool-
editors— “H.P.” (City); A glacial-epoch “have.”
“Fitful” (Broken Hill, N.S.W.): True sentiment, runty
rhyme. Full tide in the “ blue ruin ?”....“ Big ’Un " ;
Your detective story wouldn't make even a small boy’s
eyeballs glare....“Theos”: It ought to be poetry,
because you throw' in Venus and Cupid and Hero and
Death and Doubt and Misery, all in capitals, on to the
corns of your Muse “ Histori-Cuss ” (Adelaide, S.A.):
Don’t know whether the P.M. Gazette ever said Wales
was born on Guy Fawkes Day ; he seems to have been
born 9th Nov “Pedagogue”: “History lesson" un-
suitable. Thanks for suggestions “Date Palm”
(Bourke): “ Barataria” you’ll find in “Don Quixote” —
it was to be Sancho Panza’s kingdom. “ Poverty Point"
is the city street-corner where all the out-of-work actors
meet “The Wombat”: Thanks.. .“Ne’er-do-weel”
(St. George, Q.); Thanks, but we saw a copy of it, and so
did the man they were attacking. As it happened, he
didn’t write the thing which raised their ire. ...“The
Woodpecker” : “ Pictures” story very old. Considering
picture suggestions “Keep it Dark”: Already dealt
with.. .“C.Q.L." : “Tramp Musings ” useless
“ P.M.” : “ToGenius” and “Work and Wait” much
below the standard required by serious and metaphysical
themes—“ Poor Mash”: Too half-and-half by half
“Close Shave” : May use condensedly more inferentially
“ Keilawarra ” (Muld., Vic.): Declined with thanks
“0. Holl": Stagey incident done to death
“ A Pool ” (Melb.): Life is short. Next time, please send
us the colour without the dish of dirt “ F.K." (Hill):
Bradlaugh made a political hobby of the native Indians’
grievances, and so became known as “ The member for
India.” “,J. Lev. 0.” (Ooolgardie): What’s it all
about?.... “J.P.8." (Albury, N.S.W.): (1) The remedy
is decentralisation, under a Local Govt. Act. All the
exposure in the w'orld wouldn’t stop the petty jobberies,
under present circumstances. “ You vote for my snavel,
and I’ll vote for your grab." (2) But most of the
criminals are not in gaol. There isn’t room for a tenth
of those who should be there, so far as real criminality is
concerned “Poet General” (Heathcote, Vic.): No,
sir; we will not “kindly permit you the pleasure.”.. ,
“One of the Old ’Uns ” (Tas.): Good “E.R.”
(Sydney): May publish .. “Shearblade ” (Adavale, Q.):
Thanks ...“Farmer” (Gun.): (1) British humour, calling
itself humour, is more doleful than single-tax literature.
(2) Far better for a newspaper to be cursed in its own
columns than buttered. “Self praise,” &c.... “Billy
Bong ” : You got a medal for saving your own life by
running away from a razor and refusing to commit
suicide?... “Mexican Plug" (Q.): Many thinks. The
P.O. BuLLETix-stealers will yet be nabbed. ..“0."(0.,
Vic.): Lunacy sometimes humorous; idiocy never
“J.K.M.” (E. 8., Vic.): (1) Who cares whether you
visited Shakespeare’s statue ? We print this line, so that
England may look out—
“ I charge thee, England 1 guard his sepulchre.?’
(2) Shelley and a few such minor poets have already
written forcibly about the horrors of war. Couldn’t you
write us a poem on (say) Thebes and localise it? We like
it heavy, please “Ben Sun”; Which paper?
“ E. E. Llewellen ” ; (1) As Gordon’s poems are copyright,
they can only be reprinted by arrangement. (2) Gordon
didn’t write “ A Voice from the Bush,” nor did he write
the verses beginning “ They say that poison-sprinkled
flowers,” which have also been included in his writings.
The writer of “A Voice from the Bush” was Mowbray
Morris, now of London Times, formerly of Adelaide
“G.H.R.”; History repeats itself “0.H.E.”; The
Xmas No. helps us to get an annual holiday “D. E.
Bunk Again” : You are anticipating “Bluey, the Cattle-
Dog,” in Xmas “G. 8.” : Who are you? Address?—
and is it original?... “C.W.W.”: Little thing, “just
written off in a leisure moment,” to hand. Hard to know
which to damn most: your leisure or your intelligence....
“Bee Y.”(Wooll.): We know all about the “glory" of
the “empire.” You can see stacks of it sleeping in the
Domain any night “ Miserable Depositor ” : The Bul-
letin says, as it said before, that the action of the
National Bank, in declaring that boasted dividend while
its just debts are still unpaid, is an utterly disgraceful
proceeding “H.R.W.” (Sydney): Declined, with
thanks “Wrastler”: Rather like your suicide
“ Bert." : It might please Berrigan, but it would mightily
bore the rest of Australasia.... “The Wombat” : “ Have
your verses any merit?” None whatever. Absolutely
none—except their shortness ... “ Percy P.S.” : Abruptly
told and improbable as the story of the average melo-
drama. Besides, the concluding implication would make
the world blush “The Trier”: Neat verse, but a
much-worn poetic theory. Try again “D.0.R.”:
Both accepted.... “E. Renton ” : Why “ Paid the debt of
nature?” “Died” is five times shorter. You are an
orator. Orators nearly always write blatherskite
“ W.G.” (Murrumbidge): Glad to notice that your health
keeps good enough for growling “Dirty Britisher”:
Really, you’re too solemn “G.J.M.”: Doubtless a
spiteful personal attack “Critic”: Yes, one can
whistle while smoking. We did it just now... “ L.” :
(North Sydney): Yes—that is exactly how matters will
arrange themselves. London Referee article was from a
man’s point of view. You will see the other side of the
argument in the writings of Sarah Grand....“ Brumby
Dick”: Yes, we abhor literary re-hashes, but sometimes
eat them unknowingly. . “Craig Ellachie”: Very good
indeed. Will print....“ W.L.8.” : Nothing in it....
“JL T.” writes to say that the words of the song, “ Let
us speak of a man as we find him,” were by H. J. Waymark
and J. Siramonds “ Ben Sun ” (Mologa, Vic.) : The
trouble is that the working-man has not “ pierced the
clouds of ignorance,” and isn’t likely to do it in
bandy-legged verse “Paul Blunt” (Melb,): Pun
puerile; may use verse... “P.”| Heavy as an anchor.
Misgovernment is quite a big enough obstacle.
“A.H.D.” (Brisbane, Q.): (1) Might have made
a pithy little contrast-sketch in a quarter the space.
(2) Could crush “Jack” to half with advantage....
“ Mioma ” (E. Melb.); Take the pledge, but don’t take to
poetry.... “ Nevermore” (Peak Hill, N.S. W.); Poor doggerel
“ P.M.” : Have got no answer. You had better write
hini ..“ F.M.F.” (N.S.W.); Glad you say it is a
“comic poem;” otherwise we’d never have known....
“The Pauper” (Lilydale, Vic.): You’ve not done justice
to your great subject “Quirk” (Albury, N.S.W.):
Paragraphed ..“ dimmer” (Narramine, N.S.W.); No
room for “ ordinary-built young man with a pair of deter-
mined steel-grey eyes.” “Miriam Vale” (Cooma,
NSW) - Idea good ; verse has blind staggers “R.D.”
(Albury, N.S.W.): Don’t “W. Jaytee” (Corowa,
N.S.W.): Story too tame; “Hymn" too gorgeous.
From the latter —
“ ’Twas the song of a night when the darkness fell,
The spears were stuck in the yielding soil;
A contrast strange to the triumph yell
When the black man’s smeared with his victim s oil.
“E. J.M.” (Burrowa, N.S.W.): (1) Yes. (2) Two or
three times in some cases. It was then discovered that
the labour conditions for silver leases were so mild that
no exemption was really required, but it was officially
iriven out that no forfeitures would take place under the
circumstances.... “W. Pe Jay ”: An old friend in a new
coat “ F.C.” : Shoe your Pegasus or “shoo > it
“ O C.D’A.” : A prosy horror .. The Orphan (W?“ 3 -
end, N.S.W.); May use “pig-hunting.’.. . A.S.i. :
Poor parody. Good Australian stories are acceptable,
and “ convertible” if accepted. ....“ Tom Gayndah :
Inferior blank verse: blanked accordingly.. W K.A.
(Invereck, Tas.): May use.... “ F.D.A. = Th an k s - .v
“AR E ” (0., N.S. W.): A nice rhapsody .. MartmS. .
Notthe individual, but the principle. The jury acquitted
the man—that is their business ; it was arrogant and
illegal for the Judge to make an order at variance with
the'iury’s verdict. As you say, the ring w;as the pawn-
broker’s for the time being. Well, what right had the
Jud'e to meddle with the pawnbroker’s property?
A wain, if the man retained the pawn-ticket he has a future
action against the pawnbroker—if he likes.
Send Bd. in stamps for a copy of Xmas
Bulletin, posted to any Australasian address.
England and abroad, lOd. in stamps.
That “fluent waterspout,” Eyeglass Reid,
MP (N.S.W.), brooks not the oratorical rivalry
of Tom Walker, M.P.: “The hon. member has
deluged us with oratorical oceans, bristling with
rhetorical ulcers.” An ocean ‘ bristling!
“ bristling with ulcers !” Perhaps Reid’s “mind s
eye ” also wears a monocle.


“Be Traiid.” What does it mean?
Messrs. Tunes and Co., the proprietors of the Boar’s
Hoad brand of Wines, inform ns that it is old
Saxon, and means “be true.” As such, it is very
appropriate to their fine Australian Wines, which
are sold at all grocers’, from Is. per bottle up-
wards. Their invalid Port, at 3s. 01., is a won-
derful wine, full of health giving properties.*
FROSSARD’S SWISS
A Good and Ch.eap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD;
Melbourne Exhibition*
1838.
xc
Manufactured bt
J. FROSSARD & CO
rAYERXK (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they coat you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
Edinburgh
The Oldßlervd
WMsKy
ITE Horse
WH‘ |V Cellar
DiniOT «OM OISTIUBRS.
always the ° w
•AATUBED SCOTCH MALT
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
November 22, 1893.
My Dear Moorabinda—
In “Cavalleria Rusticana,” which attracted an
over-crowded d.c. to Sydney Lyceum last Satur-
day, it is the full-toned ensemble that feeds the
e y e _ no t individual glories. Del Torre who
possesses lots of what Bernhardt called “du
charme,” and is, in plain English, altogether
scrumptious—sported a red petticoat principally,
but if she simply wore a flour-bag she would cut
an elegant figure just the same. I do hope the
Del Torre walk catches on in Sydney, for it is the
most graceful glide I have ever admired. Del
Tone walks from her hips, but without throwing
her epigastrium into undue prominence, as most
women do who walk similarly, and her carriage
should be prayerfully copied by all the flounder-
ing, striding, waddling women who strive to look
effective on foot. The only tiling I couldn’t like
about the fascinating prima-donna was the way
her hair was trained beside her ears—for all the
world like a pair of whiskers!
Signor Garuson, in grey, red and green, rather
suggested a parrokeet to the Australian eye, and
Giraud’s mulberry-velvet suit, with mauve points,
reflected great credit on his dressmaker. The
background of Sicilian peasantry was very realis-
tic-the men with their legs bandaged “like the
gout ” (which is the way the rustic Roman invari-
ably wears ’em, I believe), and the women with
broidered aprons—the colour-scheme being care-
fully worked out. The only thing that might still
farther improve the mise-en-action would be to
expose the whole chorus to the weather for forty
days to take some of the pristine newness off their
clothes. It is very possible that an Italian
peasant occasionally gets a new suit, but it is
highly improbable that the whole village would
burst forth into spick-and-span raiment at the
same period like so many butterfly grubs. By the
way, t thought the efforts of some of the liberally-
frescoed chorus to look devout in the effective
“ hymn ” scene were very interesting. Some of
the girls employed the same upward ogle to the
operatically invoked Deity as they bring to bear
on the stage boxes.
All the scintillating splendour of the opera
season is left in the able hands of the Blue Ballet,
which is a faithfully cerulean spectacle relieved by
the quartette of pink legs belonging to the leading
ladies. The dresses rather reminded me of “one
hundred recipes for cooking a turkey,” for you
have blue in every possible shade and every known
mingling of its various t men. Bartho, the fas-
cinating premiere danseuse, wore white tulle petals
with a pale-blue satin calyx (Bartho is too flower-
like in effect to have a mere skirt and jacket)
trimmed with silver fringe. D’Argo, the first
ballerina, sported pale-blue tulle and silver with
the usual shore, jutting skirtlet which looks ridi-
culously like an emu from the back view. But what
a lot of the true inwardness of the ballet-dancing
would depart if the danseuses came out without
those saucy little skirts—inadequate as they may
seem ! A coryphee performing cat’s-cradle with
her toes in plain tights wouldn’t draw half such
good stalls as she does when six inches of springy
gossamer seem to infer that all revelations are
strictly accidental.
The prettiest dresses on the crowded ballet-stage
were the pale-blue Amazons with petticoats of
lustrous silver fringe—the most suggestive were
the ribbon gowns. They had close-fitting bodices
and tights of flesh-colour with a band of dark-blue
round the hips—the shaded blue ribbon streamers
falling over all—you may guess the cool effect
presented by that branch of the Blue Ballet when
it began to kick ! I think the most artistic tights
were the dark blue, shading up to pale-grey and
powdered with silver stars, although they did
remind you of the star-light crackers of the 24th
May. I was just going to say that the Ballet
presented a wide field to the she-maaquerader,
only I mnsn’t forget that they boycott the fancy-
ball girl in Australia if she shows much higher
than the tabs of her satin boots.
Sydney Women’s Literary Society has mutely
confessed to its own excessive flatness by admit-
ting men as members—from which it is evident
that women en bloc make a signal failure of trying
to improve or amuse one another. But I don’t
suppose the W.L.S. (by the way, what will they
re-christen it?—the Mixed Literary Society?) will
set Port Jackson on fire even now, for very few
men (underlined) take kindly to tabby-governed
institutions. The youth who is eager to jump
into a clean collar every seventh Tuesday in the
month to go and read a piece of his own about
“ Blue Metal in the Middle Ages,” or something
equally spicy, to a circle of uninterested women
who behave as if the whole affair was a kind of
night-school—isn’t the sort of person to galvanise
anything larger than a tea-party, you may take
my word for it.
And even the yontn aforesaid doesn’t back up
ladies’ cbteries as much as he might, for he prefers
to air his sweetness at he-debating societies, as a
general tiling. Take Melbourne Austral Salon as
an example, where the Salonists (inter alia) have
songs and recitations by good amateur talent, amid
an environment of faint lilies in majolica bowls,
strong tea, and a member-roll of people not chosen
exclusively for their early piety and sound views
on church and State. And even with all these
light and airy attractions I’m afraid that if the
members gave a strictly Salon ball a great many
women would be compelled to dance together.
Vice-regal secretary Gallon inaugurated the
new regime (en parenthese I hear they call the
masculine invaders “ brothers ”) at Sydney
Women’s Literary, &c., by reading what a
humourist! —a long, pebbly paper that he once
read in England to broaden the minds of “ the
pooah ’’ of Somewhere or Other. By the way,
whenever Mr. Gallon arises in public—and he
shows symptoms of wanting to do it very often—
it is always carefully chronicled that he is
Governor Duff’s private writing-man, but nobody
whoever heard Mr. G. wading through a little
thing of his own would ever mix him up with
anybody else—he gives so may solid statistics to
the square foot. What a fortunate thing for
Sydney that Lady Jersey and he didn’t flourish at
Govt. House together!
The latest vice regal idea is to have the young
sprigs of the house of Duff taught to swim, and a
special merman has been laid on for the purpose.
The said merman (the keeper of Bronte baths) is
about the most eligible person to teach young
ladies the art which cometh naturally to the frog
that fancy could paint—for one thing, he is so
discreet in his-costmne. One day he was giving
a lesson to a number of girls and somebody called
to see him. But when a stout lad.y in two skirts,
a Jersey jacket, and a mushroom hat, rose like a
modern middle-aged Venus from the foam, the
visitor said, hurriedly, “It was Mr. Blank I
wished to see.” But that’s just who it was.
Is society becoming callous to the attractions of
the stage, or what is it? Now you see a tenor
being coddled in the dress-circle by a stylish
matron who carefully folds his overcoat over the
back of his chair to make things velvety for him.
The times of drawn box-curtains and limelight
Adonises slipping in unbeknownst has evidently
given way to cold flirtation in the open. I haven’t
yet decided which I like the look of best. But,
anyhow, I don’t fancy the idea of a mummer
coining into the circle with,a flower in his coat
and traces of grease-paint round his eyes (some-
times they forget to wash off all the improve-
ments) and sitting there applauding the rest of
the business. It gives the show too much the air
of a dress-rehearsal.
The arrest for debt, down South, of a certain
fascinating he-actor points the moral that infatu-
ated females don’t pay a div. How different the
situation becomes when you stand it on its head !
You never hear of Tottie Redlegs getting a bright
blue warrant at the eleventh hour —she leaves all
unpleasantness of that sort to the youth who en-
courages her. But when a man is the idol in front,
behold a bailiff’s shadow falls over the comedy.
An actor once confided to me his idea of the stage-
box girl; “ She asks for your photo—for your nice
fresh boutonniere , if she meets you on the Block.
By-and-by you are bailed up for an order, so she
may worship you on the cheap.” No wonder the
whole affair ends in “Lurcher.”
Quite a “Merry Duchess” sort of story is
running the blockade of Melb. tea-tables anent
a lively local girl. She and a male relative rode
to a rather third-class sort of race-fixture, and
while there the male relative ate (or possibly
drank) something that disagreed with him, and
began to stagger in his stride. This was too much
for some bell - bottomed - trousered gentlemen
present, who began to rain a teasing shower of
pebbles on the poor invalid just for the pleasure
of seeing him try to turn sharply round. But the
sportsmen reckoned without the lady. She bounded
off her gee-gee, dragged her male relative under a
shady tree, and then lashed out right and left with
her hunting crop d la Violet Varley flicking
Tapley’s legs in “La Mascotto ’’—only the lady
in the story left weals behind her. Also, her
language was just off the hob, so to say, which is
probably the reason why the “push” began by
resenting her interference, and finished with three
blankj’-cheers for the “lidy” whose adjectives alone
compelled their critical approval. Quite a Ouida-
esqtie story.
I hear that society in, say, Francofonte is split
in twain over the case of a fair society girl who
filled high the flowing bowl rather too often at a
swell hop, with most damaging results to the pro-
prieties. Hers was no common or conservatory
case of mild staggers, but the sort of alcoholic
“ accident” that is taken to the station-house on
a wheelbarrow if it is dressed in old boots and an
old umbrella—and society wants to know if
such things are to be tolerated ? Half the very
nicest people say she must be boycotted, and the
other half say she mustn’t, and both factions
simply revel in che pro. and con. at tea-parties,
but don’t get a step forrarder. However, as
Govt. House ignores the whole squabble, it is
probable the pros, will have it.
But, for rny part, I don’t think Society is jus-
tified in giving the cold shoulder to a fellow-sister
because she once makes a little idiot of herself in
a supper-room. Such things are often the result
of inexperience—an idea that you can quench your
thirst in champagne with the same impunity as if
it were soda —and no woman should be boycotted
unless she proves herself to be a tippleress from
malice prepense. Ido think a little solemn
palaver surrounded with the mystery so dear to
women should be gob up—a council of matrons,
with the culprit arraigned in front of them,
sounding notes of warning, coupled with gloomy
predictions of banishment to second-rate suburban
hops for the rest of her society life if she doesn’t
mend her habits—but not a more or less public
squabble as to whether Miss Dash shall be recog-
nised or not, because she drinks, don’t you know.
And to boycott her might be to make her drown
her sorrows still deeper.
Don’t you think it’s rather amusing that a
charming girl who wore subdued crape for an
aristocrat who died in Australia, and told her
friends that her engagement to him was all but
announced, should be now en route for Bull land
to wed a blonde member of the very same suite?
The person who adorns his page with furrin
quotations and can t call a necessity anything but
a sine qud non, would generally do better in plain
English, but then there are times when a little
judicious Latin acts like a charm. For instance,
I was rather amused at the prospectus of a Vic-
torian drawing mistress who announces that she
“ has made arrangements to visit Blankeville
(Please God) every Wednesday.” Is this the
knell of the neater-looking, less-obtrusively-pious
“D. V.”?
On dit that a promising, more-or-less-official
scandal, happening just now in Titipu, hasn't
divorce for its object—the lady merely tracking
hubby down to be Rep., as Mary Ann puts it,
although its botanical name is a suit for alimony.
It is only the very stupid maiden who indignantly
casts a frivolous husband adrift while he is still
paying 20s. in the £.
This is certain to he one of Lord Jersey’s anti-
podean stories. On the opening of a pump, or a
horse-trough, or something at an inland N.S. W.
township, the excited populace broke out into a
“ball ” at night, at which their Ex.’s turned up
to do the visible-idol trick, and pose on the usual
dais while the countryside flocked to gaze open-
mouthed on the glorious spectacle. But the only
drawback was that there wasn’t any dais—not even
a thinly-disguised packing-case to frame the Goy.
and party in. As the vice-regal aide preceded his
people to find out the best way to get at the usual
12in. elevation that makes all the difference, a
horny-handed committee-man brought him up all
standing with—“ Young man, there aint agoin’
to be no daze. This yer’s a democratic darnce, and
the Guvner’s got to sit on the form like the rest
o’ era.” Which his Ex. and Lady Jersey did !
It isn’t on record whether the horny-handed
patriot charged “George” two-and-six admission,
but let the lydy in free.
The reproach of the private hansom is gradually
dying from the streets of Melbourne, and a lot of
people take cabs now on the principle of whatever
comes first. Which is as it should be, for the
saints shouldn’t forfeit all the rose-leaves of life
to the sinners. The Melbourne derni-mondaine of
yore set the scorching hand of patronage on the
hansom cab so as to have those smart and con-
venient vehicles all to herself, and the trick suc-
ceeded on the principle that the naughty people
always get all the nice things. Yehicularly, Mel-
bourne society is becoming much more untram-
melled. At the Caulfield Cup, lam told, two
ladies in a gig or a buggy were quite a common
occurrence.
One of the amusing things of life is to read the
detailed bill-of-sale of the household effects of the
man whose audited arithmetic makes two and two
come to one-and-six. It is absorbingly interest-
ing to read the auctioneer’s reverent desor ptions
of the rare old Majolica and the priceless Sevres,
combined with the six-hundred-guinea piano and
the gold-mounted crumb-brush. The first worldly
commandment, “Thou shalt feather thy nest,”
seems to be taken in a very literal sense by most
of the people who are forced to sell all they have
and give to the Law.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYWEY SHOWS FOII COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .. “Man to Man.”
Lyceum Italian Opera Co.
Theatre Royal “ The Colleen Bawn."
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMINO WEEK.
Princess's “ Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
Bi-iou “Charley’s Aunt.”
Alhambra Variety Show,
The piping reception of “ Cavalleria
Rusticana” (Rustic Chivalry), the second pro-
duction of the Williamson - Musgrove Italian
Opera Co., at Sydney Lyceum last Saturday,
plainly showed that essence of opera (with a
bright blue unabridged ballet in tow) has
fascinated Sydney. Mascagni’s expressive and
beautiful music excited tremendous enthusiasm
from a closely-packed house, and though many
recalls were demanded only a few were acceded
to—the “Easter Hymn,” the somewhat oomic-
operatish and flimsy “Drinking Song,” and the
remarkable “Intermezzo” (illustrative of the
broken-hearted feelings of the heroine) played by
the orchestra in one of the many cessations of the
movement. It is good that the Sicilian scenery is
so artistic, because there are several gaps for you
wherein to admire the craft of Geo. Gordon.
# # #
“Cavalleria” is an operatic whirlwind.
At one moment the scene is full of screaming
peasants backing up the excited soprano, and en-
couraged by a full orchestra sawing and booming
for dear life, and the next moment they have all
swept off the stage leaving it a blank, with the
music twittering mezzo-voce for quite a few
seconds. Still, the emotion of “Cavalleria”
never lets up for an instant—you find your breath
in the empty spaces.
* # •
Honors mostly rested with the charm-
ing and dramatic Del Torre, who was the
deceived heroine, Santuzza. Her vocal method
is according to the Italian school which
teaches the nervous-sounding tremolo; but,
fortunately, Del Torre hasn’t got the irritat-
ing vibration very badly, and her attack—
especially in the upper register—is strong and
pure. But even if her vocalisation resembles the
wail of the bagpipes, her Bernhardt-ish acting
would reconcile you to the situation. In “ Caval-
leria,” a stick warbling like a lark would have a
poor show against a histrionically-gifted fog-horn,
Giraud, as the faithless Tirriddu, was the Pag-
liacoi in velvet breeches. Giraud has a good,
strong, ton-up-Druitt-street tenor, expressing
everything but tenderness (he sang the serenade
as if he was inviting the lady to come down and
be strangled), and his histrionic excitement is
marvellous to behold. However, when you reflect
that the average Italian behaves in just the same
manner if the maccaroni happens to be under-
done, it is mere provincialism to say Giraud over-
acts when tie folds his arms and strides to the
footlights like Lauri in the “ Mountebanks,” or
when lie screws his face up like “You Dirty
Boy ” for no ostensible reason. Giraud’sgrimaces
sometimes give point to the situation, and some-
times they don’t—there is anti-climax even in
frowning.
* * *
As the festive Lola, Olga Mettler made
her bow to Sydney which dhtinctly approved of
her. Memories of the hump of Tonio haunted
the gait of Signor Garuson as Alfio, and Lucia
(Signora Carmeni) allowed the hero and heroine
to weep on her Roman cravat in a very maternal
manner. At the conclusion of the opera, the
clapping of the approving house added Entre-
preneur Musgrove (hand in hand with del Torre)
and Signor Guerrera (conductor), to the line of
undulating artists strung out across the stage, and
then the blue plush curtain fell and rose again on
the still bluer ballet.
# # *
Between the two ladies who marshal the
corps de ballet there is a great gulf fixed. Bartho
dances with her eyes, her neck, her finger-tips;
D’Argo leaves the brunt of the business to her
brawny legs. On the whole, Bartho’s method is
the more alluring. A danseuse may be doing
wonders on her toes, but if she keeps her trunk as
stiff as a plank, and jerks her head as if the figure
moved by wires, a man is apt to say “ wonderful!”
and consult his programme as to what’s next. It
isn’t the intricate goosestep alone that crowds the
front stalls. A girl who dances with a stiff neck
might just as well toe-and-heel it, clutching on to
a balancing-pole. Spectacularly considered, the
blue ballet just about tops the Lyceum record for
cold and glittering splendour.
** * *
“Fatinitza” was nob succeeded by “GiroflA
Girofla”at Sydney Opera House as announced
the show never got so far as that. The season, in
fact, began and ended with “Fatinitza.” For a
few nights there were faint indications of pros-
perity, and then the speculation fell with our old
friend, the dull, sickening thud, and the Opera
House curse is left in possession of the premises
as usual. The curse is too often the last thing to
quit the premises, and it has once more proved
itself a reliable and efficient malediction. “Fati-
nitza ” was a really good show, and Miss Cecily
Staunton alone should have been sufficient to keep
it going. Yet, if rumour is to be relied upon, the
last week’s profits were hardly sufficient to allow
of the principals getting their hair cut, unless they
had private means to fall back upon. The dis-
embodied malediction is the only thing that
has prospered of late at the Opera House.
# # »
Even the man who gets away from it alive
seems to take the curse with him. Majeroni died
—some people say—through it. His partner,
Wilson, had no luck after he left it. Minnie
Palmer left her peace of mind there, and went
away to be frenziedly pursued by her infuriated
husband, “Yours merrily, John Rogers.” The
same curse led Rogers to make a fool of himself in
the correspondence columns of the papers, and,
later on, to bang his wife and start divorce pro-
ceedings. Sheridan had the last of a long series
of fits there and died on the premises. Some
of the remains of another co. which tried to
resuscitate the old house are still supposed to be
sleeping in the Domain. The Opera House also
practically finished good old B. N. Jones; and
many other people who haven’t yet died of it can
look back on their season there as their last flicker
of good luck. The Bulletin advises the next co.
to turn round three times before starting business.
¥* * *
“ Man to Man,” a drama with a soul-
lifting railway accident in it, and much elevating
red fire, and a moral and educational free fight, is
promised next Saturday at Sydney Majesty’s.
The free fight is particularly recommended as a
bright and instructive unpleasantness and a
thoroughly moral shindy, calculated to raise the
tone of the community,
** * *
At time of going to press, the “Colleen
Bawn” was announced for Wednesday at Sydney
Royal, with Miss Maggie Moore as the Colleen,
and the priest and the informer by other members
of the co. There is always a tolerably steady
demand for Irish drama in Sydney, so the venture
ought to pay. The reason of this demand is
doubtless the instinctive sympathy which exists
between the local aristocracy and the inevitable
old Irish family in the drama, whose hereditary
domain of Ballyhooley has passed into the, hands
of the attorney, leaving them nothing but their
pride and their pedigree—which latter dates back
to the days of King Brian O’Rorke, who was
killed with a stone axe by King Fergus O’More
in the year 46.
** * *
“The Guardsman” was Saturday’s pro-
duction at Melbourne Princess’—for three nights
only. Brough and Bouoicault might well have
omitted the warrior from their list, for he didn’t
seem to come quite up to the standard. There
are many doors and a painful quantity of familiar
incident in this comedy. Women, rushing one at
a time into embarrassing situations, are stowed
away in dark bedrooms, for the purpose of scream-
ing when the harmless, necessary uncle wants to
enter and disrobe himself. The frenzied behaviour
of the central young bachelor is created by anony-
mous letters, and accounted for by the old sun-
stroke theory. Altogether, “ The Guardsman ”is
a much mofe ancient modern comedy than one
looks for nowadays. Its best joke, on Saturday,
was an unrehearsed effect. Cecil Ward, fall-
ing helplessly into the arms of a long and
slender y'oung man, brought the pair of them
to grief, the collapse of the long young man’s
legs being a brilliant success. Soon after this an
explosion of the whole narrative took place, where-
upon the crusty uncle brought proceedings to a
close by shuffling off to get a warm bath. Haddon
Chambers’ weak sentimental sketch, “ The Open
Gate,” acted as a lever de rideau. After having
left the gate open for many years, Mrs. Brough
was rewarded by the return of’her long-lost love—
a pretty, but purely stagey, idea. In real life, a
cow maunders upon the premises and eats the
fuchsias, if you leave your gate open. Pinero’s
“Lady Bountiful” was announced for Wednesday
and Thursday of this week. To-morrow (Friday)
they have a grand military and naval performance


New York Life Insurance Company.
ESTABLISHED 1845.
Total Assets, Ist January, 1893
Surplus, Ist January, 1893
Progress of the Company in 1892.
INCREASE IN BENEFITS TO POLICY-HOLDERS
INCREASE IN ASSETS
INCREASE IN SUPLUS
INCREASE IN INSURANCE WRITTEN
INCREASE IN INSURANCE IN FORCE
The increase during the year in amount of insurance in force is larger, by over .£2,000,000, than
the gain of any other Company in the world.
JOSIAH HOWELL, General Manager, Department of Australasia.
Chic/ Office ; fiend Street Chambers, Sydney, N.S.W.
£28,292,016
3,457,808
.. .. £373,320
.. .. 3,370,035
.. .. 343,371
4,308,000
13,379,733
IptlcA to guit all ||ightd.
Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
6/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 6 per Pair.
DOCTORS' PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX <sc ROBERTS,
Jeweller? Showrooms,
93 HUNTEU SXUEET, SYDNEY.
THE OLD ORDER CHANGETH !
When a man gets more than a hundred years of age he wishes himself dead. The friends of his youth have
gone, the companions of his later life are no more ; he is surrounded by tombstones, he vegetates in a graveyard
full of departed hopes and bygone pleasures. This little story illustrates the necessity for change. Nations must
change their laws, communities their customs, people their habits, in obedience to the law which makes
CHANGE A NECESSITY OF EXISTENCE.
BUSINESS FIRMS are not exempt, they SERVE THE PUBLIC,
and they would be successful must vary their ways and change their bill, in accordance with the people’s cir-
cumstances and the public taste. Arguing thus y
We Re-Moael our Prices.
BECAUSE
A Small Profit
SUITS
A Large Business.
Low as our prices have been in the past, and much as those of other firms have lost by comparison our selling
rates are now lower still. In the operation of this desirable change QUALITY does not suffer deterioration
PRICES only are on a LOWER SCALE. ’
We pay Trainage or Shipping Freight to any Railway Station or Port in New South Wales on all
Parcels of the value of £2 10s. and upwards, excepting Furniture, Ironmongery. Crockery and Glass
Grocery, Toys, Harness. Floorcloths, Bedsteads and Bedding, and other heavy and bulky goods.’
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HATMARKKT (ONLY), SYDNEY,
TJ IsT IYEESAL PROVIDERS.
(Close to the Railway Station.)
of “The Amazons,'’ and on Saturday a revival of
“ Joseph’s Sweetheart.”
«« « «
The Royal is closed again, Gourlay and
Walton having retreated in good order upon the
modest profits of race-week. The Alhambra,
where Shine and Frank Clark seem to have great
influence over the masses, is doing pretty well,
and a promise of three remarkable acrobats was
sufficient to crowd the house on Saturday, The
work of the strangers was neither original nor
neat, but they perspired freely.
** * *
“Captain Fritz” flourishesto a small extent
at the Bijou. It is a simple-minded play with one
lively song in it. Also, the spectacle of a child in
a long night-gown, blowing soap-bubbles at the
kindly Arnold, affords a good deal of pleasure to
the ladies. “Captain Fritz” has a tragic side,
too. An appalling gipsy, acting on behalf of a
colonel with a high-bred scowl, skulks along the
play in quest of certain “papers.” Having
secured the papers he goes on to purloin the right-
ful heir, but Arnold tracks this wild outlaw to his
den, and a detachment of soldiers manages to
capture the papers before they oan do much
damage. The exact fate of these important docu-
ments is not made clear. They are probably put
back into their hiding place near the mantel-piece.
« * *
“ Charley’s Aunt,” the success of the year
in London, will follow “Captain Fritz ” on Satur-
day next (25th).
** * *
Melbourne’s bank-clerks and other aristo- 1
cracy had a haughty time at the Alexandra last
Friday and Saturday nights. On these two
special occasions the members of the Lyric Club
kept away from Government House for the pur-
pose of performing “Cloches de Corneville.”
Apart from their noble birth, the Lyrics (who
have professionals to conduct, stage-manage, and
paint the scenery) are very little better than
another, and bona fide, amateur company in the
same opera. In some parts they are not nearly as
good, but this remark applies only to the stage
portion of the show. As a display of fresh, young
Johnnies before the footlights “Les Cloches” was
a brilliant success. The scenes between the acts
when the gentlemen strolled outside to form
themselves into distinguished groups, will not
easily be forgotten. On Saturday, they give one
more performance of the operaw for the benefit of
Roland Cunningham, whose tenor voice is to
undergo a course of European training.
** » »
The 100th concert of the popular pro-
menade series was given at Melb. Exnibition, last
Saturday. A special bill in honour of this event
included pianoforte solos by Kowalski and songs
from the old favourites, Miss Lalla Miranda,
Miss Mongredien, Henry Stockwell, and Glad-
stone Wright.
*» » *
Miss Di Bloustein, the young lady who
lately figured as Pauline Desehappelles, at
Melbourne Alexandra, writes to say that she
is a professional, not an amateur, actress.
A zealous friend advertised her as one about to
m ke her professional debut in “ Lady of Lyons,
.vuereas she had previously travelled through
Maoriland with two small companies. Miss
dlousteiu admits the soft impeachment that she
is an amateur painter, but objects vehemently to
Long called a stage beginner. Likewise, she
states that she needed a benefit as badly as any
other pro. Miss 8., who is anyhow a girl of much
push, is looking for an engagement.
*» * *
Melbourne people have retained their
b Kim-time ideas about theatrical shows, and will
go to only the one place that offers a first-class
entertainment, doncherknow. They might encour-
age some of the other houses to launch out it
they had the money to spare for seats. They
haven’t. The Princess’ is consequently doing all
the trade, and the opposition shows are practically
no opposition worth mentioning. The city cannot
keep more than one expensive management going,
nor will it enthusiastically patronise the cheaper
article. The Princess’, which used to get out of
fashion very easily in the days of strong competi-
tion, has settled down now to a steady average of
success, and W. and M. say that the present
year is actually the best they have ever had at the
theatre.
At Poverty Point.
W. E. Baker, the only thoroughly happy-looking villain
on the Australian stage, was born in Sydney, on the spot
where Her Majesty’s theatre how stands. Ground rents
have gone up a good deal in the interval, however, and
M -. Baker couldn't afford to he born there now—unless he
wanted to be born with a big mortgage on him.
That awful healer, "Professor” Richard, is now booming
in Queensland and announces himself as under the patron-
age of Gov. Hopetoun and his Counters. A large number
oF deluded cripples part, with their guineas to the greasy
one under the impression that he is somehow or other
guaranteed by Hopetoun, and an impression is abroad
that Hopetoun and the ex-glove-seller with the upstand-
ing hair, are in some kind of partnership. Richard
lavishly advertises the “ opinions of the press, hut he
hasn’t advertised Tub Bulletin's opinion of him up to
date.
Johnny Wallace, in the matter of his Derby-night
“hen.” at Melb. Alexandra, seems to have acutely
experienced the ingratitude of man. One manager stood
aloof ; two other managers did not reply to letters nn
his behalf, and members of their co. returned their
tickets; his Lyric Ciub cheap pupils were cold and
distant; and Johnny was treated all-round to a liberal
joint of cold shoulder. The electrio-hght was never
turned on, “ owing to a defect in the carbons,’ &c,, &c.,
hut Wallace had to pay 12s. 6d. for it, nevertheless.
Another benefit is to be tendered the veteran who, we
are sorry to hear, sadly needs it.
The art of stage dying—particularly of death by gun-
shot—is still in a very primitive state. The stage villain,
when he is shot through the heart, simple falls back-
wards in a tremulous heap, and the rest of the co. stand
round and look at his remains. But the man who is
really shot through the heart generally leaps several feet
in the air, whirls both arms out like two semaphores,
turns half round, and drops. Sometimes he does a short,
1 .111 desperate, gallop straight ahead, collides hard against
some obstacle, and then goes backwards. At other times
he lu. ns a somersault, or even two somersaults, hut he
always does the preliminary jump. It is practically a
certainty, and otherwise he may do anything in the way
of frantic exertion, except fly. As the audience, how-
ever, would probably regard this kind of realism as bur-
lesque, it might he as well, in future, to give up shooting
the villain through the heart and aim at his head in
preference. .
At a nominally fashionable West End London theatre
with a big co. and an expensive drama, the entire takings
on a recent evening were 9s.
Christchurch (M.L.) Truth: “Numbers of self-styled
medical electricians, encouraged by the example of quack
Richard, are now treating the credulous up and down the
country. Young man, disinclined to dig and afraid to
beg, buys medical coil with two handles. Substitutes
sheet of zinc,for handles and covers them witli damp
mats. Patient stands on mat and young man rubs him.”
Oscar Wilde considers “Salome” his finest drama and
the great work of his life. Recently, Whistler asked him
publicly “ why he didn’t dramatise it?" and now Oscar
and his friend don’t speak.
At Adelaide recently a young bushman went raving
mad with excitement through attending the Waterloo
Cyolorama. He was found naked on a bridge, and when
captured he announced that he had fought in the battle
of Waterloo and was going bushranging.
Jenny Hill is corning to Australia this Xmas, they say.
Will she play principal hoy in Melb. Princess panto.?
Letty Lind lately made a hit in a mock melodrama at a
Drury Lane matinee. Letty has more brains than any
three other Gaiety dancing girls put together, and will
probably he respected as an actress after her legs have lost
their charms.
A number of black female heathen, known as “ the
Amazons,” are appearing at the London ’alls. They have
a queen of their own, Queen Gumma, who, being asked
by an irreverent bookmaker if she had ever been in love,
said “ Wynut?” This simple womanly question was an
extinguisher. Wynut, indeed ? It is only in white social
circles that healthy women are expected to regard love as /
a somewhat unnatural offence. /
\ The Duke of Bedford will kindly permit Drury Lane
theatre to exist for another seven years if Sirgustus
Harris pays a higher rent. The Dock’s desire to improve
the metropolis is not quite final. As long as he can
improve rents he will he satisfied.
Gilbert and Sullivans new opera, “Utopia (Limited),”
is reckoned a big success. The music is said to be rather
reminiscent of other G. and S. operas in some places, hut
the book and its main idea get unstinted praise.
At a recent amateur lady professional’s performance
in Melbourne. Gallery hoy (in possession of glasses
during particularly emotional passage); “Gord, Joe,’er
chest is ’eavin’ orful 1”
“ I am the best organist in the world —and the poorest
paid.”—David Lee.
Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Utopia” may run a year,
though both have stolen from themselves.
A Cathcart ben. is suggested in Melb. Some time ago
one was proposed, hut truthful James, magnanimous,
declared others wanted it more.
Somebody wants to persuade Gov. Hopetoun to enter
into rivalry, with limes Noad and J. A. Levey, in the
amateur theatrical. The Princess Beatrice, Duke of
Connaught, and others, lately acted "She Stoops to
Conquer,” at Osborne. But Gov. Hopetoun can’t play in
public—any more than couid Queen Victoria.
At last Wagga Flower Show, while a local comic singer
trolled “Mrs. 'Enry ’Awkins” a clergyman loudly ex-
pressed his disgust at the idea of encouraging anyone to
sing who could not pronounce his h’s.
Violet Varley, the fascinating little Victorian prima-
donna, has a busy time before her. She returns shortly
to Melbourne from Brisbane to take part in Christmas
Paninmune, and afterwards fulfills a six months’ engage-
ment prior to departing for London lo conclude a matri-
monial contract entered into with tenor Tapley.
Malame Rachel, “beautiful for ever,” was aunt to
David James, the comedian.
Williamson goes to Europe, and Musgrove stays here.
Roscius: “Have you any conception of the number of
actresses walking about Melbourne? There are ahout 40
womm more or less trained to the stage, exclusive
of extras, and all that variety. Yet the amateurs
keep rushing in. Mediocrities readily enough get
a start, because the public r dishes a brand new, fresh
face. Then the poor girl is usually consigned to ever-
lasting Lethe, after fluttering lor a few months. Talk
about want of engagements—here are tolerably clever
women who average one show in two years.”
Arthur Gamer was inspecting the Alexandra Theatre
the other day.
Some Melbourne "supers” complain that their pay has
been “out” from las. to 9s. a week. Nine shillings a
week and “ property ” meals !
Grade Whiteford’s first stage appearance was as an
angel in “Uncle Tom's Cabin.” To keep her quiet her
mother gave her a mince pie to eat. She descended from
the clouds at the “cue” munching the pie and with her
angelic robes protected by a dirty serviette.
Fillis's Circus, after a lean lime in Victorian rural dis-
tricts, has migrated to Tasmania. The Fitzgeralds of late
were generally a hit ahead of the rival firm, hut in Tas-
mania the energetic Fillis lakes first innings, so the Filzs.
will probably steam off to Maoriland meanwhile. For a
big circus there is no rest, except in disbandment. You
can’t play it with a small economical cast, nor can you
put a lot of horses and carnivorous animals on haif-tucker
or throw them out upon iheir own resources for a few
weeks. If the show is to be kept together it must always
be chasing the main chance.
Bombs thrown into a Barcelona theatre. Perhaps it
was an amateur performance.
Edward Terry, writes The Bulletin’s London corres-
pondent, swears by Australia in public, hut has some very
funny little stories which lie keeps for the ears of his pals.
It is not likely he will ever again electrify Australia.
Clifford Ferley, business-manager for the stage-hands
ben. at Melb. Royal, handed over £3 16s. to each of 26
beneficiaries, and refused an honorarium. Which means
hat Ferley will die in a benevolence asylum.
Maggie Moore and Bella Permon will be the two prin-
cipals in the coming Melb. Royal panto., one portion of
which will be eight ladies riding horses straddle-legged
and banging processional drums. The he-female is
coming, surely enough.
“Ellen Terry is an enigma. Her eyes are pale, her
nose rather long, her mouth nothing particular. Com-
plexion a delicate brick-dust, her hair ralher like tow.
Yet somehow' she is beautiful. Her expression kills any
pretty face you see beside her. Her figure is lean and
bony, her hand masculine in size and form. Yet she is a
pattern of fawn-like grace, whether in movement or
repose. Grace pervades the hussy. In character impul-
sive, intelligent, weak, hysterical—in short, all that is
abominable and charming in woman;”— Charles Reade.
J rank Thornton (Melb.): " I wouldn’t give my houses
for the Princess’s houses.” Retort natural; “ Who axed
yerter?”
Tom Walker, M.P.: “The hon. member will yet make
his fortune in a circus.” Samson Haynes, M.P.: “You
made yours as a ghost.”
Violet Varley takes Alice Leamar’s place in “ Red
Riding Hood,” the pantomime at Melbourne Princess’s.
Ethel H iydon is to be the fairy queen who gives the bad
’uns beans.
When Percy Abbott, manager for the Hellers, arrived
recently at Hawera, M.L., he found a farmer with his wife
and three daughters having tea on the steps of the hall at
6 p.m. They had tied their horses to the fence, and s ung
the billy in the front yard. The horny-handed said he
had come at five o’clock, for he was bound to get a front
seat, even if the potatoes weren’t planted till after Xmas.
His neighbours had told him the houses were so full, that
it cost late comers four shillings to look in through the
window.
Handsome George Rignold came a cropper out of a high
dog-cart the other day—fortunately wilhout injury to his
fatal beauty. What would happen to the drama at Her
M ajesty’s if Fate dealt out a broken nose to Henry
Vee oan only he properly ascertained by a missing word
competition.
Fillia's Iron Pot, in Melb., remains unoccupied. Dog in
the manger, or what?
Editor Bulletin, —“ Fair play is bonnie play,” and . Bo
re your paragraph in last week's “ Poverty Point, 1 wish
to say that 1 was one of those who, with Mr. Johnnie
Wallace, Mr. Ferley and Mr. A. E. Greenaway (the Romeo
of the occasion), specially requested Miss Aimee Moore lo
play Juliet in the balcony-scene on the occasion in ques-
tion, and pictonally and dramatically she was a big
success, receiving the greatest ovation of the evening.
Unlike most people who essay Shakespearian parts, Miss
Moore is a Shakespearian scholar, and can look (he parts
she plays. Your cot respondent must have forgotten Ins
Shakespeare, or surely he would not talk of embracing tn
a scene where Romeo and Juliet never come within a few
yards’ reach of each other.—Yours truly, J. Montaoub.
Charles Saunders, Williamson and Musgrove s new
tenor, is touring (under Jns. Gibbs’ management) N.S. W.
and Victoria with the charming Adey Brunei, Madame
Koenig, and Florence Buckley, a very clever piamste,
pupil of Herr Pa >Bt. Business good. When are we to
hear Mr. Saunders in opera?
Ibsen has perpetrated another drama. Principal char-
acters —a long, grisly, leaden Norwegian parson and Ins
wife. They live at the bottom of a sunless valley, and
the parson talks lo his wife and child, chiefly about hell
and the horrors of endless torment. Child falls ill owing
to the dampness and gloom of their home, but the old,
hard, dank preacher won’t allow it to he removed ; he
in a deep, hollow voice that “God demands complete
sacrifice.” Child dies, and the mother cherishes its clothes
as the one comfort left her. But one night a gipsy and
her infant come along, and the preacher makes his wife
hand over all the treasured garments down to the last
rag. After they are gone he asks her sternly if she has
made the sacrifice of her own free will, and when she
answers in the negative, he replies that it has been made
in vain, and that she is lost. The drama closes with a
distracted woman tearing her hair and shrieking insanely
that she has seen Jehovah and is going to die, while the
preacher glowers at her out of his sunken eyes in the
background and spi>iiually—casts her off as one who is
given over lo the powers of evil.
Brough and Boucicault have accepted a one-act piece,
“The Seventh Commandment,” by a “colonial” author.
The Wild-Cat Column.
Premier Dilibs asserts that his bill to make
bank-notes legal tender in ail parts of N.S. Wales outside
Sydney is constructed, not in the interests of the banks
but entirely in those of the public. It is gratifying, of
course, to know this, hut it seems a pity that he wasn’t
a little more explicit. The public is to be compelled to
take paper money that may he absolutely unsecured, for
a hank can issue up to £666,666 on the strength of its
capital alone, wilhout any cash reserve whatever, and the
said capital may be all out of the province, or it may have
been all lost like the capital of the Mercantile Bank, or
all lent to some insob ent teetotallers, like that of the
Federal. Anil if this sort of thing is good for the public,
then the public would he glad to know where the goodness
cornea in.
« • *
There is no doubt that the old banking system
was shiftless and precarious to the last degree. A hank
might have 100 branches scattered all over the province,
li k pi perhaps £5OOO in gold at each of the inor" impor-
tant branches, as an inducement to somebody lo break in
and kill the manager. It had, perhaps, £200,000 worth
of notes in circulation, and these were all payable at any
or every office of the hank throughout the country ;
therefore, every' branch was alwavs living on the verge of
suqi -nsion and trusting to the chapter of accidents. The
device of making notes payable at the head orti- e only is
a guarantee that, if the bank lias any gold, it will he con-
centrated just where it will he wanted. Also, it is a
guarantee that when the insolvency comes, the man in
Sydney will have a reasonable chance of getting ids
nioney, and there will also he a decent show for the man
at Parramatta ; and the prospects of the man at Dubho
won’t amount to much, and those of the person at Broken
Hill or Wilcannia won’t he worth a moderate-sized i-uise.
The man furthest back, in fact, is to be compelled lo
take his chance by Act of Parliament, and simply because
of that the time will come when the hank-note furlh st
hack will only be worth 2s. 6d. in the open market. It is
for this reason that no paper which isn't support'd against
panics by a State guarantee should be made legal lender
anywhere.
# # •
The Dibbs Government proposes to increase the
note tax from 2 to 24 per cent, as ihe price of this con-
cession. The banks are to pay this tax, and this fact
alone is a proof that the bill is for the benefit of the hanks
and not for that of the public. The pretence of granting
a concession to the public and making the hanks pay for
it is too thin to pass current outside a lunatic asylum.
# * *
The Bank of Australasia declares a div. at the
rate of per cent, per annum, and carries forward
£10,728 to next half-year. The diminution in the profits
and the consequent reduction in the div., arise prin-
cipally through the necessity for keeping an unusually
large reserve. The hank has over £3,000,000 in cash, over
£2,000.000 in loans repayable at call or on short notice,
and £899,000 in easiiy-realisalile Government securities,
making about £6,000,000 readily available in case of
emergency.
The Colonial Finance, Mortgage, Investment
and Guarantee Corporation, of Sydney,- has finally
“ arranged ” some £29,000 worth of deposits, to he paid
by instalments at 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months. The total
liabilities, actual and contingent, apart from deposits, are
put down at £163,000, not £287,000 as formerly reported,
the mistake having arisen-through the confused arith-
metic of some clerk not definitely stated, and who is still
at large.
# * *
The Mutual Provident Land, Investing, and
Building Society of Sydney (in liquidation, as a matter of
course) publishes an account of the second year of its
insolvency. The account shows that during the year
£2873 has been called up from shareholders, £l5OO has
been borrowed to keep the insolvency from going broke,
and £1924 has been received from borrowers and as rents
and instalments on land-purchases. On the other side of
the account, £4399 has been paid in reduction of liabilities,
and the rest -some £2300-has gone in interest, repairs,
taxes, and costs of liquidation. The situation is, there-
fore, that the co. has raised £4373 by calls and floating
loans, and has paid off £4399—in other words, the whole
legitimate revenue of the co. just about pays liquidation
and other expenses, and all the money wanted to wipe ofl
liabilities has to be provided by the shnrelioldeis. Under
such conditions as these, it looks as it it would be about
as cheap to shut up the premises and let the assets slide.
• • •
David Gaunson’s address for the Mercantile
Bank defence was a gem of specious irrelevancy. Saying
little about the balance-sheet, and ignoring the Daviesian
tentacles aspect of the case altogei her, Guunson wandered
outside the evidence to find special cause why the
Bench must not commit anybody for trial. Bryan
O'Loghlen was rammed down the magisterial throat as a
“ European authority ” whose nolle prosequi admitted of
no further doubts. By way of proof that Sir Mai tliew's two
dozen little banks were honestly treated as solvent in
the books of the main supply bank, it was impressed upon
the Bench that Sir Bryan’s father had been an Irish
Master of the Rolls, and' Sir Bryan's brother had held a
legal billet in a Gladstone Ministry'. All of which went
for about as much as the fact that Matthew Davies
had paid 200 guineas for his Speaker’s robes.
• # *
Gann son ; “Simpson bore a charmed life. If
Justice had her rights, where would Simpson be? There
was only one answ r." Quite right. So far as we can see
up to now, if Justice had her rights Simpson would he
State-Auditor-General of financial companies suspected to
be crooked.
• * *
The Mercantile Bank proceedings, according
to Oaunson, were “ initiated by a speculative prosecution
which trusted to luck and hoped to send in the bill to
Govt, hereafter.” It would be a very verdant financial
prosecution that spent its money on the chance of getting
recouped by the Palterson Government. But any sort
of bluff was endured in this extraordinary case. The
papers printed the above fiction whilst omitting
portions of Gannson's harangue which might open the
eyes of the dullest reader. For instance, it somehow
didn’t suit the "great” Journals to publish Gannson’s
threatening remark to the Bench -“ A committal of these
men would create the greatest consternation among the
banking community.” Yet that was the most significant
statement made during the whole course of the Davies
scandal.
• # •
Joke from the Mercantile Bank comedy:—
“ When the bank failed, Mr. Millidge was elected a
liquidator. He resigned voluntarily. Had he not done
so he might still have held that post, enjoying £lOOO a
year, instead of being now a poor prisoner."
* # •
“That they should pollute the sacred halls of
justice with this nefarious legal conspiracy was shocking
and degrading to the colony.”—( Extract from lawyer
Gaunson’s Mercantile Bank “ bluff.") It was the prose-
cution of Matthew Davies that polluted the sacred haMs
which Gaunson is endeavouring to keep pure and holy.
The true bill was another shocking circumstance.
Attorney-General Isaacs, too, was a degrading incident,
whilst M'Donald, J.P., was a nefarious conspiracy of the
deepest dye.
• * »
The end of the world must be at hand this time.
People on ’Change are saying that the Bank of England
has poured untold gold into “crook" companies, a
charge which, if proved, would undoubtedly send some
directors of the great British fetish to jail. And when
the Ba ik of Hingland forfeits its hoary name for honour
the Heavens will open, Michael will play his last trump
on the celestial wind instrument, and the Judgment will
ensue. When that lime arrives, we may as well prepare
to meet our doom.
• * •
The Vic. railway employes are beginning to
agitate for a co-operative supply store. Good. If they
form themselves into one large company, procure a
shrewd, honest martinet of a manager, start the business
on a strictly cash system, and buy all their goods at tie ir
own shop, they will presently find that £1 is worth
255. And if they yo the way of moat other Australian
store shareholders, appointing a half-foolish, half-roguish
committee, and demanding “just a little” credit to
begin with, and insisting I hat half the blessed store shall
lie sent home to them “on approval,” then the Vic.
railway employes can reckon on making a melancholy
mess of it. Thus far the spirit of co-operation has never
shown itself in Melbourne, anyway. The stores there
have been p'aces where incapable friends or r> lai ives of
the committee found Billets, and where the average
customer wants a p nnd of butter deliver* d at some far-
off spot by special cart. A'so, the wife of the commit ec-
ru hi has usually found that the competent en p!oy£t
“ b haved rudely ” to her, and they were discharged.
In fact, the great idea of co-operation was to hold an
interest, large or small, in a place that offered special
opportunities for making yourself infernally unpleasant.
#• ' »
A N.S.W. official assignee carried an appeal in
an insolvent estate, lately, from the Acting-Registrar to
the Judge in Bankruptcy, and from the Judge to the
Full Court, and having been worsted all along the line
he demanded leave to carry his point on to the Privy
Council. The court found, however, that the matter in
dispute was under £5OO, and so a Privy Council
appeal was not allowable. The costs of this stubborn
officialdom came, of course, out of the estate.
• * *
Nobody appeared on either side in the Melb.
Insolvency Court, last week, when was called on the
application to set aside B. J. Fink’s notable composition
of jd. in the £ in claims totalling £1,526,175. Judge
Molesvvorth complain'd, in effect, that the Court was
being humbugged. The farthing stands.
* * #
A reduction of the averages appears to have
settled on the Star of the East: 1970 tons for 6840 z.
C“WUd Cat ” continued on page 20.)


g&OTCTnWBB
f.rUZXSxcS
u!2tsan
Go to HELL-
-IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sill the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Cd.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
0i alis.
D. A. VIND’N Sc CO.,
U LLIZARETII STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
ADE MABa
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Pwt'veyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Ealchin, Johnston k Go., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
DISEASE DEFIED!
HEALTH INSURED!
CLEMENTS TONIC
HOLDS THE RECORD.
More lives saved by Clements Tonic than by
all other medicines combined.
A GENUINE ARTICLE
COMMANDS SUCCESS.
CLEMENTS TONIC
IS GENUINE.
CLEMENTS TONIC
IS SUCCESSFUL.
READ THE EVIDENCE.
Mr. Alex. Campbell, auctioneer, Gerringong,
N.S.W., who writes on April 4th, 1893:—I am
pleased to be able to testify to the great invigor-
ating qualities of your Clements Tonic. My
business as an auctioneer often necessitates my
travelling 40 to 50 miles a day by road, which
means from 12 to 18 hours physical strain on my
body. This, with the consequent mental worry
inseparable from an auctioneer’s business, often
has a very depressing effect both mentally and
physically. Daring the last three years I have
found great relief from use of Clements Tonic, and
found it the best cure for indigestion that I have
ever tried, and can thoroughly recommend it to
any person who has to fortify their physical and
mental powers for excessive work. So confident
am I in its invigorating properties that I think ot
using no other, in fact I feel a longing for it when
I feel my powers overtaxed.— l am, yours faith-
fully, Alex. Campbell, auctioneer, Gerringong,
Personal Items.
Premier Patterson is churchwarden at
Oakleigh, Melb.
In Samoa Robert Louis Stevenson never
wears shoes or stockings.
The longest-lived animals are the whale;
the elephant, and Parkes.
The Bulletin hears of a N.S. Wales R.C.
priest who owns two racehorses.
The name of Suttor has appeared on every
N.S.W. Parliamentary roll since responsible
Government.
A brother of Dr. Garner, the monkeys’
friend and interpreter, is in business in Oxford-
street, Sydney.
Edolston, J.P., so strenuous re Davies’
innocence, was the detective who captured
Wiberg, the gold-robber.
Premier Kingston (S.A.) is understood to
have, or have had, some manly vices, but he
neither smokes nor drinks.
Dear Bulletin, —“Every man his at
least one good story to tell.” Now, Henry
Parkes has several. — DIBBS. J
The Prince of Wales wears a bangle. The
“Johnny” throughout the “ Hempire ’’ will now
ba incomplete without a bangle.
Holder, Downer and Kingston, the last
three successive S.A. Premiers, are all natives of
th i province, and are all locally educated.
One of the prisoners at approaching Ade-
laide criminal sessions is the grandson of a bishop,
son of a clergyman, and was himself intended for
the church.
One of the strongest “thrift” advocates
in N.S.W. Legislative Council has everything
settled upon his wife, who always signs even the
rent-receipts.
Parkes ; “ No teacher in the world can so
bringout the God-like qualities of man as poverty.”
Well, Parkes lias helped a lot to bring out the
God-like qualities of his creditors.
Minister MTntyre is regarded as the
coming Vic. Agent-General. However, the fact
that he married his deceased wife’s sister would,
in England, be a social disadvantage.
Out of 12 students successful in taking
the M.B. degrea at last Melb. examination, four
w -re ladies. One of the latter, Miss Emily Stone,
s the third medical woman of her family.
An ill-conditioned thief robbed Rev. Jacob
Lenzer of his clothes at Melb. last week. The
parson is consoled with the idea that he will
probably get the buttons back —in the plate.
John Downer, the S.A. Opposition leader,
is a knight, but has at times the grace to appear
ashamed of his title. Though he has had the
bauble many years, his office-plate still retains the
“Mr.”
Thomas Pauli, who died at Mount Gam-
bier (S.A.) recently, was the first butcher in busi-
ness in Adelaide, and was the first white man to
set eyes on the beautiful Blue Lake at Mount
Gambier.
Major-General Tulloch, of the Victorian
Lay-’em-outs, talks of resigning his command
next winter. A proposal to reduce the salary of
the next commandant is seriously mooted, yet a
total payment of £l6OO a year to the wearer of
such beautiful clothes doesn’t seem out of the way,
A peacock with a tail is an unnecessary bird, but
a peacock moulted of his splendour is positively
ridiculous.
The grandmother of Editor
Bonython, of Adelaide Advertiser,
still lives in Launceston (Tas.) at
the age of 96.
The childlike and bland Rev.
H. Plow Kane, of Melb., is obi-
tuarised. He was mostly known
for his strict attention to company
business, during many years.
Nearly all his companies burst in
the boom, so that he really might as
well have concentrated his atten-
tion on the heavenly mansions.
The old gentleman fancied himself
a veritable Vanderbilt, but wasn’t
enough for the Davieses and
Muuroes, nor they for Beelzebub,
the god of this world.
“May the curse of the
Almighty rest on the electors for
not returning Macarthy O’Leary !”
was the malediition of a Vic.
R.C. clergyman after the last (old)
Moira election. Macarthy O’Leary
died soon afterwards. The Moira
electorate was split up into four,
Benalla and Yarrawonga being one
—the one in which the Curse was
uttered. Jack Brock was the first
M.P. Meeting with misfortune
he resigned, and Kerville was
elected in his stead, holding the
seat for just five days ! then Parlia-
ment was dissolved. Campbell
(Kerville’s former opponent) then
became Benalla’s M.P. Some 15
m mths 1 ter Campbell died. Then
came the notable Kennedy-Temple-
ton tie; Templeton tagged M.L. A.
to his name for three weeks, when
the election was upset. Six elections
in years. O, that Curse !
The fact that J. D. Young’s funeral, in
Sydney last week, was much more largely
attended than that of the other dead alderman,
Playfair, should furnish the epigrammatists with
a cynical remark or two concerning the eccen-
tricities of human estimates. The two men were,
in some respects, the very antithesis of each other.
Playfair was all sunshine and probably had not
a single enemy in the world ; Young was often
aggressive and vindictive. Everyone was Play-
fair’s friend ; but Young had a large and loyal
and powerful following. Both men were
intimately connected with municipal work,
and were understood to be fast friends. Playfair
was, in ’92, returned at the head of the poll as
M.P. for the democratic centre of West Sydney;
Young failed in his latter years to get into the
Assembly, and accepted an Upper House nomina-
tion. Playfair was successively a man-o’-wars-
man, a benevolent butcher, an alderman and
Mayor of Sydney, and an M.P. Young
fought in China against the Tae-pings, worked
as a Sydney wharf-laborer, made a pile as
a 'publican, became an alderman and Transit-
Commissioner, and M.L.O. Playfair was
English—an Essex native ; Young was Scotch.
Sylvester Browne “did” the Melbourne
Cup with enthusiasm, but he has probably lost a
good deal of the old desire for a stud. The Turf
was a field where the lucky mining speculator
didn’t strike it rich.
The German warship Sperber has taken
old Mataafa away from Nukunono (Tokelaus) to
Jaluit, Marshall Islands. Once there—the most
God-forgotten hole in the Pacific —the old warrior
will presently die of fret and soul-wearihess.
“ What man in genuine need ever applied
to Matthew D ivies, in boom time, without re-
ceiving substantial help?” asks a Bulletin cor-
respondent. “There are spots on the sun, and
similarly there is a good deal of human nature in a
bank-director.”
The Anglican Bishop of Brisbane, now on
a begging expedition in England, says he won’t
return till he has collected .£50,000 for “the
Caws ”in Queensland. At this rate he isn’t likely
/to be heard of again in these parts till well on in
next century.
A special attraction of a Prahran (Melb.)
shop-front is a trophy of several articles of under-
clothing (unwashed) formerly belonging to mur-
derer Deeming, deceased. An innovation in
artistic window-dressing which deserves much en-
couragement.
Cable : “ Mr. Frank May, chief cashier of
the Bank of England, has resigned.” A man
whose autograph was welcomed and familiar in
millions of homes. “F. May’s” signature was
perhaps more widely known than that of any
man who ever lived.
Assuming that S.A. Premier Kingston
remains in office, Symon, Q.C., will sacrifice over
£ 1000 per annum in fees through their quarrel.
“ I will not appear in any case for the Govern-
ment as long as O. O. Kingston is its chief
officer,” says Symon,
The young lady of Malta, who was lately
married to a very “high” personage, has, it is
said, been “arranged” with by the Royal solicitor
in such matters for £2OOO a year—proper provision
being made also for the child or children (present
and future) in the event of the mother’s death.
Bradley, eminent embezzler, has been
transferred from Darlinghurst Gaol (Sydney) to
another prison, and is now employed at cracking
stones, instead of dispensing medicines, somebody
having “ peached ” upon a genial practice he fol-
lowed of giving alcohol in various forms to his
mates.
Kate Bushnell, M.D., lady evangelist, who
was in Australia a year ago, has since toured
through India, inspecting the brothels officially
provided for the soldiers of the white civiliser.
Now she is in London, exploiting the subject, re
which the State-paid bishops maintain an ominous
silence.
Simpson Newland, the much - boomed
author of “Paving the Way : A Romance of the
Australian Bush,” was formerly S.A. Treasurer.
He stands about sft. 2in., wears a long beard, and
a belltopper, and could be distinguished anywhere
by his infantile voice. He has made a fortune out
of squatting.
Antoinette Sterling has not forgotten the
souls of Australian pressmen. She wrote, by a
recent mail, to the musical critic of an Adelaide
paper, styling him “Journalist, child of God and
poet.” Then followed a fervid appeal that he
Photo. by Fie man & Co.] [George street, Sydney.
THE LATE THOMAS PLAYFAIR.
would leave sin, and especially wicked women,
severely alone.
It is sad to remember that when David
Gaunson first beat the “ Dove of Ararat,”
M'Lellan, in the constituency named, and thus
entered Vic. Assembly, he was a most pronounced
Radical. He married money and the elder
daughter of the Scott who gave his name to Mel-
bourne’s famous hotel.
Ex City-Solicitor Merriman, charged with
heavy official embezzlements, but not arrested
because of illness, died of brain disease last week
in a private hospital. The malady seems to have
been of gradual growth, and the case is one tend-
ing to show how difficult it is to properly gauge
the extent of human responsibility.
Lawyer Piddington’s eloquent protest
against working the coal-seams in and around
Sydney, lest scenic beauties have “their
wonderful glories of light and colour dimmed with
a pervading infusion of gloom ” is a reminder that
it needs a good deal of sense and natural ability to
study Keats and Wordsworth with impunity.
It is printed that the late Thomas Cooper
Makinson, a Cambridge 8.A., who arrived in
Sydney in ’37 as an Anglican clergyman and after-
wards “ ’verted ” to Rome, was the real author of
the Pastoral Letters for which the late Archbishop
Folding (whose private secretary Mr. Makinson
was) was so famous. He was 85 years of age
when he died near Sydney the other day, and
had been quite blind for about a decade.
Two recent announcements
from London-papers : (1) “ H.R.H.
the Prince of Wales will next
week pay a visit of some days’
duration to Lord and Lady
Brooke.” (2) “The Princess of
Wales has decided to prolong her
stay in Denmark indefinitely.”
“Your old friend, the yawn-
ing Carington,” says The Bulle-
tin’s London correspondent, “is
surely playing it ‘a bit low down ’
as Lord Chamberlain. He not
alone gave hints as to how people
should demean themselves in the
brilliant drawing-room scene in
‘Utopia Limited,’ but he actually
attended more than one rehearsal
—apparently as a sort of deputy-
assistant-stage - manager —to see
that everything was right before
he gave his august cachet to the
performance.”
Patchett Martin is at work on
a new book, to be called “ True
Stories from Australian History ”
—which will, he says, contain some
new and wonderful anecdotes of
William Charles Wentworth. In
all probability they will be spicy,
as, no doubt, they have their origin
in the papers of the late Lord
Sherbrooke, a sworn private enemy,
as well as a bitter political oppo-
nent, of W.C.W. Lowe’s hatred
for Wentworth was extended to his
family, and during the trial of the
divorce-case against a certain arch-
deacon, brought by his wife, nie
Wentworth, Lord and Lady Sher-
brooke found the “sinews of war ”
for the amorous church-dignitary.
By the way, G. B. Barton’s
“ Life of Wentworth ” will soon be
out.
M‘Kenzie Bowell’s mission from Canada
was one huge junket. He got through a dozen
“banquets,” a round of Melbourne “ Carnival
festivities, and a valedictory picnic. Then he had
a grand bilious attack and took himself back to
his winter snows, after mentioning that the con-
ference he came to attend will have to be held in
Canada, after all. Mr. Bowell was, in all pro-
bability, nothing but a business envoy from the
Canadian Pacific Railway,
“It was me,” answered Tommy Dodd,
from the Strangers’ Gallery of N.S.W. Parliament,
when the Speaker demanded who it was had called
a member of the House a liar; and Tommy’s
grammar was at once scored down against him.
But “me” in olden time was nominative as well
as objective. Dean Alford, a verbal purist and
author of several syntactical treatises, says “ me ”
is the natural conclusion of such a sentence as
Dodd used, and that he himself would adhere to
its use were it not for the ignorant outcries of
would-be English grammarians.
N.S. Wales Supreme Court Judges delight
in horsehair and man-millinery. Justice Owem
photo’d in gorgeous black and gold, is on view
at Freeman and Co.’s, George-street, Sydney,
with Chief Justice Darley close handy in
knee-breeches and buckles. In one of the
arcades cheek -by - jowl are Justices Stephen
and Manning in “ Queen’s Bench robes,” en-
deavouring to look solemn and wise ; alongside is
old ex-Judge Faucett in dittoes. Brother Foster
had his photos, done, but looked such a guy that
he bought them all up and burned them. Justice
Innes is said to be averse to photos.
I" The prize Pooh-Bah of Australasia is said
to be Policeman O’Rorke, of Otaki (M.L.). This
burdened officer, in addition to being an ordinary
constable, is clerk of the local court, clerk of the
licensing committee, registrar of electors, bailiff,
inspector of weights and measures, inspector of
factories, inspector of slaughter - houses, in-
spector of vehicles, inspector of noxious weeds,
agent for the Government Labour Bureau,
agent for the Government Trustee, inspector
under the Adulteration Act, registrar of dogs,
inspector of nuisances, inspector of licensed
houses, and ranger for the Acclimatisation
Society.
The Chesterfield of the South Seas is
undoubtedly Mr. Brigham, of Honolulu, now in
Sydney. Speaking of the young ex Queen Liliuo-
kalini, he says : “ The Queen is an accomplished
woman, can play and compose, and can entertain
with profuse liberality. She possesses, however,
personal qualities—failings they might more pro-
perly be called—which the gentleman interviewer
thinks utterly unfit her for the responsible duties
of a constitutional sovereign.” The beauteous
Queen Emma was also built that way. But the
graceful manner in which Mr. Brigham—yes,
Brigham ! —alludes to the royal “ failings ” is
simply charming.
Henniker Heaton usually invents his own
anecdotes, but the following bears some impress of
genuineness :—“ Scene, a rural post-office in Kent,
into which Mr. Heaton enters for six penn’orth
of stamps—neat. Postmaster chatty, and Mr.
Heaton not inaccessible. ‘ Things quiet ?’ asked
the visitor. ‘Very,’ replied the postmaster,
handing up a bundle of firewood and a jar of
treacle for a juvenile customer before proceeding
to balance his savings-bank sheet; ‘ and what is
more, we shall have it quieter if this ’ere man at
Canterbury has his way.’ ‘What’s that?’
demanded the interested stranger. ‘ Why, he
wants us to telegraph two words and call ’em one.
The wages here is bad enough already. Do
you think it’s fair to the taxpayer ’Enniker-’Eaton
should go for a ha’penny ?’ ”
The much-execrated “Bobby” Ross, ol
Taranganba (Q.) and Newcastle (N.S.W.), died at
the former place, a charming spot east of Rock-
hampton, and facing the Pacific. In his day, he
was a great horsey man, and held miles of rich
land on the coast, including that white elephant
of a bathing-place—Emu Park, bought from him
by a Griffith Government. Later on, he took to
mining—on private property. He found (or
founded) the famous Pigstye “ reef ” (?) on Taran-
Mr. H. R. HARWOOD.
ganba, which was to outvie Mount Morgan. Old
Bob could find gold everywhere; with a lantern
he could find it even at night. But no other
fellow could. And yet a lot of notable Sydneyites,
including even such level-headed people as
Ebenezer Vickery, sank thousands on the Pigstye,
which Ross duly pocketed.
Oar old friend Harwood’s pretty property
at Heidelberg, near Melbourne, which represents
most of old Uncle Catterrnole’s savings through a
long and industrious life, has, we grieve to hear,
gone to pay calls on reconstructed bank-shares.
This is “ La Cigale ” upside down ; it is not the
grasshopper but the poor ant that is out in the
snow these days. The man who has saved nothing
has no calls to pay, while the hard-working econo-
mist is put on the list of contributories and
bailiffed if he doesn’t settle up.
Edward Boyd Cullen, Under-Treasurer of
Queensland, who died at Brisbane of influenza on
Saturday, was a Scotch parson’s son, and had
been in Australia about 45 years. He was of old
a bank-clerk, and the first manager of Ipswich
branch of the B.N.S.W. Likewise, he was
Ipswich’s first Town Clerk, and, at one time, was
secretary to the wild, bushman-made North Aus-
tralian Club of that town. The N.A. was the
first club in Queensland, old Limestone, as Ipswich
was then called, being practically the business
capital of the province. Cullen went on a station
awhile and joined the Civil Service in ’6l, being
made Chief Treasury Clerk in ’62, and Under-
secretary in 77. The ex-secretary of a club in
which foregathered such men as Joshua Bell,
Wienholt, Macalister, Ferrett, Yaldwyn, George
Thorn, Faircloth, and everybody who was any-
body in the then moving country, couldn’t fail to
have a tremendous lot of political influence.
For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System,” by “Price
Waning. ”
Adelaide merchants are already fingering
the butter bonus, meant for the producer. By
the way, the Massilia takes to England 600 tons
of Victorian and 100 tons of N.S.W. butter.


PHOTOGRAPHY.
(Portrait Photographers)
Royal Sydney.
VUi
cutiacAxis
{ouuL
si(>dujx tXr.
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ A speech may change an opinion, never
a vote.”
Ex-Gov. Onslow says that without Protec-
tion in Maoriland, eight hours is an impossibility.
More white lepers ! Until the Chow is
utterly excluded, our quarantine system remains a
howling farce.
The resignation of Mr. A. J. Riley and
the death of Mr. J. D, Young leaves 67 members
in N.S.W. Legislative Council.
A certain North Queensland M.P. has
three Jaypees working in his store, one being the
Constituency who returned him.
The agitation in various parts of N.S.W.
to extend the Chinese Restriction Act to other
coloured races makes a healthy sign.
Some “ real live” men—men with corns
on their hands and with brains—are candidates
for the coming Tasmanian elections,
N.S. Wales Democracy can’t afford to
allow the perpetuation of the lash—the hereditary
weapon of the local privileged classes.
A way-back candidate at last S.A. elec-
tions, asked if he believed in Woman Suffrage,
replied: “No; I think she has suffered enough
already.”
From a lady’s letter from England :—“ I
think it fatal for a man like Dibbs to get a title.
‘Those whom the gods wish to destroy they first
decorate. ’ ”
Gladstone declares “ that when the war is
ended the Imperial Government will treat the
Matabeles with”—snuffle—“justice, humanity,
and mercy.”
“ England can afford to incur some loss on
the export of English goods for the purpose of
destroying manufactures in their cradle.” —Lord
Brougham (1815).
During 1892 24,000 males and 18,000
females emigrated from Japan to New Caledonia,
the Australias and the Pacific Islands. The bulk
of these went to Hawaii.
Argus: “No more wages can be taken
out of a trade than profits and prices allow.” Up-
end it: “No more profits can be taken out of a
trade than wages and prices allow ” ?
It is said that if Sydney unemployed would
walk on all-fours through the streets, and bark
like dogs, several ladies in spectacles, representing
the S.P.G.A., would take them out food.
TAKING THEIR MEASURE.
ROAD CONTRACTOR: “What sort of work do you want?"
UNEMPLOYED: “Oh, anything.”
ROAD CONTRACTOR: “Well, how much a million do you want to kill
these blooming muskeeters?”
The cable that Flourens asserts that
French interests demand a Russian Mediter-
ranean fleet sounds a bugle-note which may mean
the re-opening of “ The Eastern Question.” Visi-
ble attempts to create a real war-scare in Germany
and France look more serious than usual.
G. D. Meudell, stock-broker and shining
light of Melb. small-boys’ bogus-Patriotic Asso-
ciation, now in London, tells a Colonial Institute
meeting that the Vic. Labour-party is led by
asses. But not by the National Ass — that’s the
trouble. G.D.M. travels on his superior breed.
The Dibbs Govt, has just completed its
second year. It has had but one seceder —Salo-
mons—but any amount of ill-health, and will be
known in history as the “ Indisposed ” Ministry.
Dear Bulletin, —A war would solve the
unemployed difficulty. There are, I suppose,
50,000 unemployed Australians who would accept
3s. 4d. a day to go and invade England,—Yours,
M.S.
Under Dibbs’ N.S.W. banking-bill, the
capital of any one bank cannot be reckoned for
note-issue purposes at more than .£666,666. The
“number ” of “ the Beast ” of Revelations —twice
over.
“ A mule being dissatisfied with its food, its
master remarked that its ancestor used to be happy
with a feed of thistles. ‘ Alas !it is true,’
replied the mule; ‘ but, you know, my ancestor
was an ass.’ ”
A pregnant sign of the times is the recent
vote in the British House of Commons, carried
against the Government by a majority of 21, to
give votes to qualified women under the Parish
Councils Bill,
G. H. Reid believes Parliamentary debates
form public opinion ; Parkes, that public opinion
is the matter of Parliamentary debates. The
difference between the principles is that between
the originator and the executor.
“ It is the members who object to pay-
ment who are absent,” interjected N.S.W. Labour-
leader Cook, on an attempt being made to make
absence form an important argument for the
abolition of payment of members.
Can it be true that Mr. Millen, the
Bourke “Carriers’ Union” delegate to N.S.W.
Labour Conference, just concluded, is an active
member of the National Ass? He contributed,
according to published list, £2 2s. to its funds.
Premier Patterson, his underlip trembling
with honest emotion, told aCastlemaine banquet:
“It might be said that the present Victorian
Government had revived the corpse of public
credit.” Well, there is no law to stop lies.
S.A.'Premier Kingston’s doctrine is that
paid politicians should give the best hours of the
day to the State. Already the Assembly sits at
10.30 a.m. on Thursdays, and morning sittings on
Tuesdays and Wednesdays will shortly be entered
upon.
The New Hebrides natives live ahead of
“civilisation.” When a man dies there, his pro-
perty is distributed among the tribe, his relatives
getting no more than utter strangers. On this
subject, read Max Nordau’s “ Conventional Lies
of Civilisation.”
The question as to whether or not private
landowners in N.S. Wales are entitled to the gold
beneath the surface should at once be taken out of
the hands of politicians and submitted for judicial
decision. If landowners own the gold they own
100 per cent, of it; if they don’t own it, their
claim is 0 per cent. The question is one for more
virile treatment than it can possibly get from
plastic politicians, accommodating party men and
landowners’ agents, and the sooner a legally
authoritative decision is arrived at the sooner the
public will know whether or not they have been
robbed and how best and most speedily they may
indemnify themselves.
“The peasant,
who congratulates him-
self on the birth of
every calf, who counts,
with complacency, his
litter of young pigs,
and reports the num-
ber, smiling, to his
neighbour—this same
peasant listensgloomily
when he hears that
his wife has brought
him an addition to
the small number of
children that he hopes
to be able to rear.”
—Rebel.
Victoria is seem-
ingly on the point of
declaring war against
some foreign Power,
or Powers, unknown.
An indignant person
wrote to the Argus
the other day, com-
plaining that the
Mounted Rifles (male
and female) had not
been glorified at the
Mayor of Melbourne’s
dinner. In answer to
this grievance, a cer-
tain colonel, instructed
by the local field-mar-
shal, sent a letter con-
taining a mysterious
reference to the Rifles
aforesaid;—“Some of
them may probably
have before long a
chance of showing, not
only the people of
England, but also those
of another country,
what they can do in
work where a mistake
will involve something
more than the loss of
a few points for a
prize.” There is a faint
odour of red-hot blood
about the colonel’s
hints. What is this
frivolous enternrise in
store for Price’s buff
and brown warriors ?
Waddell, M.L. A. (N.S.W.), argued irre-
fragably, and in an ugly ad hominem fashion, when
he contended that a Parliament which authorised
the free postage of newspapers, because of their
assumed educational qualities, was bound to make
its system of compulsory public education also
free.
Robertson, vinegar-maker, is the Demo-
cratic candidate for Adelaide mayoralty; the
National Ass will support Willcox, the present
Mayor. Sketheway, who split the votes with
Robertson last year, and who yet came within
half-a-dozen of Willcox, retires as the result of
the drawing of lots.
Premier Dibbs (N.S.W.) says that the
Australian ambassadors to be sent to Canada
should be Ministers, and not outsiders—repre-
sentatives, with power to act. Which possibly
means that Tom Slattery is pining for his little
holiday at State expense. By the way, Kidd was
a “representative, with power to act,” in the
matter of the New Caledonian cable subsidy.
And he did act.
The proposed conference of Australian and
Canadian representatives, which is to send Aus-
tralians to Canada, or bring Canadians to Aus-
tralia on professedly political business, is said, in
many quarters, to have been engineered by the
Huddart-Parker Co. and its astute agents for
purely commercial objects.
Hindle, M.P. (N.S.W.), is concerned for
the victims of the drink curse: “There came to
me a man with the brow of Shakespeare, with the
language of an orator, and the pen of a poet.”
Samson Havnes, M.P. : “No wonder he went
down.” “The language of an orator!” It is
more fatal than the animal alkaloids.
Out of the last load of Gilbert Islanders
taken by the American black-birder Montserrat
to San Jose de Guatemala, only 30 per cent. vver e
IN DIFFERENT LIGHTS.
MAUD (whose father has been divorced) : “When I marry I shall try to get
a husband that I can keep.”
JANE (whose father is poor): “Well. Miss Maud, I’d like one who could
keep me.”
alive at the end of last year. The coffee-growing
syndicate (British) who run the Montserrat also
owned the brigantine Tahiti that, about 10 months
ago, turned turtle with 270 Gilbert Islanders.
The Brazilian insurgent leader, De Mello,
has proclaimed young Pedro, grandson of old Dora
Pedro, as Emperor of Brazil. Even if he gets his
throne, however, the monarchy will never again
be what it was. The nation has put its foot
through it once, and the dynasty which has once
been booted by its loyal subjects has lost its
mana.
Solomon, M.P., got off a stonewalling
speech of five hours during a late all-night S. A.
Assembly sitting. An admirer brought the orator
a glass of whisky, and Treasurer Playford barked :
“That’s right; he’ll be drunk soon! bolomon
picked up the liquor threateningly and, leaning
over the benches, cried : “ Say that again and 111
sling it over you!”
Bryan O’Loghlen always takes the cake.
His latest staggerer is an announcement that Vic-
toria, owing to the enormous improvement m
public finances, need not borrow any more money
for five years. Every collector of “statesman-
like ” utterances should put this down in his little
book. November, 1893—8. O’L. says no more
loans necessary for five years.
A Parliament is known, not by the
measures it passes, but by those it rejects.
Slaughtered innocents of last Vic. Session :
Referendum, Income-Tax, Totalisator, Redaction
of Governor’s Salary, Reduction of Supreme
Court Judges’ Salaries, Libel Law Amendnient,
Stamping of Furniture, Grand Juries Law
Amendment. In this funking before Fat, honours
are divided between the two Houses.
N.S.W. State school Australian history
“The practice of employing these South Sea Islanders
or Kanakas, as they were called, soon became general,
and parts of Queensland had all the appearance of the
American plantations, where crowds of dusky figures,
decked in the brightest of colours, plied their labours
with laughter and with song among the tall cane-brakes
or the bursting pods of cotton.”
Fat Man gets in everywhere. Infancy is the
time to poison a human mind.
The clause in the Sydney City Oounci 1
Electric Lighting Bill to enable the Corporation
to sub-lease its powers to Private Enterprise &
Co., should be resisted strenuously. Brays
Martin, M.P.:—
“ If it should ever happen that a contract is given by
the Corporation to some company, it will be done in-
telligently, honestly, and in the interests of the citizens.”
As it was in the beginning, and is now, so it ever
will be—if you don’t bind ’em.
Speaking of the “English” navy, the
Aequs emits a patriotic shriek “Probably not
even the French and Russian navies combined are
equal to it, above all in the skill of the officers and
the courage of the crews.” Pure theory ! What
the first great naval battle may bring forth no man
can foretell. And how the bold British tar de-
generates ! Not so long ago he was held good
enough for seven Frenchmen before breakfast;
now he is only equal to one Frank and a blessed
Muscovite or two.
Joseph Creer’s report to Premier Dibbs on
the quality of N.S.W. Labour Bureau bread ends
in a pitiably reprehensible sting. “ I find from
my experience,” writes the broken-down politi-
cian, “ that those who are ever ready to complain
of all they get and what-is done for them, are the
least deserving.” What is done for them ! Joseph,
like Lady Bountiful, appears to think that he is
the donor and not merely the paid distributor.
What if someone should remind him of what poli-
tical friends have done for him, and of how the
very persons he assumes such airs over are actually
taxed to pay him 1
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
18 of this issue.
Send Bd. in stamps for a copy of Xmaa
Bulletin, posted to any Australasian address.
England and abroad, lOd. in stamps.
“King Lobengula has treated the mis-
sionaries with great consideration and kindness
during the war. At the outbreak of hostilities he
received the missionaries in a kindly manner, and
had them escorted in safety to Tati.” Which
reads strangely beside the Lord Bishop of Deny s
frenzied Christian screech for the blaok man s
blood!
Jn Maoriland, by far the most prosperous
0 j t ), e Australasias, the a verage customs duties
are 24 per cent; in Victoria they only amount to
10 per cent. The Freetraders who want to demon-
strute the horrors of Protection and high tariffs
might as well give up pointing to Victoria as the
awful example of Australasia, and take a turn at
Maoriland instead. Victoria never la more
than half a Protectionist tariff at any time.
When the ques-
tion of female suffrage
came before the Reich-
stag, a plutocrat was
intensely funny, on a
legislatress attending
the House in an in-
teresting condition.
“ Sir,” said a Social
Democrat, “if we are
to apply the standard
of aesthetic gratifica-
tion to the external
appearance of the
people’s representa-
tives, many of the
present members of
the House . might
stand the test very
indifferently. Many
are provided with a
superfluous corpu-
lence, which they do
not owe to a tem-
porary and highly im-
portant natural pro-
cess, but to the ex-
cessive care of their
own persons, at the
expense of their
character and their
intelligence. Super-
fluous corpulence is,
as a rule, the sign of
a self-indulgent exis-
tence, while preg-
nancy is the sign of
physical health, and
bears witness to the
conscientious fulfil-
ment of a natural voca-
tion.”
The N.S.W. Labour-members, at a meet-
ing of 24 of their number, adopted resolutions
deprecating the very evident antagonism to them
of the late Labour Conference, and asserting their
right to devise their own plan of campaign inside
Parliament, as well as declining to accept all the
suggestions of the late Conference. In January
next, commencing on 17th, there is to be a confer-
ence of Labour-members from the various Aus-
tralian legislatures; and, several days later, the
Annual Conference of N.S.W. Labour Leagues
will be held. Meanwhile the N.S.W. Labour-
members declare that they will adhere to the
platform on which they were elected.
Major-General Hutton’s official declaration
that he found in the Vic. military forces a feeling
of goodwill towards their N.S.W. com pan ions-in-
arms, is a tin-whistle attempt to play Franco-
Eussian military amenities. Postmaster-General
Kidd might as well announce that on his visit to
Melb. he found theG.P.O. officials there animated
with sentiments of cordiality towards the proud
myrmidons who sort letters in his own edifice ; or
Inspector Fosbery might as well issue an official
bulletin to make known that the bobbies of Col-
lingwood entertained, on the occasion of his asking
them, fraternal sentiments towards their kin of
Woolloomooloo.
“The Englishman’s house is his castle,”
quoted Bruce Smith, in N.S.W. Assembly, in an
effort to prove that property was always sacred in
the eyes of the Anglo-Saxon. As a matter of
schoolboy history, Bruce Smith was wholly astray
in the application he made of the apothegm. The
Englishman’s house was not and is not his castle
in the sense of its being Property; indeed, he
can be thrown out of it very easily, where his only
claim to it is of that nature. But it was and is
his castle, inasmuch as when he has entered it
and closed his door his personal freedom is as
secure as was that of the occupant of a fortified
castle. Traill’s interjection, implying that
“ Liberty ” and not “ Property ” was the essence
of the apothegm, was understood by only a few, in
the House ; but it gave a cue which should have
awakened the intelligence of members.
Now that several general elections are
at hand in different provinces, the demand for
an automatic political egg-thrower again comes
to the front. When anywhere from two to fifty
people in the audience begin to egg an unpopular
candidate, the odds are obviously against that
candidate. What he wants, to enable him to hold
his own, is a large basket of ancient hen-product
and a machine with a-dozen iron hands which
will heave an egg with each hand twenty times a
minute, and thus keep up the politician’s end
of the combat while he goes on with his discourse
hidden behind an umbrella. Thk Bulletin has
seen the constituents egging their member often
enough ; what it wants now is to see the member
having a fair shot in return. There is a great
future before the man who invents an automatic
egg-thrower—say on the Maxim-gun principle.
In chronic diseases, medicines should be re-
storing and not debilitating in their action. The
strengthening and curative effects realised from
the use of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla sustain the repu-
tation of this remedy.


-ihi
WHAT MAT HAPPEN.
Resolution (at a Sydney Labour-Conference meeting): “That in the opinion of this meeting it is highly important that the Lord Mayor of London be communicated with, soliciting his co-operation, and further, that he be asked to open subscription-lists in
London for the destitute of this country.”
JOHN BULL: “Look here, if you’d come here to borrow I’d talk to you; but to beg —well, that is another matter. Here, James" (ringing a bell), "turn on the Maxim-gun!"


5092 ion CiHGUK: cvr/"
<r?/.
• o*Xo commit those moa for
trial would bo to create the greatest oon*
aternation amongst the banking community
that had ever taken place
D,NC
xcv
ZBEFO! f£
<THe sroEM
-— — c p
f/f TE R THE STo H A/? _
Wb.,a ihs
cisa watt first launched by Duokor there was
a great deal in the public mind that ap-
peared to justify it. It was the only bank
oi is-ue that bad failed. it had a t*rrio!y
dark complexion. But tho sunnonsion
of cli the other banks since - iht-ft
had swept away that darkness,
Q&vtnsonion fit'/u.menlfj
I 111
'Si? Bryan
O’Lo/alen tad a European reputation.
Hi'/ father was the, first Roman Cathelio
Kaeter of the Rolls in Ireland, and the first
great Equity judge that took office after
Roman Catholic emancipation. His
brother, i Sir Coleman O’Loghlen, was
Attorney - General for Ireland in
the Gladstone Government,
hei-eis
Ci j3or"tt-ail~ of ,
SirJrj'an's I
yr*a.t~
*{ n otUf V'a.lua.b /t
piece oji
c/idcncc.
C.S7. of? 3,
\
l */j r
1 *r
W/J^r'
**//// /
Xs-
# />V/ -f
- /■? /rJ'
sv > ~ x> /0\
°,<f
Oasttetnamc was fortunate kiT
' its choice of a member, ami tbrico fortunate
-was the latter in alighting on a constituency eo
boatful as CasUemaine. Mr. Patterson’s whole
U.Uc was au objrot leusmu.
M 3.7, i 7c fc,l wl, l-i- L- t.
YC
The present prosecution was the
cruellest persecution and the greatest fart&i
that ever disgraced a Christmas pautomirp^;
m. rison ion. eitT~ edYtyi.
* <?>-i do »Sl
/n ya/Yom e.
CHIEFLY ABOUT THE MERCANTILE CASE.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
chison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
world. Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer-
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
.£lO each on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well-known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
nx
Wonderful §jscovery !
R O S E’S
CELEBRATED
EY B LOTION .
THIS Lotion cures Swelliny and Sand;/ Uliyht,
Inflamed Eyes and Lids, Dimness of Sly hi.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strenythens the siyht. By post, 3s, per Hottle.
IST - Manufactured Solely by 11. A. ItOSK. Clieuiisl,
631 GEORGE y.TREET, SYDNEY,
WOLFE’S
SCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
A
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
and
INVIGORATING
CORDIAL
NEW YORK.*
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSIIBSTITIITE
“'■for
Wolfes
Schnapps
Society
Gov. Duff antidoted bis statement that
Melbawne is “the finest city in the Southern
Hemisphere ” by informing Premier Patterson
that lie “ admires the people of Sydney, a city pos-
sessing a charm of scenery that is noticeable by
its absence ” at the other place. And now we
want to know whether his Excellency admires
ihe people of Smellbourne, and if so, which people?
• * *
It is whispered at Newmarket (Eng.) that
an Australian who has been going the (racing)
pace —his horses haven’t, by the way, won much—
is in sore straits for money. The old gentleman
has been appealed to, and doesn’t like it.
* # *
Miss Ethel Stephen, daughter of Mr.
“ Seppy ” Stephen, of Sydney, was, at latest, to
marry, in England, a Mr. Bunn, or rather a gen-
tleman whose name was Bunn, but who changed
that somewhat unaristocratic cognomen for the
more euphonious one of De la Salle, “oncoming
into the property.” Mr. De la Salle is not, as
you might possibly think, connected with the
Boulevard St. Germain, but is a wealthy young
Scotchman.
* * •
Yice-regal private secretary Galton read
two papers at Sydney Women’s Literary Club,
last week. He told the dears —he-dears as well as
she-dears —that it was a fluky chance that he was
able to drop ’em anything ; but, some years ago,
he had been asked to write a series of lectures in
such simple style as the common people of the
East End of London might be able to understand,
and these papers were two of that series. “But
I don’t expect that you’ll understand them, for all
that, haw!” was what he didn’t say—at least,
not aloud.
• • •
Some of the women awaiting confinement
i n Sydney Benevolen t Asyl u in are not g i ven separate
beds, but are instead, according to the official
report of the medical staff, “ packed together, like
sardines in a tin !” If so, what a disgrace the fact
is to the wealthy women of Sydney and to the
Government, which not long ago jointly en-
dowed the Women’s College, devoted purely to
the use of rich people, with .£lO,OOOl
* # •
Newtown (Sydney) Council keeps per-
sistently representing to Government the necessity
for promoting the two local policemen who dug up
the dead infants in Makin’s back-yard. The
Council, or some of it, has now been writing
letters for some time concerning the superhuman
intelligence of these two officers, and is aggra-
vated—not to say abusive—because Government
doesn’t see anything unusual about them. The
general public also doesn’t see anything very
unusual about them. A local resident, being
LOOKING AHEAD.
YOUNG HARDUP: “You know, Kitty, they say that two can live
together as cheaply as one.”
KITTY ( meditatively ): “But they don’t say for how long.”
-■track with the horrible effluvium in his yard, pu
them on the track, and the rest of the investiga-
tion was mostly hard, but commonplace, pick-
and-shovel work. It involved a good deal of
unwonted perspiration, and some danger of
infection when the decomposed exhibits were
brought to light, but otherwise there doesn t seem
to be much in it. The ordinary criminal isn t
generally run down with a pick and shovel, and
even an officer of first-class digging capacity may
not be otherwise anywhere above the average.
# • *
Thus the Review of Reviews re Mount
Morgan gold-robberies
It has been suspected that a conspiracy existed among
some of the workmen to steal gold-laden charcoal and
gold amalgam. A Sydney detective was at last employed
who showed a skill worthy of Sherlock Holmes himself, or
of the hero of the Du Boisgobey novels. _ He obtained
employment in the mine, won the confidence of the
thieves, was made a partner in their plans, watched the
whole process by which gold was stolen, and followed it
until it was sold to the receiver. Mount Morgan gold is
of specially fine quality, and its mere purity will enable it
to be identified anywhere. The thieves, however, in-
geniously debased it by means of alloys. The euilty
employes joyfully reckoned their plunder at £2OOO a
month. Nine men have been arrested, and the Australian
law-courts have witnessed few more dramatic scenes,”
&c., &c., &c.
In the light of plain fact, the foregoing (a fair
specimen of the sensational stuff appearing in the
daily press) is absurd. The Sydney detective’s
skill consisted largely in gleaning the
maudlin utterances of a drunken man. Of the
nine men arrested, several have been already dis-
charged, and the evidence against three of the
others is of the flimsiest description. There is not,
so far, one tittle of evidence to support the assertion
that the gold was “ ingeniously debased,” and the
statement that Mount Morgan gold can always
be detected by reason of its purity was contra-
dicted in court by the acting-manager. Alto-
gether, the “ Great Gold Robbery ” of a hundred
glaring head-lines bids fair to turn out the very
smallest of small potatoes.
# • *
Side by side in the Adelaide papers, in
Cup week, were printed one paragraph stating that
the police intended to stringently enforce the
Anti-Gambling Act and another announcing that
ex-Minister Handyside had won the Assembly
sweep with Taroopla.
# * •
Two advts. from S.A. Advertiser, 7th
Nov. :
JUMBO (Afghan), aged 27, storekeeper and camel
owner at Hergott Springs, in a good way, wants
a young woman as WIFE, educated and competent
to manage store ; good home and every attention to
suitable woman. Address “Jumbo,” care Hadje
Mullah, Little Gilbert-street, Adelaide.
QERVANT GIRL Wanted for Hergott Springs ; able
to do plain sewing; expenses paid. Apply
“Jumbo,” care Hadje Mullah, Little Gilbert-street,
Adelaide.
Now, Mrs. Jumbo 1
• • •
Mrs. Victor Cohen saw Oscar Wilde’s
play, “A Woman of No Importance,” in
London the other month, and a tale at-
taches. It was doubtful whether Australian
Eleven arrangements would bring Victor back to
headquarters i.e., the Cohen apartments in
London—on this particular evening when Mrs. 0.
and a lady friend were going to the theatre, but a
towzle-headed slavey was told the name of the
play and instructed to explain matters in the event
of hubby returning between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m.
He did turn up, as it happened. Also, he asked
the question usually put by married men on such
occasions. The slavey scratched her head dreamily
for five minutes. At last she scratched out a
vague remembrance of the message “If yer
please, sir, Mrs. Cohen told me to tell you she
was gone to spend the evening with a woman of
not much account.” Then Victor scratched his
head until Madame came home.
The Anglican
clergy of an Australian
city are said to be
much exercised over
the action of one of
their beloved bishops
in confidentially con-
sulting the worldly
Colonel of a cavalry
regiment re the appoint-
ment of another bishop,
to the utter disregard
of the opinions of two
high prelates. To those
who know him, the gay
old soldier in the new
rdle of church referee
is “ simply immense.”
% »
A N.Q. correspon-
dent complains that
the local penal code is
changing. Horse-steal-
ing, which used to
mean from seven to 10
years, can now be con-
doned with a .£lO or
£2O fine; cattle-duffing
only risks a £2 fine,
and (in the character-
istic language of our
correspondent) “if he
is not found out, he has
the calf.” The most
severely - punished Q.
crime will soon be to
assault a Kanaka — i.e.,
another man’s Kanaka,
who is ox, ass, and valet
all in one.
* *
Women now wear
the names of ships on
their straw hats, but
people say not the ships
to which they belong,
* * »
Scene, Newcastle, N.S..W. Tram crowded,
anc j rea( jy bo start. Stout old gentleman in the
corner looking out saw a Syrian woman running,
heavily-loaded. “Hurry up !” lie yelled, “hurry
U pi>’ The woman, panting, stumbled in.
“You’ve five minutes to spare,” said the genial
Q ] d p ar ty ( whose adipose frame fairly shook with
chuckles. The woman, young and pretty, only
smiled, tossed her dishevelled hair from her face,
stooped and took a comb from her bundle and
proceeded to arrange her long, glossy locks,
Sitting beside the old fellow (she greatly incom-
nioded him thereby) she handed him the hairpins
to hold, and flashed her teeth when he showed
reluctance. Then the whole car roared, and
the fat gentleman stepped out, very red, to the
salute of, “ Hurry away ! Hurry away ! You’ve
half a minute to get out of sight.”
* * •
Lady Sarah Wilson, confronted by a lump
of damper, said that it reminded her so much of
the cakes which Alfred the Great (her husband’s
ancestor) forgot to take off the fire. Or The
Bulletin says she said it, which amounts to
almost the same thing.
#* . *
Married clergy formed a burning question
at Melb, Wesleyan Conference last week. It is
1. Lodger ; u Ah ! Nov.-, if I only had
some’at bn my stummick I could go to sleep ’appy I ”
2.—FiRSf Aeronaut; “ She’s a
sinking,’ Professor ; look how our
coat-tails is a-flying up’ards ! ”
Second Aeronaut : “ A-sinking,
is she T Then overboard goes this
here sandbag! '*
3.—Arid the Domain Lodger, who happens
to be lying in just the right place, gets “nome’at
on his-stummick.”
THE UPS AND DOWNS OF LIFE.
evident that the old monkery will have to come
round again, in some shape, for every congrega-
tion now tries to shog off the luckless married
parson, and few can open half-a-dozen side-shows
like Pastor Fitchett. The young women of the
flock are up in arms directly a married pastor is
proposed, though the frisky matrons don’t so much
care.
• * #
Chloroform, as is well-known, plays
strange pranks with the human tongue. The
other day, in Barataria, a religieuse (accompanied
by another sister, with a doctor in attendance)
visited the dentist to have a bad tooth extracted.
You should just hear the rest of the story.
• * •
Late on Derby-night, in a Melb. suburb,
an obfuscated person, who had been striking
matches and looking at the door-numbers
inquired of some residents how the numbers ran.
“What number do you want?” they asked.
“Oh,” replied he, “a hunderd and a helleraway
down the shtreet.”
* * *
Coroner Ghoul, of Melbourne, is getting
to be more and more afflicted with Cobbloquence
as he grows older. At every inquest he feels
called upon to make some eloquent remarks about
the corpse, and if the remarks don’t altogether fit
the corpse, that is the corpse’s own look-out. At
a recent inquest on James Irons, who blew out
his brains on an empty stomach one morning, it
transpired that the deceased was in the habit of
going to work at G. 30 and coming home at 9.30 for
breakfast. In the present instance, however, he
didn’t come home, because he was dead. Where-
upon Coroner Ghoul cleared his throat, and, after
some general remarks about death and the state of
continuing to be deceased after expiring, he
pointed out that poor Irons probably committed
the “rash act” for want of some refreshment to
keep him up, and directed the jury to find a ver-
dict accordingly. Which it did.
* * *
The more or less weekly leper comes in the
present instance from W. Maitland (N.S.W.). This
time the living death is a white girl, aged 16. The
local theory is that her case is connected in some
way with that of last week’s leper, or the leper of
the week before —the gangrened Asiatic who sold
lollies for many years at Newcastle, and shook the
germs from his decaying chest on to the confec-
tionery, which was afterwards eaten by the chil-
dren of the neighbourhood, _ Still this is only
theory; the one positive fact is that N.S. Wales
has got yet another leper.
# * *
Dean Cowper preached in St Andrew’s
Cathedral, Sydney, on Sunday last, among his
congregation being a contingent of the political
and social body known as the Active Service
Brigade. Beyond reading the red sheet called
Hard Cash during service the brigade made no
startling departure. The leaders hope, however,
that they will at an early date inaugurate an era
of smoking in church. Dean Cowper, who is in
his 84th year, abstained from alluding to the
contingent and discoursed, very ably for a man of
Ins years, on open topics,
* * *
A bush bankrupt, at the close of his exam-
ination in Sydney Insolvency Court, looked and
nodded significantly at the Registrar when that
official told him he might go. Some time after
the official came to know that the pantomime was
merely an invitation by the bankrupt to cross
over with him to a neighbouring hotel and take a
whisky.
# * *
True, every word of it. In the eighties, a
sturdy agriculturist was struggling to make a
living out of ten acres of ground, at a rental of £2O
a year. (His landlord was several Government
officials rolled into one, at .£5OO a year, and ran
his manage with Kanakas. But that, by the
way.) In ’B9, a dry year, our hero had a
crop of tobacco, but had much trouble pump-
ing up water from a lagoon. So he sank a
well in the middle of his cultivation, and contrived
all sorts of irrigating conveniences. One day,
early in ’9O, a friend who visited him said, l>y waj
of congratulation I see you’ve got a well this
season; you’ll be all right for your tobacco.
“Yea; I’ve got Divine Providence by the nose
this time, rain or no rain.” He got plenty of
rain—in fact, 10ft. or 15ft. all over his place ! So
he threw up the sponge. Moral
• • *
The staff of one Sydney daily suffer a
reduction in salary of 10 per cent, from Dec. Ist.
A Geraldtor
(W.A.) tailor’s advt.;
“W. R. Linthorne,
Tailor and Habit
Maker, Marine Ter-
race, Gerald ton. Also
Wines, Beers and
Spirits sold by the
Gallon.” Which vague-
ly reminds The Bulle-
tin of a preacher it
once knew who used
to chase bullocks in
his spare time by day,
and spend his evenings
mostly repairing boots
and looking for a new
comet. On the back of
the card is an intima-
tion that if The Bulle-
tin knowsof anyyoung
fellow who is going to
the goldfields the
above-mentioned gen-
tleman can supply him
with good suits and
liquor for his journey.
The advantage of being
able to get one’s beer
and his dress-suit at
the same shop are so
obvious that even the
most obtuse young fel-
low should be able to
recognise them.
* * *
An Englishman,
who claims that he can
trace all his father’s
right back to the Con-
queror, was, one recent
evening, the guest of
a certain Australian
Cabinet Minister.
Next morning he
married his host’s
chambermaid. Good
man ! There is always
hope for the ancient
race whose head will
. marry the cook.
The North American Review holds up
the U.S. divorce system to ridicule on the ground
of its excessive laxity, and instances, as a proof,
the case of a lady who was recently granted a
separation, in one of the States, because her hus-
band didn’t wash himself. The Bulletin hopes
ere long to see this same kind of laxity in Aus-
tralia. So long as there is a water-supply avail-
able. either husband or wife should be able to get
divorced if he or she can prove that the other
party to the marriage-contract doesn’t take a bath
every day. The marriage-contract, in the case of a
dirty person, ought, in short, to be absolutely null
and void.
Further, The Bulletin would require, as a
preliminary to marriage, that both bride and
bridegroom should declare that he or she has
washed regularly in the past and will con-
tinue to do so in the future, and that
the offspring of the marriage, if there are
any, shall be kept strictly clean, and the house
scrubbed regularly, and the back-yard swept at
least once a week. Also, the proviso that the bride
and bridegroom are to wash themselves persis-
tently should be inserted in the marriage service,
and read out aloud as an essential part of the
ceremonial. And if the marriage should prove a
failure and the parties finally land in the divorce-
court, the case should be heard by a clean-washed
judge, and any juryman who hasn’t had a bath
that morning should be treated as an absent jury-
man and fined accordingly.
Also, The Bulletin would subject a dirty wit-
ness absolutely to fine or imprisonment ; and when
a contract is made between two dirty parties it
should be invalid, and when made between one
dirtv person and a clean one it should be valid or
otherwise, at the option of the clean person ; and
if the clean person elected that it should be valid,
then he or she, the clean person aforesaid, should
get six months’ gaol for being dirty in the mind.
Further, no debt due to a dirty person should be
legally recoverable; and when any case rests on
the testimony of a dirty witness which is contra-
dicted by the equally reliable evidence of a clean
witness, the latter should always get the verdict.
No doubt it will take a long time to educate the
public up to this standard, but in the meantime
an Act providing that too long an interval be-
tween baths shall be sufficient cause_ of divorce
would at least be a step in the right direction.
• * «
“ Flemington lawn on Oaks Day,” writes
a Bulletin correspondent, “looked, to anyone


Many ladies admire gray hair -on some other
person—but few care to try its effects on their
own charms. They need not, since Ayer’s Hair
Vigor restores gray hair to its original color.
Sold by druggists and perfumers.
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to Our Order.
Their sterling merits have been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to pub
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, the sale has now reached phenomenal proportions
W. H. PALING A Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAY and SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBEL and LECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “VICTOR” and THE “BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 George Street, SYDNEY.
Largest Stock of New and Popular Music.
‘in the know,' like the exercise-yard of the old
Marshalsea prison.”
* * »
The latest retrenchment in N.S. Wales is
an economy in the matter of jurymen. When the
twelve men can’t arrive at a verdict they are
locked up in a cold, bare room, where
they_ are graciously permitted to sit straight up
all night and consider their verdict. A consider-
able saving in bedding is thus effected. The next
retrenchment should be in the matter of Judges ;
when they “ reserve their decision ” —which is
firactically the same thing—they should also be
ocked up in a bare and not over-clean apartment,
and kept there till they give judgment. Then
everything would be en suite. The prisoner is
locked up already, and the jury is looked up ; if
the Judge were confined in a special cell behind
the court-house and fed on skilly till the case
finished, things would at last begin to be
symmetrical.
• • *
“Was Glasson mad when he did the
Carcoar murders?” He was probably drunk—
with trouble. He had married a wife of whom he
was almost ridiculously fond, and whom he had
utterly misled as to his means, after the manner
of many men in love ; and seeing the pitiful
condition to which she had been reduced, and
full of remorseful apprehension as to their future,
he (perhaps taking his cue from the successful
bank-robbery, a few weeks previously, at Cargo,
in the Carcoar district) proceeded on his mad
mission—very likely intending robbery, and not
murder. “ I have been much struck,” writes Rev.
Geo. Walters, in a contemporary, “by this passage
from ‘Henry Jekyll’s statement’ of his case re
the murder of Oarew”: —
“ I declare at least, before God, no .man morally sane
could have been guilty of that crime upon so pitiful a
provocation ; and that I struck in no more reasonable
spirit than that in which a sick child may break a play-
thing. But I had voluntarily stripped myself of all those
b dancing instincts by which even the worst of us con-
tinues to walk with some degree of steadiness among
temptations; and in my case, to be tempted, however
slightly, was to fall. Instantly the spirit of hell awoke in
me, and raged." How curious are the coincidences of
fact and fiction!
It is the first step which costs. Moral: never
fall in love.
# « •
S.M. Herald has devoted half-a-column
to the unemployed who sleep on the flag-stones at
Sydney Markets. Is Providence awakening the
Herald, or is the Herald awakening Providence?
* • *
The libel-action, Speight v. the Age,
arrived at its sixty-fifth day with the distressing
news that Yic. ex-Commissioner Speight was a
“broker.” He was no longer able, explained his
counsel, to contribute a half-share towards the
support of a shorthand writer, and the evidence,
as far as he was concerned, could be taken down
in any way they chose. Thereupon, Syme’s
counsel thought that the Age proprietor would
prefer to pay for both halves of a shorthand
writer, and J udge Hodges said, “ I shall make no
order in that matter, nor will I refuse the plaintiff
a hearing because he cannot pay.” Impecunious
though Speight might be, he was still at liberty
to worry along with his suit somehow. The court
declined for the sake of auld lang syne to throw
him out on the 65th day. In much the same spirit,
a charitable cocoa-nut man will allow a long-
suffering customer to enjoy a few more throws at
the milky ones after he has parted with all his
cash—
They are seeking aid in England for the
maintenance of the Goodlet home for consump-
tives, at Picton, N.iS.W. “Englishmen, help us,
for they are nearly all incurables from the old
country who seek shelter in the home where they
can die in peace.”
• # #
At Honolulu, the other day, a few male
visitors made the sinfully popular arrangement to
“shout ” .£1 apiece for a giddy native dance, to
be performed by a certain number of damsels—as
many damsels as there were sovereigns to be put
in the pool—at the usual trysting-place. The full
complement of beauty was not provided, and the
girls that did come wore clothes, in addition to
which their dancing was quite decent and harm-
less. After a few minutes of this mild spectacle
two of the audience arose, in a state of manly dis-
gust. and went away. They had expected to be
properly shocked, they said, and seeing that the
Honolulu sirens were not carrying out the con-
tract this indignant pair of critics refused to cash
up their “quids.” The other gentlemen of the
party, grateful for small mercies, kept their
places and paid their money—in the interests of
true morality, one supposes. There is much to
admire in this little story. The picture of the two
baffled sensualists slinking away (and thereby
saving forty shillings between them) lives in the
memory. Moreover, it is comforting to think
that there are Honolulu sights to which any young
person might conduct his grandfather with im-
punity.
* * *
Did any one ever see a red-haired old
maid ?
Sydney magistrate: “You are charged
with selling after 11 o’clock ; how do you plead ?”
Publican : “ Iplead meridian time, yer Worship;
sure, my pub. is in George-street west, luk at that
now !
# * «
Searching the tram-tracks for 3d.-bits is
the latest Melb. “ unemployed ” industry in the
early morning,
* # •
The barefaced behaviour of a high
dignitary up South in leaving his lawful spouse
at home and attending races, Govmentouse
garden-parties, and other public functions in the
company of his gold-washed friends (a new one
almost every time), is the subject of much com-
ment.
* • #
Some five years ago a Melb. undergrad,
stood before the notice-board of his university
wearing a “straw-decker” and academic gown.
Up walks a professor, not of the student’s pro-
spective profession, with : “Sir! You a student?
You’re a disgrace to the University. You deserve
rustication. I’ve a good mind to fine you £5 —
you young blackguard ! ” Shamefaced and humili-
ated, the youth rushed trembling for his “mortar-
board.” The other day he got his degree, and,
meeting the prof., he recalled the little incident of
87, finishing up with, “Professor Soanso, you’re
an infernal disgrace to this University, and I’ve a
good mind to teach you civility to the men you’ve
got authority over by punching your blanky
head.”
« # #
Social-purity ladies are in future to relieve
Vic. police of the duty of supervising local
authorised baby-farms. The cruel Age: “As it
is best to set a thief to catch a thief, so also it is
probably wisest to set a woman to watch a
woman.”
* • #
Marriage in S.A. by Govt, officials, 13s. 6d.
A N.Q. romance
has just entered into its
second volume. A
married shearer’s pqly-
andrically-in cli n ed
wife was conversing
with Romeo when the
shearer suddenly en-
tered the tent and
ordered Romeo out into
the starlit darkness.
But Romeo was a pug,
and he simply ‘plugged ’
the shearer and carried
off the willing lady and
two children to his own
camp fire. Next day
the lady refused to re-
turn to her liege part-
ner and Romeo talked
fierce war. But that
night, when the sable
etceteras made strategy
possible, the shearer
presented himself at
Romeo’s bower with a
double-barrelled shot-
gun, and “drew.”
Romeo’s luck was
“dead in.” The cap
merely snapped, and
other outlaws of the
forest disarmed the
furious shearer.
Mutual friends per-
suaded the lady to
get back to her “proper
one ” who received her
gladly. And so passed
that night. Next day,
Romeo felt oh! so
lonely, and he bore the
white flag to the coo-
pair’s tent to announce
a parley. Result: For
=613 Romeo acquired
the lady and one of her
children, a dray, two
horses, a tent, and
various cooking-utensils
and stray effects.
Romeo went east; the
Rejected went west
with one child and
=613. Third volume
not yet to press.
# •
In Sydney a city
bar which retails daily
70 bottles of whisky
only gets rid of five
bottles of brandy.
A pretty little woman, of Minnie Palmer-
ish appearance, has been roaming around Austra-
lia on the “ youthful innocence ” ticket. There is
no evidence of her having enjoyed a very good
time anywhere, and if she ever struck a comfort-
able billet as maid-servant or juvenile companion
to an old lady, this fragile flower (“Katie
Sinclair ”) didn’t stop there long, apparently.
Generally speaking, she was getting herself taken
up as a “neglected child” either by fatherly
policemen or a charitable institution. Magistrates
sent her to reformatories to save her from possible
ruin. Convent sisters took Katie in at the front-
door when she was overcome by a sudden dread of
falling into evil ways. The Salvation A.rmy
also gave Katie a good deal of protection from
the snares of this wicked world, and the hospitals
of Queensland accepted her frequently, under a
delusion that she was little Eva, about to join the
angels. But whatever home Katie found herself
in, she invariably bolted from, to the grief and
consternation of her new friends. They thought
she had gone forth, in her golden-haired sim-
plicity, to get drowned.
Kate’s latest public appearance was at South
Melb. Police Court, where a Harmy visitor sup-
plied them with historical facts concerning the
waif of tender years. Kate, it seems, is 30 at the
least, and so well informed for her age that she
corrupts other children in spite of her short frocks.
She speaks as a child, looks as a child, and feels as
a child, perhaps, but she can’t get away from the
experience acquired during a long and varied girl-
hood. An odd little spinster is Kate. Nature
must have intended her to cheat the evil eye of
the bald-headed sinner who gloats upon darlings
under sixteen. What are her plans for the future?
Has she any ambition to become the child-wife of
a kind Christian gentleman? Does she still de-
light to dress a dolly, or blush when little boys
ask her for a kiss? In the sacred name of the
Fair Sex, The Bulletin exhorts little Katie to
explain her aim in life. Also, she is advised to
repent of her youthful follies and become a bar-
maid. At present she is supposed to be staying at
the Abbotsford Convent for a year.
Why not have a doll auction after Flem-
ington races? It might be more payable than
the thoroughbred auction, which was a rank
failure. Put up the dolls, clothes and all, or in
bare poles. After all, this is what they go for,
but the market is terribly slack, and Auctioneer
Yuille might give it a fillip.
* # #
One Sydney daily paper’s Christmas Box to
Australian literature takes the form of an offer
which will give the proprietary 9000 words for a
guinea. If the proprietors were boot-manufac-
turers they would, but for trades-unionism, treat
bootmakers in a similar way ; and would all the
time yell for Protection for native industries.
# # #
“’Possum” (a O.E. clergyman) writing
in S.M. Herald, asks : “ Why do men stay away
from church?” Turn it upside-down: “Why
does the church stay away from men ? ’
• • *
MY PHILOSOPHY.
Launched in a cradle
Over life’s ocean
To land in a coffin.
What’s my philosophy ?
Haven’t a notion,
Let’s have a potion.
Dowell O’Reilly.
* * #
A schoolboy, at last N.S.W. Junior
Exam., defined “volcanic tuff” as “the long
grass which grows around the craters of old
volcanoes.” Another: “Volcanic tuff is a kind
of rock I don’t know much about.” The ex-
aminees were asked to state three principal facts
in evidence of the internal heat of the earth. “If
you put a stick down in the ground in some parts
of the earth,” wrote one, “ when you pull it up,
the end of it is all charred.” “ Atlantic ooze is
sometimes called Radiolarian ooze, sometimes
Globigerina ooze, and sometimes the whole lot of
it together is called Protoplasm.” Three answeis
THE GREAT THEOLOGICAL MELBOURNE DISPUTE:
ANOTHER THEORY.
SHEPHERD: “Have, you a decided opinion, Miss Breezy, concerning the
real origin of the English Church?”
MISS B.: “My cousin, Arthur, says it was founded on collections.”
to the question: “Explain briefly why the sea
is salt.” “ Because it has sea-fish in it, such as
salmon, whales, sharks and crocodiles.” “Be-
cause it was the will of God Almighty when he
created it.” “Because it has chloride of sodium
in it.”
• * *
A hideous joke was played recently on a
Wellington (M.L.) police-sergeant. He was “on
jooty ” at the police-station when an excited
person rushed in and told him that a man was
walking along the Quay without any pants on.
Then the sergeant called three constables to assist
in arresting a dangerous maniac, and the four of
them fled to the Quay. “Fwhere’s the mad-
man?” said the sergeant in a tone of desperate
ferocity. The informant pointed him out—a
military person in a kilt and the essentials of a
Highland uniform—and then ran for his life.
There was an awful pause of 30 seconds or so, and
then the four policemen started after him on a
charge of insulting behaviour and followed him
for over a mile. They lost him at last somewhere
among the hills,
• • •
The contractor for the new Rockhampton
(Q-) church, having ceased work on account of the
stoppage of supply, the congregation raised funds
by a “living-whist ” entertainment, which was
such a “draw” that it had to be repeated.
* # #
From a letter read during a breach-of-
promise case in North Queensland : “My love
for Mary has waned ; I am afraid of her imagina-
tive tendencies leading her astray,” &c., &c.
’Tig sad when a woman abandons the Real
In fancy to revel;
But sadder when “ Seeking: her soulful Ideal ”
Means—“ Off to the Devil!”
* # *
What a number of cripples occupy high
positions in the Salvation Army 1
* * *
Send Bd. in stamps for a copy of Xmas
Bulletin, posted to any Australasian address.
England and abroad, lOd. in stamps.
There was a Baptist Union meeting in
Melbourne, the other day, whereat a weary
fragment in a long black coat called attention to
the beautiful distinction between the big swindler
who says his prayers and the little swindler who
doesn’t. At least that is what The Bulletin
makes out of the following : “In troublous times
the Christian was vastly better off than the world-
ling. If they doubted this they should look (O !
look, dear brethren) at the long list of suicides,
abscondings and embezzlements almost daily re-
corded, and they would get a faint idea of the
terrible strain that tortured the victims of folly
who had no refuge in the storm, having no hope,
and being without God in the world.” The name
of the orator in the sable garment was Barber,
and Barber needs a severe lesson, in verse :
“Sharp as a razor” and “true as steel” are
most grimly ironical to the unfortunate man who
has to hack his beard off with a modern shoddy
razor. However, good Sheffield artisanscfostill exist,
and these are employed by Mr. W. Jno. Baker, of
3 Hunter-street, Sydney, to make his cutlery.
The razors so made with the name of W. Jno.
Baker etched on them, are sweet and clean, as
hundreds can testify from actual experience.
After shaving with one of these weapons the old
proverbs above quoted no longer lose their keen
application.
The attention of travellers and others i®
directed to the manifold comforts and elegancie®
of that snug and famous hostelry, the Imperial
Hotel, Wynyard Square, Sydney, which, at a
moderate tariff, provides an unapproachable
cuisine and elegant accommodation, more than
worthy of the best traditions of the most comfort-
able and quiet of old first-class Australian hotels.
For those who love a good dinner and a post-
prandial cigar, smoked under most perfect con-
ditions, the Imperial offers irresistible attractions.
Under the skilful superintendence of its host,
Walter Sidney, the Imperial is prospering greatly.
ihere is no greater foe to human happi-
ness than the disorders that spring from lack of
nerve vitality. The more, then, that we feel the
nervous organs of our bodies declining in strength
or diminishing in functional ability, the nearer
then we may be sure we are approaching to the
filial extinction of our lives. The causes that
lead up to this fading away of a man’s
existence, this waning of the pulse of life,
are many and varied. Mr, Rainsford, 7
Monour-st., Sydney, writes : “In order to get rid
of the remains of an attack of nervous debility
from overwork, I was induced, by reading your
advertisement, to try a bottle of Marshall’s Tonic
Nervine, and I found it acting so beneficially that
1 continued to use something like half-a-dozen
bottles. I am so pleased with its good effects
upon my system generally, that I shall recommend
it to any of my friends who may be suffering as I
was,” N.B.—Marshall’s Tonic Nervine is a
scientific discovery. It is not a haphazard pre-
paration resulting from a few minutes’ thought,
like many substitutes for it, but the outcome of
many years’ careful research into the cause of
weakness and anaemia in their many and varied
forms. It is a positive cure for weakness arising
from any and every cause, and can be obtained
from all medicine dealers. Do not be put off with
a substitute.
’Tis money makes the Law go round,
Which no one can deny ;
The price of Justice, neatly bound,
Has hitherto been high.
A suitor with a lengthy purse
Will seldom lose the day ;
-His privilege it is to curse
The man who cannot pay.
Yet Speight, the party versus Syme,
Can tell a touching tale :
His case along the track of Time
Proceeded like a snail
Until he had no money left
Wherewith to let ’em play.
Of billet, fortune, “ tick ” bereft,
The plaintiff couldn’t pay.
The Judge (may Heaven bless the name
Of Hodges) softly spoke—
“l see no legal cause to blame
The side that’s stony-broke ;
My solemn duty I must do;
I therefore rise to say
The Court will give a hearing to
This man who cannot pay."
A blessed fact to bear in mind—
The Law consents at least
To guard a lamb against the wind
If fairly be was fleeced.
O, Richard, raise your humbled eyes
And shout “ Hip, hip, hooray I’’
One learned Judge does not despise
The man who cannot pay.
Baptist Barber, shave your poll,
Shave your poll and keep it cooler ;
Don’t, because you’ve saved your soul,
Nag the boys who backed Camoola—
Put a bit upon Camoola.
Leave the worldling to his fate,
Let him smoke and swear and gamble.
Whilst adown the pathway straight
To the Realms of Light you amble—
Down the narrow' pathway amble.
Baptist Barber, since the boom
Tempted hawks to kill the pigeon,
Dark distrust has cast a gloom
Bound about the word “ religion "
True professional “religion.”
Them that offer hearty thanks
Unto Heaven for its mercies
Were the ones who, through the banks,
Dipped a hand in sinners’ purses—
Took the gold from sinners' purses.
Baptist Barber, kindly note !
Pious rogues have not absconded.
’Twas the dupe who cut his throat
When he wickedly desponded.
Weakly, wickedly desponded.
Saintly robbers snugly sing
Of a Lord who hath arisen ;
To the Cross they tightly cling
When they ought to go to prison—
Really ought to go to prison.
B iptist Barber, say no more
On this subject so distressing ;
Read your Bible as before,
But improve your style of dressing—
Ultra-holy style of dressing.
Barber, bear this fact,in mind.
Many “ Christians " who have tided
O'er their troubles are maligned
'Cause they never suicided—
Never, never suicided.


Special Column.
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK
BANK (Limited).
Late CARGO BRANCH STOLEN NOTES.
The public are hereby cautioned against receiv-
ing or cashing any of the undermentioned Notes
stolen from the late Cargo branch of this Bank,
on the evening of the 10th June last: —
200 .£l-Notes—Nos. U131251U to U131450U,
dated 2nd January, 1893
40 Nos. 5276851 S to 52768905,
dated 2nd January, 1893
10 .£lO-Notea—Nos. 591861 S to 5918705,
dated Ist January, 1890
By order of the Board.
FRANCIS ADAMS,
General Manager.
Sydney, 13th November, 1893.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
ECCLESIASTICAL JURISDICTION.
In the lands and goods of ANDREW
GORDON, late of Bundaberg in the
Colony of Queensland, gentleman de-
ceased intestate.
NOTICE is hereby given that the accounts of
“ The Queensland Permanent Trustee Executor
and Finance Agency Company, Limited,” now
“Queensland Trustees, Limited,” the Adminis-
trator of the Estate of the above-named deceased,
have this day been filed in my office. All parties
having any claim against the said estate, or being
otherwise interested therein, are requested to come
in before me, at my office. Supreme Court House,
Brisbane, on or before THURSDAY, the 21st
day of December next, and inspect the said
Accounts, and, if they shall think fit, object
thereto, and if no exception be taken to the said
Accounts the same will be duly enquired into, at
my said office, on the abovementioned day, at the
hour of 10.30 o’clock in the forenoon.
Dated this 15th day of November, 1893.
. . W. A. DOUGLAS,
Deputy-Registrar,
HAMILTON & PAYNE,
Proctors for Administrator, Bundaberg.
By their Agents,
Bernays & Osbornk, Brisbane.
CHE A P MUS I C.
New Song, “ After the Ball,” the latest London success.
After the Ball Waltz, and 1000 other popular Waltzes,
Songs, Duels, &c., at Sd. each. Of all dealers, or from
the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, November 20,1393.
'■TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
L SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department untilil o clock
a.m. on tire dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29.
Bridge, Gibben Gunyah Creek, Main Southern
Road
Construction of Timber Punt, Tabulam Ferry,
Clarence River (time extended)
Putting down Three Artesian Bores—l between
Byrock and Brewarrina, 1 between Narrabri
and Mnree, 1 near Cobar
Supply of Tube Casing for three Artesian Bores
Laying Water Main, Hospital for the Insane,
Parramatta
Pipe-laying, Contract No. 5, Jerilderie Water
Supply
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 13.
Bridge, Wollondilly River at Lacy’s Crossing
Bridge, Wybong Creek, road Merriwa toMuswell-
brook
Bridge, Glennie’s Creek at Camberwell
Bridge, Murray River at Hawksview
Bridge, Yarramunmun Creek, road Nowra to
Yalwal
Bridge, Wilson River at Ballingarra
Construction of Main, Eastern Branch Sewer,
Western Suburbs Drainage. Time extended
Additions, Hospital for the Insane, Rjdalmere
Erection of Dining-room, &c., Hospital for the
Insane, Gladesville. Fresh tenders. Time
extended
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 20.
Annual Contracts, 1894.
(A deposit of .£lO in respect of each Contract to
accompanying Tender.)
Supply op
Anchors, Chains, &c. Carpets
Clinker and Carvel-built Boats
Clocks. Coal for Sydney
Colonial Pine, Baltic, &c. Hardwood
Kauri Pine. Oregon and American Redwood
Diving Gear. Ship Chandlery
Furniture. - Draftsman’s Materials
Draftsman’s and Surveyors’ Instruments
India Rubber Goods, Hose, &c.
Window Blinds. Wire Rope
Stone for Maitland District
Stone for Parramatta District
Steel
Drain Pipes—
Metropolitan and Illawarra District
Northern District, Western District
Southern District
Conveyance op Coal.
Newcastle to Clarence River
„ ~ Hastings ~
„ „ Macleay „
„ „ Manning „
» » Myall „
~ „ Nambucoa „
„ ~ Richmond „
„ „ Tweed „
Wollongong to Moruya ~
~ to Shoalhaven ~
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1894.
Bridge, Cow Creek, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
Bridge, Wakool River, road Moulamein to Koond-
rook
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
6 6 rjlALES'op the CONVICT SYSTEM/’
PRICE la by Post Is. Bd.
Business An ouncemonts.
Cafe
MARTIN
Moore
and Jt'itt Sts,,
City Dinner
(A Specialty).
mitn.v
€ll All It ÜBS,
opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
First-class Grill Eoom & Restaurant.
The C®olest and Best-lighted DINING SALOON
in Sydney.
STUDY HEALTH AND ECONOMY
At a First-class Table with a Second-class Tariff.
PERFECT CUISINE and TABLE SERVICE.
N.B.—Advantageous Terms to Regular Subscribers.
Tickets now ready—l/- to 2/6.
Public Banquets. Private Dinners. Smoke Concerts.
For Estimates, apply H. GARDNER, Manager.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee ... Mr. George Rigaold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS 1
of
“ Th.e Romany Rye.”
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 25,
MASTER AND MAN.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Ahsolulely NO Free List.
IMMENSE SUCCESS I IMMENSE SUCCESS 1
Grand Italian Opera, by Mascagni,
Cavalleria 3Ftvi.sticEi.xxEi..
At 9.50 o’clock, “Turquoiselte, or A Study in Blue.”
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
rp hT eatre royal.
Acting Manager and Treasurer .. Fred. Gunther.
LAST NIGHTS! LAST NIGHTSI
of Maggie Moore in
“ Tlx© Colleen Bawn ”
Box Plan Open Daily’ at the Theatre.
POPULAR PRICES —3s, 2s, Is, and SIXPENCE.
Business Manager, Mr. J. E. Moore.
rp H E CRYSTAL MAZE.
A REVELATION ! A REVELATION 1
ENORMOUS SUCCESS of this NOVEL and DELIGHT"
FUL EXHIBITION,
The most extraordinary and unique spectacle ever
witnessed in Sydney.
Location— THE STIC AN l» (Pitt Street Entrance).
ADMISSION—One Shilling ; Children, 6d.
Open Daily from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.
W. MAOMAHON, Director.
COOGEE PALACE AQUARIUM
Proprietor and Manager .. Mr. Win. Lajinour.
The Wonders of Sea and Land on View Every Day
from 6 a.m. till 6 p.m.
Sydney’s POPULAR SUNDAY CONCERTS. Highest
Class Artistes Every Sunday Afternoon.
The Luxurious Swimming Baths open Daily from 6 a.m.
till 10 p.m. For LADIES Daily from 10 till 2 o’clock.
Female Attendant. Continental Bathing (Ladies and
Gentlemen) Every Tuesday Evening. Public Quadrille
Assembly every Wednesdav Evening.
Medical.
ANNA RUPPERT
On POISONS.
Every Lady should Read this Carefully.
It has been said that some of vny preparations for the
skin contain poisonous ingredients, or rattier ingredients
that would he poisonous if taken internally and in snlfi-
cient quantities. This is not true of my SKIN TONIC,
which contains no such ingredients. I freely admit that
for certain stubborn skin diseases, like all successful
physicians and skin doctors, I do recommend stronger and
more effective preparations, some of which contain ingre-
dients which, if taken internally and in large quantities,
would be injurious and perhaps poisonous; hut when
applied externally and in small quantities, as directed,
they are never injurious, but always beneficial. With
the exception of my Dyspepsia Cure, which is purely
vegetable and consequently harmless, all my pre-
parations are for external use only, and w’here directions
are followed, it is absolutely impossible for any injurious
results to follow. It is well-known that many of the best
patent medicines and doctors’ prescriptions, for both
external and internal use, contain poisonous ingredients
in small quantities; but it does not in any way follow
that these medicines are injurious. On the contrary,
they are usually beneficial when properly used. Ask any
respectable doctor or chemist if this is not the case. J
give free consultations, and sell most of my preparations
direct to the customer, and for this reason, I sometimes
antagonise doctors and chemists, as well as my pro-
fessional competitors; but any fair-minded doctor,
chemist, or skin specialist will tell you that every
word I have said is absolutely true. Several prominenl
London physicians, who have become better acquainted
with me and my methods, have for some time sent their
“ incurable” eases to me and I have cured them. MY
CELEBRATED SKIN TONIC contains absolutely no
poisonous or injurious ingredient; is entirely harmless,
and always gives satisfaction. It lias for years had the
largest sale throughout the world of any skin lotion, and
is conceded to be the best and only satisfactory prepa ra-
tion for permanently and harmlessly cleansing the skin
and removing blemishes. After devoting my life to the
study and treatment of the skin, I would indeed he foolish
to advertise and sell, at great expense, anything but the
very best of remedies ; and especially anything that could
by any possibility be injurious. People who know me
also know that any preparation made or recommended by
I me for the skin can be used with entire safety and benefit.
Correspondence invited. Consultation free. Send
Stamp for full Price List ; 4d. for New Book on
•‘NATURAL BEAUTY,” and 6d. for full report of last
LECTURE. Address
Mrs. Anna Ruppert.
Head Office-89 Regent Street, London, W.
Sole Australian Agency—
No. 12, The STRAND, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
1 “MADAME AEAMANDA,
THE CELEBRATED CLAIRVOYANT,
i From L'Exposition Internationale, Paris, may be
Consulted at
149 ELIZABETH STREET, CITY.
Daily, 2 to 5, and Mond., Thurs., and Sat., 7 to 9 p.m.
Madame secured highest awards at Kensington Hall
(London). Challenge Competition for recovery of lost
property, documents, missing friends, &c. The only
trained exponent of purely
Scientific Palmistry
in Australia; pupil of M. Desharrolles; holding high
credentials from Parisian police for identification of
criminals. Phrenological Charts Prepared. Inspection
of credentials Invited.
Fees: 35., 65., 10s. Gd., and a Guinea.
ULLETIN XMAS NUMBER Pasted
to any Australasian address Bd.
Special Advertisements
GOLDSBROUGH,
MOHT & CO
(LIMITED.)
Hon. IIKNKY MOltT,
Adviser.
JOSEPH ABBOTT, I LESLEY HERRING,
Shipping Manager. | Assistant Manager.
GRAIN BROKERS
—AND —
Station Agents.
STORES:
Circular Quay, Pyrmont and Darling Harbour.
OFFICES:
Circular Quay.
GEORGE MAIDEN, Manager.
Xwau Table
NON REVERSIBLE
rpHIS Ingeniously Constructed Klll.lAltlt IMBfllVtl-
J- T • KMO is acknowledged the most Perfect, Com-
plete, Elegant, and Easily Convertible Combination ever
Invented, entirely Superseding all others.
As a home-attraction. Billiards have no equal, com bin
inggentleexeroise with an elegant and scientific recreation,
The PRICES—3S to <ln neas, include cover,
balls, cues, rest, tips, chalks, marking-board, rules, and
an ingenious receptacle for the above.
Inspect or obtain particulars and testimonials at
533 Collins-St., Melbourne. Factory, University-St.
' ' Miscellaneous.
WORTHY OF ATTENTION THESE
DULL TIMES
Is the
FOLLOWING INFORMATION—
3-ROOMED COTTAGE FURNISHED for JBI9
19s. 6d.
4-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for £32175.
7-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for <£so.
8-ROOMED HOUSE FURNISHED for .£lOO.
DEPARTMENTS ;
FURNITURE and UPHOLSTERY
BEDSTEADS and BEDDING
CARPETS and FLOORCLOTHS
FURNISHING DRAPERY
And IRONMONGERY,
CROCKERY, GLASSWARE and CHINA.
IN OUR VARIOUS EXTENSIVE SHOW
ROOMS
We have an immense Stock of
DRAWING-ROOM FURNITURE
DINING-ROOM FURNITURE
BED-ROOM FURNITURE
HALL and OFFICE FURNITURE
BRASS and IRON BEDSTEADS.
CHAIRS —Austrian, American and English.
KAPOK and WOVEN-WIRE MATTRESSES.
KITCHEN FURNITURE and UTENSILS.
MANGLES, PORTABLE WASHING
BOILERS.
MISTRESS and DOVER STOVES (all sizes).
Best JAVA KAPOK, in 801 b. bales.
ALL AT REDUCED PRICES.
If unable to pay us a personal visit, write for our
Price Lists and ’ Illustrated Catalogues, free by
post.
JOHN LAWLER & SONS,
STEAM BEDDING and WIRE MATTRESS
MANUFACTURERS,
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone No. 66.]
[Established 1860.
Of* only/
%
Impatient Housewife {to messenger): “ What
Baking Powder is this you have
brought me 1 ”
Messenoek : “That’s what was given me.”
Impatient Housewife ( excitedly ): “Then
take it back, and ask for—
BATHO’S Powder, for, you know,
That other brands deceive them
With “ adj ” and jokes that pass as smokes,
They tempt you to believe them.
But oft my thoughts again repeat,
That BATHOS’ Powder is the best,
And I know it can’t be beat.”
{Soldene.)
LTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and I’IANO. “ Martha,” “ Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Luorezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Hallo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
J. Thornton Gannon, a probable Parlia-
mentary candidate fur Waverley (N.S.W.), writes
that Thk Bullet.n has injured him by wrong-
fully accusing him of being a lawyer !
Premier Dibbs thinks three weeks decent
“time for a condemned man to prepare for the
gallows.” The Chinese only, give three days,
thinking it cruelty to prolong the agony.
The N.S.W. Labour-party now works
more harmoniously. This is the effect of the
indiscriminate abuse showered upon the members
at the recent labour conference. “Comrades in
misfortune.”
The first ballot in the Columbian Land
Distribution closes Monday next, Nov. 27, and
will be drawn three days later, Thursday, Nov,
30. The ballot comprises the Nambrok estate,
worth .£150,000, embracing 285 properties, the
chief prizes being valued at .£30,000, .£7OOO,
.£3OOO, <£2ooo, <£l6oo, 54 at £lO5O each, with
smaller prizes graduated down to 100 at £24each.
The agricultural lands of Gippsland, of which
Nambrok is an ideal type, need no recommenda-
tion. One share may be held by four persons
jointly, as will be seen on perusing the prospectus.
Next week’s ballot will be taken in the presence of
not less than 10 shareholders, and before press
representatives. Indeed, nothing that is not
aboveboard and genuine could reasonably be ex-
pected from such men as its supervisors ; P. P.
Labertouche a-nd Major C. M. Officer (Melb.);
Christopher Wade (Adelaide, S.A.); and Capt. J.
Whitney (Auckland, M.L.).
The horrorist of the Australian Star
spreads himself on a decomposed meat subject:—
There lies on the slab this morning at the South Sydney
Morgue a huddled mass of decomposed humanity un-
known and unclaimed. It is that of a man who ended his
days in the bush off Old Soutti Head Road, near Bellevue
Hill. No one knows how or when he did it, but,
miserable unto death, he betook himself from the
busy world, and far off from the city he trudged
along the road by Rose Bay, and while no eyes
hut those of his Maker were upon him he crossed the
fence and entered the hush. A few minutes later a re-
volver-report sounded through the hills, but none heard
it hut the birds in the trees. Then all was quiet, and,
perhaps, a few minutes later some resident in that locality
drove by unmindful of the unfortunate being who lay
dead but a few yards eff. The body lay there, the sun
shone on it, and the rain beat heavily into the upturned
face. The birds hopped around, maybe upon it, but no
fellow-being noticed it until yrsteiday afternoon, when
John Davidson, a resident of 62 Landsdown-street,
Surry Hills, came upon the horribly-decayed body.
The face had wasted away, and fallen by the bone, the
dark clothes covered the remainder of the body. By the
side lay the instrument of death, a loaded five-chambered
revolver, with one chamber only discharged. There the
destroyer and the destroyed lay aide by side. There was
no one to tell the tale when or why the deed was done.
Close by lay the tattered and weatherworn scraps of the
Evbning Nkws of October 23, and most likely that was the
date of the suicidal act.
Base deduction ! One’s first impression was that
it was all going to pan out as a St. Jacob’s oil
advt. Apart from this, the most striking feature
about the story is the statement that the eye of
God was upon him as he got over the fence. It is
a good specimen of cheap report,erese. Neverthe-
less, it might, perhaps, be spread out a little with
advantage:—
It was night when a lonesome atom of lost humanity
turned his back upon the city with its sin and bankruptcy
and pearl-powder and its callous heartlessness. He
laughed a hollow laugh in two syllables as I e went, in
his broken boms, up William-street—a dreadful laugh like
the caci hination of a demon. The rain paltered heavily
on the trees which stretched gaunt, bristling limbs sky-
ward like the frozen hair of a lost soul, A girl in red
stockings lied in affright as she heard the dreadful mirth
of the deceased. Down by Rnshcutters Bay the wanderer
silently look a hone out of an ash-box, a'd as be went
along ite deposited it on the doorstep of a palatial mansion
as a mute protest against the inhumanity of man. There
was no m at on the hone. Later on, at the top of a hill,
ust below the lordly residence of Mister James of the
S.M. Hbkald, lie paused and lookid h ng and earnestly,
out of his unshaven countenance, on the angry' waters of
the hay. Then he howled tw ice and got over the fence,
busting the top wire as he went, and sat down wearily
beneath a tree. “Tins place," he remark'd in
Latin, “will do as well as any other. 1 will pre-
sently be disintegrated and resolved into tny con-
stituent elements, and will take wing into the
empyrean.” As he spoke he wrung the water
out. of his coat-tail, and then drawing a revolver he
fired several times at his head and was no more. His re-
mains were walked on for several months by various
animals, and were looked at by cows with that long,
earnest, unseeing stare which is charaoteiistic of the
animal. Then one bright summer dav, John Jones, of
9S7J Macqnarie-street North, up one stair, second door on
the right, passed that way, unsuspicious of evil, and met
with the awful spectacle of the deceased. He was re-
moved to the Morgue by Constable Brown, whose sagacity
in keeping to windward of the remains, and rushing them
into town on a w'heelharrow ticketed “dynamite,” in
order to keep off the thoughtless multitude, will, doubt-
less, be recognised by the authorities.
Hair Will Go Grey.
2U.
GOOCH'S
mm wash
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only beintr necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.),
Importer of Human Hair.
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
m- STEELE'S GALVANIC
GENT’S BE-VI
ELECTRIC BELTS *®»
IN APPROACHING our readers through the medium
of these pages, we beg they will bestow no attention
on any Electric Appliances gave those patented and manu-
factured by J. J. STEELE. Yet he feels it a necessity to
press upon all candid inquirers the marvellous results
arising from the use of his Electric Galvanic Belt, whether
a complete cure be desired in lost vitality, rheuma-
tism, sciatica, neuralgia, lumbago, gout, indigestion,
liver disease, &c. STEELE'S BELTS forwarded imme-
diately upon receipt of £2—registered letter, post-order,
or cheque. When ordering Belts, send waist measure
above the hips.
A.. R. Gregory,
Phcexix Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
(Over Washington Soul & Co.)


AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIBTT.
Head. Office; 87 HITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors— The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq., J.P.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; J. T. WALKER, Esq.;
and ROBTERT J. KING, Esq.
AH Policies effected from now till the end of the Year will share in the Division of Profits as at 31st December, 1893. Amount of CASH BONUS Distributed amongst Policy*
holders for the One Year, 1892, exceeded HALF-A-MIIjIjION STERLING.
All Bonuses vest immediately on Policies attaining a duration of two years. Intending proposers should note the above carefully, and send in applications early, either direct or through the Society’s Agents, so as to secure a share of
the Profits for this year.
General Manager and Actuary-RICHABB TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A. ROBERT B. CAMEROX, Secretary.
TATTERSALLS
Queensland. Cup — December It. 50,000 at
Bnyyi-rvi r»r* Oup December 36. 10,000 at XO.
Carrington Stakes. 25,000 at 1
I
“ TAI T*i:« » II,"
Care of Gkorgb Adams,
“The Telegraph ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
fSi isbiilie, (Incenslaml
£100
GIVEN AWAY
in Presents.
cvn
FOR GUESSES ON THIS REBUS.
Which represents, when properly arranged, the I
name of a prominent Australian City. To the First Five Persons sending us correct answer on or
before December 20th, 1893, we will give to each, A Genuine Gold Hunting- Cane lever
Watch. Value it *. To each of the next Six we will give a Sterling- Silver Hunting- Cane
lever Watch, Value lOs. To each of the next Ten wo will give a Genuine Nickel
Silver Keyless W r atch, Value Cl. To each of the last Five sending correct answer we will
give it. tirvuumv wwiu umiii/iiif, —~ ~ - - ——
next Six we will give A Sterling- Silver Hunting- Casel-ever Watch, Value A 3 lOs.
To each of the next Ten we will give A Ken nine Nickel Silver Keyless Watch, Vain© VI
This Rebus admits of only one answer and does not convey a double meaning. It is no catchpenny
Advt., but a Genuine distribution of Christmas Presents to be faithfully conducted as above stated.
Competition Closes at 5 p.m., December 20th, next. With your answer we require you to
send FIFTEEN PENNY STAMPS for aboxof “ Star Antihilions Pills,” the Best Liver,
Kidnea and Bowel Regulator ever used, made from choicest medicinal Herbs, Sugar coated, they act
gently, yet promptly, without griping, 24 doses in box. List of Names and Addresses of Prize winners
will be posted to each person answering this Advt., write at once.— Address — National Drug-
Comuanr. Hussell Street, Melbourne.
xc
Ifailtt!
Of*.
vn
n.
aVV
Sip
>*
S'*
VALUE
P -*A
30.000.
Vj/vy
C 4/V
RENTAL VALUE
£ 1,500 A YEAR.
y * Am
feyj/t/Zte
vb
1
EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY.
n
vbn
/ma^''yU' L e^2y
c
FOR SHARES AND ALL
PARTICULARS
APPLY TO SECRETARY ALBERTS?
||c66r6. Hiercc go.,
126 PITT STREET,
or CORR IE & CO, QUEEN ST
BRISBANE. OR:-
SYZDZKTZE^r-
vb
nc
vbn
cv
taifMMiooogal
nMi
: i i,i rnrritriiil"
NaBSiB
- -pVyai
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,’ situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the otheris
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. .. CEO. W. ELLIS.
M.&J. MOLONEY
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street).
(opposite Gunsler’s)
SYDNEY.
tSUT Commissions Executed on all forthcoming
events :
Que enaland Cup.
SUMMER CUP.
CARRINGTON STAKES.
bn
5. EACH
5. EACH.
cv
ON THE
DECEMBER HANDICAP
Canterbury, December 2nd.
At 5 Each 4000 At 5 Each
S XT 3MC 3VC E IX O XT P,
Randwick, December 26th.
At 6 Each 10,000 At 5 Each
Register and Address Letters to
“ GALA,” c/o H. Alexander,
Box 171 G.P.0., Brisbane, Q.
Or Personally at 67 Oxford-streel, SYDNEY.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,
The Original Cash Fielder,
116 a PITT STREET, SYDNEY (Opposite 0.P.0.).
Telephone, No. 1542..
Telegraphic Code —“ Westbrook, Sydney.”
™^ !! -
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
colonies. Starting Price ™ all events. Doubles now open
on Summer and Tattersall’s Cups, Carrington Stakes and
Tattersall’a Cup. Double and Straight-out on all the
principal events daring the year. Telegrams, &c., must
be prepaid, and no commission considered executed
unless a leply is received.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
Murdoch says now what The Bulletin said
years ago, that “ sufficient credit has not been given for
the great improvement in English cricket in reviewing
the performances of the Australians." Twelve years ago
there was no life in the bowling and fielding of the
Britishers, and the enthusiasm shown by the Australians
came as a'revelation. A professional could be dis-
tinguished from an amateur by his slovenly run and pick-
up at that time, whereas the pro. of to-day is almost as
active on his legs, and even quicker with liis hands than
the average Australian performer. Cricket is a much
more profitable game for him than it used to be—the
“princely patron ” element has stirred him up.
* 9 *
Last season’s English cricket-figures show that
the amateurs as a class are far better batsmen and far
worse bowlers than the professionals. Of the 26 leading
batsmen 20 are amateurs ; of the 17 leading bowlers two
only are amateurs.
• * *
Turner says that Ooningham quarrelled with no
one on the recent tour, nor did he ever behave culpably.
Coningham played the fool now and again on the cricket-
field, but his eccentricity was always pardonable, and
throughout he was a strict teetotaller.
* 9 *
Sydney cricketers sura up the bad members
of a certain team:—“One man was nearly always
beastly drunk ; another was a manageable beast when
drunk ; a third was an unmanageable beast when drunk ;
a fourth, an unmanageable beast, drunk or sober.”
# * »
Barrett (5.M.0.C., and Dr. “Jack’s” brother)
is a certain intercolonial man, with two scientific scores
of 95 and 84.
* » •
Victor Cohen says the receipts of the Australian
cricketers, in the English tour, totalled £9OOO.
tt * *
Cricketer Murdoch declares that the great need
of the late Australian Eleven was a fast bowler. A
greater need still—a few batsmen who were not so fast.
* • *
Lyons may yet settle in England ; big offers are
P“r-istently made. Murdoch may be able to say some-
thing apropos. And a big English county club was just
on the verge of making a proposal to Graham when—
something happened.
# * *
South Australia will play several rattling junior
p’ayers in this year’s Inlerprovincial cricket conte-ts.
The 9 lection committ-e will be very unpopular when it
s discovered who is left out.
■9 9 *
“ Tam O’Shan ter,” the sporting writer of Tas.
Mail, claims to he the only Australasian scribe who
named Tarcoola among the probable C-up winners of
Melb. This it was, probably, that caused an unfortunate
rumour to spread throughout Tasmania, after the race,
that Mr. C. E. Davies, Tam's “ proprietor," held a half-
share in Tarcoola.
# 9 *
J. D. Young, the just-deceased Sydney muni-
cipal magnate, was only another instance of how hopeless
it is for an outsider to try and fight the bookmakers,
J.D. was supposed to be one of the knowing men behind
the scenes, and a small crowd would tout him round the
ring to see what he was hacking. At the Driving Park
and Carrington Ground, when in their hey-day, he was
all-powerful as being “in the know,” but he left off like
the rest of them —thousands to the bad.
• • •
Alleged that a certain well-known Sydney
professional man has been posted as a defaulter over
Mdb. Cup; also that a politician is in a similar fix over
£6OOO.
9 9*
Racing, the sport of kings—and other rogues.
*99
Fifty-five thousand coupons were sent in by
guessers of the placed horses, in Melb. Cup, to Melb.
Herald, and three placed them.
* * »
One or two of the successful Melb. Cup “ books.”
have gone to India—to drop the swag.
* * *
Last week the Sydney police raided one “ tote ”
with much pomp and circumstance, and ran in a large
crop of defendants, who were duly brought before the
court. Then, after one case had been heard, and
defendant discharged, the charges apparently faded
away, and nothing definite has been heard of them since.
The defendant in question, it appears, had been captured
on a warrant which spoke of him as illegally “ haunting
and resorting” to the gambling - house in question,
whereas the Act didn’t use the words “ haunting and
resorting,” but employed the expression “frequenting,"
or something to that effect, and this discrepancy burst up
the case at the very beginning. There was absolutely
no difference in the meaning of the words ; in each case
it was meant to be conveyed that the defendant attended
the premises, and hung round, and was often seen there,
and made the place an habitual resort. But the civil law
of Australia long ago gave up the habit of considering
matters of simple justice, and went astray after points of
order and technicalities which only serve to pervert the
course of equity and make the code % mockery.
* * *
According to Bathurst (N.S.W.) Times, some
turf sharps took a bay horse from Sydney to an up-
oountry race-meeting, dyed him jet black, entered him
in a false name, and won with him everything they started
for.
• * #
Influence is being used with a Bart, and a Q.O.
to have the suspended jockey, Jimmy Hayes, re-instated
in his high place in the saddle.
• • «
Dear Bulletin, — Excuse me re Bridesmaid’s 19
foals. Trenchant, foaled in ’9O, was Bridesmaid’s 15th ;
so that, if she foaled every year since, she has but 18,
unless twins were in it. The mare shows the highest
colonial stud-book record for fruitfulness. Old English
records name several equal to our highest, but I have only
heard of two mares exceeding 18 foals.—Yours, &0., Horse
* • •
It is related that one of the big prize-winners in
recent Tatt. sweep (Melb. Cup) was a young husband who,
having started matrimony on a somewhat too extensive
scale, sold his furniture a while ago. When his bride
heard the glad tidings she beamed upon Adolphus and
said she always knew he would make a lot of money as
soon as he got the chance. The ordinary husband who
buys a ticket is merely informed that he was a fool to
gamble like that instead of paying the baker.
# # *
Wallsend (N.S.W.) First Eleven, playing 15
of Britannia Second Eleven, disposed of the latter for
3 (three) runs. Almost a record in the district,
# * •
The long-expected Seale-Valentine amateur fight
at Sydney has been adjourned sine die.
* * •
Despite the falling-off on Derby and Cup days,
the V.R.C. railway returns for Steeplechase day show an
increase of £llO9 on the previous year.
* * ♦
The small head has quite gone out of date’for a
racer. The moderns would be termed “fiddle-headed
brutes,” by scribes of yore.
# * •
A Melb. policeman curses his luck : he was told
to “ raid ” the sweep in which he had drawn Tarcoola.
* * *
Lathy, flat-chested, consumptive-looking Billy
Maher lias fi led out, in the States, into an list. man.
The other day he beat La Blanche, “the Marine,” and it
is now talked of pitting him against “ Buffalo” Costello.
* # *
One W. W. Naughton, who sends from the
States a monthly letter on Yankee sport to a Sydney
weekly, writes in all seriousness that Jim Stanbury was
afraid to tackle the Yankee scullers. As a matter of fact,
the Australian refused to row mountebank races “ with a
turn ” against fourth and fifth raters like Petersen. Hence
the gall.
« * »
East bowling is dangerous to batsman and
bowler. Latest victim, P. C Charlton, who is suffering
from internal strain, and is forbidden to bowl at all this
season. He last played in an intercolonial - and nearly
fainted at the crease. The great Lehmann broke down in
a similar way. Turner, called by Englishmen “The
Terror,” is, tor hardiness alone, a living wonder among
bowlers.
* * *
A ticketless wag, travelling from Melbourne to
the last (say Bargowlah) Cup-meeting, induced the
train-guard to pay his fare on the strength of a
plausible yarn that Malvolio was entered for the Cup
under another name, and that his coat had been
so altered with dves as to positively conceal his
identity. “It was a real dead snip if the jockey didn’t
squeak.” He was “in the know, and they were going t
break the books and win tons of money." The guard
bit, and, besides paying for the ticket and giving up his
own sleeping-berth, shouted a bottle of brandy. He quite
made up his mind that Speight wouldn’t boss him any
more. “ It’s a dead bird, you say ? ” “As dead a cop as
ever was; only don't breathe it to a soul—it it gets about
we’re ruined.” “Is he in at a light weight?” “Yes,
old ohap, that’s where we’ve got ’em. Win, my boy! it’s
the deadest snip in the world if the jockey don’t squeak.”
When the train reached the Bargowlah, it was arranged
that they should meet-on the course half-an-hour before
the Cup was run and plank their cash. At the appointed
time the guard, feverishly excited, rushed up and found
his friend sobbing bitterly, “I’m ruined! ruined!!
ruined!!!” “•Ruined?" “Yes." “ What’s happened?”
“ The jockey * squeaked.’ ”
• • •
Ex-champion sculler Ned Trickett is now bridge-
keeping for the N.S.W. Customs on the Murray.
* * •
Dear Bulletin, —Like horse-yarns? Here’s
one. N.Q., in seventy something-eight, I think. Reef-
ing—good show (wish I had it_ now). Used to
pack tucker from Cooktown with own horses.
Doughboy nice horse fiddle-head—pensively pen-
dulous under-lip—sweet, meditative smile—more sense’n a
man—eat anything—chase you for bread and jam. One
day Warden (Hill) down from Byerstown to our claim—
feed, of course—bush hospitality—(going bung now)—
Doughboy outside listening to conversation —good listener
—great ear-capacity. Warden sitting with back to entry
—large slice bread and marmalade—talking earnestly—
elbow on table—Doughboy twigs that slice—stretches
neck about six feet—that lip good for two more—snaps it
—yell and jump from Warden—complacent smile on
countenance of horse (Unreportable language
of Warden). Never mind, try again. Another slice-
bread and mustard—lots of latter—invitingly held up
while continuing talk. Doughboy repeats performance—
a surprised and pained look takes place of former smile —
big tears roll down cheeks. Never take the choicest
morsel from Warden after that. Lie? P’raps so. Told
it so often, I dunno.—The Palmer.
• * *
Mr. Alf, Lawler, a Sydney sport just returned
to Australia, saw Corbett box in America. “He is a
bigger man than Choynski—in fact, about the same size
as Jackson, and is a dashing boxer, with a style recalling
that of the little champion, Griffo.”
• • •
The latest billiard-match between Ives and
Roberts produced unique play. Roberts, 945 points ahead
on Wednesday afternoon, was, when the game finished
same evening, 115 behind Ives! When Ives scored so
marvellously in London with the balls jammed in the
corner, he was put down as a mere trickster; but breaks
of 651, 515, and 395 in one evening at. ordinary English
billiards proves him to be a player without a rival.
# # #
A cricket-match, W. G. Grace’s Eleven v. W.
W. Read’s Eleven, played after the close of the legitimate
season, was probably unique in the circumstance that
Grace and Read each made top score for his side—l3s
and 112 respectively.
Melbourne Agk strongly agitates for legalised
totes.
• • •
The first Melb. racecourse, Batman’s Hill, was
straight. The present one is pretty crooked.
• • •
The Argus says pedestrianism is dead through
the rogueries practised, and then goes on to argue, by
mplication, on the snow-white purity of horse-racing 1
Some 30,000 frozen Australian hares were
delivered in one shipment in London lately.
They are described as excellent. Most of them
were retailed as “ best Norfolks” at ss.
Zola having made Albert Edward a leading
character in “Nana,” Tummy gave him a very
cool reception on his recent visit to England.
At Uardry, Gulgong, N.S.W., is a year-old
sheep with two mouths, one in the orthodox
position, the other in the ear. “ The lower part of
the ear forming the jaw opens and shuts in the
ordinary manner when the sheep is feeding, and
contains two teeth.” Wanted, a stump-orator with
two mouths. He would be worth millions.
At Merriwa (N.S.W.) a drover has been
fined £l, under an old Charles 11. statute, for
travelling sheep on a Sunday. The N.S.W.
statute law declares that a drover of sheep must
travel his animals six miles a day, Sunday or
otherwise, unless weather forbids. If he doesn’t
he is fined. He is fined either way.
The Queensland unionist shearers’ strike'
prisoners, gaoled for three years on a charge of
conspiracy, have served their sentences, arjfl were
last week released. Although the men Were not
landed at Brisbane until 9.30 p-.'m., some hundreds
of their mates were present to welcome them to
freedom, and to bore them with speeches. One
portion of their sentences required the finding of
sureties of good behaviour lor another year, but
the 26 sureties necessary could have been supplied
several times over. Ever since their incarcera-
tion, an assistance-fund for their benefit has been
accumulating. To the wives of the two married
men among them, <£2 a week has been paid all
along; besides which something like <£2500 stands
to the credit of the fund, which is to be divided
among them. The men, by petitioning for
“mercy” at the instigation of Col. Secretary
Towzer, could have obtained a “pardon” long
ago, but they declined to adopt an appellant
attitude.


IU ARC ABC
ILftUCE
'•* BLOO
Herr Rassmussen’s,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
It is well-known (o the public of Australia that Herr
RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish Herbalist), of 547
Qeorge-street, Sjdnev, has devoted his whole life-time to
the study of how to prepare a genuine remedy for Affec-
tions of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he
has succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that
his Registered and World-renowned ALFALINE
VITALITY PILLS are without their equal in the
world as a genuine and permanent cure for all Affections
of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in
Australia to dav, thousands of walking monuments of the
virtue this wonderful remedy contains as a Nerve
fnvigcrator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000
Genuine Testimonials from grateful cured sufferers,
as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not 100 much to
say that his Remedies have cured more than all others put
together for the same complaint.
The ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS will cure
the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of Memory, Despon-
dency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dys-
pepsia, and all other Affections of the Brain and Nerves,
no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended
to all sufferers from above symptoms. A Special
Powerful Course is posted for 435. 6d.| an Ordinary
Course, 235. 6d. Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s.
WARNlNG.—lmitators will he Prosecuted.
IMPORTANT.—Herr Rassmussen has
no Branch at Bendigo. H:s ONLY Victorian
Branch is at 150 Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Cured Permanently by taking
Herr RASSMUSSEN’S
ALF ALINE
VITALITY PILLS.
f\ AWARDED,
ftwo GOLD
WEDALS
Sss
JilN
m
mj-
m
/■"v
ILL
ALFA LINE
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD K NERVES.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d., posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d. Boxes, 6s. and 12s.
Regiatered and Purely Herbal,
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. Awarded Two Gold Medals.
Unequalled, Unexcelled. Over 100,000 Testimonials.
SEND FOR HIS FREE AND USEFUL PAMPHLET, with ADVICE and TESTIMONIALS.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“ Herr Rassraussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“ Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”— Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”—North Melbourne Advertiser.
“ Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily Tele-
graph, Launceston, Tas. -
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree as to the skill
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bona-fides of his
testimonials appear to be well established. S.A,
Register, Adelaide.
“ Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
eniovs the confidence of many leading people of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland."—Cooktown
Courier, Q.
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 8/-, 6/-, 12/- and 23,6.
Alfaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to prevent Grey Hair, and eradicate
Dandruff. Produces also quickly luxuriant Beard
and Moustaches. Packets, 3/- and 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautiiier.
Beautifies the Complexion and removes Pimples.
Freckles, Tan, Blackheads, etc. Packets, posted, 3/-
and 6/-
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, 1/-; posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1,6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes, !/•
and 2/- ; posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, ported.
HOW TO CURE THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
AFFECTIONS,
SORES. BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA,
SALT RHEUM, OLD BLOOD COMPLAINTS.
BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UNPLEASANT
SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted.
Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. 6d.
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3/- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6/- posted.
« The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling..
Herr RASSMUSSEFS HEAD DEPOT:
547 George Street, Sydney.
-A-HLSO -A.T
ms BEAUGHES : '
150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
154 Bundle Street, Adelaide.
91 Lambton Quay, Wei’ton,
“The Last of Six: Tales of the Austral
Tropics,” by Ernest Favenc, from The Bulletin. Post-
free to any Australasian address, Is. 3d., stamps. Bulle-
tin News. Co. (Ltd.), 24 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(the celebrated children’s sweet)
<Lc/c<rnjjA^CfS~
Lancet
(THE CEL
fe k a
mL
S SWEET)
lZ> A
A
St. John’s Works, London, W.G.
Publications.
GEORGE ROBERTSON Sc GO.,
Retail liooksellers and Stationers,
363 GKORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Smith (Goldwin), United States, 1492 1871 8,6 posted 10/-
Anstey (F.), Man from Blankley’s .. 6/- „ 77-
Grand (Sarah), Ideala .. .. .. 3,6 ~ 4/6
Boys, Vol, 1 7/6 „ 10/6
Hatton (Joseph), Under the Great Seal 3/6 „ 4/6
Flurscheim, Rent, Interest and Wages 1/- „ 1/2
Passing of a Mood, Pseudonym Library 1/6 „ 1/10
Meggendorffer, Humorous Picture Book 3/- ~ 4/-
„ Monkey Theatre .. 7/6 „ 8, 6
Kipling (Rudyard), Many Inventions .. 6/- „ 7/-
NEW SERIAL VOLUMES.
AUSTRALIAN CHRISTMAS CARDS.
NOW READY, POST FREE Is. 6d.
*
The ballet
GIRL: Her Thea-
trical and Domestic His-
tory. Giving-an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to w< ar real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautch girls of
Ind a, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians, circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 22 engravings.
Also, post, free Is. Od.,
“The Life, Adventur s,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
■>e had only of Madame Panza, Pox 913, G.P.0., Sydney.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-CLYCOSE
OB
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHELE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
✓
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
ff A T O O M
B A.
The FBI DRY.
Gardens, Orchard, Ballroom, Tennis adjacent,
Dairy.
Terms - £2 2s.
Mrs. J. W. FLETCHER.
f/evER
i^ fIU Ending
B2Ba
* Pleasure to use
KROPP
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“I find your
Razors excel-
lent
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW^GROUNO
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 61,
Frith Street, Soho
; Square, London, W.
RAZOR
MILWARD’S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
SHARPS
THROUGHOUT
THE
WORLD.
STANDARD' NEEDLES.
f'-'tJKTTf*
S'.'
foo>. «•>
'VC s
B.MOONTCASTIE& sQ\\s
OJRECT IMPORTERS & MANOfACtORER3
0» Hats & CAPS
bn
cv
bn
cvb
nc
vbn
■A
cv
bn
cvb
ncv
to
>0
m
bn
cvb
n
IS
cvb
nc
bvn
cv
bn
eNj
FOR
332 George Street,
SYDNEY.
(OQKSEY & [Of [eLEBRATED jONOOIS H^TS
Whery ordering number Qf hoi will be sufficient
The bed that Thackeray died on was sent
to his old school, the Charter-house. The head
gown-boy has the privilege of sleeping on it.
According to the laws of officialdom, all
sovereigns are semi-ecclesiastioal personages. But
it would be difficult to accept, say, Albert ltd ward
as a semi-ecclesiastic.
At Caiwarra station, near Hungerford
(N.S.W.), during the recent shearing, the cook
had as pets some fifty or sixty pelicans. Walking
down to the bank of the lagoon, he would whistle,
and, in a few moments, be surrounded by an open-
mouthed mob of hungry birds. So tame were
they that they would take bones from his hand
and reach up and pick them off his shoulder.
The two Dutch men-of-war despatched by
the Netherlands-India Govt, from Batavia to
seize the Australian pearling parties alleged to be
“scooping” the Dutchmen’s pearl-shell, are the
Sumatra and the Pontianak. If the former vessel
is the same Sumatra that was stationed at Dutch
New Guinea in ’75 there is little chance of her
catching the Australians. She was a paddle-
wheel steamer, and capable (in smooth water and
with a four-knot current in her favour) of steaming
six knots an hour.
Thirty years ago, as G. R. Sims reminds
his readers in London Referee, a specially ram-
pageous boy was, by common consent, set down as
“ a young Radical.” The term indicated a pro-
bably disreputable manhood terminating on the
gallows. Unless the young Radical repented and
became a juvenile worm he would grow into an
adult Radical, for which class of person there was
absolutely no salvation in those days. Every
anxious parent prayed that his boy might be a,
dear little Submissive Tory and a credit to his
country.
Fifty per cent, of “plucks” in N.S.W.
junior exam, this year. The examiners in every
department say that they have never had a more
miserable set of papers to correct. Two reasons,
amongst others, for this. First, the fond idiocy
of the parents who send their darlings up as soon
as they have been promoted from a feeding-bottle
to a spoon and finely-chopped meat. Secondly,
the incompeteney of the teachers. One, a junior*
and-senior tutor, who teaches geology at a ladies’
college, actually asked, the other day, what obsi-
dian was.
Before undergoing operative or other
treatment for Piles, consult Mr. A. Sharp on the
new and successful “ Cannalin ” treatment, 257
George-st., close to Bridge-st., Sydney.*
Dear Bulletin, —Horace Greeley says that
swearing is a Christian virtue, because it so
admirably answers the purpose of getting rid
of emotions. Bishop Goe, in his lecture on
the Continuity of the Church of England, says
(in re Henry VIII.) that “that man reads the
pages of history to little purpose who has not
observed how often God in providence makes use
of a bail man to accomplish his own wise pur-
poses.” If these assertions are correct why
endeavour to repress any alleged “bad habit?”
It may be a Christian virtue in disguise. Why per-
secute poor Matthew Davies and his fellow land-
boomers? They may have been specially sent by
Providence to show the folly of living miserably
and saving your cash for the proverbial rainy day.
Why hang Makin and try to hang Mrs. Th waites?
Their purpose may have been to bring the case of
the unaccountable infant prominently before the
public. Why repress anything or punish any-
body ?—M.B.H., South Yarra.


Kruse’s Fluid Magnesia
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA :
KRUSE’S FLUID MAGNESIA
Cures
Indigestk n,
Acidity, and
K r ervous
Headache.
Cures
All Disorders
of the
Digestive
Functions.
The Best
Aperient
For Ladies,
Infants,
and
Invalids.
Prescribed by
Physicians.
All Chemists,
1/3,2/6 and 3/6
Per Bottle.
BOSISTO’S
‘Parrot Brand’ Eucalyptus Oil
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is spiayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which | laces
it above other preparations, and considerably enhai ces its
value.
CAUTION. —Be Careful to S cure
BOSISTO’S “ PARROT BRAND,” and ; void
the many crude and mixed oils now being offered
to tile Public, which may not be only worthless,
from a remedial point of view, but actually harm-
ful in administration.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S na
Renders Life Endurable in the Hot
Summer Months.
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Clears the House, the Conservatory, and
the Garden of all Insect Pests,
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S te*
Preserves Furs from the Moth.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S
Cleanses Domestic Pets of Parasites.
KRUSE'S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S te*
Is the only Genuine. Ask for Kruse’s,
and take none other,
KRUSE’S INSECTICIDE. KRUSE’S ‘m
Sold Everywhere, in Tins at 1/-, 1/6,
2/6, 5/- each.
CHRISTMAS & NEW YEAR PRESENTS.
The largest and most choice stock just imported of everything that is elegant and new, the value and excellence of which
can only be realised by personal inspection, therefore visit S. D. & Co.’s Great Emporium for everything at first London cost
Stewart Dawson & Co.’s charming «u P -to-Date ” London Specialities.
JUST PUBLISHED, our NEW PAMPHLET of Elegant Specialities, a Copy of which will be sent, Post Paid, on Application to S. D. & Co., SYDNEY
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10?.
Ladies' 18-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 lO.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
Usually-
Sold
at £lO 10s.
No. 525. —Lovers’ Knot and Heart; Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, £1 5.
No. 533.—15-ot. Gold Brooch, 1 Diamond,
2 Pearls, ±'2 10.
o 511.—Elegant Lucky Beil Brood’, 9-ct.
Gold, 17 6; 15 ct. Gold, £1 10;
Silver, 5,6.
cvb
Elearant
Heart
anrf
Lovers’
Knot
Brooch.
loot. Gold, Diamond centre, £3.
Whip and Shoe Pin,
15-ct. Gold, 15 0
Silver, 4/6.
WATCHES.
The variety, ex-
tent and value of
our superb stock
outrivals the sem-
blance of any com-
parison.
No. 228.—Set Links,
9-ct. Gold, 10/6.
Silver, 3/-
Pin and Stud, 15-ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£T n 6.
No. 226.-Set Links.
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
Pin and Stud, 15-ct. Gold,
6 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire,
£3 VS 6.
15-ct. Gold Locket,
Diamond Centre, £
ncv
Telescopic
Pencil,9 ct
Gold, 35'-
Silver,
10 6.
/n
r,
No. m.—
9-ct. Gold.
Lucky Charm Bell
Bracelet, fl 10.
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-ct. Gold, from £1 15 ; 15-ct. Gold, from £S 5.
For sizes, see Illustrations in Pamphlet.
No. 756.-i.ucky 811 B ict, 9-ct. Gold, £1 10;
5 Bell ditto, £'i ; 3 Bell ditto, silver, 7/6.
No. 759. Double Heart Bracelet.
15-ct. Gold and 2 Diamonds, 13 10.
No. 106.—Gent’s Albert, 9-ot. Gold, £4 4; 15-ot., £6 15; Silver, 15/6.
bn
No. 107. Gent’s Albert, 9-ct. Gold, 1 3 12/6; 15-ct., i 5 17/6; Silver, 13 6.
cvbnvc
No. 42. Ladies’ Ring,
15-cfc. Gold, 7 Rubies,
6 Pearls, £1 5.
No. 53. —Electro-Silver
Breakfast Cruet, fine
English Cut Bottles, Spoons,
comp L e, 31/-
No. 39.—Ladies’ Ring-,
18-cL Gold, 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubies, £3 10.
OAWSto
No. 70.—Solid Silver
Napkin Rings, lin. wide.
2in case £lB 6
4 ditto 8 5 0
No. 32.—Ladies’ Ring,
18-ct. Gold, 1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, £2.
No. 25. —Wedding Ring,
Massive 18-ct. Gold, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same pi ice.
bn
Lovers’ Knot
and New.
9-ct. Gold, 14/6
Silver, 4 6
Lucky Bell
Brooch.
15-ct. Gold,
£l7 6
No. 601. —Silver Match Box, 11/6.
Size Smaller, 8/6.
9-ct. Gold, £2 10.
Music Brooch, 15-cfc. Gold,
£1 10.
No. 504.—The “Little Pet’s
9-ct. Gold, 5/6.
Broooh,
SOVEREIGN
cv
PURSE.
No. f3l.—Pearl Initial Brooch, any letter
9-ct. Gold, 7/6.
NOTE.-Each Article being Government Hall-marled or Stamped, the quality is Guaranteed, at the same time our Prices are about HALE the i sual Colonial Charges.
Add to Remittance for Post and Register; One Article, Od.; Two, 9d.; Tlirec, Is.; Six, Is. 6d.
We despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these ratis, and take all risk in transit. Address—
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street,
SY-DITIEY, TST.S.W,
A Love Story.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ He went up-country and was reported dead,”
said the traveller to his mate as they sat down on
their swags.
“ He was reported to have been drowned while
trying to swim his horses across a billabong. His
girl broke her heart —and mended it again ; then
he turned up alive, and drier than ever, and
married her, and broke her heart for certain. And
—she died.”
He spat in the dust and scraped it impatiently
with his foot.
“She was—she was an old sweetheart of mine,”
he said, speaking low and as if to himself.
He rested his long arm listlessly on his knee and
absently scraped across in the dust, between his
feet, with the blade of a pocket-knife.
“Ah, well —nevermind. . . The billy’s boil-
ing, Joe.”
HENRY LAWSON.
Some appropriate Sydney sign-boards:
“ Lugg, dentist; ” “ Whale, oilman ; ” “ Mrs.
Child, midwife;” and years ago the legend on a
city hotel was, “The Rising Sun, by Will Shine.”
Who objected to the statement that Eng-
land is 15,000 miles from Australia “seeing that
in a straight line it is not more than 10,000 miles ?”
A straight line is through the earth and is not
more than 7000 miles.
Abbd Duclos told a circle of ladies that an
honest woman could listen to anything, and then
went on to tell them a pretty story. He followed
with a better, but—“ Hold,” said one, “we are
not so honest as your reverence supposes.”
r I he daily press denounces the proposal to
make N.S.W. State education absolutely free;
but it doesn’t denounce free postage of news-
papers. Free postage of newspapers ought to be
suppressed as it “educates the people beyond
their station in life.”
Maitland Mercury (N.S.W.), we see, is
to appear as a daily evening paper on January 1
next. There will also be a weekly issue of larger
dimensions every Saturday. This, under all the
circumstances, strikes The Bulletin as one of
the neatest newspaper moves on record.
The young King of Spain is only getting
about .£200,000 per annum. But if he sticks to
business and gets around to the throne early in
the morning, and only takes twenty minutes for
lunch, and doesn’t knock off before dark, there is
no reason why he shouldn’t have his salary raised.
Dear Bulletin, — Re Jim McCormick’s
alleged record for long-distance driving. I must
say that, after 13 years coaching in several of the
provinces, I have never known a man to do the
work George Raynor accomplished while driving
between Manna Hill (S.A.) and Wilcannia (N.S.
Wales). The distance out and back was 520
miles, and he did one round trip every week, or,
rather, as near the week as possible, but as a fall
of rain in that country brings coaching to bullock-
pace, George often got off his coach at one end
only to have a meal and mount the box for the
return trip; oftener still, he met the return coach
a few miles out from either end, and simply ex-
changed coaches and turned back over his terribly
monotonous track. Yes, I think Raynor’s work
for three years without a spell, will take all the
beating Jim M‘Cormick or anyone else can give it.
While on the subject of records, I may say that I
sat on the box and drove five-horse teams for 107
hours without sleep or stop, save to change horses,
which, I fancy, establishes a record in its way,
and I may add that in all that weary time I only
covered 310 miles. So bad was the track that I
took 10g hours to get over one of our best stages
of 25 miles, while many an hour was spent in
walking beside the horses—as good as ever
worked when feed was plentiful—and urging
them on, bullock-fashion. After this and
many similar experiences, I find it difficult to
believe that Jim M’Cormick gets over 580 miles
every week. If he does, it must be on a macada-
mised road, for on every bush-track I have ever
Polled a rein over, a fall of rain, no matter how
slight, makes hours of difference in a trip, and
thus sadly interferes with the monthly average.—
Swingle Bar.
The Bulletin’s Missing Word Compe-
tition No. 8 closes on Wednesday, Nov. 29. For
particulars see advt. inside back cover.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.'s Report.
Wool.—At our third sale of the season, held yesterday,
the attendance of buyers-French, German and English—
was extremely large, and competition very strong up to a
level of prices slightly under those ruling last week for
fleece wool, but bellies, pieces and locks are just as eagerly
competed for. A feature of the sales is the great demand
for what are commonly called “ star lots”—that is, lots of
three bales and under. Owing to owners’ idea of’ values
being somewhat above the market, a few of the prin-
cipal lots were withdrawn, but as the difference is not
material, no doubt business will result. For 36 bales
greasy fleece marked HB/Fernglen, from Gundagai
7d was obtained. This was a fine free wool, nicely
skirted ; 34 bales Boree, from Goulburn ; JQ over Coolac
9 bales, and JG over Middle Station, 7 bales from Yass’
rea'ised the same figure ; 19 bales marked 4/JG, from
Wagga, fetched s|d-this lot was very heavy, wasty, and
not sufficiently skirted. A nice line marked WC/G, from
Gundagai, consisting of 30 bales, was passed in, the bid-
ding not reaching owner’s idea of value. AMD and
D/Wagga, from Deepwater and Wagga respectively,
realised 6£d per lb., the former being a little wasty, and
the latter touched with grass seed and skirty. For cross-
bred of medium quality 7fd per lb. was obtained for a
line from Rockley marked JS over R, and the same
figure for 2 bales WC/G. Scoured wool sold very well, a
further line of the well-known PR wool from Tumut
realising IOJd for the first skin, 9Jd tor second skin, and
12d for the fleece.
Sheepskins.—With the exception of green skins, all
classes are eagerly competed for, best full-woolled selling
up to 4|d ; superior, 5d ; medium, 3|d to 4d ; pelts, 3id
per lb.; green skins, to 52d for tops, 30d to 40d for
medium, and 9d to 15d for pelts.
Hides.—As the sales progressed the demand improved
for all classes, extra-heavies selling to 3Jd ; heavies, 2d to
2Jd; medium and light, IJd to lsd ; dry, to 2d per lb.
Tallow.—Market without alteration ; prime mutton
£23 to £23 55.; mixed, £22 15s to £23 ; medium, £22 to
£22 12s 6d ; beef, best, £22 to £22 10s; medium and
inferior, £lB to £2l per ton.
Horns.—Large, £1 to £llos ; medium, 10s to 17s 6d ;
tips and small, from 2s per 100.
Bones.—Common £1 10s to £2 ss: knuckles, £2 to
£2 10s ; shanks, £4 to £4 12s 6d.
Hoofs. —£2 10s per ton.
Hair.—Horse, 9d to 13Jd ; cow. 6d to lOd ; stump. 2d
to 7id per lb.
Marsupial Skins.—No change to report, with the
exception of rabbit and faulty skins all lines are well
competed for. Large grey kangaroo, 40d to 52d;
medium, 20d to 30d ; small, Id to 18d ; red, large, 15d to
24d; small and medium, Id to 14d ; wallaroo, Id to 18d;
wallaby, swamp. Id to 14d, scrub ; Jd to 14d ; rock, Jd to
2d each. Rabbit, id to 6d per lb. Opossum, grey, 6s to
10s; seconds, 3s 6d to ss; rough and rumped, from 6d
per dozen.
Sydney, 17th November, 1893.
“ Com© and hay© a drink ” is what is now
heard in our streets, but how often do you get
any good out of the decoctions retailed in the
majority of the drink-shops? Next time you use
this expression just slip into Stedman’s, or the
Fresh Food, and get a cup of Fry’s Cocoa.
Frank McDonald, a shearer staying at
Melb. Federal Coffee Palace, while in a state of
somnambulism climbed out of a seventh-storey
window, and swarmed up a spout on to the roof,
an apparently impossible feat. He spent 19 hours
on the roof in his trousers only, and finally
attracted attention by throwing bricks into the
street. Had M'Donald slipped whilst climbing
he would have dropped plump 100 feet. He said
he “ had been drinking a little.”
The epidemic of young girl suicides con-
* tinues in Maoriland. Also, despite the ghastly
consequences, they almost all stick to the one
poison—a lot of match-heads swallowed in a cup
of water, last mail two more of these affairs
arerepqrted. Theperformersareagedlsandl6years
respectively, and at latest advices they were both
in the hospital and recovering in great agony.
Suicide by eating matches is generally unsuccess-
ful, for the sensation which follows is very like
that of trying to balance boiling water on the pit
' of the stomach, and the patient has to yell at the
j top of her voice long before death is anywhere
J near. The profound ignorance of the Maoriland
girl suicide is her most conspicuous feature. What
she wants is to die in her best white frock and be
found nicely laid out on her little white bed with
a restful smile on her features and a red, red rose
in her waxen hand. And if she did manage to
die by swallowing boxes of matches she would
only do it after long and dismal agonies, in the
course of which she would prance all over the
house, and ruin her frock by trying to force her-
self up the chimney, and by rolling over and over
on the coals, and in the end she would probably
set herself on fire and then rush out screaming
into the back premises, and cast herself head-long
down a steep place into the fat-barrel. There is
nothing poetic about being discovered dead,
distorted, and covered with soot, and huddled up
shapelessly among the grease and kitchen bones,
and the sentimental girl-suicide might make a note
of it.
To Non-Subscribers and Distant Readers
The Bulletin’s Xmas Number, to be published
December 16, at this paper’s usual price, 6d., will
shine like a star. It will not be a fat hunk of
paper stained with English stories, bought abroad
for ss. a page, shared with scores of other papers
throughout the world, and backed up with yards
of stolen matter and a garish foreign-printed pic-
ture of a girl nursing a kitten.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be absolutely
original, both as regards its literary matter and its
pictures, which latter will be contributed by
the leading artists of Australia. The literary
contents will comprise contributions in prose and
verse from over 40 old and new Australian
writers, and there will not be one dull line from
first to last. The number will be the best and
biggest and most original sixpenny-worth of read-
ing published by any news-magazine in the world.
Single copies of The Bulletin’s Christmas
Number will be mailed to any Australasian address
outside N.S. Wales for Bd. in stamps; to any
English or foreign address for a remittance of 9d.
in stamps sent to the office, 24 Pitt-street. Sydney
N.S. Wales.


KEEP ONE IN THE HOUSE !
MEDICAL BATTERIES.
£2 2 0 £2 2 0 £2 2 0
POST
PBBE TO -A-lEsTY"
-A-DDIRIESS.
D" QAIFFE’S
medical battery .
This splendid machine, very powerful, exceedingly compact, and
very easily used, fitted with appliances for applying the current to
aliy ELECTRODES the SPINE, for the EARS, for the TEETH,
for the HEAD, etc. , , c , ,
Complete, in polished mahogany case, beautifully made and finished,
£2 2s.
Post Free -to any Address.
Full instructions are sent for working it, and information willingly
given as to the best method of applying for any complaint.
D R SPAMER’S
MEDICAL BATTERIES.
No. 1 SIZE £2 10 O
No. 2 SIZE (more powerful) £3 10 O
Sent Post Free.
A First-Class Instrument
EITHER FOR
Home or Professional Use.
Has full set of appliances, is easily
worked, and can be so regulated that the
current can only just be felt, or can be
made powerful enough to knock an elephant
down.
M 3
If vou keep a BATTERY IN THE HOUSE, you will have no Doctor’s Bills.
* . _ , . -c, inT'anAOßTf TOOTHACHE and EARACHE, the Relief is Immediate. For SCIATICA and LL.tiBAGO, it
>For NEURALGIA it is an ™the treatment that never fails. For CONTRACTED SINEWS SWOLLEN
19 t’» e only Cuke known to Swencg LIFE ’’ and for nearly all the ills that flesh is heir to, the Medical Battery is the most sensible, effectual and permanent cure
VEIN If wish*it,° send yof Full Catalogues and many other Instruments, but we draw special attention to the Batteries above illustrated, as the
very best value obtainable anywhere.
FROST & SHIPHAM, Manufacturing Electricians,
462 & 587 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A N.S.W. Legislative Council Committee has
found that the Costa Rica Packet claims against the
Netherlands-India Govt.—by Capt. Carpenter, £10,000;
owners, £lO,OOO ; subordinate officers and crew, £5OO0 —
are reasonable and moderate, and should he pressed.
Another thing that needs pushing is the N.S.W. whaling
industry, seeing that at least one vessel entering Sydney
Heads of late has bumped against a sperm-whale.
# * •
Dr. Cullen, M.P., in the N.S.W. Mining on
Private Property debate, stood up as the landlord’s cham-
pion, evidently in ignorance of the fact that such a law
has for 20 years in Victoria worked for the benefit rather
than tiie injury of property-owners. _ The present position
of Bendigo is largely due to the right to mine on and
under private lands.
# » •
After a year’s silence the scheme to carry out
big works of various kinds in New Caledonia has been re-
vived in Sydney. If the Governor of that island were
aware of half the statements made relative to certain
concessions he would sit right up.
« » •
Dowell, M.P., says if greater scope was allowed
private enterprise there would be no unemployed. Let’s
see—isn’t Dowell the man who fought for a charter for
Abigail’s bank? And hadn’t he a fist in the Deepwater
tramway? Has it been laid, and if it hasn’t, what penalty
has beeh paid by Dowell and his friends?
# • •
“ Tattersall ” has consented to supervise the
ballot for the distribution of the properties of the Equit-
able Building Society of Q. —which announcement should
“make assurance doubly sure” since the names of the
promoters of the scheme were of themselves a sufficient
guarantee. We are assured that the Equitable will derive
no direct profit from this distribution, _ its aim being
merely the realisation of assets otherwise inconvertible in
these times. The share-list will close on the last day of
this month, by which time it is expected that the re-
quisite capital will be over subscribed. Messrs. Pierce
and Co., of Pitt-street, Sydney, are central agents for
N.S. Wales, and are empowered to issue scrip and supply
information.
• # •
The manager of the Australian Joint Stock
Bank informs us that he has been communicated with by
Mr. Hallam, a chemist in College-street, to whom one of
the A.J.S. Bank’s £lO notes, No. 5918615, signed by Mr.
F. P. Fawcett only, which formed one of the series of
notes stolen from the late Cargo branch on the evening of
the 10th June last, was proffered. Mr. Hallam endea-
voured to communicate with the bank, but was unsuc-
cessful, and while attempting to do so the man left his
shop.l
# # •
Coolgardie Bayley has already been described
as a man with “a stake in the country” (Vic.). He
bought for £2OOO an estate sold in the boom for £12,000.
Nearly all the big Barrier men are heavily
interested in Coolgardie. Said that one of the Hill crowd
is quietly opening a big reef prospecting over 2oz. per
, ,
Coolgardie boom growing apace. Adelaide al-
ready in up to the neck ; distressed Melbourne has waded
to the wa'st; Sydney declines to wet her toes.
* * *
Lord Percy Douglas has been convinced of the
richness of the Coolgardie goldfield. If the local talent
couldn’t convince a Lord Percy they would be the most
unimaginative experts oh record.
Ford, Bayley’s partner, had as much to do with
finding the rich gold as his mate ; in fact, it was he who
picked up the first nugget.
# # *
To Prospbctors.—The advertiser, who has ample capital
at command, also long mining experience, in\ ites offers
of good gold-mining properties, to be worked for the
mine , not the market; particularly gravitation, hydraulic-
sluicing claims. Send offers, with full. Bt particulars, to
“Oro,” 2 Pirie-street, Adelaide.
Bay ley’a Reward mine has a market-value of a
quarter of a million, and the discoverers, Bayley and
Ford, decline to part at the present price. They say the
stone at grass is worth, at least, £BO,OOO.
* # #
The Ooolgardie rain amounted to less than an
inch, after all.
* • •
All up with Ooolgardie now—a Sunday paper
has described it as a magnificent field 1
• • •
The Ooolgardie people estimate that at least
30 people have died on the drought-cursed road which
leads to their haggard El Dorado out in the wilderness.
Waterholes (merely sinks of blackened mud) average
about 15 mips apart. The camel is almost the only
Providence known in these parts, and many a dry pros-
pector thinks it the most beautiful animal on earth when
its gaunt hump looms up between him and the setting sun.
• * *
The Randt field, S.A., has the largest-salaried
mining managers in the world. The pick of America
have already gone there, and more are going. One man
is getting £6OOO, another £5OOO, a third £4OOO, and
several £2OOO and £3OOO a year. A big offer has come to
a man in N.S. W. with an American reputation.
• * *
Mr. Adams, of Ford, Adams and Co., a wool-
merchant, is the original lessee of the Cremorne (Sydney)
coal-rights, and is said to have sold largely to the present
syndicate.
* » #
Now that the Cremorne coal-job has been prac-
tically accomplished, Sydney D.T. "devotes an editorial
to prove that “ our beautiful harbour ” must not on any
consideration be further uglified. Beautiful 1
# # »
Why has Melb. gas gone up?
* « *
The Premier Permanent deposits were bought
up at first by Jews and Christians, who were howled at
as wolves. Yet now it appears the wolves will get left.
* • »
The war between the N.S.W. collieries follow-
ing on a further reduction in the hewing-rates, will begin
with 1894.
# * *
Miners’ proverb s “ Beware of the young man-
ager whose father was manager before him.”
• * «
Charters Towers mines pay big divs., but the
share-market is dead. For days not a single share is sold.
Explanation—the best mines are in the hands of absentee
shareholders.
* • •
The owners of the Tasmanian whaler. Water-
witch, are now fitting out a second vessel, the Helen. By
the time a dozen whalers are out from Tas. and M.L.,
sleepy Sydney may begin to move.
# * •
The deadly-lively village of Port Macquarie
struggles in the throes of a gold discovery, and sluicing
proceeds at Shelly Beach, three miles away. The
existence of gold, however, on the coast from Nobby’s to
Tacking Point, was proved 20 years ago, but a reef has
never yet been hit on. Colours can he got in almost any
creek on the coast between Port Macquarie and Camden
Haven. # #
Since ’9O, Murchison Goldfields (W.A.) have
exported via Geraldton 36,6600 z. gold. Other estimates
make it 53,1600 z.
* * *
Montague Tigg, Esq., sprouts again, in Melb.,
with his gilt letters on the plate-glass.
« • •
Lately the scrip of one big Phoenixed bank,
when it has not actually been given away, has brought
half-a-orown.
* * *
A grey-headed linen-draper gives a very bad
account of Ooolgardie. The practical miner in question
spent 35 years behind the counter of a large Melbourne
drapery establishment, and was then discharged by the
new firm. So he put his scissors in his pocket, together
with a tape for measuring off nuggets by the yard, and
set out to Coolgardie. It was a disgusting region, he
says. No trams or omnibuses passed the door, and as
for gold—he never saw a little bit. Fortunately, the old
fellow managed to get back, in a weak state, to Mel-
bourne, where his narrative has sent a shudder through
the soft-goods trade.
• * •
Since the Robinson Co. (South Africa) started,
it has crushed 300,000 tons, for over 20 tons of gold.
Though there are millions of tons of ore awaiting stamps,
the co. lately bought several adjoining blocks for
£120,000. They are estimated to contain over half a
million tons ore, which will yield £1,500,000 profit.
* # •
Mills United last fortnight: 1827 tons, 16760 z.
—a slight fall. Since starting it has crushed 87,559 tons
for 88,7650 z., and declared £123,750 divs. ; this half-year
is nearly £20,000 better than the last.
# # *
Mt. Lewison mine, Parabola, half-yearly meet-
ing: “ Ten tons ore, assaying 15|0z., sold in Sydney for
£503. Directors wouldn’t spend more money than
necessary till the right means of treating the ore lias
been demonstrated.” A stranger would think they had
heaps of such ore to treat.
* # •
N.S.W. has at last got one more div. mine—the
Mt. Drysdale, Billagoa field, far west. T«o parcels of ore
6 and 5 tons, sent to Wallaroo smelting works, gave 35 to
460 z. per ton. Two other lots have been sent away, and
rich ore is still in the shaft, Div., £l5 per syndicate
share.
* # •
Mr. Taylor, the N.S.W. metallurgist, is looking
out a site for the nucleus of State metal works. New-
castle seems to have the best claim.
• * •
Shareholders, brokers, scrip-jobbers generally,
continue to watch developments in the Clarence mine,
Bendigo. Should this enormous body of quartz maintain
its value it will make the mine div.-paying for years.
# * *
The Red White and Blue, chiefly owned by
Lansell, has again entered the list of good yields and
steady divs. Last crushing, 414 ozs., div. 6d. Some
people were beginning to wonder whether the poor block
of ground would ever be taken out.
* * *
The latest opponent of the stamp-battery is
Carr’s disintegrator—two hollow wheels revolving against
each other and fitted with iron bars which act-as beaters.
It is claimed that hard stone can thus be reduced to
impalpable powder for less than Is. a ton. One of these
machines will be tested at Mt. Morgan, where Krome’s
rolls are larerely used for dry-crushing.
» * *
No news lately of the New England Emerald
Proprietary mine. Surely they haven’t already flooded
the market with precious stones.
« # *
A correspondent wants to know something
about the rich sapphire-mine, the prospectus of which
appeared many months back.
* • *
When you see men rushing around wanting to
buy Mount Allens, then you may know that rain has
fallen in the Far West.
# • •
Light has at last dawned on the Great Mercury
mine, M.L.—2260z. from the first 100 tons crushed after
recent troubles.
# • #
Lord Percy Douglas, who recently declared in
London that he saw gold in Bayley’s claim sticking out
of the reef in solid bars, is the son of the Marquis of
Queensberry. He is about 30, and worked around Bayley’s
for some weeks.
# * #
In justice to the former manager of the Spa
hydraulic mine, N.S.W., it should be said that work was
commenced on a basis of using 8,000,000 gallons a day,
and he protested against the reduction to about quarter
the quantity when so much money had been spent tc
complete the original scheme.
Kenneth Mackay is bringing out a volume
entitled “Out Back,” descriptive of Australian
bush life.
“L. L,” Barry is fortunate in having his
forthcoming Australian volume, “The Bnnyip
and other Stories,” prefaced by Rudyard Kipling.
This, at anyrate, will ensure its being “noticed.”
“Harry” M‘Quade, ex-M.P., and re-
nowned sportsman, died at Elizabeth Bay, Sydney,
of Bright’s disease, on Monday last, aged 48 years.
He was the eldest son of the late William
M'Quade, of Windsor (N.S.W.), and was a
popular property-owner in the Hawkesbury dis-
trict. He was M.P. for the electorate of that
name from ’B2 to ’B5, was one of the founders of
the Hawkesbury Coursing Club, was an enthusiast
in cricket, rowing and other manly sports, and
loved the stage, from which he married a most
charming and popular lady with whom and her
children a wide circle of friends will sincerely
condole. For “Harry” M'Quade was the very
soul of good-nature.
Sydney News item. More aldermen :
For Redfern two of the present members, Messrs. H.
C. Hoyle and J. S. M'Gowen, will oppose one another,
while Messrs. W. 0. Coombes, Cunningham, ex-
Alderman Ogden are already in the field, and, in
all probability, Alderman 0. Gordon (Mayor of the
borough) and Alderman Geo, Howe will also con-
test. For Waterloo, Aldermen Geo. Anderson and
E. T. Walsh (Waterloo), Messrs. G. W. Taylor, Mr. W. H.
Sharpe (one. of the present members), and Alderman
Horne (Alexandria) have themselves. At
Botany the contest will be a keen one in so much as there
are already three local candidates—viz., Mr. W. Stephen,
J.P., the Mayor of Botany (Alderman J. F. Luland),
and Alderman J. J. M'Fadyen, while Alderman J. Dacey,
of Alexandria, intends running in the labour-protection
interest. For the new electorate of Darlington Mr. W.
F. Schey, one of the present members, will face the music
with opponents in Alderman John Crowe (Redfern),
Alderman G. W. Lander (Redfern), Alderman Spring
(Mayor of Darlington), and the nominee of the local
Labour Electoral League.
Fourteen more alderman ! The Parliament of
Beadles is coming !
Mr. Cavanagh, father of the young lady
murdered at Carcoar by Glasson, called the other
day at The Bulletin office to deny the truth of
a paragraph to the effect that Mrs. Cavanagh, at
the instance of Mrs. Glasson, had signed a petition
for Glasson’s reprieve. Mr. Cavanagh added that
Mrs. Cavanagh had never even been asked to
sign such a petition. Since then we have received
the following;—
A statement appears in your last issue to the effect that
Mrs. Glasson called upon me and obtained my signature
to a petition for the reprieve of her husband. 1 beg to
give this statement an emphatic denial. I have never
seen Mrs. Glasson, and would not know her if I did see
her.—Yours truly, Letitia Cavanagh.
The Bulletin regrets its mis-statement, but it
printed the paragraph on what, at the time,
seemed good authority, and it did not assert that
Mrs. Glasson “personally called upon” Mrs.
Cavanagh. It also takes leave to indulge in another
regret—that the Law which in vain vengeance
hangs Glasson should also torture with a lifelong
crucifixion his innocent and helpless wife and yet-
unborn child. The hanging of the man is a
hideous and useless murder to pile upon the other
blood-deeds; but the deliberate social strangula-
tion of a woman under such circumstances, is a
horror from which the mind of civilised man
revolts.


The Land and of
N.S. Wales.
Mb. A. Fraser Hill, who is lecturing throughout
N.S. Wales on matters little understood of the
people, and illustrating ? by means of a speaking
diagram, the glaring inequalities of wealth dis-
tribution, has submitted several long and interest-
ing manuscripts, from one of which a few
statements and deductions are extracted and here
presented.
According to Mr. Hill: If all the private wealth
and all the freehold land in New South Wales
were equally divided amongst all the men, each
man’s portion would be something like the fol-
lowing :
125 acres, freehold land, worth ... .£5OO
House and improvements, worth ... 300
Live stock and personal effects, worth 200
(Say) ... .£lOOO
And, in addition, he Would be entitled to lease
400 acres of pastoral land for <£4 per annum.
Why, then, should there be any poor and home-
less in N.S. Wales? Yet, Mr. Hill finds, by care-
fully cheeked processes of approved actuarial cal-
culation, estimating from the facts supplied by
probate returns, that the condition of the male
adults of N.S. Wales may be thus stated; —
Living in the eniovment of wealth... 100,406
Male adults without wealth ... ... 226,594
Which means that 3070 per cent, are in posses-
sion of all the wealth of the province, while 69’30
per cent are absolutely penniless, or, at least,
have no effects worth speaking about. Mr. Hill
estimates the total wealth held by private persons
in New South Wales at £327,200,000 all told
(Government Statistician Coghlan, in his u Wealth
and Progress,” ’92, places it much higher:—
£404,148,000.)
The accompanying diagram is a reduced photo*
graph of one prepared by Mr, Hill, in colours, and
will repay study. Working men, possessing
207 749 votes, are absolutely without possessions,
but live from hand to mouth ; while 862 other
persons own among them tHe unthinkable total
of £138,200,000. Similarly, 20,000,000 acres
df land are owned by fewer _ then than there
are minutes m a Working winters day { and if the
area that they cultivate Were to be represented
by one minute, the whole remaining period frond
dawn until sunset would be insufficient to syra-
bolise the vast areas they leave untouched ! They
do not occupy the land, but merely fence it round
with barbed wire and prevent others from occupy-
ing and using it. ,
In a democratic country, where th© peoples
votes make the laws, there are 2.) t ,320 voters
each without as much land as would make him a
grave, while a handful of other voters own
20,000,000 acres.


Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
cvb
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
: -THE-
Wentworth Hotel
sjumliggim
i
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Tariff: Bs. 6d. per Day.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boardprs.
Mrs, HAYES Pkopriktkkss.
Telephone- No. li>SB.
HOW BABIES SUFFER
From Torturing Humors
When their tender Skins are literally On Fire with Itching and
Burning Eczemas and other Itching, Scaly * and Blotchy Skin and
Scalp Diseases, none but mothers realize.
To know that a single application of the Cuticura Reme-
dies will, in the great majority of cases, afford instant and complete
relief, permit rest and sleep, and point
to a permanent and economical (because
so speedy) cure, and not to use them
without a moment’s delay, is to be guilty
6f positive inhumanity. [No greater leg-
acy can be bestowed upon a child than
a skin without blemish and d body nour•
ished with pure bloodi
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
$
$
,*r
%
' <
m
'«*sr
dies, are absolutely pure, and may be used from pimples to scrofula,
from infancy to age* with the most gratifying and unfailing success.
Treatment. Cuticura, the great skin cure, and Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
skin purifier and beautifier, externally, instantly allay the most intense itching, burn*
ing, and inflammation, soothe and heal raw and irritated surfaces, clear the skin and
scalp of crusts and scales, and restore the hair, while Cuticura Resouvent, the new
blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor remedies, cleanses the blood of all
impurities and poisonous elements, and thus removes the cause.
« All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and Hair,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases, s° Illustrations,
job Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are: sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura Soap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, sx. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp'n, Boston, U. S. A.
Pimples, Blackheads,
red, rough, and oily skin and
hands, and simple humors
and skin blemishes of infancy
»nd childhood are prevented and cured by that most effective of all Skin Purifiers and Beautifiers, th«>
Celebrated Cuticura Soap; Incomparably superior to all other skin and complexion soaps*
while rivalling in delicacy and purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. The only e*
ventive of inflammation and digging of the pores, the cause of wi facial -hcs. Price, 25c.
Positively the Bests Hair-Dressing.
EDWARDS HARLENE
WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND .
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER
AFTER USE.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin*
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and Moustachios ithas never been equalled. Asa Curer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, never fails. .
— OOOOOO '
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is. 8s, 6d., 3s. 6d., and 5s. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGEUHOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
Old Screwpress.
more BROKEN PRESSES, yet three times greater
J3I pressure ! Over 100 per cent, saved in time, and
labour reduced to a minimum. The pressure is instan-
taneous and results perfect. Employer is highly satisfied,
and the copying is now a pleasure to the office-boy. No
fastening Press to stand, stand to floor, etc. Parts sub-
ject to strain are Bessemer steel. Every Press guaranteed.
Vic. Hallways find the A utomatic the only Press to
stand their heavy tvorh.
Miss Automatic
SOLE AGENT for thb AUTOMATIC PRESS, “HAMMOND” and “MERRITT” TYPEWRITERS, &o.
i>. B. THOMAS, Victoria Arcade, Sydney.
An Ounce of Fact is Worth a
Bushel of Theory.
In Life Assurance, as in most other things, the real test of the success of business done is
its stability.
Notwithstanding the fact that no travelling agent or travelling doctor has been out for the
Society for five years past, the records of the City Mutual Life for that period show its
position to be far and away the most satisfactory of any of the Australasian Life Offices estab-
lished during the past 25 years.
The Sydney Morning Herald of the 24th ult., reviewing the Life Assurance Census returns
recently furnished to the Government Statistician, printed a column of figures showing the pro-
portion of business retained by each of the colonial offices. The result showed that while the
average Australian Life Office has been able to keep 7 per cent, of its business, the C tty
Mutual Life, the youngest of the group, has kept 30 per cent., or over hour tunes as much.
The Agents of the City Mutual Life have always a good word to say about other
Australian Life Offices. The institution of Mutual Life Assurance in these colonies is a trium-
phant success, a gratifying result mainly due to the honourable and capable manner in which the
Life Offices have been conducted. But their own Society has been a long time coming to the
front it has got there at last ; it has already the reputation of being the Most Liberal and
Progressive Life Office in Australia, and they mean not only to sustain its popularity, but
increase it.
KTew Head Oiflces :
Intersection Hunter, Bligh and Streets, Sydney.
Gi O. CROWLEY, Mai ager.
Musical Instruments*
XMAS BOXES!
To every Eeader of “ The Bulletin."
Given Away 11 (only 30,000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and yon will receive
lu return a 4s. Sons: Waltz or Plano Piece*
F REE!
HOWARD & CO. have a List of =£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Itenicnibci' tills I HOWARD & CO. ate the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY—
Yiolina, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Flutes, Cornets, Saxhofns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, OtgaHettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
G-uklb & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
€3C3L# per week @a
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK!
At 2d. and 3d. each— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
Kd. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants »V Importer**
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.Wi
/t-r Write for Lists, and beWare of WORTHLESS
Imitations of our Goods.
Prospectus.
£59,401 worth of Freehold Property I
Australian Building Society.
YARRABANDINI & TANBAN
Monster Freehold Property Distribution,
Comprising 10,652 acre* ot the well-known farms and
agricultural lands of Sydney Verse, Esq., of the Macleay
River, and several valuable TOWN LOTS in Kempsey and
the suburbs of Sydney, and a valuable GRAZING FARM
at Kingston and Loganlea Railway Stations, close to
Brisbane, all of which hav* been purchased by the Society
for its members. , , . w _
The Macleay Properties have been valued by Mr. June*
Johnston, J.P., Auctioneer and Valuator, of Kempsey,
and the Queensland Property by Messrs. Arthur Martin
and Co., Ltd. ..... ...
The above Properties will be distributed amongst tha
members of the
AUSTEALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY
(Incorporated acooiding to Act of Parliament.)
proposed (Issue of 59,401 (Shares
At £1 Each.
Committee of Management.
0. w. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
JOHN T. ANNEAH, Esq., M.L.A., Brisbane.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P., Brisbane.
Committee in N.S. Wales.
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P. for the Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBERT HAVES, Esq., Kempsey.
Hankers.
THE COMMERCIAL BANKING COMPANY OF
SYDNEY, Limited.
Solicitors.
Messrs. THYNNE and MACARTNEY, BRISBANE.
118 PRIZES, as under:
FIRST PRIZE, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643.
2nd Prize, £6724
6000
3rd
5813
4th
3000
Bth
2720
6th
8 Prizes from £2660 to £1650
13 „ „ £885 to £50
23 Prizes of £45 each
49 „ £26 10s eaoh
19 „ £20 each
Total Value of Prizes, £59,101.
Each Shareholder, for every Share held by him, will
have Eleven Separate Chances, or a possibility of
winning prizes to the value of £39,430 lOs*
Payment of the sum of £1 will secure One Share in the
Society, upon which there will be no further liability.
The Drawing will be by Ballot, according to Rules of
Society, and will be announced as early as possible.
Transfers will be executed in favour of successful Share-
holders immediately after the Ballot, free of all mortgages,
rates, taxes and encumbrances. , „ „ .
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the fullest
enquiry as to the value of properties.
Application for Shares in the Society must be made to
the Secretary, BARRON L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street,
Brisbane; or “Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24
Imperial Arcade, Sydney; or “Secretary,” care of J.
RICHARDSON, W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom any
further particulars may be obtained.
State amount forwarded, and enclose two stamped
addressed envelopes; add exchange if cheque sent.
Register letters.
The Committee invite the attention of intending Share-
holders to the value of the Properties for distribution, and
also to the Auctioneers’ description, which may be seen
at the office. Should the Lists not be filled, the Com-
mittee reserve the right to withdraw one or more lots,
according to the amount subscribed.
Grand natatokium hotel, 396 to 402
Pitt-street, Haymarket, Sydney. These extensive
Premises offer every home comfort to visitors. Attached
to the hotel are the grandest sea-water swimming baths
l/U I»I1W IIUIU 0,10 UWO -V"
in the world ; 1400 tons of warm flowing sea-water; a per*
feet luxury, free of charge, to our visitors. N.B. The
leu© IUAUI J , uco VM. V., wv . -
Pitt-street Railway ’buses pass the door every few minutes
Ad. from a South African daily :
Impounded in the Donbas Pound, No. 1, Herbert
District: One zwaart boat ox, winkelhaak both ears,
braided H K right hip indis inctly ; one rooi witte run
ox, witt- kop, hind leirs white, winkelhaak rijLrht ear,
brand-d H K right hip indistinctly ; one rnoie witte rug
Ox, witte kop, hind leas white, winklehaak right eai,
branded H K right hip. —VV. Luther Scarles, Pound-
master.
£ memorial of the old canteen system in
Indiai Has, lately been fodrid by a Pall Mall
correspondent. Epitaph in the cantomuenb
cemetery at Bangalore :
Sacred to the memory of John Wilson, private in His
Majesty’s 84th Regiment of Foot, who for the awful
crime of mutiny suffered death on 9lh Nov., 1815, with
the courage and fortitude of a Christian soldier.
The “awful crime” was caused hy the canteen regula-
tions then in force, under which every soldier was obliged
to pay for a dram of arrack every day, whether he
drank it or not! The 84th, lately arrived from England,
objected to the arrack arrangement, with the result that
two privates—John Wilson and Alfred Paget—were shot
as mutineers.
Gately (“ Ballaram ”), Victoria’s hanger
and flogger of 15 years ago, was naturally adapted
For his brutal business. He was a powerfully-
made animal, with a hoad and neck_ like a hull-
dog’s, and witli corresponding instincts. He
fexercised a delicate discrimination in the exercise;
of His craft, as the following complaint, made on a
post card to the then Governor of Melb. Gaol,
indicates:—
If an old convict is to be Executed, such as Weeeburch,
the hangman, Gately, arranges everything properly and
the culprit suffers nothing. If a man is to be executed
who doesn’t belong to the criminal class, such as Howard
or Duffus, Gately takes caire to arrange the rope in such a
manner that the poor wretch shall be slow ly strangled.
This demon, Gately, among a oert.ain class actually boasts
that he does this. This monster requires dismissal.
He didn’t get it, but Melbourne ultimately being
made too hot for him by larrikins, he resigned his
odious billet and went to Sydney, where ho
shortly after met a despicable death.
Nubingarra, aborigine, was lately con-
victed at a Murchison (W.A.) court of sheep-
stealing. Extract from local paper
The prosecutor then appealed to the Bench to be
lenient with the prisoner, w ho was a good shepherd; and
sujrgesitea d b'e him and sent hacktohifj
ethploy. After severed attempts to make the prisoner
cognisant of the evidence adduced against, huh, the Bench
sentenced him to have six stripes with a horse-whip
inflicted upon him at 9 o’clock the following morning.
“IJ»on’t gaol the offender, oh I lose my cheap
shephehd ! Flog him, your Worship —flog the
wretch and make him work it out !” ‘‘ Six strokes
With a horsewhip !” It is always the same. The
man who steals the country flogs the man whose
country is stolen. The lash is never for the Fat
Thief.
A Sydney whisky firm, after patiently
billing a small and hopeless customer without
getting any reply, at length threatened to “ take
proceedings.” The answer is another dismal com-
mentary on trade as it now is in Sydney
1 have received from your firm an intimation that, if I
do not pay inv whisky-hill,- you will place the matter in
the hands of your solicitor. The reason why 1 haven’t
paid the aforesaid bill is that I can’t .conscientiously
eficourage the nefarious traffic in drink. I regard whisky
as a curse; a destroying influence, and a cause of soul-
wreckage, a leprosy of the spirit, and a consuming fire in
the intestines. Alcohol In all its shapes is the trunk-line
that leads unto perdition, and there is a trail of empty
bottles along the road to Gehenna. Therefore I seriously
urge you not to sue me for that whisky-hill, for if I paid
It I would be perpetrating an out rage upon my conscience
and lending a hand to the unclean thing. “ Wine is a
mocker.” Further, if I sent you the cheque you ask for,
it would be no gdod, for the bank wouldn’t pay it at pre-
sent or any time this month, or even next month. In
fact, I don’t think they’d pay it even next year. Drink is
the parent of crime and the prolific cause of human
misery'. I had a vague idea of calling on you and trying to
negotiate for another ease, hut in the present strained
state of our relations I will have to postpone that pleasure.
1 thought of offering von a dictionary in settlement of
the account—the Imperial Dictionary, in four volumes,
costi‘6 69. l.iquor is the greatest evil with which this
country is afflicted. Can I offer you two Plymouth Kock
roosters in consideration of another month’s credit, or
can’t the matter he amicably settled in any way? The
only advantage about being sued is that it would give
your solicitor the pleasure of my acquaintance, hut I
don’t want to become acquainted with any more solicitors
—I know too many already. Alcohol is the embodiment
of sin and the incarnation of sorrow. You can have the
cheque any time you want it—provided you can lend me
a blank form, for my own cheque-book was finished some
weeks ago —hut what on earth would be the good of it to
you? And, in any case, do you—l ask yhti in confidence
as a square white man—do you happen to have the price
of adrink about you 7—Yours, &0., *


nc
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Chin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
{Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.}
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
Qnd the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps,
a
§s?
m
m
m
m
l
m
Uik
mil
!**
liiii
&
“The Best Asset in a
Fool’s Estate.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
A slight smile lit up the clear-cut, sombre
face of Lawsdn from Safune, as looking up from
bis boat at Etheridge’s house he saw the glint of
many lights shining through the Walls of the
roughly-built store. It was well on towards mid-
night when he had left Safune and sailed round to
Etiieridge’s, a distance of 12 or 15 miles, and as
his boat touched the sand the first streaks of
dawn were changing the dead whiteness of the
beach into a dull grey—soon to brighten into a
creamy yellow as the sun pierced the heavy land-
mist.
A native or two, wrapped from head to foot in
the long lava lava of white calico, passed him as
he followed the windings of the track to Ethe-
ridge’s, but gave him no signof greeting. Had he
been any one of the few other white men living
on Savaii the dark men would have stopped him
and, native-like, enquired the reason of Ills early
visit to their town. But they knew Lawson too
well. Mataaitu they called him — devil-faced. And
in this they were not far wrong, for Lawson, with
his dark olive skin, jet black beard, and eyes that
belied the ever-smiling lips, was not a man whom
people would he unanimous in trusting. The
natives knew him better than did liis few white
acquaintances in Samoa, for here, among them,
the mask that hid his inner nature from his com-
peers was sometimes put aside, though never
thrown away. But Etheridge, the hot-blooded
young Englishman and friend of six months’
standing, thought and spoke of him as “ the best
fellow in the world.”
# • #
Etheridge had been taking stock, and the
wearisome work had paled his usually florid
features. His face flushed with pleasure at
Lawson’s quiet voice :
“Hard at it, Etheridge? I don’t know which
looks the paler—you or Liolio. Why on earth
didn’t you send for me sooner? Anyone would
think you were some poor devil of a fellow trading
for the Dutchmen instead of being an indepen-
dent man. Now, I’m hungry and want breakfast
—that is, if Liolio isn’t too tired to get it ’’—and
he looked compassionately at Etheridge’s young
half-caste wife, sister to his own.
“I’m not tired,” said the girl, quietly. “I’ve
had easy tasks—counting packets of fish-hooks,
grosses of cotton, and things like that. Billy
wouldn’t let me help him with the prints and
heavy things ” —and with the faintest shadow of
a smile on her lips she passed through into the
sitting room and thence outside to the little
thatched cook-house a few yards away. With
ardent infatuation Etheridge rested his blue eyes
on the white-robed, slender figure as she stood at
the door and watched the NiuS cook light his fire
for an early cup of coffee—the first overture to
breakfast at Etiieridge’s.
* • »
“By Jove, Lawson, I’m the luckiest man
in Samoa to get such a wife as Liolio—and I only
a new-chum to the Islands. I believe she’d work
night and day if I’d allow it. And if it hadn’t
been for you I’d never have met her at all, but
would have married some fast creature who’d
have gone through me in a mouth and left me a
dead-broken beachcomber.”
“ Yes,” said Lawson, “she is a good girl, and,
except her sister, about the only half-caste I ever
knew whom I would trust implicitly. Their
mother was a Hervey Island woman, as i told you,
and Liolio has been with Terere and me all over
Polynesia, and I think I know her nature. She’s
fond of you, Etheridge, in her quiet, undemon-
strative way, but she’s a bit shy yet. You see,
you don’t speak either Rirotougan or Samoan,
and half-caste wives hate talking English. Now,
tell me, what is it worrying you? You haven’t
had another attack?”
“ Yes,” said the younger man, “ I have—and a
bad one, too, and that's why I sent for you. The
stock-taking is nothing ; but I was afraid I might
get another that would stiffen me properly. Look
here, Lawson, you’ve been a true friend to me.
You picked me up six months ago a drunken, half-
maddened beast in Apia and saved my life, reason
and money, and .”
“Bosh,” said Lawson, taking his coffee from
the hand of Etheridge’s wife; “don’t think of it,
my boy. Every man goes a bit crooked some-
times ; so don’t thank me too much,”
Etheridge waited lid his wife was gone and then
resumed: “I’ve been horribly scared, Lawson,
over this,” and he placed his hand over his heart,
“I was lifting a ease of bismits when I dropped
like a pithed bullock. When I came to, Liolio
was bathing my face. . . . I feel pretty shaky
still. The doctor at Goddeffroy’s warned me, too
—said I’d go off suddenly if I wasn’t careful. My
father and one brother died like that. And I
want to talk things over with you in case—you
know.”
Lawson nodded.
“Everything I have is for her, Lawson —land,
house, trade, and money. You’re pretty sure
there’s no irregularity in that will of mine, aren’t
you?”
“Sure. It’s very simply written. It’s properly
witnessed, and would hold in any court of law, if
contested. And perhaps your people in Australia
might do that.”
Eiheridge reddened. “No; I cut adrift from
’em long ago. Grog, you know. Beyond yourself
and Liolio, I haven’t a soul who’ll bother about
me. 1 think, Lawson, I’ll take a run up to Apia
and see the Dutch doctor again. Fearful cur, am
I not ?”
“ Come, Etheridge,” and Lawson laid his
smooth, shapely hand—how dishonest are shapely
hands ! —on the other’s arm. “ You’re a little
down. Anything wrong with one’s heart always
gives a man a bad shaking. There’s Liolio calling
us to breakfast, so I won’t say any more but this :
Even if Liolio wasn’t my wife’s sister, and any-
thing happened to you, there’s always a home for
her in my house. I’d do that for your sake alone,
old man, putting aside the principle I goon of
showing respect to any white man’s wife, even if
she were a Oahu girl and had rickety ideas of
morality.”
« # *
When Lawson had first met him and had
carried him down to his station on S tyaii, nursed
him through his illness, and treated him like a
brother, Etheridge, with the impulsive confidence
of his simple nature, poured out his thanks and
told his history ; and eagerly accepted Laws m’s
suggestion to try his hand at trading, instead of
continuing his erratic wanderings—wanderings
which could only end in his “going broke” at
Tahiti or Honolulu. Fifteen miles or so away,
Lawson said, the.re was a village with a good
opening for a trader. How -much could he put
intuit? Well, he had .£503 with him, and there
was another thousand in Sydney—the last of five.
Ample, said his host. So one day the land was
bought, a house and store put up, and Etheridge
commenced life as a trader.
Tlie strange tropic beauty of the place and the
ways of the people soon cast their spell over
Etheridge's imaginative nature, and he was as
happy as a man possibly could be —with a know-
ledge that his life hung by a th.rea 1. How
slender that thread was L iwsou knew, perhaps,
better than he. The German doctor had said :
“ You must dell him to he gareful, Mr. Lawson.
Any oxcideuumd, any zoode.n drouble mit any-
dings; dr too much visky midout any excide-
meuds, and he drop dead. I dell you.”
* * *
A month or so after he had settled,
Etheridge paid his weekly visit to Lawson, and
met Liolio. “This is my wife’s sister, ’ said
Lawson, “she has been on a visit to some friends
in Tutuila and came back in the Iserbrook."
The clear-cut, refined and beautiful features of
the girl did their work all too quickly on
Etheridge. He was not a sensualist, only a man
keenly susceptible to female beauty, and this girl
was beautiful —perhaps not so beautiful as her
sister, Terere, Lawson’s wife, but with a softer
and more tender light in her full, dark eyes. And
Lawson smiled to himself when Etheridge asked
him to come outside and smoke when his wife
and her sister had said good night. A
student of human nature, lie had long ago read
the simple mind of Etheridge as he would an
open book, and knew what was coming. They
went outside and talked —that is, Etheridge did.
Lawson listened and smoked. Then he put a
question to the other man.
* * *
“ Of coarse I will, Lawson ; do you think
I’m scoundrel enough to dream of anything else?
We’ll go up to Apia and get married by the white
missionary.”
Lawson laughed in his quiet way. “I wouldn t
think you a scoundrel at all, Etheridge. I may
as well tell you that I’m not married to her sister.
We negleoted doing that when I lived in the east-
ward groups, and uo one in Samoa is any the wiser
and wouldn’t think anything of it if they were.
But although I’m only a poor devil of a trader,
I’m a man of principle in some things, Liolio
is but a chi d, so to speak, and I’m her natural
protector. Now, you’re a fellow of some means
and if anything did happen to you she wouldn t
get a dollar if she wasn’t legally your wife. The
consul would claim everything until he heard
from your relatives. And she’s very young,
Etheridge, and you’ve told me often enough that
your heart’s pretty dicky. Dun t think me a
brute.” • (t-NT
Etheridge grasped his hand and wrung it. JNo,
no—a thousand times no. You’re the best-
hearted fellow in the world, and I honour you all
the more, Lawson. Will you ask her tomorrow ?”
Perhaps if he had heard the manner of Lawson’s
asking it would have puzzled his simple brain.
And the subdued merriment of the two sisters
might have caused him to wonder still more.
A week or so after, Etheridge and the two
sisters went up to Apia. Lawson was unable to
go. Copra was coming in freely, he had said with
a smile, and he was too poor to run away from
business—even to the wedding of his own wifes
sister.
# # #
As Etheridge and his young wife came out
of the mission church some natives and white
loafers stoodhvround and watched them.
“ Ho, Magalo,” said one, “ is not that teine, the
sister of the wife of Mataaitu, the black visaged
papa '(tfji ?”
“ Aye,” answered a skinny old hag, carrying a
basket of wat'-r-bot'tles, “-’tie she, and the other
is Terere. I lived with them once at J utnila. fslio
who is now made a wife and looketh so good arid
holy went away but a year ago with {.lie captain
of a ship—a pig of a German —and now, look you,
she marrieth an Englishman.’’
The other natives laughed, and then an ugly
fat-faced girl with lime-covered head in id painter!
cheeks called out “ L’apati tele ! ” and 1 ere re
turned round and cursed them in good English.
“ What does that mean 1 ’’ said a white man to
Flash Harry from Saleimoa —apian lull of island
lore. . 1-
“Why, it means as the bride isn t alius she
purfesses to bo. Them pretty soft-lookin’ ones,
like her seldom is, in Samoa,or any where else. ” -
** * ’
The day following the stock-taking
Etheridge went to Apia—and never came back.
One night a native tapped geuty at‘Lawson's “
window and handed him a note. As he read
Terere with a sleepy yawn awoke, and, stretching:
one rounded arm out at full length, let it fall
lazily on the mat-bed.
“ What is it, Jlarry.”
“Get up, d you ! Etheridge is dead, and
I’m going to take Liolio up to Apia as quick as !■
can. Why the h— couldn’t he die here ? ”
A rapid vision of unlimited presents from the
rich young widow passed through the mind of
Terere —to whom the relations that had formerly
existed between her and Lawson were well known
—as she and he sped along in his boat to
Etheridge’s, Liolio received the news with much
equanimity and a few tears, and then leaving
Terere in charge she got into the boat and rolled
a cigarette. Lawson was in feverish baste. He
was afraid the consul would be down and baulk
his rapid but carefully arranged scheme. At
Safune, he sent his crew of two men ashore to his
house for a breaker of water, and then once they '
were out of sight lie pushed off and I ft them.-
They were in the way and might spoil every thing.
The breeze was strong, and that night Lawson
and Liolio, instead of lining out in the open sea
beating up to Apia, were ashore in; the sitting-
room of the white missionary house on the other
side of Savair.
# # *
“I am indeed glad to make your acquaint-
ance, Mr. Lawson. Your honourable impulse
deserves commendation. I have always regretted
the fact that annul like you whose reputation as.
an educated and intelligent person far above that
of most traders here is not unknown to me (Law-
son smiled sweetly) should not alone set at defiance
the teaching of Holy Writ hut tacitly irnnkatnar
efforts to inculcate a higher code of morality in
these beautiful islands. Ere long I trust I may
make the acquaintance of your brother-in-law, Mr.
Etheridge, and his wife.”
Lawson smiled affably and a slight tinge suffused
the creamy cheek of Liolio.
“ And now, Mr. Lawson, as you are so very
anxious to get back home I will not delay. Here


ToThe Deaf. —A. Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings. 30 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENDER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
are my wife and my native assistant as witnesses.
Stand up, please.”
• • •
“Get in, you little beast,” said Lawson, as lie
bundled Liolio into the boat and started back
home, “and don’t fall overboard. I don’t want
to lose the Best Asset in that Fool’s Estate.”
• • •
When the consul, a week later* came down
to take possession of Etheridge’s “estate,” he
called in at Safnne to ask Lawson to come and help
him to take an inventory. Terere met him with
a languid smile, and, too lazy perhaps to speak
English, answered his questions in Samoan.
“ He’s married and gone,” she said. “ Married?
Aren’t you, Mrs. Lawson ?” said the bewildered
consul, in English.
“Not now, sir, my sister is. Will you take me
to Apia in your boat, please ?”
• • #
And that is how Lawson, the papalayi
mativa (poor white) and “the best-hearted fellow
in the world,” became a man aloa —a man of
riches, and went, with the Best Asset in
Etheridge’s estate, the calm-eyed Liolio, to start
a hotel in—well, no matter where.
LOUIS BECKE.
Dear Bulletin, —Be your par. from
“ Astruc,” I would remark that if Jesus of Naza-
reth was not a working man, His contemporary
biographers have wonderfully misrepresented, and
18J centuries have strangely misconceived Him.
Amongst a people bi-lingual of necessity, and
whose ancestral language was still cherished, the
mastery of three languages is by no means evi-
dence of a youth exempt from labour. The mere
mention of the subject suggests the name of Elihu
Burritt. And the germ of Talmudic lore, which
existed in Christ’s time, was no food for a life-
time’s study, when, as in His case, it was known
only to be contemned and repudiated as the thing
“said by them of old time,” or the “ traditions ”
which stultified the word of God. The Talmud
(Palestinian) of after generations was, in Christ’s
time, known as the “oral,”in contradistinction to
the “ written,” law, and was never put into
writing until—according to a tradition more or
less unreliable, though doubtless containing a
kernel of truth—only two Jews who knew the
oral lawsurvived the suppression of the rising under
Baroocheba, 130 A.D. The comparison of Christ’s
sympathy for the people with that of the late Chief
Justice of Victoria is simply absurd. Higin-
botham was a democrat by sentiment, but his
aloofness brings him into sharp contrast with
Christ, the democrat per se, who was not only
the champion of the poor, but their veritable
comrade. Higinbotham, clean - handed, clear-
headed, and generous-hearted, was yet the product
and victim of caste. Even his historic phrase,
“the wealthy lower orders,” when subjected to
close analysis, reeks with unconscious exclusive-
ness. His sympathy with the people has alwayr
been appreciated and honoured, but what army of
followers recognised in him the superior spirit of
their own order? If we might compare the
immeasurable with the measurable, and if the
comparison with a living man were not prema-
ture, we might rather say that the sympathy of
Christ resembled that of John Burns, the artisan.
This in full view of the possibility that Burns
may yet sheathe his unbroken steel, as the
fastidious Higinbotham did 20 years ago.— Tom
Collins.
“My One Exception.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
I heartily encore the sentiment that the
collective Mongolian is the “Yellow Curse” of
Australia. But listen to the tale Of “My One
Exception.”
* • #
In the Western district, some ten years
back, I was rounding up a frisky steer that had
broken away from my mob. My horse; in trying
to manoeuvre a stumpy grass-tree, stumbled and
somersaulted, landing me somewhere in the
vioinity. I tried to rise, but couldn’t! My left
leg was broken just above the ankle; my head
bruised and bleeding. Presently L swooned.
When my senses returned, a face met mine; It
belonged to a Chinese hawker whom I had passed
on the homestead track an hour before, with a
simple “Good morning, John.” Somehow or
other, the bush man’s usual gory greetings to the
Chow-pedlar had been forgotten by me that morn-
ing, and my brief salutation must have sounded
quite friendly.
My exact position when I came to was interest-
ing. I was sitting up in one of John’s baskets
(which he had half emptied of its contents) with
my broken limb (very neatly splinted, by the way)
resting on a couple of straight sticks tied across
the top of the basket. My back was supported
by two upright twigs stuck down amongst the
goods, and to complete my rig-out, the Eastern
man’s sunshade was fastened over me, so that I
was thoroughly sheltered from the sun—which
was red hot! The whole thing nonplussed me;
the arrangements would have done credit to an
ambulance prize-winner. Only for the pain-
cursed limb and the aching and dizziness about
the head, I’d have sworn that I was d d com-
fortable.
A smile —like a play of limelight on a dirty
bladder lit up the Mongolian’s face 1 “ All
lightee; keepee quiet! me cally you home,” he
murmured, soothingly, and, in a twinkling, I was
swinging in one of the baskets, at the end of his
bamboo, and moving in the direction of the home-
stead ! That journey was a 10-miler, over a
bumpy bush-track, with a temp, of 110 in the
shade. My rescuer rolled in perspiration, and
panted under his heavy load, witli no other re-
compense than an occasional faint, but sincere,
“ You’re a white man.”
After four hours, John landed me safely
at the station, and the boys rushed me in
and began doctoring. In the excitement of at-
tending on me, my Mongolian friend was tem-
porarily forgotten, and when they looked for him
he had gone. VVe all thought he had only jour-
neyed back to pick up the goods left ou the plain,
and that he would return to the station, but we
were wrong. VVe never ran across him again.
Melbourne.
W.G.H.
How much would the extension of the
Vic. railroads to Milclura be worth to the
Chaffeys?
The Maoriland election advts. now notify,
after the list of Mr. Candidate’s meetings, “ Mrs.
Candidate will meet the ladies of the district ” on
such and such a day. The lucky bachelor-politi-
cian will, no doubt, himself woo the blushing
hen-franchised, and thus come in ahead of the
hen pecked.
There are now 120,000 Jews in the
Russian army.
A candidly Tory specimeri of a British
colonel has given his opinion upon the rapid Royal
promotions of the Duke of Connaught, Whose army
“seniority ” proceeds on ago-as-the-Queen-pleases
principle. Said the colonel*:—“There was no
doubt that the Duke had had exceptional oppor-
tunities; but it was not much use being born under
fexceptional circilmstanceS if one did not have ex-
ceptional opportunities.” This reasoning applies
jdst as convincingly to men of all grades in all
Walks df life. What is the use of being born of
beggar parents if you are not to enjoy suitable op-
portunities of dying in the gutter?
Another liew society has just been started.
Bristol is its headquarters ; the Duke of Beaufort
is its president. Its title is the Property Protec-
tion Society. Most people are under the im-
pression that property is sufficiently protected
already in a country where a man is sometimes
find 20s. for kicking his wife about the head, and
is sent to prison for six months for stealing a
bunch of turnips. But they are greatly mistaken.
An amendment of the law is needed, so that any-
one trespassing on enclosed land and annexing any
product of the soil shall be punishable by justices
sitting in Petty Sessions. — Echo.
The mild Hindoo is a good deal more
candid upon his census paper than the average
European. Unobtrusively frank list of occupa-
tions, supplied at last Indian census :
Marriage-arranger, women’s barber, sorcerer, planet
worshipper, living upon hidden wealth, player on the
tom-tom, player on the round drum, helping people to
put on their clothes, making bedstead legs, servant for
life, beggar giving his blessing, taking fees for preaching
and reciting, guardian of minor, well-wisher of the public,
going to Hindustan, visitor, infant on milk, living happily,
idler, gambler, thief, daooit, living on loans, living on son-
in-law, giving daughters in marriage for money, rupees
five a month from stepson, player on four-wired instru-
ments, oil rubber, guest inviter, umbrella-carrier, buffalo
barber, storm and hail averter, giving oracles, taking
offerings on the birth of a son, servant to a candidate,
buying and eating bread, trashseller, honorary magistrate,
orphan, traveller, guest, making presents, witness in
court for wages, hanger-on, talebearer from house to
house, village thief, debtor, bagging from relations,
inheritance from son-in-law.
The value of a woman in brutal England,
the country which sends out its snufflebusters to
the heathen all over the earth :
John Lennox was charged at Birmingham with violently
assaulting his wife. In consequence of his violence the
woman had to leave the accused. On Saturday night he
encountered her in Hill street. She was on the opposite
side of the road, and he rushed across, and, attacking her
from behind, felled her to the ground. He then kicked
her savagely about the head. He inflicted a terrible gash
on the jaw, and knocked two of her teeth out. There
were eight previous convictions recorded against the
accused, and he was fined 20s. and costs, in default one
month’s imprisonment.
Knocked down, kicked brutally on the head, jaw
gashed, two teeth kicked out, eight previous con-
victions —twenty shillings. Then the next case
concerned a starving woman (with no previous
convictions), who stole three pairs of boots and
sold them to get food for her children—one of
whom was dying. She got six weeks’ gaol with
hard labour to vindicate the sacred rights of Pro-
perty.
A Decision.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The girl was in a quandary. There they stood,
the pair of them, with their heads uncovered, a
digger and a farmer —rival suitors for her hand.
They wanted the matter settled. As for looks,
she was a tolerable Australienne, and in a matter-
of-fact way she called upon them to state their
cases promptly.
The digger spoke first. “D’ye see, Miss,” said
he, “ here’s my heart. I get a bit of gold these
times” (his hat was twirling furiously now), “and
I want you. I drinks, I swears, I smokes, but—l
can’t get no further. I’m kind o’ fair bam-
foozled.”
Then the farmer belched out his emotions (sen-
sations is a better word). He had land. He
wanted a wife bad to hold things together a bit.
She would be useful to him. There was a sphere
ahead of her. She could steer the show to profit-
able results.
The girl dallied awhile. No judge of the
weightiest law point ever had a greater dilemma
to shunt. The weighing-scales were lop-sided.
The rays of the setting sun pushed themselves
through the bushes and played in fairy circles
about her head as she stood —nervous, yet motion-
less. She seemed poised, even as the chamois ere
its springs beyond the chasm.
At last, the girl said tersely—
“ Behold, I chuck myself away. You drink
you swear, you smoke, but—that is no sign of a
bad heart. I have a right to dispose of myself. I
will take you‘for it, because I love you. I will
gratify my love were I to blast my life a million
times.”
And with a naivete (result of inexperience) that
drove the farmer almost crazy, she tumbled into
the miner’s arms.
And then they departed on their several ways—
the happy pair to spend their honeymoon in a
calico tent, and the farmer to the warden’s court
to apply for an injunction, praying that his
rival be compelled to suspend mining opera-
tions in the creek, as the silt was sending the tail-
ings and the stream fast upon his land.
POLYPE.
Ouida : “ What a droll thing, by the
way, it is, that an Englishwoman piques herself
on being thought faithful to her husband, and a
Frenchwoman on being thought unfaithful; their
theory is different, but their practice comes to
much the same thing.
To Non-Subscribers and Readers remote
from Agents.
To ensure getting a copy of the literary treat of the
year, Tub Bulletin Xmas Number, mail to Tub Bulletin
Office, 24 Pitt-street, Sydney, N.S. Wales, Bd. in stamps.
The Bulletin Xmas Number will be posted to any oversea
address, out of Australasia, for 9d. in stamps of any
country.
The Number will be of at least twice the usual Bulletin
size, and will contain original, specially-written contribu-
tions from over forty Australian writers and artists.
For 1/3 in stamps will lie sent from The Bulletin Office,
to any Australasian address, a copy of those most suc-
cessful book—Price Warung’s “ Tales of the Convict
System,” or Ernest Favenc’s “Last of Six: Tales of
the Austral Tropics.”
Gold Medal Artificial Teeth, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting’ Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine,
sonsultalions free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
Creet Arcade (George-street entrance.)


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
Ty ® STAY at JES ruton’s,
> ix%xx).s: ,, xrio-o
]V' VNGAN. WIHTERS’ TATTER-
' SALE S LEADS. Good Sample Rooms;
■^Va,rren.
Give FULLER’S CLUB HOUSE a CALL.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
OIL'S. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars; &c;
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6s. per DAY. TERMS : 80s. per WEEK.
BRISBANE.
hotel-bEllevue
this is the HOME of the ELITE
TR A V ELLEN G PUBLIC.
Next to Ihe Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
IE yon VISIT a.aa.<3, don’t
forget to Smile and stop with
_ JIMMY G-IRYLTsTT.
SOUTH BUIS BAN II ’
The “ PALACE FAMILY HOTEL ” is a
Waterside Paradise.
BRISBANE.
Moxley’s “ British Empire Hotel ” is a
- . Central Cosy Lounge;
BRISBANE. ~~~
Mrs. F. L; .Moxley’s Metropolitan” is the
SPORTING TEAMS’ HOME.
SOUTHPORT, MN
WEED HEADS COACHES
Start from Hanlons Pacific Motel.
T
KWOWIMG VISITORS
From Southern Queensland to Northern New
South Wales, travel from Southport to Tweed
Heads by Dodd’s Eoyal Mail Coach.es, and
connect by STEAM LAUNCH' with Stuart’s
Heliable Coaches at Cudgen, for quickest route
to Brunswick and the Richmond.
BRUNSWICK;
MARSHALL’S OCEAN VIEW HOTEL
Is the charming Half-way House between
The RICH MONO ash tub TWEED;
CASINO. ’
PARKER’S COMMERCIAL HOTEL ranks as
“Tin; Australia” of (he North Coast.
CLOUT FURS BALLINA COACHES will be
VUETTER PATRONISED than the Lismore to
(lie Tweed Railway.
LISMORE.
CRUICKSHANK’S Commercial Hotel is the
Travellers’ Hmie on the Northern Rivers.
GRAFTON.
R EAVES’ FAMILY HOTEL
W Is undoubtedly UP TO DATE.
SOUTH GRAFTON,
you CAN’T BEAT COWAN’S HOTEL
By Much.
Take VESPER’S COACHES, “
Starting fiom Vesper’s Motel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
MACLEAN. ~
HTRAV ELLERS arid others pronounce Walter .1.
- 1 foilrig"’,s Aoiitirscrciai Hotel Comma ilfant.
KATOOMBA.
Temora House,
A High-class BOARDING HOUSE, pleasantly
situated, well recommended. Porter meets ail
trains. _ 355. a Week ; Ss. a Day. Reduction
for Visitors remaining a Month, also for Families.
Mrs. DALE.
MOUNT VICTORIA
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms'; and special .terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
JK^ATOOMB A, BLUE MOUNTAINS.
Balmoral House.
Visitors, Tourists, or Invalids, will find comforts
of a refined HOME at above ; good airy rooms,
excellent table and Terms, Two
Guineas. Private suites if .. required. Trains
met. Address, MANAGER.
Miscellaneous.
ows
EMBROCATION,
u/i
R
m
/ N
(/
1 , i\V/°
Kr
j:/
SOLD
\ EVERYWHERE;
>T;>k
m
fjl A T„ fc 8 O V 1' IT E SYS T E M.
PRICK - ONK SHIRKING.
“ A Golden Shanty.”
“THE BULLETIN’S ”
issing Word Competition-
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cub out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
(July one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
„ Coupons received to Wednesday, 29th
November, 1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling Inay be forwarded
by post-oflice order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent* a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO;, Lim
H Ths Bulletin’s Missing Word Competition Coupon*—No, 8.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, *• Bulletin ’* Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Wednesday, November 20th, ISOS.
Maoriland Assembly is closing its last session, and the next Assembly will
be elected by both sexes on a One-woman-one-vote basis. And now the question,
whether woman has a mind of her own in political matters, or is a mere
nonentity in a spring bonnet* should at last have a fair chance of arriving
at a settlement;
Ntt/ilO - . . ■ - - . .: : a
Address - ■' > . ■ : ‘ —!—;——;
Missing Word, . ■ . _
The person who Jills in correctly the missing word will promptly get d cheque for the total anufuni
received —so deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will he admitted except contained on this coupon-.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper*
Bulletin ” Series, 1.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
-OF-
“A Golden Shanty”
Australian Sketches in Prose and Terse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
Bulletin ” 3XTo. 3-
The Last of Six
59
«
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENC.
With Prefatory Note by Half Boldrewood.
Opinions of the Press:
The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand prettv well on a par Tim
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in these f n nv-iv
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter and for those who are‘i
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1803.
fond of
“Iso writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc and the secret of II i ■ is i
ho has, by many years experience oi travel and hush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any othe • writ -
He too. possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to bo good. In the stories under notice he has given us son eof
his best work, lhat they will be widely read is certain.”-— Sydney Mail, July 8, 1803. ■
parts
tale
thrillin
characteristic is cspocia'ly nolieeable in ‘ Spirit- Led, which (ho great
best tale in a collect ion that should be widely read, and which forms a worthy addition' A H'eS’vpu°
r'lllV 10,
■suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a gmtesquerie of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and there approaches''Toe"’^!
American might have written. ‘A Cup of Cold Water ’ is, perhaps f
tit; in fVAiuiici’tiuji tjuii, irmium uu vvmtjty ruau, ami which Forms - ' ' * ' ' ■ *• ‘
5, 1803.
“ ‘The Last of Six and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (S
graphic sketches by Mr. Favene, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories'hero are good,
“‘The Last of Six and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney: Thr Bcllfttn C« t Ttti to'« , . , ,
ic sketches by Mr. Favene, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian lore 411 Am i Sh ° l '
and'wo can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection Tlho nresent i«„n fm-nJ ti a . r ° fu'° d ’
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences. ’’-Australian Star, July 15. 1893 collection. present issue forms the third of Thr
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian 1 address, Is. 3d,


Table Waters
AS SUPPLIED TO
The QUEEN.
SGHWEPPE’S
SODA, SELT ZEE,
LEMONADE,
GINGER ALE, Ac
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ THE LAST OE SIX; ”
Tales ol* the Austral Tropics,
BY
EBIsTEST FAVEIsTC,
1 1 ice, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CQ. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, whesrz-
ever situated, will greatly oblige hg
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper , and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
Scale
of
Advertising
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts-
Half Yearly ,,
One Year „
Paragraph Advertisements
All EXTRA DISCOUNT of 5
per cent, allowed for
Gs. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
> i » it
25 i, „ „
10s. per inch per insertion, nett.
MITCHELL’S
—CELEBRATED —
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS—
Fleets, Flies, Hugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer-R. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist,
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Higney’s).
Tins, 1 /-; Boxes, 1,6. On receipt o t stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY,, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS bit
J. FERRE
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
[ALES OE THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
“THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
pIE
True Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LAGY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
Greneral Macliinery Mercliant.
30c
Importer of a]l kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EYERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-working Macliinery, Engineers, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
ProP T,v ietor of tlle “ Pioneer ” Ore Treatir g Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, for the Treatment-of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Concentration.
ALL „ INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
fiV-
f
v
vbn
cvb
Knowles’ Steam Pumps.
Solo Agent for Australian
Colonies.
LADIES!
Your attention, please, to the Fashions which
bloom in the Spring.
MARK FOY’S will prove a garden of pleasure during
the coming season. Ladies will find a refreshing delight
in a daily visit to FOY’S, where the glittering sprays of
fashionable gems from the continental artists of fashion are
being opened up with all speed.
■■-.>•.. ■ ■ , \ '
Great is the curiosity' and joy of young and old, to
see and admire the spick-and-span novelties from Paris,
London, and elsewhere. v
MILLINERY, in wonderfully grotesque shapes and
extraordinary colourings, are more varied than the wildest’
flights of imagination could conceive.
■ " \
LADIES I—-One penny, one penny, one penny postal
card to
MARK FOY,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY
(Near HYDE PAHK),
Will receive prompt attention for Patterns/ and Prices.
IMPERIAL HOTEL
■''S7V r y».yja,a?caL Square, .STSTIJIKriiysr.
I EstablishEp over a Quarter ok a Century, J
Most centrally situated. )( accommodation unsurpassed.
FADING THE RESERVE.
m~ Torms—ios. m. por i>ay. "77alter Sidney late ° f Newcastle), ‘ ‘ Prop. ’’
"PEIVATE HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN HOUSE, Milmn’* Point, SYDNEY .
lit
iiipsfei
ap%awsg
Eesident Medical Officer- Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, M K-O-S., Eng., etc.
, Formerly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital; Government Medical Olliner, Brisbanol'Vie. '
DE3
IPIESiEtXiHBBSrOiESX) 3XT XT DFt S 3 I IKT C - S 3 T _<3L IS?" 35V
j TERMS STRICTLY 'MODERATE—lnclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc, S
For MEDICAL. SUROICUITi and GYN.ECOLOCkH A L CASKS.
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
* OAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, ootnmartdinj? extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to (he health and
comfort of patients.
“ THE BTTLLEI'IN ” SERIES, No. 3
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
