

ri*.
ss
o?
t/J
&
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
GALA’S
MONSTER CONSULTATIONS at 5 EACH.
CAULFIELD CUP. OCTOBER 30.00 U & 5 Each.
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER ... .... 50,1 MX) (a) 5 Each.
MELBOURNE CUP, NOVEMBER (Fob Houses Ont.y) .... 'Mm &■ 10 Each.
Register Letters, and send Two self-addressed
Envelopes, with Stamps loose—one for Ticket and
one for result. Circulars free on application.
H. Alexander, Furniture Warehouse,
67 Osford-St,, Sydney, KT.S.W.
Z£. Car® WATKIRTS «S& CO.®
107 Kent St reet, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
FD
FEY’S MALTED COCOA.
-£
A
4.
Si
o
o
c
<RAc^AS°CK>
*
O
o
C
o
a?
o
a
v
a
K. A. Hervey, Agent, 28 , Sydney.
Free Frescrlptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,*
for tlie Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sent
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
S. WARD & CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
"Vf OTlCE.—Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.ni. on
TUESDAY.
r
! j
o
o*L
Hrfi'if
ki L
s
fO*E
*t*£
rjvi
&tem
H
'Smm
!M j£> ,7>
Tlie Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... ... ... ... Proprietor.
'-THE-.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
mix ..
€RE4H
ICE
KIiTEK
FISH
CSiIHE
I’OII.TKV
rtsTitv, jtc. ..
(LIMITED)
FOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single,
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
JPST' The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony:—
MILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
Ist July, 1893.
11. PATESON,
Manager.
WALKER’S WHISKY. ALLSOPP’S ALE.
JOHKT WALKER, 24= BOKTD STREET, SYmiTEY.
J. & O. HOWARD.
Sole Agents in Wew South Wales for Messrs. Clayton and Slinttleworth..
HOWARD’S ENCLOSED GEAR
Orient Steel Mower & Reaper.
STRIPPERS, WINNOWERS, RAKES,
HARVESTERS, REAPERS.
BUB
■192
IMPROVED PORTABLE ENGINE.
OVER 27,000 MADE AND SOLD.
-
IMPROVED PORTABLE THRASHING MACHINE.
Specially built to suit the requirements of N.S. W.
OVER 25,000 MADE AND SOLD.
Single Cylinder, Double Cylinder, and Compound Portable and Semi-Portable Engines.
Horizontal Engines of all classes: Undertype Engines : Boilers of all kinds.
Portable Thrashing Machines of all sizes a Speciality ; Elev ators ; Saw Benches.
Portable Steam-power Chaff-cutting and Bagging Machines ; Portable Steam-power Corn Shelters.
as:
■VM
sss;
iS%S?ir
5C ;•-':.
SSkI&V 1? -•*£>•'<
HOW ABB’S SOLTB STEEL EBAME
CHAIN-DRIVE BINDER.
TWINE, OIL, etc., etc.
ELECTRIC LIGHTING ENG INKS, WINDING ENGINES, TRACTION ENGINES. iST Full Catalogues of Engines, Agricultural Implements and Harvesting Machinery on application.
J. & C. Howard, 280 i Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Vol 13. JSio. 705.
[Saturday, August 19, 1893.


CLARENDON HOTEL, MANLY,
(OPPOSITE OCEAN BEACH),
Tlie Brighton of SoutH Wales.
A most Comfortable High-class Establishment, Excellent Table, F-arge well ventilated Dining,
Bitting ahd Bedrooms, Magnificent Scenery. Every facility for Picnic and Fishing Parties, specially
suitable for Families.
BEST BRANDS OF WINES, SPIRITS, &c., BILLIARD TABLE.
TABLE D'HOTE DAILY AT 1 O'CLOCK.
Mrs. KILMIKTSTER
A. and J, STEWART & CO.’S ARTESIAN WELL BORING TUBES.
Russian
Brand.
FD
F
The only TUBES used by all the Governments of Australia-
Manaobr foe Australia— TC“ . J. Mac William, 297 GEORGE STREET,- SYDNEY
Vfi
KO-
sfof
BUS
D
FD
F
m
js Always Best
MecJ c.i.
SELF CONFIDENCE
Young Men, who have lost their most essential
element of success, from any cause whatever, and
suffer from hashfulness, want of energy, despondency,
palpitation, circles round the eyes, physical decay,
headache, giddiness liver and kidney complaints,
pimples, weak stomach, impure blond, &c., should
send for Dr. M. PERRY’S Medical Work. It will
describe their ease most minutely, and point out,
with unerring accuracy, the b< st nvana of rapid and
effectual cure, without mercury or other poisonous
BRUOS.
*i« House Surgeon. Great
N’tlin. Hospital, Loud.,
Seamen’a Hospital
Ship “Dread-
nought.'’
Green
Dr.
. PERRY,
R.C.S., L.a.A., &0.,
Legally Qualified and
Registered in
N. S. W.
Invites every investi-
gation as to
Mb
Qualifica-
tions,
Send for
Dr. PERRY'S
Book. K
In-
cluding
Varicocele
Tumors and all
Handular Enlargements
His extensive experience in private and hospital
practice, for n period of over twenty years; enables
him to undertake t e t rat men t of these cases with
the utmost confidence, ai d to assure his patients of a
BPKKDY and PBIIMANBNT CURE.
Alcoholism or Drunkenness is treat'd of in Dr.
Perry’s pamphlet, and particulars given as to how this
most enslaving habit can he overcome.
Dr. Perry supplies his patunts with the most per-
fect modern Electric Appliances for pains or weakness
in any part of the body. lie supplies a Genuine
Electric Belt. from which the current can be ots-
TIHCTLY FELT, for fl.
Consulting hours from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. daily.
Saturdays fr»m 10 to 12 a.m., and from 7 to 9 p.m. on
Tuesdays and .Saturdays.
145 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
EPPS’S
GRATEFDL—■COMFORTING
COCOA
Dr RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOR INFANTS afd INVALIDS
‘This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined. ” —Chas. H. Piessb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &o. Wm. Johnstone
Pa.D., F.C.S., &c.. Public Analysts.
DR RIDGE’S ROYAI FOOD MIRES
RONDON. ENGLAND.
I IALKH OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
-Nit C.»N3UI,TATION PEE CHARGED.
Sole Address:
PRICK—ONE SHI 1,1,1X0.
Iw/t
R
ows
EMBROCATION
UfiMj
!%/
'SSi ;
t/
f /. i.J*v
\\SOLO
,\g^K;
D
IST - A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT,
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues©! thes & grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 Nbw Oxford-Bt., London. ;•«*" Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
sourious
USt“ -ss=j
V
, Ir
* •/?
L£
£
She: “Don't know Mr. BATHO’S I ’
He : “No ! : '
She : “Know my cakeal”
He: “Ah 1 Dem that make me love.”
rrniE hank of new Zealand
Sydney Branches:
04 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-tip Capital .. .. £OOO,OOO
Reserve Liability 1,f>00,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers' Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills aoUected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
Hotel.
the imperial arcade hotel
(From rut-street to
tastlereagli-street),
Between Kiny <fc Market Sts.
SYDNEY.
isr" IN THE VERY HEART OE THE CITY
Quiet, Elegant and Comfortable. All Meals served
A la carte.
ELEVATORS & ELECTRIC LIGHTS.
Rooms for Banquets, Dinners, Wedding Breakfasts,
Suppers, Concerts and Meetings.
Board or Apartments at Option.
SS&KK Manager
Many years with P. and O. Co., and lately Chief Steward
Union Club.
“Men I have Smiled with.”
w E STAY at Bruton
NHXiaanof)
Opposite Parliament House,
overlooking
Treasury Gardens.
Wfii.BOLTKNa.
Opposite Parliament House,
eerlookin,"
Treas ry Gardens.
Board and Residence, PS 3s. per week. Single Bed, in-
cluding Breakfast, 55.; Double ditto. 10s. Special arrange-
ments for large families. A.' F. BEKEE, Manager, The
Grand Hotel, Melbourne.
THE LANGHAM HOTEL.
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &e.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
6b. per DAY. TERMS : 30s. per WEEK.
ATKINSON’S
WHITE ROSE
Delicately fragrant as the Rose itself.
Always sweet and fresh, its delightful
odour never wearies.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
superior to all others for the fineness
of its Aroma, its strength, audits ex-
ceedingly refreshing qualities.
Atkinson’s English is the best.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKlNi-ON
24, Old Bond Street, London.
GAUIiON ! Oniy genuine with shield-
“uipe blue and yellow labela
and address in full.
MANHOO D.
HEALTH. SIRhMiTU AAD Tl HOR Kh.STORED
In hour Heeks by the use of
F
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricord a Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shuttered and debilitat'd congtitutiMS,
regenerating all the i ■ portant elements of the human frame.
In eases of 1!!s, or four quantities in one for Oils Freight
extra Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fittroy, MELBOURNE
Agentefor N. S. Wales—W. H. Soul &Co., Pitf-st.,Sydney.
To Newsagents, etc.
T jA. S 3VT A. IST ZC
Can be SUPPLIED direct from The
Bulletin Office, 24 Pitt-st., Sydney.
Terms upon Application.
Medical.
mmszsm
<t.
X
3.
Y
X
4
m
o&
LOTA
B 5
S/T
D
RELIABLE
rpHJS valuable Lotion is guaranteed to cure SWELLING
. and SANDY BLIGHT, INFLAMED EYES and LIDS,
DIMNESS 01* SIGHT, &c. * It will be found very bene-
ficial and cooling to those who have weak eyes, or whose
work compels them to strain their eyes. Highly
recommended by (be leading Oculists.
Manufactured only by the Proprietor,
H. A. ROSE.
Dispensing and Manufacturing Chemist,
531 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
wholesale by the Proprietor and all Wholesale Houses. <
J-.'ntablished 1SS8: , By Post 3s. 6d.
SaT” Manufacturer of Dr. SOUTHAN’S GOUT and
RHEUMATIC PILLS.
NERVOUS Ml
w
m
M
' 1 ' EUREKA \ "
ELECTRIC BELTIv
A, // <v \ N.o -''A'"
h
A NEVER FAILING CURE FOR ALL.
Diseases of the nervous system:.
Complete with Suspensory Appliances from fl and
upwards. This famous Electric Magnetic Belt will cure
DEBILITY and WEAKNESS, Pains in the Ba> k, Lum-
bago, Qid litiess, Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder com-
plaints The currents are steady and constantly felt by
the wearer. It has great improv nvnts over all other
belts. We are willing to furnish those belts on
30 dLays -fcrita.l,
and accept payment after they have proved them-
selves what e represent them to be. Those belts are
made for the spt cific purpose of producing a c minimus,
mild, soothing current of eleotriciiy through all the weak-
ened parts, restoring them to health and vigorous strength,
even the worst case permanently cmed in three months.
It is more co ivenienl to wiar than any other Belt. A
Book illustrated, containing full information and testi-
monials from prominent people throughout Australia,
and informing persons how they may obtain these belts
without paying for them until they have proved them
competent to cure any disease of the Nervous System,
will he forwarded to any address on receipt of a 2d. stamp
for postage.
Address VOLTAIC BELT COMPANY,
Box 910, G.P.0., Sydney.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecharu’s Pills
H 4
if'
to
RAI
JbNT
PILLS
C-.V
sR
CQ
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous dis irders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
(offerer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEJSCHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who ha vs
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
tie found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long lost complexion,
bring hack the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD ®f health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS” tes' ified
eontmually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham's Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beechaiu’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
ind Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &«., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bkkcham s Cocoa
riiXß a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the-
Proprietor, Thomas Beroham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes is. IJd. (containing 60 pills), and a»
ESvffd. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
everywhere.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box.


Medlosl
R
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Boai’d of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of
23 Years’ continuous practice enables him to
Guarantee the Cure
of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has now
completed the revision of his papular work on
'Nervous & Skin Complaints/
and the last edition will bo fox-warded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of
ONE SHILLING
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the invaluable information it contains,
and for its
Prescriptions and Illustrations-
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions ; —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
"Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Laek of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepine-sduring the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
tlxe Mouth daring Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients Should Send
ONE FOUND
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This
Fee includes Medical Book, enclosed in linen
wrapper free from observation, also Treatment
for Nervous Complaints, free froxn Customs Duty
to any Colony.
WHY SUFFER
Hidden anguish while the
FOLLOWING GUARANTEE
Is offered ? Dr. J. Vin«ss will, on receipt of
ONE FOUND,
send his world-famed “ Electric Girdle,” which is
guaranteed to cure even the most obstinate cases.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain
endeavours to rid themselves of irritability and
weakness, and, as a last resort, tried Dr. J. Vin^s
“ELECTRIC GIRDLE ”
with eminently satisfactory results. As a proof
of my confidence in the power of my Electric
Appliances, I am prepared to allow any honest
person to
TEST THEM FREE,
or wear them one month before payment, and
should they not do exactly what I claim, they
may be returned. The “Electric Girdle” has
been so widely lauded by the Medical Profession,
p ress, and
Cured Patients,
that I feel no hesitancy in advertising it as a
Certain Cure for Debility.
1 CHARGE NOTHING
for Consultations; therefore, be you ever so
poor, you may have the benefit of my experi-
ence and advice.
Patients may Depend.
upon Inviolable Secrecy, Pure Remedies free
from Mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Persona who suspect taint in their blood, ox-
weakness, should write to Dr. J. Vines for Advice
and Treatment; he will cure all Local Complaints,
and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Honrs o Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
—9.30 a.in. to 1 p.m.; 3 p.tn. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—
-7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
Address all Communications :
Dr. JECKELL VINES,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
Medical.
Dr. Richards
84 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Governing
Medical Board of New South Wales.
S=iLL
□
This eminent Specialist, Founder, and Chief
Surgeon of the long-established and favourably-
known Dispensary that now bears his name, re-
ceived his medical education and surgical training
in the leading colleges and hospitals of Europe.
He has devoted a life- time to the study of
Nervous Complaints.
He has by profound research thoroughly investi-
gated their origin, traced their deadly sources and
insidious dissemination, and ascertained the surest
and safest methods by which they may be eradi-
cated; with these widely recognised qualifications
combined with unswerving faithfulness to his
patients, he has during his practice, extending
over FORTY YEARS, attained a well-deserved
pre-eminence in their treatment. His practice
embraces diseases which probably cause more un-
happiness than any other class of troubles that
afflict mankind.
DO YOU SUFFER
from headaches, drowsiness during the day, circles
round the eyes, giddiness, irregularity of the
bowels, specks before the eyes, bashfulness, dis-
contentedness, weakness or pain in the back, liver
or kidney complaints, buzzing in the ears and
head, pimples, a fear that something dreadful is
about to happen, weak stomach, yellow or blood-
shot eyes, constipation, impure blood, hasty,
uncontrollable temper, hacking cough, nervous-
ness in society, wakefulness, palpitation of the
heart, general weakness, a fear of insanity and
death, if so, send fid. in stamps to the above
address, and you will, by return of post, receive
postage
FREE, A LARGE
CLOTH BOUND BOOK,
showing plainly how all diseases, which result in
the above-named symptoms, may be cured with-
out unnecessary expense. This book will prove a
valuable companion, and even though you be per-
fectly well, its general information and prescrip-
tions may assist you in restoring some poor friend
to health, even though his case has been previously
pronounced incurable.
One Pound is Sufficient to Send
,'or remedies necessary to cure any ordinary com-
plaint. Should you require medical treatment, as
procrastination is sometimes dangerous, it would
be advisable for you to sit down quietly in your
chamber and write to the Doctor detailing all
experienced symptoms. He will, on receipt of
such a letter, write you promptly and courteously
i candid and straightforward opinion of your
ease. If you do not think you understand your
case, send for his famous medical work, the price
if which is but fid. ; enclosed in the volume
will be found a list of carefully-prepared questions
which will assist you materially in describing
vour ailments. Dr. Richards uses nothing but
he purest remedies, and never prescribes injurious
Irugs under any circumstances. Dr. Richards
has successfully treated nearly 30,000 cases since
coming to Australia, and has permission from, at
east, 15,000 persons to show their written evidence
if his success. All communications should be
iddressed
Dr. Richards
34 COLLEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
to mention this paper when writing-
CONSULTATION PEEK
Hotel.
m
\v
jy
kM
mu
“ she (Sydney (Coffee JPalacs” flotel,
Sir John Young’s Crescent,
Lower Itoiuaiu, Sydney, .%.**.>V„ Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF,
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 153
Willi Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
Willi Two Single Beds,
Suit, two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
ih:s< ieiptive.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks. Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen,on top of the
premises.
iuaciies’ Tea Rooms.
IJHE GRAND CENTRAL COFFEE PALACE
(Barrack and Clarence Streets, SYDNEY)
has just added to its already extensive establishment
one cf the best-appointed Ladies’ Tea and Refreshment
rooms in the city. It wi 1 also be a great boon to Business
Men in t he vicinity, who prefer light refreshment, combined
with a little of the cup that cheers without inebriating.
INTO Cure, 3XT o
im
F 7
electro
rpiIIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
J- cure all NERYOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what, we promise.
NOTICE. Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine, them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list fppst free), which wi 1 convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
ANNA RUPPERT’S
5 <1- ■■■ ■
mark;
im
ah i' iWyf-ti
SKIN TONIC
Will positively and effectually remove Freckles, Moth
Patches, Brown Spots, Sallowness, Tan, Blackheads,
Extreme Redness, Blotches, Pimples, Roughness, Exces-
sive Oiliness, Eczema, Acne, and Wrinkles not caused by
facial expression. It is beneficial to the moat delicate
complexion, and keeps the skin soft and fine.
Used by Society ladies all over the world. Price, per
bottle, 12s. 6d., or, three bottles together, £ll2s. 6d.
Valuable new Book on “NATURAL BEAUTY,” given
away for a short time only to all callers.
Head Office—B9 REGENT STREET, LONDON.
SOIiF, Agency for Australasia—
KTo. 12 (Cltoi ND floor) Strand,
SYDNEY.
Business Announcement.
(jj 2 YEARS DYEIIG
FOR THE LADIES.
w. C- ZEXCDIRTIDGKE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders hy post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
NAL E S OF THE SYST EM.
PRICE - ONE SHILLING.
Shipping.
ENGLAND VIA AMERICA
U IN 37 DAYS.
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF NEW ZEALAND
(Limited),
In conjunction with
OCEANIC STEAMSHIP COMPANY OF SAN
FRANCISCO.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £63 and £6(5.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Company’s Office, 15 Bridge Street, Sydney.
FREDK. W. JACKSON, Manager.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Steamer
Commander
AUSTRALIEN
V.deIaCIOTAT
POLYNESIEN
G. Didier
Fiaschi
L. Boulard
Dates of Departure.
Sydney
Noon
Aug. 26
Sept. 27
Oct. 27
Melbourne I Adelaide
1 p.m. ( 1 p.m.
Aug. 31 Sept. 2
Oct. 1 Oct. 3
Nov. 1 Nov. 3
I
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.-ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
Miscellaneous.
CROMART!
fm
V.O.
CROMY
Whisl^
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips.
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRALIA.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 PALMER STREET.
QH, FOR A MOUSTACHE!’.
Capillarine!
The Lightning Moustache Producer.
Reliable, Sate, and Simple to Use. Follow directions, and
a Moustache will result, as surely as night follows day.
Capillarine —los. 6d., Post Free.
CKtir. A UTKI N, Sole Agents.
680 and 682 George Street, Brickfield Hill, SYDNEY.
mg
“THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comforlab’e ever olTered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decide! improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. Sole Agents:
CRAIG <3c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS' SUPPLY HOUSE
CBO >V <582 George Street, Sydney.
NOW PUBLISHED.
“ The Last of Six.”


FD
TREADLE
AND
NEW NATIONAL HAND
Sewing Machines
BEST on EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent,
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat-
alogue with full
particulars.
o
Xs*'
9?
&
O
■-
<b K 'Q
p
<
&
*f
* S r*
//
Jo
1* ,<s^
Oil,
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
SELF THREADING SHUTTLE
for The
NEW HOME and NEW NATIONAL
SIMPLICITY ITSELF!
“TALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.”
SHAVING MACHINE.
These Machines or Razors, 8/6 each, post free. Please see that
the name “ W. Jno. Baker, Sydney,” is on each Box.
Illustrated Booklet, showing accompanying Machine fitted
op in handsome cases for presentation, forwarded post free on,
application.,
W- J-no. Baker,
3. 11 rXT Kit STREET, STDXET.
F
Shaving
Machine .
Bs. 6d.
POST FREE throughout
the World
NEWTON & LAMB,
Cabinetmakers* Upholsterers and General House Furnishers*
AUTISTIC FURNITURE AT MODERATE FUMES,
m.
A
j
CHIMNEY PIECES, INGLE NOOKS, etc.
Designs and Estimates submitted. Architects’ own Designs for Fitments and Furniture accu-
rately carried out,
SPRING & O’CONNELL STREETS, SYDNEY.
0. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Xiimited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants',
■ SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, Gas Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING MACIIIH lI.Y, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY,
t£T Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
Plum’
W 1
pro
THE
6 Plum’
THIS brand of Razor is something superior to anything that has ever been offered to the public
i’ure hollow ground, beautiful silver steel, and rings like a bell; set ready for use, and \m
guarantee each razor for two years. It never requires grinding, and to gentlemen who shave them
selves they cannot possibly do better than to try this particular brand.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, IOj. Gd. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG 8l AITKEN, GBO George Street, SYDNEY.
A DAY’S DENIAL.
A LIFE’S REST.
YOU MAY AO'HTIiJVE THIS BY THE INVESTMENT OF
55., lOs., or 20s;
MUTUAL FREEHOLD PROPERTY
DISTRIBUTION SOCIETY OE SYDNEY are issuing
145,000 SHARES at £1 each; also, HALF-SHARES at 10s.; QUARTER-SHARES at ss.
(With no Further Liability.)
3441 Prizes!
3441 Prizes!
SYDNEY* SUBURBAN PROPERTIES
(No INACCESSIBLE BACK-BLOCKS or FLOOD DESOLATED ALLOTMENTS), and largely rent-producing,
Ranging; | n value from £33,000 to £5.
FIRST
PRIZE,
fs
•ms
r,m
V I
Value,
5535,000.
Those
14 Chances for each WHOLE, HALF or QUARTER Share.
jyOJTlii* Jo facilitate the investment of smalt sums. anti to enable
those who might otherwise be debarred to participate in the benefits
of this distribution, arrangements hare been made for the sale of
Half-Shares at 10s., and Quarter-Shares at 35., for which certificates
will be issued.
and S'-* « «"*»
Bankers: CITY BANK OF SYDNEY.
ALL, MONET'S BANKED TO A TRUST ACCOUNT.
"** rc> * ■*" DISTRIBUTIO3NT FILXjIJNTGr 3Ft A ~F»TTIT .V
Early Application is requisite to secure allotment.
•"* to “ANAOEB, c/o R. Hope At« 3 „*.
To- Manager,
APPLICATION FORM,
freehold gropeity gistribution Society of Sydney..
C/o R. HOPE ATKINSON, J.P., 24 and 25 Imperial Arcade,-SYRNEV.-
Please send me ( for whioh j ettc](!)Se tW(y
stamped addressed envelopes for share and result and £
Name....
Address,
I Date.
' Slate whether Cash, P. 0.0., Postal Note, or Cheque. If by Cheque, include exchange;
m
S‘ Lt
B.Moontcastle&Spn
dIRCCT IMPORTERS & MANOFACTORER3
Of HAT(S & CAPS
D
FD
F
D
FD
F
l<lti
mi
SBS • ■
D
ipi
isi
FD
F
D
FD
F
DF
D
r i
FD
F
hb»
, A-2-^k
DF
D
-S%:
-6&iZS**
fOR (OQKSEY& 0?5 [eLEBRATED |dNDON HATS
IVhen ordering number or hal wm be sufTicJcnl
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafms.s Nois s in the Head, See., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, whieh. is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, will be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most sucre«•
hi! ever brought before the public. Address, AUItAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, W f -i
minster, London, S.W.
FD
Barry’s Tricopherous
FOR THE
HAIR ANISKIN.
An elegant dressing. Prevents bald-
ness, gray Imlr. and dandruff. Makes
the hair grow thick and soft; Cures
eruptions and diseases of the skin.
Heals cuts, burns, bruises and sprains
Genuine lias trade-mark Barclay & Co.. Kew i'ork.


The Bulletin
Vol. 13—N0.*05.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 19. 1893,
Price, 6d.
XV,£
/f&'i
/O ft
rk /v
kf..
6*
iw
[ml
|,aj
si
If vT|
|
hyj
D
DfHMACy
iggcMrissuE
S)
<
,#
w
FD
THE INEVITABLE ARARAT—OR, TOO MANY NOAHS IN N.S.W.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
"Australia for tho Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limitbei.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum n ( \
Half-yearly 0126 >
Qiiai'tei’ty... 0 6 0
NOTICE.
Btf sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—With postage added where required,
ichieh yon may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stnnips of any A uslralian province—you can
lane The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
(i year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
Literary Communications to be addressed J. F*
Archibald;
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘ Correspondence ” column alt contributions submitted —
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words , are specially acceptable).
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal The Standard and Diggers'
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also;- R. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens*
land. South Australia and Tasmania.
hi consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Inter provincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 2d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
*.
Notice to Agents in Tasmania.
As Messrs. FITZGERALD BROS., of Launces-
ston, are no longer Wholesale Agents for The
Bulletin in Tasmania, Newsagents ean obtain
supplies direct from this office.
77ie
SATURDAY, AUGUST 19, 1893.
The Way Out of Chaos.
" I am prepared to assent to the people taking a plebis-
cite, and to put it to them whether they will have pay-
ment of members or not. Those who talk of democracy
cannot object to that, and to those who talk of democratic
majorities I would say; Let us settle the question by a
majority.”— Henry Parkes, in August, 1893.
The above utterance represents still another
vote for the introduction of the Referendum
in Australia and the abolition of Government
by Contradiction. For if it be admitted that
the principle of the Referendum is good in
the single matter of payment of members, it
must also be admitted that it is good as
regards Protection, Federation, local option,
prohibition, republicanism, local govern-
ment, the land-tax, the betterment question,
and all the rest of the hundred more or less
urgent problems which go to make up the
politics of the hour. And when Parkes
acknowledges that it is only by the Referen-
dum that the nation can give a definite
decision on any one of these questions he
also acknowledges, by the same process
of reasoning, that it is only by it that
the people can give a decision upon any
of the others. A few years ago, when
Parkes was still in power and Foreign-trade
was uppermost, the same appeal to the people
was suggested as the one effective means of
obtaining a popular verdict on the fiscal
issue. Then he, as the man in possession
whom the Referendum might relegate to
obscurity, denounced the proposal as “ un-
constibootional, and heaped the vasty re-
sources of his Billingsgate upon the proposer
of the hated innovation. Now, however, the
scene is changed, and Parkes, as the man
out of possession, himself advocates the
formerly abhorred device. For 30 years the
old placeman lived by mixing up the issues
and making it impossible for the nation to
make a coherent statement at the polls about
anything, and the fact that 1m opposed the
Referendum in these days, from motives of
utter selfishness, said much in its favour.
And now, in his disused and neglected old
age, when he has nothing to gain by mixing
up the issues any longer, and can secure a
certain amount of malicious satisfaction by
preventing his successors doing so, the fact
that he endorses the Referendum also says
much in its favour.
# • •
In those bygone days New South Wales
existed principally for the purpose of keep-
ing PakkEs in office. When the province
wanted Freetrade it was persuaded by that
old man garrulous that it could not have
Freetrade without Parkes. It was likewise
persuaded at other times that it could not
have Local Government without Pakkes, or
land reform, or Federation* or national sol-
vency ; whenever any new idea arose* the
same ancient schemer fastened oh to it and
proceeded to demonstrate that itahd Pakkes
went together as two inseparables; There-
fore Pakkes, as the man who seized upon
other people’s hew ideas with most avidity,
had a larger share of office than any other
politician of his day. Whenever the country
wanted anything it was always informed by
the wild-haired politician and his satellites
that it couldn’t have that thing without hav-
ing Pakkes also ; and through the strange
workings of the party system it couldn’t
even express its desire for that thing without
also expressing its desire for Pakkes. And
though the country never got Local Govern-
meht, or Federation, or Freetrade* or sol-
vency, or any effective land reform, it always
got Pakkes sooner or later. But now that
his cateer seems closed, there is no longer
any joy for the dethroned fetish in the
system which did him so much service.
He has fallen out of the ranks and other
men live by mixing up the issues in his
stead. He believes in the Referendum
because he believes in his own extinction.
If it can be introduced, then the nation can
have whatever policy it desires without the
necessity of taking 'along with it some other
politician who—like Pakkes —has attached
himself as an irrelevant barnacle to that
policy. And if Pakkes can assist in its
introduction, then he will help to make it
certain that no other New South Wales poli-
tician will ever get a chance to “live on the
game ” as he has done. If the Referendum
had been introduced years ago it would have
made Pakkes impossible. If it is introduced
now it is a substantial guarantee that there
will never be another Pakkes.
« * •
The urgent need of a system whereby the
whole nation, to its very last man, can vote
directly on every important measure, on
one measure at a time, and on the measure
itself rather than upon the politicians who
have attached themselves to it, is evidenced
by a glance at the existing state of politics
in New South Wales—which is a type of
Australia in general. Under the pre-
sent chaotic method of arriving at
an utter want of any definite know-
ledge of the popular will, the country is
divided into the following parties, taking the
more important questions only, and leaving
out local or subsidiary issues : (1) The
Freetrade - land - tax - federation - payment - of-
members-teetotal-republican party ; (2) the
Freetrade-anti-land-tax, etc., party ; (3) the
Freetrade-land-tax-anti-federation ditto ; (4)
the Freetrade - land - tax - federation - anti-
payment-of-members ditto; (5) theFreetrade-
land- tax - federation - payment-of - members-
anti-teetotal-republican party ; (6) the Free-
trade - land - tax - federation - payment - of-
members-teetotal-anti-republican party ; (7)
the Freetrade-anti-land-tax-anti-payment-of-
members (to be continued in our next) party ;
(8) the Freetrade-anti-land-tax-anti-federa-
tion - payment -of - members - teetotal, etc.,
party ; (9) the Freetrade-anti-all-the-other-
five-principles party ; (20 or thereabouts) the
rest of the possible combinations which can
be made out of the above principles ; and
(40 or thereabouts) the same combinations
all over again, only with Protection substi-
tuted for Freetrade. This list of parties and
ideas, however, takes no account of the
advocates of different degrees of Protection,
of absolute Freetrade and of revenue tariffs
only, of different brands of Federation, of
different methods of enforcing teetotalism,
and other variations which are calculated to
increase these 40 parties to 160 or more.
• • *
Then the dismal list begins afresh. There
is the social purity party, the land-tax party
pure and simple* the straight-out liquor
party, and the cast-iron teetotal patty—
these consisting of individuals who travel on
one fad only and have no fixed opinions
beyond it. There is the religious party in
all its varieties and in all the combinations
of all these varieties with all the other
parties of the day. Also, there are all the
subsections of all the above-mentioned sub-
divisions which further sub-divide themselves
on all manner of local issues, and these are
further sub-divided over personal attach-
ments of all kinds and descriptions. And at
a general election all these parties and
problems are mixed up together and pre-
sented in one mass to the electors to be
answered, not singly but all together, with
one word, yes or no. If the questions of
ordinary life were settled according to the
same system as those of the State, the fol-
lowing is something like the examination
paper which would be presented to the
nation at large : “ Do you believe in original
sin, perpetual motion, the TichbohneClaim-
ant. the damnation of unbaptised infants,
cold bath, the Talmud, vaccination, tran-
substantiation, the Devil, the identity of
Sebastian of Portugal, what do you know
about the Eastern Question, also ought hang-
ing to be maintained, and do you approve of
Moses, Governor Duff, Freetrade, Judas
Iscariot, G. R. Dibbs and his title, Sam.
Griffith, Ribnzi, and Mahomet, and does
your dog sleep under the bed in cold
weather 1” And the answer would have to
be as before in one word, Yes or No. The
examinee would not be allowed to believe in
cold baths unless he were also sure of the
genuineness of Sebastian of Portugal, and
if his dog slept under the bed* even without
his consent, then he would have to believe
in transubstantiation and Dibbs’ title
whether he would or not.
• • •
The business of the successful politician,
as distinguished from the successful states-
man, is to mix up these and all other things
so that he will come out on top in the
general confusion. The man who is most
expert at setting the national brain in a buzz
and whirl is the one who attains most
frequently to office, and the man who doesn’t
know the art of making the country feel as
if it had got drunk on political pamphlets and
wild exordiums is left oiit. But Australia is
growing very weary of all this confusion. It
wants some system by which it can enact or
refuse to enact each or any important
measure separately and definitely—a system
by which it can vote one measure at a time
and can keep measures and politicians apart
in its calculations. It doesn’t desire to have
to believe any longer in Parkes because it
Wants Freetrade, or in Freetrade because it
wants Local Option, or in hanging because it
endorses vaccination, or in original sin
because it approves of personal cleanliness.
And it desires the Referendum and the aboli-
tion of Party Government so that it may be
able to say definitely for the first time
what it really does desire. At least The
Bulletin presumes that it desires these
things, though in the prevailing chaos it is
impossible to be absolutely sure about that
or anything else, and it is just possible that
the supposed signs of a movement in that
direction were only the smothered indications
of a yearning after a bridge to connect
Sydney with North Shore, or of a demand
for an irrigation settlement in the far West.
The whole process is involved in such be-
wilderment that until the Referendum is
established no one will ever know whether
the country really w 7 ants a Referendum or
not.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Free Railways.
Sydney Sunday Times has an idea that Aus-
tralia will never be free or prosperous until
everybody and everybody’s goods are carried by
the railways absolutely without charge. “ The
tax that bears most unjustly on every pro-
ducer,” it cries in the bitterness of its soul, “ is
the railway tax.” The Bulletin has a vision
of what will happen when that Sunday paper’s
millennium comes to pass. All the poor people
who now sleep in the Domain, or the shelter for
the destitute at Woolloomooloo Bay, or the
cheap lodging-house, will sleep in the trains
then for the sake of cheapness, comfort, and
variety 5 they will simply climb into any train
which rtms all night and settle down in the
corner seat, and therefore the three expresses
going North, South, and West will aggregate
about 800 carriages every day.
Every woman who wants to go out for the
day will shove her twelve children into the
handiest train, each with a large hunk of bread
and jam, and let them find their way back in
the evening; if they are consigned to some
lonesome country station the twelve jam-
stained infants are sure to attract the attention
of the official in charge, who will consign them
home again, if only to prevent them all crying
at once on his platform. Every small or
middle-sized boy who has a day off from school
will spend it in going somewhere by train, and
“the push” will go out with its dogs and its
road-metal and its stock of picturesque
language, and make the day hideous in many
places, and wreck many railway stations, which
it hasn’t hitherto visited. The unemployed and
the members of Parliament and the demi-monde
will wander to and fro upon the face of
the railway system of New South Wales,
also the Chow and the aborigine and the fat
woman and the Sunday-school picnic and the
huge, stale infant with the neglected nose. And
when anybody has an intoxicated friend on
hand and doesn’t know what to do with him he
will simply push him into any train which is
going on a journey long enough to give him
time to recover on the way, and leave him in
the hands of the Government. Also, when
anybody wants to lose an inconvenient child he
(or she) will book the offspring for Bourke and
let it slide.
As for the goods-traffic, Mark Foy will
swell up till he is the only draper in the
land ; the State will carry his parcels at
the public expense, and when he can de-
liver the smallest retail order at Glen
limes without extra charge the local store-
keeper will presently become extinct. Then
the railway expenses, which are now £1,750,000
per annum, will rise to something like
£15,000,000, and the greatest delirium of this
*or any other century will pervade the length
and breadth of New South Wales.
The Sunday Times’s theory, by the way, is
that a tax of per cent, on the rental value of
land should be imposed to make up for the
abolition of railway fares and freight charges,
and it points out that the change would be a
blessing to the farmer, because lie would only
pay about one-sixth as much as he does at
present. The awful discrepancy is that, if the
land-owning section of the community is only
to pav one-sixth as much as it does now, and
the non-land-owning section isn’t to pay any-
thing, no one seems to know where the rest ol
the money is to come from. It is merely
another version of that famous edict by a
crowned lunatic in days gone by : “ I hereby
command that all misery shall cease after the
15th of the present month.”
Contempt of Johnson.
At the Glebe (Sydney) Police-court last week a
passing sensation was created by the conduct
of an excitable prisoner, one Connors, who took
off one of his boots in the dock and aimed it
straight at the head of the principal witness for
the prosecution. The boot hit its mark. This
incident showed, in the first place, that prisoner
Connors was an unusually good shot with a
boot, and, in the second place, it showed up the
law in a new and unexpected fashion. Magis-
trate Whippingdale Johnson, who was on the
bench, immediately sent for another magistrate
—one Smithers —to support him, and be-
tween them they ordered Connors 15
lashes on a charge of “ unprovoked assault.”
It is here that the anomaly comes in.
The law, even as administered by Mr.
Whippingdale Johnson, never orders such
a penalty for creating a very ordinary bruise
on anybody’s head, with a boot or otherwise;
the charge for knocking down a stranger and
plugging him into semi-insensibility with both
boots rarely ranges above 40s. and costs, with
the alternative of one month. The sentence
wasn’t ostensibly inflicted, either, for contempt
of court. The law didn’t whale Manager James
Thomson, of Melbourne Standard, for his
contempt, nor has it ever whaled anybody
on such a charge since the latter end of
the convict era. Therefore, the only possible
explanation is that the 15 lashes were really
ordered for contempt of Johnson— although
Johnson, aforesaid, being unaddicted to in-
trospective analysis, may be utterly unaware
of the fact. Considering with what com-
parative lightness that potentate has let
off other offenders for brutal assaults com-
mitted out of his presence, the severity with
which he avenges a slight and trivial assault com-
mitted in his presence can only be explained on
the assumption that his presence, in his own
opinion, makes all the difference. It is the
bruise on his magisterial dignity that has to be
avenged. But it is not in the interests of
justice that Mr. Johnson, or any other
magistrate even meek little Magistrate
Smithers— should be permitted to flog any-
body according to his own valuation of his
own offlcial dignity —it should only be done
on somebody else’s independent valuation of
Mr. Johnson’s dignity. When a man
sits in judgment on an injury done to his own
official dignity, his conduct is quite as uncon-
stitutional as if he sat in judgment on his own
action for damages in any other sense ; in the
one case he would decide what damages should
be awarded to him to satisfy himself personally,
and in the other he decides what damage
should be done to John Connors to satisfy
himself officially, and he is judging his own
case either way. If any unbiassed person had
judged his case instead, he would probably
have decided that the whole of Mr. Whippino-
dale Johnson’s dignity could have gone into a
40s. fine and left some small change over. Any-
how, the law which permits a magistrate,
smarting under an insult to his ’own official
dignity, to ring up in haste a sub-magistrate
and have a prisoner flogged without the inter-
vention of a jury is a law only adapted to a
land of lags.
Quashed Again!
Last Thursday night, one week after the
quashing of that famous Grand Jury indict-
ment, an attempt was made to bring “ the
eminently unsatisfactory position of the Mer-
cantile Bank prosecutions ” under notice in the
Assembly. Said Assembly being, by parlia-
mentary fiction, in total ignorance of the
scandal that exhales foul odour beneath its re-
presentative nose, the member for Warrnambool
(Mr. Murray) wished to “call attention” to
it, and for this decent purpose he attempted to
move the adjournment of the House. There-
upon, Speaker Bent rose and quashed Murray,
on the ground that the matter referred
A Prophecy.
“ I should think they’ll drop it now,"
Said many a Man whose black silk hat
And trim grey beard and business brow
Knit close by craft, denoted that
His other name was surely “ Fat.”
The “ meddling fools ” who raised the row
Could slink away and “ whip the cat.”
“ I should think they’ll drop it now.”
“ The matter is settled at last.”
What snug delight in the Law r ’s defeat,
In the shame upon the country cast,
Was boldly told by Fat Man’s bleat !
“ The charge Sir Matthew wished to meet ”
Had vanished ! Melbourne stared aghast
To hear those wrinkled lips repeat,
“ The matter is settled at last.”
“ They will drop it* too, I fear ; ”
The fools fell down in their first surprise
And said, Of course ! ” with a sickly sneer,
But never a one has strength to rise
And gnash the fetid Fraud that tries
To keep the road to Safety clear.
Poor Justice hangs her head and sighs*
“ They will drop it, too, I fear.”
There is poison in the air
Of Melbourne city where rogues are kings,
And Wrong is Right, and Falsehood fair
And scandal to the Senate clings.
The ruined dupe despairing wrings
His nervous hands, but does not care
What troubles new the future brings,
There is poison in the air.
And the sin will find you out.
Full many a truth is told in rhyme—
The truth which Fat Man dares to flout;
And Justice, cheated oft by crime,
Lives still, unsmirched by social slime,
Now cynics laugh and dullards doubt—
Wait, Melbourne, for the aftertime
When the sin will find you out.


To Readers of “The Bulletin."
Attention is directed to The Bulletin’s
Missing Word Competion (No. 6) announced on
cover of this issue.
A linn of “ Parliament* ry Agents”—“all
electoral business a speciality”—is touting fur
custom in Sydney. A sign of the times,
to was uut of urgent public importance
Quashed again ! Interest naturally attaches to
the Parliamentary precedent that fortified
Speaker Bent in his determination to suppress
this unexpected outbreak of Mercantile Bank
feeling, and it is specially interesting to find
that Speaker Matthew Davies had made the
rule which the dauntless Bent now enforces.
On the authority of Davies himself, in fact, his
friend Bent was able to quash the suggestion
that Davies’s dodging of criminal prosecution
is a disgrace to Parliament!
The Racing Swindle.
At the recent meeting of the V.R.O. much un-
necessary excitement was created by the state-
ment that “ a ring of jockeys exists, and these
men make arrangements in races for their own
individual benefit.” Mr. Frank Madden was
the speaker, and a portion of the meeting
seemed to wish that he hadn’t said anything so
dreadful. Yet the public will derive a measure
of melancholy satisfaction from Mr. Madden’s
frankness, even though they may not hope to
gain any solid benefit. The pretence that
Australian horse-racing isn’t mostly a bare-
faced swindle has been kept up quite long
enough, and any official person who boldly
notifies punters they are systematically robbed
is at least a witness of truth. Whether
a ring of owners, trainers, or jockeys
“ arranges ” races the results are all the same
to the unfortunate outside gamblers, who
back past “ form,” good looks, good
breeding, or good condition in horses that
are worked solely on the swindle system. The
evil exists and the big racing clubs countenance
it. Stewards often don’t mind as long as they
get a fair share of opportunities to.be “ in the
know”; bookmakers are content to have laid
against a readied-up certainty if they were able
to get well round on their books, and the public
only are left to lose, lose, lose from one year’s
end to another. And it serves the public right
for their want of spirit. They simply grumble
in an undertone at “ in-and-out running,” which
would provoke a general riot at Epsom, New-
market, Doncaster, or Sandown Park. Every-
body knows that horses can’t be trusted to run
like pieces of machinery, that some horses
are curs, or delicate of constitution, and
so forth. But, making full allowance for
the “glorious uncertainty of the turf,” it
is still a horribly glaring fact that the
crack horses of Australia (unless owned by
sportsmen of the Donald Wallace class, who
get fewer every year) don’t run up to form like
the cracks in England. A comparison of the
two Racing Calendars makes this evident to the
dullest brain. As for minor handicap horses in
Australia it would puzzle anybody to explain
the system on which most of them are. handi-
capped. It is necessary to fix a table of merit
for them, but on visible form each horse in turn
is better than all the others. Just now the
V.R.O. are concerned about the jockeys’ ring,
as though owners were the innocent victims of
“ arrangements ” made behind their backs. If
this be the case, how is it that no owner ever
comes to the V.R.C. with a grievance?
*
Bundaberg (Q.) was once a prosperous littl 6
town, with a spirit of its own—a spirit that
rose to indignation and open resistance when
the Cingalese plantation slaves were secretly
landed at the Burnett Heads, the authorities
fearing bloodshed should the tender be brought
to the wharf. Then work was plentiful and
wages good, but Fat Man got the district
under his thumb. He built a refinery, bank-
bolstered up the planters and their “ tobies,”
whipped the needy and feeble democratic paper
into subjection by boycotting and withdrawing
all advts., and then openly defied the worker.
Now may be found in plenty Chinese and
Assyrian stores and boarding - houses, farms
rented by Kanakas and Chinese, and the streets
thronged vvitli alien races. Italian immigrants,
brought out as “reliable” labour, and now
naturalised, are the lessees of a large sugar-
plantation, and have applied for assisted pas-
sages for their wives, families, and “ more
reliable labour ” from Italy. Cingalese may be
seen at the Land Court applying for their title-
deeds, Over one hundred able, but starving,
labourers have been receiving Government
rations monthly, while an “influential” firm
of planters have constructed (in the off season)
a branch railway with their mob of Kanakas
and two or three white overseers. That busy
little seaport is now thoroughly under the
MTlwraithiau regime—aliens are selecting
the lands, building the railways, competing
with the farmers and tradespeople, and
espousing the women. It is now a Paradise
for Fat Man and his parasites.
A Sydney lady, speaking on Woman Suffrag 6
at Bondi the other day, instead of working out
her argument on modern common-sense lines,
wandered off into Biblical literature—pointing
out that Pilate’s wife told Pilate to have noth-
ing to do “ with that just man,” and triumph-
antly asked her audience whether the woman
or Pilate had the better judgment there. The
lady failed to remember, or failed to see any-
thing bizarre in the fact, that all Pilate’s wife
had to rely upon as justifying her attempted
interference with the law of the land was a
dream ; it was not a study of the circumstances
or an analysis of theevideuce, but merely adream.
Does Mrs. Mulholland mean that when
woman suffrage becomes law women will take
dreams for evidence and maintain that they
constitute a better basis for judgment than a
careful consideration of all the facts of the
case? How would it do, on the strength of
dreams, for Justice Stephen’s wife to have
warned his Honor to have nothing to do with
the sentencing of Makin, or for Premier Dibbs’
wife to have adjured her spouse to stick to
payment of members ?
An iconoclastic member of Vic. Legislative
Council having thought long and seriously over
the subject of condemned felons, is of opinion
that irons on their legs are “unnecessary and
inhuman, and should be abolished.” The
M.L.C. musn’t take credit for this dis-
covery, but lie deserves a vote of thanks
for bringing it under the notice of his
dear old brethren. Irons are clapped upon
the legs of Deeming nowadays, not be-
cause he needs them or is likely to escape if he
doesn’t wear them, but because he would have
worn them if he had been Jack Sheppard in
Newgate. Irons are the last remaining emblems
of the period when a man about to be hanged
used to bite a hole through his dungeon cell and
escape at the eleventh hour. Times and prison
arrangements have changed a good deal since
Blueskin was in the flesh, and the irons that
prevent Deeming from climbing through the
roof of Melb. Gaol whilst a warder keeps watch
at the iron gate of his gas-lighted apartment
are as unnecessary as the spikes on the
railings of the dock where he takes his trial.
They are also inconvenient things to repent in.
Furthermore, they are inhuman items for the
reason that the culprit shudders to think how
evening newspaper reporters are revelling in
the “ clank, clank ” of them when the gaolers
come and knock ’em off at the old appointed
time. But the world is so full of unnecessary
and inhuman matters that one bit of barbarism,
more or less, is of very little consequence,
especially when the prisoner is going to die in
three weeks.
♦
Thk real reason why it was proposed by the
Central (Queensland) M.L. A.’s to send a memo-
rial to the Imperial authorities and not discuss
Separation in Parliament was that that was
the only way for Archer, Murray and Mount
Morganaire Callan to escape making a compact
with the Labour members to support Separation
in return for those members’ votes for electoral
reform. Cross, member for Clermont, was the
only Central member who opposed this proposal
and exposed its true motive. He contends that
without electoral reform Central Separation
would be to the people a fraud and a snare.
Because a few Labour men were returned at last
election in North Queensland, even under the
existing scandalous electoral law, the plutocrats,
backed by Octopus Philp, suddenly discovered
that Separation was not desirable. Not long
ago it was suspected that the true purpose
of the Northern Separation movement was the
establishment of black labour as a permanent
institution ; now the Democrats of that territory
look upon Separation as the only effectual
means of abolishing coloured slavery.
Chief J ustice Madden’s statement that he had
been much strengthened by the opinions of his
brother Judges before deciding to quash the
latest indictment of Matthew Davies, was
shortly followed by an Argus statement that
two of the brethren, A’Beckett and Hood,
were strongly of opinion that the Grand Jury’s
true bill held good. In which case it would be
interesting to know for certain the names of
the Judges who agreed with Madden straight
out. For example, did Holroyd —who charged
the Grand Jury and refused to exclude the
“ alien ” cause of all the trouble—frankly con-
fess to Chief Justice Madden that he had been
compelled to play a legal joke upon his bleeding
country ? Did Williams favour the “ quash ”
theory (all such legal opinions being theories
only), or wasn’t he consulted in the matter? It
is permissible to ask for full information con-
cerning a question which, anyhow, might have
been more learnedly considered by the Full
Court than by the very junior Judge of the
Victorian Bench. Which reminds us that the
policy of creating barrister Madden a Chief
Justice at one fell swoop has not seemed to
improve with age.
The blessings of private railway ownership ar e
again exemplified by the bankruptcy—for any
where between the second and dozenth time—
of the Erie Railway Co. (U.S.) The Erie’s
trouble is apparently its inability to pay
interest on its second mortgage bonds—repre-
senting money borrowed at 6 per cent.—the
fact that a lot of stock which it holds in another
company’s line is worth only Bs. in the £, and
various other complications. The Erie was
Fisk and Gould’s famous road, and it was
partly owing to their enterprising management
of it that Vanderbilt wanted to gaol Gould
for forgery, and the people of New York desired
to strangle him on a lamp-post. This is one kind
of private railway enterprise in a new land. The
other kind is that practised by the Santa P£ and
the Denver and Rio Grande companies in the
old days, when they raised an army apiece and
fought battles and sacked towns, and the
manager who was uppermost for the moment
seized the other fellow’s line and rolling-stock,
and the manager who was undermost fled to
avoid being hanged and to hunt up reinforce-
ments, till at last the Denver and Bio Grande
Co.’s army captured the Santa Fe’s army at
Puebla, and finished the war in a blaze of
glory. There are more varieties of joy in
private railway enterprise than half the world
ever heard of.
The fate of the Fat Man’s son is a subject
which some Australian poet should write up.
In these days Unmack, the German Queens-
lander, is of opinion that men should be content
with 10s. a week ; MTlwraith apparently con-
siders Chinaman’s wages good enough for any
white man, and George Pile writes to Sydney
Telegraph to complain bitterly about the
exorbitant demands of employes who ask for
50s. a week or thereabouts, and the necessity
for importing cheap niggers from Bombay to
fill their places. Mo rehead and Patterson
and the Broken Hill millionaires are all on the
same war-path. It is for this reason that The
Bulletin wants somebody to write a poem
about the fate of the Fat Man’s son—also of his
daughter. In a new country fortunes are made
rapidly by those in the inside swindle—and
they are also lost rapidly. It only takes about
three generations at the most to get back to the
original pick-and-shovcl. Therefore, all the
Fat Men who are of opinion that 10s.
or 20s. a week is good enough for the worker
are hereby invited to consider the spec-
tacle of their own sons and grandsons
going on the wallaby in search of these Chinese
wages, and their own daughters—when the old
man is dead and the estate hasn’t wound up
well—realising what a hard place that old man
and his kind have made of this country for a
friendless woman who has to earn her own live-
liliood. Every Fat Man who helps to get men’s
wages down to 8s; a day is, at the same time,
reducing women’s wages to Is. 9d. a day or
thereabouts, for when men’s wages are low the
wages of women are lower, and when men are
on the wallaby women are on the street. The
other day they were tearing up a roadway in
Sydney, looking for a gas-pipe, and the man
who was working in the reeking hole was the
son-in-law of a once well-known, but now
almost forgotten, politician who went a lot out!
of bis way to reduce wages. When that pick-'
and-shovel artist takes home his precarious 6s.'
a day to the dead politician’s daughter how she!
must bless the memory of the departed econo- ■
mist!
♦
Editor Bulletin,— 1 “ Max,” replying to a
Bulletin par. re the present brisk employ-
ment of Rotumah boys in the slaughterous
deep-water Torres Straits pearl-shelling, says :
A wrong impression prevails . . . pearl-shellers are
called murderers for sending divers down only to become
paralysed. Many men possess and work from their own
boats. The others are paid on the “ lay” system, and, in
any case, the diver is master of the vessel, even if the
owner is aboard. The diver is boss, &c., &c.
And then adds;
Divers cannot be imported in this way, and even sup-
posing the whole sixteen* eventually learn the business
they will not be sent into the dangerous depths.
“Max” probably knows well that the “lay”
is a mere subterfuge (as far as kanaka divers
are concerned). They are paid a monthly
wage, the “ lay ” being merely nominal, but it
serves its purpose when a coloured diver is
asphyxiated—then it is pointed out that avarice
led to his death. “ Divers cannot be imported.”
This is mere word-trickery. The 16 Rotumah
boys were imported to learn to dive. The
writer conversed with some of those identical
boys. They were going up at £6 a month till
they learned the business, then they were to
get £l2 and, of course, the nominal “ lay ”
aforesaid. “Max” says that there is no scar-
city of divers. No doubt, but at ordinary and
not at fatal depths. “The diver is boss.”
Yes, but a white boss diver and a simple, fat-
headed Kanaka griff are two very different
beings. “ Max’s ” arguments are exactly those
of the advocates of the Kanaka slave-trade—
“with proper restrictions, &c., abuses are im-
possible.” Whereat the Devil laughs.— Tifa.
♦
The Australian Star puts in a plea for the
Dibbs New South Wales Crown land sale policy.
As a feeble and washily Democratic organ it
doesn’t approve of wholesale land alienation in
the abstract, but it starts out to prove that, in
the present case, the sale of great areas of land
is inevitable, and must be accepted as a neces-
sary evil: —
The railway earnings are not likely, unless settlement is
very largely increased, to pay much more than the
interest on this heavy sum, and there remains the prin-
cipal to be met as the loans fall due. How this is to be
done, except by land-sales, is the problem for solution.
The proceeds of these sales appear to be the natural
source from which the funds should be derived ; and the
course advised by the Commissioners is therefore sound
in principle.
The excuse for dissipating the national inherit-
ance is, therefore, according to the N.S.W.
Ministerial organ, the necessity of paying off
the old loans which are beginning to fall due.
Now, according to Government Statistician
Coghlan, the amount which has to be repaid
in 1893 is £40,000; in 1894, nil ; in 1895,
£832,000 ; in 1896, £977,000 ; in 1897, £65,000 ;
in 1898, £177,000; and in 1899, £197,000;
making an average for the balance of the cen-
tury of about £327,000 per annum. These
amounts and the floating liabilities of the
province can easily be met out of the
proceeds of a land-tax, and even failing
that being all 5 per cent, loans they
can easily be renewed for another term at
4 per cent., and a considerable saving of inter-
est effected thereby. In any case, the whole
amount which has to be raised in liquidation of
old loans during the next eighteen months is
the miserable item of £40,000, and fora Govern-
ment which wants to make an immediate stare
at trading off the public estate in huge areas to
the omnivorous Fat Man, this liability is about
the poorest and most melancholy excuse that
could well be invented.
*
The inexpressibly melancholy deputation that
waited the other day on N.S.W. Premier Dibbs
to piteously beg that the body of a kinsman,
convicted of murder, might be snatched from
the Government man-butcher, and the hollow
evasion of the Minister’s reply, force once more
upon the public mind one of the most hideous
aspects of capital punishment. The arguments
presented by the deputation showed that the
ignominious death of the convict would socially
execute many apparently respectable and well-
esteemed relatives—would murder them com-
munally as effectually as if they themselves
stood upon the gallows shambles. Imprison-
ment for life certainly throws its gloomy shadow
on a convict’s relatives, but the stigma is a
transitory and ever-lessening one ; w hereas the
gallows butchery is a fixed silhouette of irre-
trievable disgrace—a disgrace so horrible that
it cannot be expressed in words. Apart from
these “ maudlin sentimentalities,” the main
arguments against capital punishment as a
brutal vengeance, a ghastly failure, a non-
preventive of crime, an incentive to savagery,
and the direct and blind agency by which many
irremediable mistakes are perpetrated, remain
intact and irrefragable.
-+
Notwithstanding all the unshaven hypocrisy
of horror exhibited by the “right-thinking”
daily press, the intelligent and progressive
portion of the public is quite satisfied with
the verdict given by the jury empanelled to try
the pair of youths sifted from a baker’s dozen
of “ the Miller’s Point push,” and charged with
the homicide of Thomas Pert —a verdict which
has lauded one youth in gaol for ten, and
another for five years. The jury no doubt felt
that the present New South Wales “ system ”
could not be trusted to ensure a just dis-
crimination between the terms of the
iufyiitc series of homicide between the
guilt of the icy - marrowed assassin who
deliberately selects and slays his victim for
cold cash, and a mankiller who commits his
deed in the exciting frenzy of unloosed passions,
even though tue circumstances of the assault
gave no ghost of a show for fair play. Thb
Bulletin congratulates the Pert jury, and
hopes ail juries will act similarly, until there ii
placed upon the New South Wales statute-
hook a law that shall empower juries them-
selves to focus the microscope of analytical dis-
crimination between such mercenary and coldly
calculated enormities as (say) the Nichcls and
Lister murders on the Parramatta River, and
impromptu accidents born ol reckless, though
brutal, affrays. Pert’s death was an un-
expected incident in the chaos of a vendetta
that was, in all human probability, never in-
tended to include homicide.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
att/us of ice insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must , in every case y appear on MS.
“W.A.P.”: Over-done horae-lies are out of
season— Alphseus 1 '; “Crushing the Howler” de-
clined Hospital ” : (1) Old. (2) “ Sickness namby-
pamby triteness.,.. “Jerry Grumble ’’ (Richmond, Vic.);
Have heard several far better variants of your siory....
VVuilie (Adelaide, S.A.); Your Mormon screed seems
to have given you a missed chance. It may be cobbled.
.... H.B. (Calcutta): Your best point is that you don’t
know better than to speak of “ Samson Haynes ” as the
current M.P. for Mudgee, N.S.W. Your ignorance is
true bliss A. : The honeymooning bride that sighed
to her groom because the incubated chickens “ never had
a mother died a maiden aunt 123 years ago. The other
S?f,,? ve “ l!l0 an a . ,cie nt flavour.... “M. B.” (Hand wick,
N.S.W.): See previous answer. Diffusiveness is not
appreciated by The Bulletin; evaporate to crystallisa-
tion ‘•Zeno”: A bull-ant proposing, in blank verse,
to curse the Omnipotent, because of the absence of his
pet cow-ant. Shelley cursed for humanitarian principles,
<<a WaS a P° etsee, '> an d not a mere bull-ant
• •, . ‘ PnE RnLLF/ri.v presumes, from the awful buzzing
r a » - your ditt Y a “topical song.”
JN. J.A. : Clumsy and uninteresting verse “U. 1.0.”
(Sydney); “Introspection” merely a series of discon-
nected thoughts about a barmaid “Mac” (Neutral
Bay): You take a whole column to mention that you
borrowed one plug of tobacco from a clergyman. If you
had borrowed two plugs you would have occupied the
whole paper.... “A. Sharp”: (1) You say that he asked
the girl to come, “ but nary a cent’s worth of come even-
tuated himwards.” That's expressive, anyhow. (2) Poem
too guahful and squashy.. Pine Apple”: Poem re-
ceived beginning
See, there he sits and smokes
. Anloll g our foremost blokes.
Language fails us to express our opinion about that poem.
•••• "aster (Adelaide): Stories mostly beer-froth and
gossiping over the fence on washing-day,. ..
T.M.W. (vie.) Neat, but it would mean seven years, as
you take their guilt for granted “Daniel T.” (N.Q.):
(1) Alas! we’ve had “The Sparrows” before. (2) The
Campbell story very lovely, but it can’t be printed in this
world. Weve told it to a man who is just going to
Heavenßaktrax ”: The homeless single man, with
nothing in the world but a battered quart-pot and an old
blue blanket may take as keen and as intelligent an
interest in politics as the man who owns 40 freehold
stations. You see, the Tories don’t propose to give a man
an extra vote because he has a family, or to deprive a
man of his vote because he is single. They only seek to
make accumulated wealth (fat) the franchise qualification.
.... Withers D.”: (1) Boil it down. (2) When we start
another paper we'll call it the Deranged Liver....
“Mungo : (1) A mere personal puff, of private and local
interest only. What does the world care for John
Smith ? It doesn’t even take its cigar out of its mouth
as lus funera! passes the sidewalk....“ Retrenchment in
Q- : Now, how could we print it? You see, we are
white, iiot Chinamen “W.J.C.”: It all amounts to
this: There is a West Brunswick publican who is the
exact image of Parkes “C. A. Morrison ” : “Your valu-
able paper.” Everybody says “your valuable paper ” just
as every fish-man advertises “fresh” (notstinking) oysters
“A.W.”: No; that’s not the chief trouble. It's the
unreasoning envy with which they regard the bench-mate
whom they may have voted to Parliament.. “Frank
B. : Wide of the mark this time... “The Pauper”;
Anticipated by a similar sketch now in type “ Lyre
Bird (Gippsland); One excellent thing, the joke, in your
otherwise abominable effusion, but that joke was printed
and illustrated months ago “ Flatman ”: If you can
get such a price, snap at it... “Anon.”: “Surgical
murder”—marvellously dealt with by Emile Souvestre.
Read him—and weep!.... “ W.” (Bris., I.): You hardly
strike the note of all-round interest “ E.A.J.”; “The
Voices of Morn ” would suit a religious paper- an English
religious paper.... “ A. 0.”: In 1877 the Geiman Socialists
polled 500,000 votes; at the recent elections over 2,000,000.
... “ Truth 23 ” ; “What do we think of jour verse?”
“ Terriably ”a “ failour,” as you put it.. .. “ A Constant
Reader ’ (Melb.): Your “ Dogerl ” is not, as you hope,
“ opproate.” Your “ Addage,” “Where there’s smoke,
there's surely fire,” bumps against the eternal truth of
1 slacking ” 1ime....“ Turon You’d better side-hobble
the “ night-wind” that “shrieks as it rounds the bend,
and sobs in the oak trees tall.” “ Nenos” (S. Yarra):
As requested, we publish it in the only “obscure corner”
we’ve got—the w.p.b... .“L.T.”: The woman simply
discovered by experience, with the aid of the N.S.W.
divorce laws, that she preferred a drunken brute as a
husband to having no husband at all. A common experi-
ence. Watch any Tom and Tabby “ Ponte ” : The
murderer, haunted and eventually struck dead by the
ghost of his victim, never existed. Study the legend
of Cain—“ M.L.” : Sublimity togged in twaddle
“Cornin’ Doon”; To hand “Soro”: Set it down
tersely : don't blather. You are writing ; not talking.
We are reading ; not pretending to listen “ H.C.S.” :
Only through the bookseller's .. “ Wai Rim ”: We apolo-
gise. The mistake, however, was a natural one, and not
uncomplimentary to yourself “ R.A.J.” (L.): In
default of Australian colour, it’s not good e ;ough. Try
agai n...,“ Isabella P.”: To now say anything about the
matter would do more harm than good . . “G.0.L.”:
The Bulletin doesn't want “papers” written for it.
Send ’em, please, to some debating society's MS. journal
“Fat’Un”: Not our paragraph, was it? U was, if
we remember, printed as a quotation ...“More”; God
never meant Bohemians to marry... “F. Walsh ” : Why
not send something original? . .“ J. C. MTvay”; Very
ancient “J.A.C.” (Christchurch): How could we re-
print it?....“ Billycan"; Let the other side do the
muzzling “ Victoria ”: The yarn about the deadbeat
who gave “three stamps” (with his foot) for a pint of
beer, and couldn’t do it for hire on the rival publican
because the latter had paid him to go there and do it, is
old as original sin, it and all its variants “Nepos”
(South Yarra): Your “satire” is not the least bit satiri-
cal, and your rhythm is a rough-and-tumble between an
anthem and a hornpipe.. .“ A. Vantinien ” ; A poet who
makes “daisies” and “rubies" rhyme with “ladies,”
“Wright” with “tide,” and “smiles” with “sails,” is
too double-Dutch for Australia “A Scotch Austra-
lian ” : Your “ blank,v ” yarn blanked ..., “ Sugar Cane ”
(Bundaberg, Q.): Mildewed mush... “S.L.” (Dubbo):
You re the Chinaman bard of a worked-out rhyme-field
“ E. 0.”; No use—Melb. people won’t eat fish
“Scotchman”: Thanks.. “Quirk” (Surry Hills,
N.S.W.): Inartistic snake-lie returned “ Savey ”
(Mulgoa); Send your doggerel to Paraguay ~. “ Mariner ”
(Gin Gin, Q.): Your opinion that, because, at a State-
school polling-booth, 10 out of 23 voters voted against
O’Connell, the MTlwraithian, therefore the repairs to that
school are likely to remain unattended to, merely repre-
sents the average Queensland notion about the present Q.
Government.. . “ Helen H.” (Melb.): Have we deciphered
your name ? By your scrawl you ought to be a Supreme
Court Judge at least. Or is it a new 'wall-paper pattern ?
....“Nathalie Walton”: Mechanical short metre has
robbed your rhymes of vitality.


Pitted by a thoroughly Qualified Optician.
Best PEBBLE SPECTACLES or EYEGLASSES,
5/- per Pair.
The celebrated UNIAXIAL Glasses, specially prescribed
by the Faculty, 10 0 per Pair.
DOCTORS' PRESCRIPTIONS at London Prices.
Combination Lenses a Speciality.
FAIRFAX & ROBERTS,
Jewellery Showrooms,
t» iIUNTGK BTKRBT, SYDNEY.
FROSSAKD’S
A. Grood. and
CJaea.]
SWISS.
Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition,
1888.
Ssa
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO.
PAVF.RNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 26—they co-;t you less, .and you know you got the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
August 16, 1893.
Mt Dear Moorabinda—
The farewell of the Brough and Bonoicault Co.
to Sydney really took place between the second
and last act of Pinero’s “ Magistrate,” at the
Criterion, last Friday, when Judge Windeyer
made a presentation to Mrs. Brough (accompanied
by an address signed by Lady Duff), for the final
curtain of all only raised a storm of cheers and
waving bandannas. The farewell was carefully
staged. Mrs. Brough (surrounded by floral
tributes), in a tailor-built gown of fawn tweed and
a red necktie, seated at the bar —I mean the table
—in the centre, with Judge Windeyer solemnly
anchored alongside, and the rest of the co.
scattered about as if waiting to be called as
witnesses for the accused.
It was just as well the amiable Judge didn’t
actually fasten on the gold necklet with diamond
orescent attached which the ladies of Sydney gave
to Mrs. Brough. It would have looked too much
like “adjusting the noose ” —for Judge Windeyer
and the adjusting and unslipping of nooses,
criminal and matrimonial, form somehow an indis-
soluble association of ideas. Nathless, to my
eyes, the whole thing looked terribly like a court
case all through. His Honor’s long-winded,
patronizing address had the air of being the
delusive summing-up of some cat-and-mouse
functionary who encourages the criminal to hope
it’s going all right, and then, as it were, assumes
the black-cap right on the heels of the last com-
pliment.
I think Mrs. Brough (after whose retreating
footsteps, and those of her accomplished and ever-
popular husband let your Sappho throw' a horse-
shoe for luck) might have made a more artful
adieu to the crowd of admirers who overflowed
even into the orchestra and up to the skylights.
The public prefers an actress who is borne off to
her dressing-room in a state of boudoir-hysteria to
the composed and self-possessed idol who makes a
very presentable speech from her full heart, as did
Mrs. B. A full heart generally remarks —
“ Gadiea and lentlemen,—I —(long pause)—boo-
hoo !” It is not a brilliant argument to finish
with, but it is considered the most effective fare-
well in the profession from an actress’s point of
view. Mrs. Brough can weep to order —see how
fetchingly she howled in “The Amazons 1” Mr.
Brough made a funny speech in response to
shrieks, and Mr. Bouoicault, who was also called,
out his adioux down to a very few words. Judg-
ing by appearances, clever Dot’s heart was the
fullest, after all. But perhaps he was only the
most diplomatic!
The B. and B. Co. have left one “original ’’
spot on their managerial concern in Sydney—l re-
fer to the way in whicii they began to bill their
co. a year or so ago—“ Mr.” Titheradge, “Mr.”
Ward, and so on. I think billing an actor as
“ Mister” reduces him to the level of the common
or garden bank-clerk whose front name is a dark
mystery to everybody but his best girl. One never
associates the prefix of Mister with talent of any
sort —it is only the man who can’t make the name
of “John Smith ” electric enough to turn people’s
heads in the street who likes to be written down
so. And then moat actors choose such pretty
front names for themselves too.
How those artful mummers do help to federate
Australia ! No “hide-bound provincialism” about
the man who goes round with anything dramatic
—from Punch and Judy to Bernhardt. The warm
sentiment they can’t help expressing apply just as
well to Dan as Beersheba. The flatteries they
perpetrate in Sodom to-day don’t even want sub-
editing to fit Gomorrah like a glove to-morrow !
It’s a wise Australian public that knows just
where its stage favourites consider themselves
really and truly at home, yon bet.
Sydney Fresh Air League ball, at Sydney Town
Hall, on 10th, was a general success—the only
drawbacks were the programmes. They didn’t
tally, and the girl who never willingly danced the
Highland fling in her life was horrified to find her
partner kicking wildly at her with both feet when
he ought to have been waltzing as per engage-
ment. The reason was that the postponed pro-
grammes (the ball was to have been held in May)
had got into the men’s tray, and the new ones,
which didn’t correspond, into the ladies’, and so
the dancing was tangled in consequence. The
hall was trimmed with ropes of greenery; the lazy
corners and the tea-corners were well-thought-out;
and the numerous tables in the supper-room were a
great improvement on the ordinary free-lunch bar
1 think the Govementouse people must have
enjoyed theF.A.L. ball, for they tarried beyond
the conventional Cinderella hour. Lady Duff
wore black silk, with the usual accompaniment of
lace and jet, diamond brooches and necklace, and
posy of committee flowers; Miss Duff, a pale-
grey bengaline, deliberately contrasted with shell-
pink linings, and made with an umbrella skirt
finished with a pink ruche, the bodice touched up
with fine lace ; Miss Heather Duff’s silk dresswas
of the colour of clotted cream : the two Misses
Freemantle (with the vice regal party) wore black
silk trimmed with beetles’ wings embroidery.
Mrs. (Dr.) Mailler Kendall (hon. sec.) presented
a very taking appearance with her hair pondre,
and wearing a crocus-yellow silk and brocade with
puffs of electric-green velvet and lappels of Moni-
tor! lace, diamond ornaments, and bouquet of
daffodils ; Miss Bessie Tarrant was in salmon-pink
silk trimmed with ruches and fine lace, bouquet of
long-stalked violets; Mrs. Robert Prendergast
sported an attractive turn out of ivory satin bro-
cade, with sleeves and berthe of electric-blue
velvet, and collar of pointed lace, diamond,
brooches and necklace; Miss Maud Fitz-Stubbs
(the band played her clever waltz very indiffer-
ently, 1 thought, during the evening) caraq out in
pink silk and silver fringe. Miss Grace Noble
(B. & B.’s latest ingenue) wore black silk and
jewelled gimp.
Two fancy sets diversified the mise-en-action—
the “ Gainsboro,” in which one lady had powdered
her hair with ground glass, and the “Magpie ”
a study in black and white with extremely bird-
like ankles, and carrying long wands with stuffed
fowls of the air on the top. The worst of it was,
the fowls ranged in size from a barnyard rooster
to a tomtit, and when all the staffs got together it
looked like the evolution of a poultry-yard. _ Miss
Maud Roberts came as a Rubens’ girl in red
velvet, and, needless to say, a very large welter-
weight lady was got up as Mary, Queen of Scots.
But what a Palstaff she would have made !
On (lit that a ball-committee which, owing to an
unfortunate misunderstanding, recently had a
skirmish with a society madam, who withdrew
herself from their schemes in consequence, was
surprised to receive a letter on the eve of the hop,
stating that under no consideration whatever
would she attend their dance. As no cards of in-
vitation had been sent her the lady’s vigorous
refusal was “rather uncalled-for, I venture to be-
lieve,” but the arrival of a second letter re-asserting
that no amount of pressure would induce her to
adorn the dais made the situation somewhat
amusing. But don’t two negatives make an
affirmative?
Somebody who had “ leeved in the same toon,
ye ken,” with Gov. and Leddy Duff, presented
his Ex. with two Scotch cakes the other night, at
a suburban function, and Sir Robert took them
home for the youngsters. The notion of giving
pastry to a man just because you once lived in his
neighbourhood is somewhat novel. Fancy laying
your tarts on the shrine of the man next door if
you happened to meet him afterwards in Para-
guay I
i read that at the {official rehearsal before the
recent Royal marriage, Lord Carington showed the
officials exactly how to bow. From which it is
evident Lord G. didn’t bring his State-curtsey out
here with him. I always thought his ex-Ex.’s
Australian bow, which began with a smile dodder-
ing on the verge of a broad grin, alarmingly like
a fit of something. The State bow must be very
different to that!
The danger of sending “mortal” telegrams was
exemplified in the recent lamentable death of the
amiable wife of a N.S. Wales Western M.P.
Both she and her husband had brothers, and when
her husband’s brother died suddenly, a wire came
to him saying, “Your brother is dead.” She
(while in delicate health) opened the message and,
believing it meant her own brother, received a
shock which ultimately led to her death.
I hear of a Melbourne girl who jilted her sweet-
heart the other day simply because he broke his
leg ! He broke it in the execution of his duty as
a lover, too, for he was riding to see her at the
time, but that didn’t make any difference—the leg
and the engagement broke in one snap. Were all
maidens constructed on this principle—-did they
all turn up their noses at damaged matrimonial
stock—what a glorious highway to freedom the
football field would be !
The sandwich dance, in aid of Sydney Blind
Asylum (Boomerang-street), is to be held on 31st
inst. at Paddington Town Hall, and is going to be
a success. The tickets are selling fast, and there
are more than rumours of active vice-regal
patronage. . _ , „
East Sydney Rowing Club gave its ball at
Leigh House on the 11th inst., with marked suc-
cess in every way save as regards the Chinese-
looking permanent decorations of the ball-room,
but the draped sculls and the Championship
Pennant, won by the club in ’92, somewhat toned
down the paper dragons. Music and floor were
undeniably good and the dressing very lively. A
lady in bright pink, with sudden intervals of
black, somehow recalled second-hand blotting-
paper, and a mauve-and-yellow silk was like a
paper-pattern—but then a white brocade trimmed
with silver gimp, the wearer carrying a shower
posy of white flowers, was very pretty indeed ;
and a cream dress with bars of electric-blue velvet
sleeves and bertha of blue velvet, and collars of
white lace, also much took people’s fancy. “ The
Heather” waltz was among the music played
during the evening.
There wasn’t much grasshopper-dressing in “La
Cigala,” at Sydney Lyceum, for the plumage of
that insect is not of a lively nature. Violet Varley’s
yellow satin frock trimmed with pearl embroidery
and fine lace, and topped by a black velvet hat
with cream feathers, is rather a taking turn-out.
Florence Young, as the Duchess, wears three
more or less gorgeous costumes—one with a cream
satin front and a train of crimson velvet reminded
me of Charlotte Russe, but I liked her last dress of
pale-gieen satin with a large pattern of groups of
pink flowers, worn with a petticoat of pink brocade
with flounces of cob-web-coloured silk lace, jewel-
caught. However, it’s not individual dressing—
but the grand chromotrope-ish total that makes
’“ La Cigale” such an operatic firework.
Joseph Tapley is revealed in his full-stage
beauty—but it seems a pity he should break his—
or —ankles to the d.c. in black, Hamletish tights.
Dampier is the only man I ever saw who could
wear black trunks without looking as if he were
supporting himself on burnt-out matches. Mr,
Tapley looked ever so much firmer in the grey
trunks, with which he wears rather a nobby
lavenderiah silk suit tied up with gilt boot-laces.
Mary Weir billows through the serpentine in a
diaphanous robe of white gossamer picked out
with silver which is tremendously artistic. By
the way, something went wrong with the serpen-
tine tackle on the first night, for when the dan-
seuse twirled her airy draperies for a start, it
looked as if she was just putting them on —and
wasn’t there an out-clutching for the forty-horse-
power opera-glasses 1
I have just discovered that Mr., H. A. Hose,
pharmacist, who is to be found between Bathurst
and Liverpool streets, in George-st., Sydney, has
inaugurated the London fashion of keeping open,
all night and every night, so that people may have
their prescriptions made up at any moment, and
medical men no longer waste their precious time
tinging an unheard telephone or swinging on a
rusty night-bell while the chemist is snoring with
his mouth open. Mr. Rose makes a good
“Odonto” dentifrice which would whiten the
most neglected teeth, and I can speak with em-
phasis op the subject of his perfumery, for I have
sampled some of it. A bouquet “lilias de trance”
is a delicate yet subtle scent which the lady who
likes to perfume herself to be nosed at half-a-mile
would probably consider too weak. Mr. Rose
contracts for the scenting of dance and theatre-
programmes with a pleasant perfume quite differ-,
ent to the overpowering odour of lavender-water
which used to distinguish the bill of the play.
Marriage is evidently a very half-hearted thing
in N.S.W., for Judge Windeyer has no fewer than
100 divorce-suits to rattle through this month !
But yet some people say there ought to be more of
them. lam thinking of a naval officer (I won’t
say of what nation) who shows his cronies a varied
collection of garters, each one of which he cherishes
as a tender remembrancer of some kind-hearted
married woman who cheered his Australian exile
as far as circumstances would permit.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING- WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Life for Life.”
Theatre Royal “ A Convict Martyr.”
Lyceum “ The Old Guard.”
Criterion.. , *■* Richelieu.”
Town Hall.. Antoinette Sterling.
Hedfben Railway Station... Fitzgerald Bros.’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
PRINCESS'S Terry Comedy Co,
Theatre Royal “ The Queen's Lace Hand-
kerchief.”
Opera House Variety Show.
Fillis’s Circus.
“A Convict Martyr”—a condensed version
of Victor Hugo’s “Les Miserables ” —was staged
at Sydney Royal on Monday. The story was
dramatised by Dampier himself, and that gentle-
man has naturally appropriated the part of the
principal convict—the one who is converted while
embezzling the bishop’s spoons and forks.
Dampier, as the retired galley-slave, has a lot of
good points. He has a stolid expression like the
front wall of a prison, and hair like a gaol door-
mat in disrepair. His cracked and raucous voice
is suggestive of a lost footballer barracking in
perdition, and he drags his feet after him in a
strange fashion which the ancient prisoner is said to
acquire through hauling a cannon-ball behind him
for 19 years. Dampier rehearses this curious drag,
The Bulletin believes, by going round the back-
yard for six hours a day with the coal-scuttle
attached to his leg. Also, he has chat sort of
blind look which is supposed to grow upon the
habitual solitary confinement man, through con-
sidering the whitewashed wall for a generation or
thereabouts, till he comes at last to look about as
flat and cold and meaningless as the wall itself,
and the bricks and whitewash eat into his soul.
Mr. George Duller does some excellent acting as
Tlienardier, the innkeeper, and promises to do
even better in the future. His Thenard'er is
a skinny, bony leprosy with a yellow eye
and ten restless claws, and a mangy, un-
wholesome hat. Mr. J. P. West makes a dis-
mally conventional bishop—an oppressively good
man who clasps his hands and looks with an air of
haggard concentration at the ceiling when he is
about to perform a benevolent action ; and Mias
Rose Dampier is troubled with a tearful voice and
a weeping delivery. The rest of the company,
especially Miss Blanche Lewis and Mr. Plimmer,
call for no unusual or voluminous execration. Mr.
Dampier has taken some violent liberties with the
text of the story, therefore the hero doesn’t die
miserably, and the policeman doesn’t suicide, and
the man with the diseased hat doesn’t make a for-
tune and live comfortably ever afterwards, as in
the original. The gallery wouldn’t stand these
things.
« * * *
The Brough and Boucicault company has
abandoned Sydney Criterion —which now remains
desolate until September 2, at which date Walter
Bentley makes his appearance in “Richelieu.”
The late lessees devoted the last few days of their
occupancy to heaping contumely upon the press.
Business being especially good, and the co. having
no further use for the press, it refused sitting
accommodation for the local journalists, where-
fore the arohimedean lever grew pretty tired on
the soles of its feet through standing up for three
successive nights, and trying to see over the head
of the man in front of it. And as the archimedean
lever, in Sydney at all events, only averages about
5ft. 5in., it had to jump up and down at critical
moments, else it wouldn’t have seen anything at
all.
*■ * * *
The former familiarity with its. glory
seemed but to improve the flavour of “LaCigale,”
put up at Sydney Lyceum on Saturday. W. & M
must know a place where the thief does not
corrupt nor the moth break through and steal, for
the Lormayor showiness which distinguishes the
“ Grasshopper ” was so dazzling, that the costumes
might have been “fresh from the dairy.” Vi.,
Yarley, in Marie Halton’s part and excellent
voice, had evidently more than “ noticed the
business ” put into Marton by her predecessor,
but her Cigale must be regarded as Miss V.’s
greatest achievement up to date, and decidedly
sends her up a rung in her profession. The
archly-sung “One Between Three” got a treble
encore, Ida Osborne, as the Ant, wasn’t
vocally suited with her part, but tenor Tapley
fitted the Chevalier’s music to a dot, and the.
interpolated “ Let me woo thee ” scored an instant
success. Mr. T. is a new and pleasant departure
in stage tenors, and when he leaves off using his,
arms as if about to start on a treadmill in moments,
of vocal fervour, and doesn’t screw bis face up like-
“ You dirty boy” at the same emotional crises.
The Bulletin will search reverently for his name,
every time it goes to the play.
# * *
Howard Vernon, as giddy duke, had;
nothing to sing, but frisked through a feathery
part with a lace handkerchief that spoke volumes..
Florence Young was a stalky character as the
Duchess, and got no vocal chances; Lauri's
Dutchman didn’t obliterate memories of J. 0.
Williamson in the part, and he talked like a coast
American, but he had forty-two yards of material
gathered into his breeches, so the gallery rose to
every gag and Rosevear’s William reminded-;
you of Leumane. The music went swingfully all
through—but if every vocalist caught the measles,
at the one moment “ La Cigale ” would make the
running on its ballets, from, the pretty gavotte,
into which the agile and graceful Mary Weir, in-
troduces her expressive secpentings,.to the juvenile
ballerinas with their dot of a five-year-old figur-
ante who took a call with Lethbridge-like aplomb.
“The Old Guard” will be the next change of
bill.
* W * iff
George Darrell will pull off the doubl e
with his lamed and poisoned horse no more afte l '
this week. The gallant but impossible animal
starts on his one sound leg for the last time next
Friday, and on Saturday he retires to soak his feet
in hot water and recuperate, while Mr. Darrell
puts up a fresh scream entitled “ Life for Life.”
Under these circumstances, it is rather late to
allude to the various anomalies of the old drama,
and The Bulletin contents itself by remarking
that when a number of people are gathered at
Potts Point in the morning and attend the Mel-
bourne Cup in the afternoon it involves some tast
travelling; and when a policeman seizes a male-
factor at Flemington and runs him into Darling-
hurst, both he and the malefactor have a consider-
able run before them if they intend to arrive in
time for tea.
* * * *
Mr. Utting, a gentleman-from Melbourne,
with a number of sensational dramas concealed
about his clothes, intends opening Sydney Opera
House on the 26th with a production called the
“ White Slaves.” A number of other dramas, all
by Mr. Utting, will follow, if the rush of public
approbation is sufficiently voluminous. Fitz-
gerald Bros.’ Circus departs somewhere about the
same date. Also, we are indirectly reminded just
here that Madame Antoinette Sterling proposes to
farewell for the very last time at Sydney Town
Hall on Saturday and Monday. Her latest ad-
vertisement states that she has entirely eclipsed
the records of HalM, Patey, Nerudn, Santley and
Foli, which statement is somewhat steep for a
lady of her high character, and ought to keep her
awake and repentant in the night.
» * *
Melbourne Royal re-opened on Saturday
with a comic opera by Strauss, of valse-music
reputation. Nobody being specified as the
librettist of “The Queen’s Lace Handkerchief,”
perhaps Strauss is the sole author. Matters are
simplified by the assumption, inasmuch as one
comprehensive anathema can be hurled at Strauss,
and Strauss only. There is no perceptible humour,
“ wholesome fun,” or solid interest in the story,
whilst the melodies lack vim and backbone. A
large, fleshy king, impersonated by Knight Aston,
is the most frequent item in this opera. He
doats upon his adipose tissue, and clogs Lis
soul with hot suppers, instead of sucking honey
from the lips of his pretty Queen. If she
sits upon his knee and sighs, the gorged monster
simply dozes off, and babbles of gravy in his
dreams. His main idea is truffles. In addition
to singing a dreadful song about “Troofles,
Troofles,” he makes a cumbrous pretence of
dancing on the subject, and all the while a dod
dering Prime Minister is plotting to sell the
crown to another king. Tired of trying to lure
her spouse from cookery the Queen throws her
handkerchief to Woodfield, described as Cervantes
(a poet), but Cervantes turns out to be a
Josephianbard, and his loyal consideration for the
Queen’s character is a disgrace to literature. Also,
Clara Merivale, in attendance on Her Majesty,
keeps a jealous eye upon the pair to prevent mis-
takes. Many drivelling complications arisefromthe
handkerchief episode. The Queen somehow dis-
guises herself as a brigand barmaid, and the King
admires her in tin’s capacity, proving that, after
all, he has a heart which can beat for a Flossie.
So they come to a general understanding that the
Queen’s handkerchief was intended for her hus-
band, after which the fatted innocent turns his
bloated fancy to thoughts of love. Miss Clara
Merivale, Woodfield and Knight Aston act better
than they sing, whilst Miss Katherine Hardy, as
the Queen, sings a little better than she acts.
& * * at
The Lyric Club amateurs gave yet another
performance of “Pirates of Penzance” at the
Bijou, on Saturday, for the benefit of their friends
and the hospitals, The new programme at the
Alhambra includes “six end men,” and Billy
Warner is appearing at the Gaiety. Marshall
Hall is on the war-path again, and several other
“side’’-shows are charging as usual. Madame
Sterling, who evidently means to sing and talk her
voice to shreds before leaving Australia, turned up
at the Alexandra on Sunday afternoon, and,
whilst haranguing a mixed mob on the question of
human giddiness, burst into tears and cried, “Oh,
my God ! ” in a troubled contralto.
* * »
The limp bookseller of “ Liberty Hall ” is
the kind of Edward Terry that Melbourne saw
for the first time on Saturday night. Opinions
may vary much as to the dramatic value of Terry’s
peculiar limpness. It has a depressing influence
on some temperaments, especially in damp
weather. It is associated always with a mono-
tonous falsetto voice, which becomes whiney
under severe affliction. But the bearing of Terry’s
“old man ” method lies in the application ot it,
and his broken-up condition applies naturally to
the bookseller. Todman has little to do beyond
pottering around in hazy dread of a linendraper.
Never funny with intention, ho is humorously pre-
sented by his consistent dullness, and the key


DO YOU SUFFER
from
LIVER COMPLAINT,
IN DIGESTION,
CONSTIPATION.
HEARTBURN,
FLATULENCE,
Or any symptoms of a disordered digestive
apparatus ? If so, there is no remedy in the
world so safe and sure to give relief as Fletcher’s
Pills and Clements Tonic. Don’t be misled into
wasting time and money on any of the “All-
failing” nostrums so speciously advertised by
designing quacks and dishonest rogues. Re-
member, these two remedies have stood the test
of time, that their merits are proved, and that a
few shillings invested on them may save you weeks
and months of suffering, and, perhaps, pounds of
expense, for they have done so in hundreds of
cases, and we will send you evidence to prove our
assertions on receipt of your name and address.
Remember, delay is dangerous, and that every
hour you neglect your cise the complication in-
creases and a cure becomes more difficult. Shun
the cheap quack doctors and designing nostrum
compounders; stick to the remedies Clements
Tonic and Fletcher’s Pills, They are absolutely
genuine, and have proved their efficacy in
hundreds of cases and will do so every time.
They are sold everywhere and made only by F.
M. Clements, Newtown, Sydney.
The Old Blend
IS
Whisky
DIRECT fROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. «TJ ’/i
WATUrtro srorr n *M\
note to his character is struck by a fugitive
nondescript named Hickson. The idea of the book-
seller having intended Hickson to make a birth-
day speech is deeply comic. Terry conveys that
■idea. His faith in Hickson and Miss Hickson—
who don’t appear until Act 3, or linger long upon
the scene after they have appeared seems
thorough. Apart from the drivelling bookseller
and Ins absurd whist-party there is an artificial
P'°t -J®. U liberty Hall.” capitally acted by Sass
-”^ lss Henrietta Watson, with the assistance
of Mias Spong and Cosgrove. The stage-manage-
ment is exceptionally clever, and “Liberty Hall”
went like a big success on Saturday. Therefore,
they are by no means certain to put up “ The
‘Churchwarden,’’ as threatened, at the end of this
week.
» *
. Fillis and his corrugated-iron circus build-
ing promise to enjoy another long spell of popu-
larity in Melbourne. A packed audience whooped
for the new show on Saturday, the Feeley Family
of acrobats sharing chief honours with Fillis him-
self and a certain lissome Zazel.
The Wild-Cat Column.
When will shareholders and depositors in re-
constructed banks awake to the urgent necessity for
getting rid of the old managers and “boards” who
brought the concerns to grief? Until they do, the truth
will never be known.
* * *
“ Whether punishment will overtake these
people 1 know not.” Thus Purves, Q. 0., addressing an
A.N.A. meeting in Melbourne, a tew weeks ago. By this
tune, we imagine, Purves knows-not.
* * #
How not to do it: The Davies prosecution.
# # *
James Service’s speech at the Commercial Bank
meeting ran on the old, old lines. “He might say that
they had nearly £4,000,000 of paid-up capital in hand at
the present time.” He should have said that the bank
had metamorphosed £3,000,000 of deposits into prefer-
ence shares, the money represented thereby being no
more in hand than it was before.
* * #
Once more The Bulletin would like to know
who is accountable for the purloining of £20,000 from the
Imperial hank, Melb. The disappearance of that com-
fortable sum has been reported to the Vie. Crown, and
the Crown made one or two sickly attempts to trace its
departure to minor officers of the hank. These attempts
have failed miserably. There is some ghastly roguery, or
equally ghastly incapacity, involved in the true history
of that missing coin, and Melbourne is the only city in
the world where such a scandal could he thus clumsily
dropped and covered with the dirty mantle of official
silence.
• * #
The Melb. Corporation purchase of the Metro-
politan Gas Co. simmers again. Fitzgihbon, as Town
Clerk, was hot for it, but the Co. opened its mouth too
wide and was suspected of inflating the divs. by keeping
down repairs. Meanwhile the electric-light has come up
by leaps and bounds. It is even found in little suburban
shops.
# # #
Slab of wisdom from Alderman G. Downes
Carter (also reconstructed bank-director) regarding Melb.
City Council’s electric-light works: “The Corporation
will have to get rid of these (gas) companies fairly by
compensation. The Corporation could nor, employ money
in ruining private companies.” Did the Gas Co.’s com-
pensate the candle-makers?
* » «
Queer tales begin to creep out concerning the
property that has been put away in other people’s names,
by Melbourne land-boom “compositioners.” A number
of gentlemen now lying low and bemoaning their ruin
will begin to flourish again presently. They are simply
waiting until they have given themselves a reasonable
time to come round in without exciting too much sur-
prise. Even a very well-advertised ex-personage isn’t as
desperately poor as he ought to be —on paper.
• * «
A Hamilton (Vic.) paper puts it ingenuously :
“After this it is presumed we shall hear no more of ‘ the
Mercantile Bank cases,’ so far as relates to any further
opportunity being afforded the defendants to unmistak-
ably prove their innocence.” “ Afforded ”is pretty and
simple. If Davies and Miilidge want to prove anything,
there’s a dock at their disposal. They can cal! a public
meeting and demand instant prosecution, if they like.
Thus far they have afforded a lot of money towards pre-
venting anything being proved.
• • #
N.S.W. Minister of Justice O’Connor caused
many involuntary lumps in the front and back offices of
various Sydney banking co.’s one day last week. He told
the deputation which requested the release of Low, of the
defunct Northumberland Banking Co., that “ Low knew
that deposits were being received into the bank from un-
suspecting depositors at a time when he knew the bank
was in a slate of hopeless insolvency, and this knowledge
constituted an act of conspiracy.”
* # #
A humorous clipping .accidentally wedged in on
top of nearly a full page of Q.N. Bank advts. in a Brisbane
daily was headed, “He wanted his deposit." Apropos
for once !
* * *
At the recent meeting of Q.N. proprietors one
shareholder actually wished to discuss the management.
He had only remarked: “A million of money has been
lost, and the only explanation we’ve had is a miserable
whine,” when he was promptly gagged—out of order.
# * #
Items from Melb. Tram Co.’s annual report:—
Reduction in “fees and salaries," £3145; in wages,
£26,492. A further 5 per oent. reduction in wages began
with this month. The Chairman: “The company holds
a grand concession worth conserving.” Yea, a' noble
grab well worth fighting for. The Co. will square its
losses during the depression over and over again before
the workers get their wages up to prosperity mark once
more.
* * *
Two “suspenders the London Chartered and
,E. S. & A. C.—have dropped the ‘'Chartered" in their
reconstructed title.
* « #
A Melb. softgoods firm, last week, put in an
execution for £7O upon one of their Western district
customers. £l5OO worth of new goods realised hut £5O,
and these were bought by the debtor’s rival storekeepers,
much to the disgust both of the debtor and his creditors.
* * #
The parcel of jurymen selected in a southern
Supreme Court action, last week, consisted of three
former employes of plaintiff, his landlord, his wife’s
cousin, two of his friends, and four other people from his
suburb. When we come to think of it, the constable who
summons jurymen has big chances.
mm*
The Royal Bank, flashed with having weathered
the panic, has moved into the Mercantile Bank’s old office.
The floor of the banking chamber is noted, like certain of
the ex-directors, for being very slippery. Anyone would
think it was a skating-rink to go in during business
hours.
* * *
Tozer’s reply to a recent deputation, as to not
allowing Queensland to be the happy hunting-ground for
southern gamblers, should he immediately reported to
Dibba, as an agent of the “Equitable Building Society,"
of Brisbane, is now, and has long been, exploiting N.S. W.
and the south in the interests of this State-recognised Q.
lottery.
# m m
Why has no reference been made in the local
press to the extravagant operations of the “Queens-
land Trustees, Limited,” Brisbane, for the year ending
80th June? Possibly a perusal of the names of
the directors may explain the mjstery ? The Melb. share-
holders are numerous and might take the matter up.
* * m
The present unsettled monetary basis of silver
causes its price to be more shifty than that of any other
metal.
• « *
It will be a cold day for Barrier shareholders
when the half-yearly reports, embracing the period of the
silver collapse, are placed before them. Probably, of the
mines working on their own hook, and omitting the Junc-
tion North and the smaller tribute properties, the Pro-
prietary is the only Broken Hill mine now' yielding a
profit.
# # m
For several weeks before the issue of the longer
hours and shorter pay ultimatum at Broken Hill hands
were being shortened in all directions, and several hun-
dred workmen were added to those previously idle
through stoppages consequent on the silver fall. When
the meek acceptance of said ultimatum was assured, the
mine owners immediately began to take on hands again.
Which is not proof, but something very like it, that the
heavy and apparently unnecessary dismissals were part of
a cold-blooded scheme. The Broken Hill directors don’t
want any more strikes.
* * *
The long viaduct which carries the railway on
to the 8.11. Proprietary mine is built right along the
course of tiie lode, which has been extensively sloped out
beneath, and occasionally the vibration of the' traffic over-
lead brings down a chaotic mass of timber, mullock and
ore in the slopes below. The co. is building a huge
embankment as a deviation, which will be ready for traffic
in about a month—apparently none too soon.
# # *
B.H. Proprietary shares less than four years
ago topped £lOO. They were then cut into sixths, which
are now worth £2 ss.
# # #
That eminent scientist, Q. Govt. Geologist Jack,
is again, at the instance of the Minister for Mines, to in-
spect and report on the gold-deposits of Mt. Morgan—
this for the fourth time since 1883. The matter is of
great public interest, and Mr. Jack is a man who, so far,
has neither cheated himself nor the public. It is an open
secret that at the inception of the big mine he could have
been a large owner and consequently a millionaire, but he
absolutely refused to own one share.
# • *
Mr. Jack is given an opportunity of proving in
1893 his thermal-spring theory propounded ten years ago.
The truth has he;n revealed by recent developments
somewhere near the 1500-feet level. A spring of pure sul-
phate of iron has been struck-affording a verification of
Mr. Jack’s first theory, which he lias maintained in face
of all opposition, despite ihe fact that it didn’t quite suit
many of Queensland’s “biggest ” men. Forexample.it
was rough on those who, to make marketable for millions
the unscratohed-wirh-a-pick properties surrounding the
golden mount, required some sort of “ colourable* pro-
spective possibilities,” and such factors were not supplied
by the Jack theory.
* » *
The present Master of Sydney Mint, Mr. Mac-
donald Cameron, broke a lance with Mr. Jack on this
subject. The opinions of the pair were diametrically
opposed, and did space afford we would now publish in
parallel lines, ns interesting reading, their respective
judgments. Suffice it to say that Mr. Cameron’s opinion
was lauded and Mr. Jack’s pooh-poohed, a general air of
“ prospective possibility ” prevailed, the floating of wild
cats commenced, and hundreds of thousands were spent
in machinery that never was required and never will be
till the crack of doom.
# « *
The Spa Co., the first of the co.’s formed to
work the Shoalhaven alluvial-gold drift on a big scale,
has now been working for, say, two months. The co. has
a huge area included in its leases, but, to get a large fall,
started work at a point where they had to sluice away
hundreds of thousands of loads of cement-like formation
ere getting on to the drift itself. The water, however,
has now got on to thedrift, which, at one point, is carrying
2dwts. per load. The co. is not able to put through the
estimate d quantity of stuff. The immense drain is full,
and contains enough water for three years’ work, hut the
pump can only lift enough water into the races to keep
one nozzle going. With an added pump the co. should
prosper despite the great cost of working.
* » *
Croker’s Mint is a sluicing eo. on the Shoal-
haven, formed with Melb. capital. The ground, from all
the tests, will be very payable. The claim is something
over 100 acres, carrying gold estimated at }dwt. per load.
The co. will get to work for a lot less than the sum ex-
pended on the Spa Co. To supply vva'er a tunnel has
been driven from below the summer level of the river
in for a distance of 200 ft.; the water is then lifted by a
Worthington pump placed in the shaft, 30ft. above the
tunnel, to a pressure-reservoir on the surface.
# # *
The Tumberumbah sluicing concern is still run-
ning about 2dwts. to the cubic yard of wash, but the out-
put is ridiculously small. Why this everlasting tinkering
with N.S.W. mines? They’ have plenty of water both for
power and work, but the pumps aren’t big enough. The
pumps never are big enough. With more pumping power
it should be a dividend mine.
* # *
A round robin emanating from the directors of
the Sunlight was recently sent to all the gold co ’a
managed in Sydney'. A conference followed and an all-
round reduction in wages was the determination. The
Peak Hill management have already given it effect. The
brutal candour of the managing director, “StockwMp ”
Kelly, in announcing the heavy cut, is unique in mining
literature.
• * *
Some tributors have taken up the Ethel May
mine at Stewarts Brook (N.S.W.), and are reported to he
working a 2ft. reef going over half an oz. If so, and if it
continues - two ifs-they haveagond thing, but inasmuch
as the 00. had several similar crushings, and a good many
poor ones, the chances are the tributors will repeat their
experience.
* * #
A Sydney Sunday paper recommends the pur-
chase of Great Extended Hustlers Tributes, Bendigo,
because some years ago the shares in this property rose to
£8 and paid many divs. It was many years ago, and the
writer knows that not only wag the ore-body worked clean
out but a lot of money was spent in the hope of finding
another. The Tribute Co. may find another, but past
richness is no evidence of present or future value.
* * #
The interest attaching to the first crushing of 80
tons by the Carlisle Co., Bendigo, from a reef at the 2355
level, subsided when the result, less than 4 dwts., was
known. The stone came from that part of the property
onoe owned by J. B. Watson. He took tons of gold out of
ft, but that fact was small consideration in the purchase-
money', £3OOO.
• » #
Again the Pambula directors say they are still
trying to solve the problem of saving the gold, and hope
soon to have the mine on the dividend list. Hope deferred
has sent the shares down from 12s. .to as many pence.
# # «
Already the writer has received some harrowing
letters from hard-up unemployed, sent to the Shoalhaven
River to get their living by fossicking. They describe
the affair as a lamentable failure, and many have started
to walk back to Sydney, begging on the road. The
Shoalhaven drift is too poor to return even tucker by
hand-labour. Big companies will probably make it pay
by hydraulics, in which one man with a nozzle can do
more work than 500 could do with shovels and tin dishes.
Most of the water-races have been out, and several hun.
dred men employed on these works have been discharged.
* # *
Over .£23,000 Charters Towers dividends for
July—£7soo from the Mills United (8496 tons, 35220 z.).
First fortnight this month, 1865 tons for 19730 z. Brilliant
still well up, though output suffers from the small shaft-
-1720 tons for 32500 z.
* * #
Gympie has, in one week, contributed £9OOO in
divs. The specimens from the No. 1 North New Zealand
at the recent Brisbane Exhibition created a sensation.
* * *
A recent telegram published in Melbourne Age
to the effect that there were then 14,000 men on the Cool-
gardie (W.A.) goldfield, “the majority" of whom were
“ doing well " was outrageously misleading. There were
about as many hundreds, and even a population-interested
publican and a storekeeper rushed jointly into print to
warn men against going to the rush.
# # #
Ooolgardie is not a continuation of the Mur-
chison ; Southern Cross is. Coolgardie is 400 miles east
by north Horn Perth, from which you rail it to York only.
It is about 150 miles from Esperance Bay, from w'hich,
however, there is no road. Hannan and Flannigan’s rush
is 80 miles N.E. from Coolgardie. This is reckoned by
some miners to be the coming field, hut eastern men are
cautioned to stay where they are, as there is nothing yet
to warrant a big rush, and Westralia is the last country
in the world to go “ stiff ” in, as a matter of choice.
# # #
At date of a Coolgardie (W.A.) correspondent’s
letter, just to hand, there were about 1500 men in Cool-
gardie and on Hannan and Flannigan’s rush. Out Of the
lot, not 30 per cent, were on payable gold. The precious
metal certainly exists, hut it takes hard finding. Our
correspondent says; “ 1 was shown through Bayley’s
mine the ether day, and I think It’s the greatest sight in
the world. It is about time that Sylvester Brown & Co.
looked upon gold as being valueless." . . . I went into
a local store to purchase some horse-shoes. The store-
keeper weighed out 211 b. of old worn-out ones and Jib.
nails, and charged 2s. 7a. The blacks gather upcast-off
shoes and sell them to the storekeeper for a fig of tobacco
apiece. This aboriginal iron-mine ought to pay a hand-
some div. There were two men (unknown) speared and
eaten by the blacks out at Lake Barlcc, They were
supposed to be coming in from the Murchison.”
Only men with a fair stand-by of ready-money
and a decent knowledge of prospecting should go on
spec, to the Westralian goldfields. Coolgardie is
ii‘2o miles from York, the nearest railway station. A
coach crawls to barker’s Creek, 180 miles of the
way; fare, £6, passengers to find their own tucker
during the five or six days of the journey. Teams
will carry a swag of 8011). for £1 10s. Coolgardie, the
much-boomed, was nearly emptied of population the
other day by a rush to a reported new find, 80 miles
further N.E. Only about 50 men remained at Coolgardie
2i hours after receipt of the news. What sort of a
Tom Tiddler’s ground can it be which men desert because
of a vague report ?
* # #
Advices from waterless Coolgardie (W.A.)
chronicle a perfect famine on the field. Flour is Is. 6d.
per lb. ; tea, 3s. 6d. ; butter, 4s. ; meat, 2s. 6d. ; sugar,
Is. 5d.; and other things in proportion.
* * «
A correspondent: “ How about the Oriental
Gera and Levi and Newesoraes Co.’s formed in Queensland
to work gem-country west of Rockhampton?”
* * #
A Broken Hill correspondent predicts that,
notwithstanding the R. 11. directors' disclaimer, Mr.
Schlapp will yet take charge of Mount Lvell.
» # «
A lot of people would like to get hold of the
dodgers who worked the Gulden Gate oracle in Loudon.
• # *
Hood gold in the wedge of stone worked by four
miners at Wattle Flat, N.S. W., is lasting longer than the
writer anticipated—last crushing, 140 tons 270 ozs. Some
15 months ago, the mine, known as Oakey Creek, was sold
for ±360, a good ten-head battery included! The pur-
chasers, four miners who had previously worked the
mine on tribute, have since cleared about £2OOO a man.
When the good erushings began some of tbs old share-
holders were anxious to know the motive (hat prompted
the purchase, the bona-fides of which could not be ques-
tioned ; now other shareholders are anxious to know
what prompted the sale.
* » *
The great Geological-Investment and Explora-
tory Corporation (that is near enough) used to manage
things thus:—Enter miner in search of a backer: “I
have a splendid claim which I want you to help me with.”
The President (after preliminaries); “We’ll send our
Professor Mac Galena to inspect it. llis fee Will he 100
guineas, of which we will pay 60 ; you will have to find the
other 40.” The poor, simple-minded wretch of a miner,
duly impressed with the magnificence of the office and the
clean-shaven, cast-iron cheek of the President, would t’ en
depart and try to scratch nip the £42. If he did, then
Professor Mac Galena (real fee, five guineas and, sav, a
fiver for expenses) would inspect the mine and report-
well, anything you like. If it was a good thing- well, the
miner was duly robbed. Anyhow, the hank would pocket
the £3O and go on plundering the credulous wretches.
* # ®
.The half-yearly report of the Golden Diorite
mine at Pambnla is characteristic of (ho field. Boss Bern
says: “It is your own fault (he results aren’t better. If
you had proper appliances, &c., &c. . . The gold cer-
tainly was in the stone, and it is in it yet-in your tail-
ings.” It is always in the tailings at Pambnla. The only
machine which will get out payable gold at some of the
well-boomed mines is one that will put in a litiie on its
own account. Boss Spence modestly says : “ Tim mine
has paid its way ever since I took hold of it. The fact of
a shaft or winze paying its own cost of working should he
highly satisfactory, &c. I see nothing to prevent the
mine paying its own way," &c. Yet the half-year’s gold
totalled £374 ; the expenses, £1450.
* # #
It is enquired if, and when, the Mtioriland Law
Society means to take action in connection with the
glaring failure of the firm of Christchurch land-bankers,
solicitors, &c., whose books show the gigantic deficiency
of £182,600, chiefly trust moneys. y
“The Princess of Wales and Duke of
York were furious over the marriage.” Quoted
in Argus Social—actually.
Never a word was ever said to the mem-
bers of N.S.W. Assembly about that 200-guinea
piano bought, with State money, and presented
to Lady Oarington.
The toothy Lord Northesk nee Rosehill,
chased pitilessly by Melbourne’s “ barndanccrs ”
for three years past, is reported to be engaged to a
member of the Government House party. What
will that girl do who took such pains to drop hints
for everybody to construe into a secret betrothal
with the freckly nobleman ?
The Odgers affair makes a rumpus in
Melb. Judge Casey kept the prisoner on the
grill, with a sizzling lecture, and Odgers must
have fancied he was booked for nine years—when
Casey, mentioning he was a friend of his father
wound up with —one /! 1 Yet, Casey had made a
special inquiry, and found the steal to be ,£3OOO.
That “cool hand,” Herod Makin, was
duly butchered at Darlinghurst Gaol on Tuesday,
and the evening press announced, in big-type
headlines, that the “fatal work” was “well
done.” Under the new execution regulations, a
special white cap has been invented. “The
O Connor ” is a species of skull-cap, with a loose
face-flap, and is warranted to allow a man to be
choked or neck-broken with comfort and despatch.
Indeed, the Evening News remarks, with a re-
sentful melancholy—“lt was a very quiet execu-
tion, and death was instantaneous.” There was no
Sam-Hallish swan-song, no throat - gurgles, no
wheezy chokings, no chest-heavings, no muscular
demonstrations—simply a broken neck and no
thing more. A suggestive commentary on the
fallibility of human: evidence is the fact that
Makin, a few minutes before his execution, and
when he knew that he could gain nothing by
Iy> n K) declared, not that he was innocent, but that
the evidence on which he was convicted of the
murder of the baby Horace Amber Murray, was
altogether incorrect.
The destiny of the Daily Post— a Sydney
evening newspaper, projected (on the one-share-
holder-one-vote principle) by the Australian
Workman Company, Limited, in the interests of
the wage-earners—will depend, apart from the
money question, almost entirely upon the man
whom the shareholders appoint editor. He must
be a man of proved fidelity to democracy, a man
who has won his reputation in journalism alone,
a man without personal political ambition)
a man entirely free from parliamentary
memories and with no parliamentary aspirations,
a man without any personal axe to grind
whatever, and with the courage and judgment
necessary to prevent others from grinding personal
axes in the Post columns. Moreover, he must be
clothed with absolutely autocratic powers respect-
ing the exclusion and admission of matter into the
paper. He must be elected under a fast-binding
agreement for some years, as the Parliament is
elected, and he must be trusted a lot more un-
reservedly than is the Parliament. Without such
an editor, so clothed with authority, the project
is hopeless.
At Poverty Point.
Miss Hilda Fraser, Melbourne’s latest budding sonbrette,
/a the daughter of a local Presbyterian parson. Pairfickly
awfu’l
One who ought to know her swears he saw Nellie
stewart last week in Melbourne.
The Ophir, besides bringing Terry, brought a million in
gold. He speculated on how much he would take back.
Musgrove is positively the best judge, who has yet
turned up, of stage-material for Australia, but every
Judge has his foible.
Manager Williamson is the worst ever known for orders.
Won’t even paper a house for a star.
At a recent Melb. benefit only half the billed performers
showed. A common grievance. The stars don’t appear,
the regular co., though billed, takes a holiday, and the
show is left to a crowd of poor wretches who can’t afford
to care a rap for the beneficiare, and only want to keep in
evidence.
Melbournian ; “ Yes, Leslie’s vocal tricks were conveyed
from Terry.”
Terry is strangely like two Melb. identities, the late
Rev. Dr. Bromby and the present Rev. Digby Berry, who
goes in to mal the Sunday shows. Terry’s make-up and
manner, as Montague Jollifte, were Digby B. to a T.
London critics and professional were
generally of opinion that “ The Amazons ” wourd prove a
frost. This error was not repeated in Sydney, where,
perhaps, the acting was considerably better than in
London !
■ Louis Lohr resents the insinuation that Antoinette
Sterling travels around on (he piety ticket, and declares
that “ Madame ” is the best “ star ” he ever did business
/ with—an accent on the best. In fact, The Bulletin has
reason to fear that Lohr doesn’t go to bed, of late, without
saying his prayers. He was always a good fellow, and
now he is a deal gooder than before.
Violet Varley is a first-cousin of George Ridgway (Ridg-
way family), of Fitzgerald’s circus. George’s daughter,
Nellie Ridgway, is as like Violet as one new pin is like
another.
Meston writes that it is untrue that any of “his”
blacks are grinning in windows at Melbourne. ‘‘They
are now all back in their own country.”
Ryley's legs are all right, but why does he grease and
plaster down his hair like a suburban butcher boy?
When R. S. Smythe visited Concord, Mass., where
Emerson, Hawthorne, Thoreau and Aloott lived for so
many years, and where they are all buried, he was accom-
panied by Major Dane, who is busy preparing new lectures
for another Australian tour.
Mr. Chas. Huenerbein, a better pianist than whom
Sydney does not hold, and who has been before the public
for 18 years, is to be benefited, at the local Town Hall, on
26th inst. Many leading professionals will join in the
concert, which, considering Mr. Huenerbein’s innumer-
able services to charity, should be a bumper.
The Bulletin has heard of a Sydney-ballet girl who
earns her living as a laundress. The wages paid to
ordinary dancers don’t suffice to keep body and soul
together. She pays her dancing-mistress by washing the
husband’s clothes. Two shirts—one lesson.
Another Antoinette Sterling interview going the news-
paper rounds The alleged interviewer met the “divine"
singer in Adelaide. “To sit by her for an hour and to
hear her talk was like baring one’s brow to the fresh
mountain breeze up on some moorland height, with God’s
heaven above, and God’s free beautiful world around,
irinklng in the pure, delicious air of freedom, and basking
in the warm sunshine of heavenly love.” Just as if A.S.
were something more than a Sarah-Bernhardt-in-her-
young days - and just as if all the portly old lady says
were not a well-rehearsed cackle perfectly familiar to all
who follow her round. In reply to reverently-whispered
questions, Madame; “ I live simply, following' my natural
instincts. I never take tea, hut 1 drink cocoa, milk, and
hot water.” Hot water! Continuing: “What a mis-
take people make in thinking that strength is to be
gained out of wine and things of that sort. God is onr
Strength ; our strength is in Him, and not in food and
drink.” Then the interviewer: “And as she spoke our
Lord’s words were brought into my mind—‘Men shall not
live by bread a'one, but by every word that proceeded
out of the mouth of God.’ ” Later on : Something moved
the singer once to attend an English temperance meet-
ing. Most of the speakers had failed to turn up, and
“ the committee-men felt that they must leave the
meeting to God, and that He would provide for it.
And he sent me, I sang or spoke just as I was led.”
“HE SENT ME.” Ye trods! Let the reviewer finish
this letter : “My interview was ended, and I went forth
feeling that I, too, was afraid of nothing; my soul was
freer, ray heart larger and more loving-a something from
His grand God-possessed soul seemed to have entered
into mine ; but even as I write these words I pause,
remembering that she would say— ‘ It is not I - there is
nothing in me—it is God,’” Front seals, four shillings.
Hallelujah!
Actor Newton Griffiths has settled down in Wellington
(M.L.), a circumstance upon which the people of Auck-
land may justly congratulate themselves. Newton
Griffiths, in his own way, is unique, and nobody else in
Australasia could fill his place. The Bulletin will never
forget Mr. Griffiths. There is no one on the stage like
him—not even himself.
In “Charley’s Aunt,” the two chief actresses had a dis-
pute. One went to Penley with “Am I not your leading
actress?” “No,” said Penley, “I am my own.”
Guyon Parohas, the Melbourne architect, owns a violin
labelled inside “ Nicholas Amati, Cremona, 1691.”


[HAtfPtHH
Go to HEX.L-
IGOLAND for Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. Od.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free and
yralis.
D. A. VIND'N Si CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STUEET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
9.
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition,
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
putsch-JUigtraliachc IJast
Ersoheint jeden Sonnabend in Sydney. Prcis 3u'.
Z» balden boi alien Zcitungs-Ajfeiiten.
Abonnement 10 sh. Jlibrlioh direkt bci dor
Foreign Publishing Office, 26 Hunter Str., Sydney.
Personal Items.
Editor F. W. Haddon says he means to
stick to the Argus stool,
A Sydney brass-plate: “Dr. Angel
Money.” God and Mammon !
Ex-Labour-leader Glassey had a warm
send-off from Brisbane last week. He goes to the
States for his holiday.
Sixty-four clergymen are shareholders in
the Bank of N.S. W. All trustees for the widow
and the orphan, dear friends.
Chief Justice Way (S.A.) now owns the
farm on which he was first apprenticed as a farm-
boy, and made a lucky failure.
Judge Yindeyer and Sheriff Cowper
(N.S W.) were class-fellows at school. And now
they often do business together.
Mrs. Cooper-Oakley, the theosophist, was
better known in London as Madame Isabel, a
celebrated milliner of Bond-street.
Gov. Carington, when Jersey was ap-
pointed to succeed him, told a newspaper-man :
“Jersey has a glorious nose for the cartoonist.”
Here is a conundrum. Premier Patterson,
of Victoria, is_ uncle to the present Lady Parkes.
What relation is he to the old man, or Varney?
It is said that Griffith has caused to be
removed from the Q. Chief Justice’s chambers
everything that would remind him of his prede-
cessor.
A modest man is Viscount Gormanston.
“It has long,” said he, on landing at Hobart,
“ been my ambition to hold the governorship of
Tasmania.”
Sam Griffith has “ patronised ” the Q.
Art Society since its start, but the society records
don’t show that he has ever bought a picture from
a local artist.
Copies of letters and telegrams of con-
dolence on the death of Premier Ballance, as laid
on the table of M.L. Assembly, cover nearly 40
pages printed foolscap.
Matthias Larkin tells his fellow prisoners
lunny stories of his early boyhood, when he had
serious intentions of joining the Church, but never
talks of his defalcations.
Gladstone refused an invitation to be
present at the opening of the Imperial Institute
and only consented to Mrs. Gladstone’s attending
on the pressure of friends.
The only University men in S.A. Parlia-
ment arc Magarey, Baker, Stirling and Campbell
in ttie Council, and the two Hawkers, Ash and
Cockburn in the Assembly.
H. A. Wood, the missing S.A. Public
Trustee, supposed to be a grandee somewhere in
America, will be easily identified. He stutters, and
has an affection of the eyes.
A nephew of
Gladstone, the
British Premier,
is clerk in a mer-
chant’s office in
Pitt-st., Sydney.
He is Gladstone
by name.
Edmund Yates,
writing slosh
about Lady Some-
body’s garden
party the other
week, recorded
how “The Duke
of Teck moved
about very ami-
ably in the crowd,
a; became the
future father of
his peo p 1 e.”
“ Loyal ” Austra-
lians will please
note that Teck is
a new parent in
prospective.
John Haynes’
press paragraphs
are recognisable
by reason of the
fact that when-
ever he writes of a
person as a mem-
ber of the Legis-
lative Assembly
he invariably pre-
fixes “ Hon.”
“ the hon. mem-
ber.” The only
other press par-
liamentarian ad-
dicted to this
habit was the late
Harold Stephen,
M.L.A., for Mon-
aro.
W. R. Wilson,
bhe wealthy owner
of St. Albans, is
at present in Lon-
don, dangerously
ill from chronio
neuralgia. Wilson
contracted it when
a digger at Ben-
digo, working up
to his knees in
water. Prolonged
holidays in the
South of France
and in Italy have
been without re-
sult.
N.S.W. ex-Treasurer Bruce Smith is
acquiring a substantial reputation at evening
parties and “at homes ” as a graceful and care-
fully-disciplined baritone singer.
Labour-member M‘Donald (Q.) had to
apologise to the House the other day for calling
Queen Victoria “an old lady.” Now, wherein
was the offence ? Is she not old, or is she not a
lady?
The old free Hawkosbury stock is passing
away. Thomas Greentree, who arrived in 1815 in
N.S.W., as a baby, died last week. He left 12
sons, two daughters, 72 grandchildren and two
great grandchildren.
Capt. Bourke, of the late battleship Vic-
toria, was, some two years ago, court-martialled
and reprimanded for running his ship aground,
but was allowed to resume command. Probably
because he was Lord Mayo’s brother.
The death of Parson Salini&re, of the
Glebe (Sydney), removes from the clerical roll of
the Church of England one of the least popular of
its members —a man proud, haughty, hard, who
fairly grovelled at the feet of the rich.
M‘Donald, J.P., the Melb. magistrate
who, despite all opposition, insisted on com-
mitting Matthew Davies for trial, has died of
cancer in the stomach. Cancer in the stomach—
that is the thing to keep a man honest.
Walter Hall, the Mount Morganaire,
when in End md, bought, on the advice of Edward
Combes, a good many water-oolours by Bernard
Evans, whose work is now being simply run after.
Nothing pays better than buying good paintings
at fair prices.
Mr. Foster-Fitzgerald, who was Colonial
Secretary of Victoria, 1852-54, and Acting-
Governor after Mr. La Trobe’s departure, and who
was mainly responsible for the Eureka outbreak,
is still living in London. It is significant that he
has not been knighted.
When Remember-me-no-more Robinson
was Governor of S. A., he used to affix his signa-
ture to public documents with a rubber stamp,
but a remonstrance from the Colonial Office
stopped the practice, which was too much like
machinery even for Downing-street.
Brokenhillionaire M‘Culloch, the British
artists’ good angel, has lent no fewer than 25 of
his pictures to the British section of Chicago
Exhibition —including works by Leighton, Millais,
Graham, Vicat Cole, Burgess, Bramley, Yeend
King, Davis, Gow, Leader, Murray, etc.
An interesting relic of Charles Dickens
turned up during the hearing of a Melb. insolvency
case the other day, in the shape of an MS. of a
sort of home-made religion dashed off by the
novelist for family use, and a few pages of the
original “ copy ” of “ David Copperfield.”
How soon inaccuracies creep into the
orthography of township names ! “ Warrina,” on
the S.A. Great Northern railway line, was so
called after Mr. Warrener, assistant surveyor to
an exploring party, while Hergott had for its
godfather Dr. Herrgott, physician of the same
expedition.
In Carl Feilberg’s time “ Redspinner ”
Senior once wrote a story for Xrnas Queenslander
from Maoriland. Half the MSS. went astray in
transmission. At the last moment Feilberg him-
self undertook to supply the deficiency. Senior
afterwards deolared that the patching was all but
perfect, and expert judges failed to detect the
juncture, Feilberg could write anything—except
verse.
li#
NOT REGISTERED.
MELBOURNE GOSPEL CRANK (to countryman) : “You have a fancy for salva-
tion, I suppose?”
COUNTRYMAN (who takes him for a bookmaker) : “No fear, I’ve been had
that way before. I’ll bet with somebody I know.”
Nat Levi, Bosisto, and a few other “ back
scratchcrs ”of the Vic. Chamber of Manufactures,
are working up a banquet for L. L. Smith on his
return from the Himperial Hinstitute. No gleam
of humour can ever find its way into the heads of
such people as these. It was Bosisto who, after
his English experiences at the Colonial Exhibi-
tion, stood up in the Vic. Assembly and announced
that he had seen the Queen witli his own eyes,
and heard, with his own ears, her silvery royal
voice. Nat Levi, again, is one of the few Hebrews
who can’t understand a joke. A gloomy Jew is a
gruesome thing.
Archibald Michie, Q. 0., Times corres-
pondent in Melbourne, is hero of this tale.
Oame a would-be plaintiff to the only pub. in the
township, and asked the landlord, “Is Misther
Michael in?” “There’s no such person staying
here,” was the reply. “Sure, now, ye do be
joltin’ wid me. Haven’t I got an appointment
wid him at sivin? Tis Misther Michael, the
great law jintlernin, I’m mailin’.” Mine host
understood. “Oh, it’s Michie you mean.
Michie’s his name, not Miohael.” “Bedad, thin,”
said the Patlander, “ye may be on inthimate
enough terrums wid ’im to addhress ’im as
Mickey, but he’s Misther Miohael to me as yit 1”
Hare, of Burking
fame, is discussed in
Melb. newspaper cor-
respondence. It is
said he was a butcher
in Richmond, Melb,,
40 years ago, under
another name, very
suggestive of the
graveyard.
Lord Rosebery’s
mother was one of the
Queen’s twelvebrides-
maids and she still
lives. If Rosebery
marries, as predicted,
one of Albert Ed-
ward’s mild-faced
daughters, the Queen
and her “ maid ” of
long ago may be ex-
cused for shedding a
silent tear together.
But it is hard to
believe that the
marriage in question
is a sure thing. The
“Wales” girl must
have heard that Rose-
bery was onoe talked
of as a likely husband
for her elderly aunt
Louise, and there is
nothing romantic in
the idea of falling a
victim to your aunt’s
early “mash.”
Chief Justice Madden, on the death of
Registrar James, was one of the applicants for the
Registrarship of Melbourne University. But
E. F. A’Beekett, cousin of the Judge of that ilk,
got the post. Looking at the result of the Mer-
cantile grand jury business, one is inclined to be
sorry that Madden didn’t succeed in his can-
didacy.
A certain S.A. Legislative Councillor
called at the House of a constituent, who pushed
towards him the whisky-decanter. The politician
poured out a generous nobbier and gulped it off.
“Won’t you take some water ?” gasped the hor-
rified elector. “ No,” replied the orator, in those
rounded tones so characterise of him: “No,
thank you, sir, I am not thirsty !”
A suggestion that Dr. Pearson might be
“ retrenched ” from his billet of secretary to the
Victorian Agent-General has called forth a pitiful
excuse on behalf of that learned barnacle. It is
now explained that Munro, when acting as A.G.,
did not say that a secretary was unnecessary. He
merely said that a secretary could be dispensed
with. Pearson, then, is a necessity which Victoria
has no real occasion for—at =€Boo a year.
Ex-Gov. Jersey’s possession of the famed
Osterley property is the result of a romance.
“ Once upon a time ” the only daughter of Robert
Child, of Child’s Bank, ran away with the Earl
of Westmoreland and was married by the Gretna
Green blacksmith. Papa Child was exceeding
wroth, and passing over his erring daughter and
her sons, left all his property, including Osterley,
to his granddaughter, who married the Earl of
Jersey of the period.
Editor Bulletin, —Be your paragraph
last week, —W. Hessel Hall, M.A., who so ably
champions Payment of Members, is a Wesleyan
parson who has stoutly maintained, in the
Wesleyan Conference, his right to lecture on
political subjects. He is about 30 years of age,
and an ardent advocate of land-taxation, a native
of N.S. Wales and a graduate of Sydney
University. One of the very few Democrats who
hail from that institution, W. Hessel Hall sets
his fellow graduates a splendid example, and one
which they are very slow to follow.—Yours, A
Sydney Graduate.
Steve Hart, highwayman, late of the Kelly
gang, will have some trouble to make himself pre-
sentable at the Great Muster. When the big
burn-out of the gang took place, Dan Kelly and
Steve Hart, after being shot dead, were burned
almost to ashes in the hotel. A certain doctor,
with a penchant for ghastly curios, went fossicking
in the ruins, and there found a foot once attached
to Hart. He annexed, pickled and varnished it.
On a visit to England he met a young lady, with a
similar affection for unpleasant relics, and, re-
membering his exploration in the ashes of the
pub., promised to send her, on his return to Vic-
toria, “something really good.” And so Steve
Hart’s foot made its voyage to England. A few
months later came a letter—“ Dear Doctor, I’m so
sorry, but that very precious specimen arrived in
a shocking condition. I buried it in the garden,
and put up a nice little slab.”
Editor Windsor, of Melb. Age, originally
oame to Victoria to edit the Argus, and there is a
curious tale anent his engagement. Edward
Wilson, in London, in search of an editor for the
Argus, sat in his room awaiting the answerers of
his adyt. in the Times. Many appeared, but none
pleased him at all, till a young man entered who
gave his name as Windsor. They talked ; the
young man was bright and accomplished, and to
Wilson’s liking. Then the conversation turned to
business matters. After awhile young Windsor
said, “ I should like to remark, Mr. Wilson, that
the salary does not seem altogether proportionate
to the duties, but I presume that in time it will
increase.” Wilson looked at him in surprise, and
asked him what he meant. “Well, in London
two hundred a year would scarcely be considered
an adequate salary for the editor of a great paper.”
The mystified Wilson reached for a copy of the
Times, turned to his advt., and found that a
“ dropped letter ” had caused his offer of .£l2OO
per annum to diminish to <£2oo. An explanation
followed, and Windsor, well satisfied, oame to
Melbourne.
“Asi, a loyal general, commenced a
parley . . . then challenged any man to fight
a duel with him; and though he has a crippled
band no one responded,” says a newspaper account
of the late fight in Samoa, Asi (i.e. Sandalwood)
was at one time the “ manaia,” i.e. “flash man ” of
Samoa. He is of one of the highest families in
IlsnsTT-
eur* ll / <y \^ r^a S-’eS
MEASURES OF PATRIOTISM—PINT AND GALLON.
the land, and 20 years ago was favoured alike by
la belle sauvaije and her haughty white sisters. A
man of magnificent physique and most undaunted
courage, he was the beau ideal of the better class
Samoan warrior. Just after Bully Hayes had his
brig seized by the XJ.S. ship Narrangansett and
was honourably acquitted (through the witnesses
against him funking under his steely blue eye) he
(Bully) was standing one evening at the gate of his
house in Matanta when Asi passed by. Someone
present, who knew Asi’s powers as a wrestler, sug-
gested a trial with the alii manava puta (big-
stomached captain.) Hayes, nothing loth,
“caught on,” and after a tough struggle, threw
Asi over the fence into the road. Ever afterwards
Asi had a profound admiration for the redoubt-
able “ Bully,” and the two became fast friends.
A certain consul had a most hewitehingly beauti-
ful half-caste daughter. When she was about
fifteen, she became engaged to a well-known
trader from an island near Samoa. Elaborate
preparations for the marriage were made, and the
whole of Apia and Matafele were on the qui vive.
The Rev. Dr. , the medical missionary, had
the church decorated, and blank astonishment
fell upon the assembled guests when it was found
that the bride-elect had eloped at daylight with
the handsome Asi, The bridegroom took matters
philosophically, and suggested that some of the
wedding breakfast should be sent to the young
lady and her lover, who were hiding in a bush
village. Three days afterwards Asi sent her
home, but too late to be of any use to the onee-
expectant bridegroom, who married an English
lady.
THAT INCOME TAX.
My honoured hairs are rather grey,
My girth is getting bigger,
Though in my youth (or so I say)
I worked like any nigger,
I’m far beyond the need of toil,
That’s only for my neighbour—
The chap who ought to dig the soil
And glory in his labour.
Now I’m a pillar of the State,
In double gold-rim glasses,
I give a public meeting weight
And snort upon the masses.
For workmen and employers’ strife
Intense is my disliking—
I never struck in all my life,
And don’t believe in striking.
What’s this about an Income Tax
To stop a dam deficit!
Because we’ve shirts upon our backs
They say we shouldn’t miss it !
Accursed rot ! loud demagogues
Sound enterprise are killing,
A pack of dirty, lazy dogs
Who live by liquor-swilling !
I’m taxed enough, great heaven knows!—
Too much for my enjoyment ;
There’s swarms of beggars, I suppose,
Who want to get employment—
Well, let the Crown find work for these
(’Twas done in Middle Ages)
And straighten matters by degrees
By never paying wages.
Melb.
SNOOKS, C.M.G.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
The Columbian Land Distribution Com-
pany having notified through the post to the share-
holders their decision (in deference to the wish of
several large investors) to keep the ballot open
until November, have received a large number of
letters in reply, in which previous purchasers of
shares express the highest approval of the scheme,
and, in many instances, apply for further shares.
A solid proof of the faith Victorians have in the
value of the property offered is exemplified by the
fact that a very large proportion of the shares have
been taken up by residents of the Gippslnnd dis-
trict alone. The Company’s ad vt. appears in our
advertising columns.


PHOTOGUAPHY.
(PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHERS)
Royal ikrcadLe, Sydney.
von
“Messrs. CHARLEMONTstudy to keep them-
selves abreast with the various new and beauti-
ful processes in photography, ”
Advice to Young Men —Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
When, by reason of a cold or from any other
cause, the secretory organs become disordered,
they may be stimulated to healthy action by the
use of Ayer’s Cathartic Pills. Sold by all dealers
in medicine.
Jacob Garrard, M.L. A., said at Rook wood
the other day, in the course of an anti-Dibbs
address, that no member of a Legislature would
allow himself to be degraded by accepting pay-
ment from his constituents. This is interesting,
coming from the first working-man representative
of Balmain. David Buchanan was the only con-
stituency-p>H parliamentary representative in
NEURALGIA,
NERVOUSNESS,
TOOTHACHE,
WEAKNESS AND
GENERAL DEBILITY
QUICKLY AND POSITIVELY CURED
BY CLEMENTS TONIC
WHICH RESTORES
THE VIGOUR, SNAP, HEALTH
OE YOUTH.
Read . your neighbour’s evidence.
Mr. W. Buck, draper, Goulburn, N.S.W., who
writes on May 23rd, 1893 :—I am only too pleased
to certify as to the curative properties of Clements
Tonic. I have been a sufferer from severe weak-
ness ; hearing so much about Clements Tonic as a
nerve strengthener I invested in a few bottles of
it; before I had finished the third bottle I felt
myself thoroughly renovated. As a nerve
strengthener and appetiser I have never met any-
thing to equal Clements Tonic. I don’t believe
there would be half the sickness we hear of daily
if people would only use Clements Tonic. —Yours
faithfully, W. Buck, Goulburn, N.S.W.
AGRICULTURAL
AND
MACHINERY,
PORTABLE ENGINES,
STEAM PUMPS, &c.,
AT
Greatly Reduced Prices
Latest Designs in
CARRIAGES & BUGGIES'
William Fleming,
22 &24 Clabrncr Street,
81'DNEV.
FD
ARTESIAN
Wells drilled by contract at
lowest rates. Complete Drill-
ing' Rigs on sale. Expert
drillers engaged. Casing,
tubing, or drive pipe sup-
plied to suit the various!
strata. WILLIAM ’
FLEMING, 22 and 24
Clarence St., Sydney.
F
POLITICAL
POINTS
Nothing injures a Speaker more than to
league with a Government.
Tasmanian Assembly has adopted payment
of members by 17 votes to 13.
Of all N.S.W. political orators, B. R. Wise
excels in raillery. Think this over.
A knighthood is the traitor’s dole —
How cheap’s a politician’s soul !
The typical Legislative Councillor always
reminds The Bulletin of a batcher’s dog.
In 1889-90 the loss on the rail-
ways was £617,740; ’9O-91, £522,769; ’9l-92,
£420,421; ’92-93, £460,377.
There is always a cash nexus in any busi-
ness bargain. Where is the cash nexus if we
abolish payment of members ?
Ex-Gov. Jersey considers Griffith first
a d foremost among Australian eminent men.
Tme, first and foremost in
Hume Black is reported to be-in treaty
with a London firm prepared to undertake four
Queensland land-grant railways.
Wise believes in the reduction of the pay-
ment of members. He doesn't object to Labour
members —“ cheap-labour ” members.
Lawyer Wilberforce Stephen declaimed, in
Yio. Parliament, against Protection. Says Long-
more, “ Who is protected like you? ”
And Mac Million, god of the N.S. Wales
revenue t.iriffists — what does he say about land-
taxation? Bruce Smith, too, is very quiet now.
No one in Adelaide knows anything of the
alleged petition against Home Rule which is
cabled as having been presented to the Commons.
A Kanaka was sued for wages, under the
Master ; n 1 Servants Act, at Gin Gin (Q.) the
other day, and successfully conducted his own
defence.
Pattei son’s motion for an income-tax was
carried m the Victorian Assembly by the narrow
majority of four, and two of these voted avowedly
lo save the Govt.
The 510 Japanese introduced into Northern
Queensland are under a three years’ engagement;
wages, 7s. 6d. per week; employes to be returned
to Japan, if desired.
The Australian Star, throwing off the
mask, now boldly says that the workers can be
satisfactorily represented in Parliament without
payment of members.
“ Tax on land first—so as to operate as a
wedge. Tax on incomes next—to follow up wealth
into all its accumulations,” writes an able Southern
Democrat to The Bulletin. ,
John Davies, M.L.C., counts noses in
Sydney streets as he stalks around, and whispers
that the Legislative Assembly is badly in want of
(let us cut it short) John Davies !
A London financial paper:—“l do not
think Australian seeession means default of in-
terest. In fact, I would rather hold the securities
of the colonies as Republics than as now.”
“ The Freetrade leaders were cheered as
they left the hall,” says Sydney D.T., organ of
the revenue-tariffists. That wasn’t it; it was the
land-value-tax followers that were cheered.
The departed Dr. Anna Potts’ advice to
young ladies to abandon the side-saddle and ride
astride must have been suggested by a close study
of the political horsemanship of B. R. Wise.
The committee of Sydney Blind Asylum
waited on Premier Dibbs last week and asked him
to deal with them for halters. The joke was a
brutal one—with the general election in view.
H. J. M‘Gooey threatens to oppose N S. W.
Postmaster-General Kidd for Camden. Kidd is
a poor creature, and as M‘Gooey has Had a lizard
(Lyosoma Maccooeyi •) named after him he ought
to get in.
The Kingston Ministry’s Betterment Bill
is one of the nauseous pills which S.A. Legisla-
tive Councillors are reluctantly swallowing. That
1894 election works wonders in providing needful
majorities.
B. R. Wise, M.L.A. (N.S.W.), received
over a hundred letters of congratulation on the
morning after his recent speech on unimproved
land-values, and had replied to all of them ere
nightfall.
There is no doubt that a large item in
Hume Black’s English mission is the pacific
settlement of the Queensland Investment cases,
in which MTlwraith and Palmer are seriously
concerned.
The Argus always places the Uppe r
House’s proceedings ahead of those of the Lowe r
Chamber in its reports, the Age vice-versa. That
is about the whole political difference between the
two papers.
The discourtesy attributed to Parkes and
Dibbs in respect to leaving unanswered official
letters from neighbouring Governments is said to
strictly “ belong ”, to certain permanent officers of
the department.
N.S.W. Premier Dibbs’s royal favourite is
Queen Elizabeth, and it is apparently to emulate
her in more than addiction to unofficial language
that he proposes to inaugurate a poor-law tax, she
having introduced that tax to Britain.
“Dismal Jimmy” Gan an, M.P. (N.S.W.),
thinks £l5O a year quite enough pay for an
M.L.A. Apropos, for how many nights of last
session did James attend to his “solemn and
sacred jooty ? ’ And did he not draw his £300?
An attempt was made in the Vic. Assem-
bly during the Budget speech to work up a party
with Duncan Gillies as leader. But the announce-
ment that, if successful, National Ass Harper
would be Treasurer caused the movement to fizzle
out.
The Melb. Freetraders charge Protection
with the depression. Turn up the papers of 30
years ago, and you will find that just such a
poverty-stricken time, with the Collingwood
Soup-kitchen in full blast, forced on a Protective
tariff.
One-man-one-evevything is coming to be
the general law. Sheriff Oowper is engaged in
compiling a roll of jurors for Sydney on the basis
of one-man-one-service. As at present constituted
the system means one - man - twelve juries and
omits to put 50 men on any jury.
A Sydney elocutionist had five applications
on one day last week for instruction in voice-
production. The five applicants admitted that
they intend to contest seats at next N.S.W.
general election. Not one of them seemed aware
of any need for brain-improvement.
Parkes’ declai’ation in favour of settling
the N.S.W. payment of members question by a
plebiscite is the most memorable Australian poli-
tical utterance of the decade. It points to the
Revolution—to the destruction of Party Govern-
ment—to th'e reign of the People.
The Ulster Defence Fund, it is cabled>
now amounts to £250,000, not in cash but in pro-
raises payable by instalments extending over five
years. It all reminds of the time when Freedom
shrieked and Kosciusko fell-only Kosciusko
didn’t fall by his unsecured promissory-note at
five years’ date; he went forth at once and fell
personally.
The Queensland
Labour-members have
not sold themselves to
“ Charley ” Powers,
as leader of the Oppo-
sition. They still re-
tain their entity as a
distinct party, and in-
tend to remain the
“dog” of the new
combination, wagging
the Opposition tail
when deemed advis-
able. Hoolan still
leads the phalanx of
labour men, who do
not forget that Powers
favours black labour,
and though opposed
to the Land Grant
Railways Bill of last
Parliament, because
“ there are not suffi-
cient safeguards,” yet
is a believer in land-
grant railways. The
15 Democrats should
never lose sight of
these two facts.
G. H. Reid, leader
of N.S.W. Opposi-
tion, has committed
to heart a few pet
phrases which, in the
intervals between the
exhaustion of one idea
and the generation of
another, he squeals to
his audience. For in-
stance : “ The Free-
trade of the future
must be real Free-
trade ; the Freetrade
of the past was a
sham.” Then he turns
his glass-eye around
the platform and if
Parkes is present fixes
the optic just there.
The People’s Newspaper (Rockhampton,
Q.) seriously advises Central Queensland to acquire
separation by organising its own State depart-
ments, appointing its own officials and instructing
these to ignore the Brisbane Government. In
short—a revolution and civil war.
“Dibbs has not a single sympathiser in
the N.S.W. Cabinet with respect to his Penrith
declaration of war against Democracy,” says the
Willis organ. Too late! Too late! “ The father
hath spoken and the words have been said giving
his sons and his brethren into bondage.”
Many of the Q. Labour members now
bring their dinners in their pockets when the
House sits. J>lso a year does not permit them to
follow the erstwhile custom of Fat Man, who
hired a cab to drive from the House to the Queens-
land Club, a distance of three chains.
Even Vic. Speaker Bent occasionally says
something sensible. In his speech on the Budget
he said ; “It was monstrous that no member had
dared to raise his voice against the attack on pay-
ment of members made by the Ministry.” This
was carefully omitted in the press reports.
The S.A. Labour members have not yet
got used to addressing unsympathetic politicians.
They mostly speak to the House in the same
manner as they have previously done “on the
stump” and in democratic club rooms. The
results are disappointing to themselves and others.
At the Australian Star annual meeting,
the other night, The Bulletin was abused for
insinuating that the Star had ceased to support
payment of members. The Star people, it was
loudly asserted, still believe in payment of
members. Then why don’t they say so in their
paper ?
Adelaide ’Tisbr’s London correspondent
asserts that Queen Victoria, with her own fair
hand, cut down the list of birthday “honours’’
quite one-third —disgusted at “Mat” Davies’
Mercantile Bank business, and G. Republican
Dibbs’ bankruptcy so soon after receiving his
bauble.
A certain M.P. (Q.) secured his election
by promising lavishly the farmers in his district-
imposing solemn secrecy on each constituent thus
bamboozled —that he would get their sons ap-
pointed—policemen ! M'llwraith’s retrenchment
p ilicy has burst up his schemes, and he won’t bo
“ run in ” next election.
The “ drawing-room-fire ” politician ! Mr.
Edward Terry, a moneyed hereditary aristocrat of
N.S.W , proposes to help in purifying the local
Parliament at next general election. “His motive
in coming forward was unselfish. If he consulted
his own feelings he would stay by his own draw-
ing-room-fireside.” Haw ! Hee-haw !
Recent frothing “ loyal” utterances recall
the adoption of the Victorian flag, in 1870. It
was done solely because Francis, who refused
knighthood, like Higinbotham and Lalor, con-
sidered it inadvisable for the English Govt,
to be able to order away the Cerberus. De-
pend upon it, this is yet the public spirit, when it
comes to the pinch.
Dibbs is fond of Biblical quotations, especi-
ally the one about the hands being the hands of
Esau, but the voice the voice of Jacob. Whose
were the hands in the late anti-payment of
members pronunciarnento ? Some say M‘Laurin’s.
The Bulletin says nothing, but remembers
another Biblical occasion where a certain Ass
spoke for its owner, or the owner for its ass.
The point-blank refusal of the N.S.W.
Minister for Justice to even read the petition,
praying for a remission of the sentence on ex-
banker Abigail, simply helps to consolidate
influences which, on a change of Government,
will assert themselves witli exaggerated vehemence.
The Minister has given consideration within the
last few months to numerous petitions on the
same plane as Abigail’s, and indicated reasons
Tco LW 'I If
A P L
TM ll\] G Ui
1 ~ R rn
TOBACCO CAST ON THE WATERS.
OLD MAN : “Thank’ee, young fellow, for the ’bacca. Many’s the bit I’ve
give your poor grand-dad when the warders warn’t looking.”
for declining to support remissions, and to have
done this much in the case of his vitriolic political
opponent would have been botli policy and justice.
The Vic. Supreme Court granted a grand
jury against Davies and Millidge. A so-called
grand jury was ernpannelled and found a true bill.
Now, it is discovered that through the inclusion of
an alien in the panel, the proceedings were illegal.
In other words, no grand jury has sat. Ergo, says
common sense, the Supreme Court’s fiat that a
grand jury should sit has yet to be obeyed.
The “military contribution” levied by
Britain on the Straits Settlement has absorbed all
the reserve balances invested to meet con-
tingencies, and has stopped all expenditure upon
public works—education, public buildings, lands-
reolamation, roads, drainage, etc., etc. Moral—
Australia needs but one more curse to complete
its final ruin, and that curse is Imperial Federa-
tion.
Referring to The Bulletin’s previous
suggestion that speeches might be written out and
handed to the Hansard reporters in Parliament,
it is true that Niooll, M.P. (N.S.W.) once did so.
His weighty utterances having been inaudible in
the press gallery, by request he wrote out his
speech and forwarded it on. Strange to say, it
reads better than any previous or subsequent
speech of his.
Lawyer Towers has moved in Q. As-
sembly to amend the electoral laws ; especially in
the direction of abolishing property-qualifications.
Dickson stigmatised the proposal as “ a fad based
on purely selfish motives.” Chief-Secretary Tozer
said (and knew that he lied when he said it) that
the country was satisfied with the law as it stood,
and that the proposal was “an insidious attempt
to establish mob rule.”
Frank Wright, M.P. (N.S.W.), has
offended some of his Glen Innes supporters by
his outspoken advocacy of payment of members.
He Was a member of the Ministry that dispatched
the Soudan Contingent. As a matter of (un-
written) history, he opposed it tooth and nail, but
finding the province pledged through his colleague
Dailey’s folly, he organised and equipped the
Contingent in a fortnight.
N.S. Wales who, till he died, remembered with
gratification his early monetary relationship with
those who voted him to the House.
Reid and Wise and Parkes’ declaration for
a land-value tax means that they have broken
wit'h millionaire Burdekin, who, until now, has
been the fairy godfather of the “great N.S.W,
Freetrade party.” Burdekin housed -the Fjpe-
trade Association, found its rank and file in meat
and whisky, and its leaders in chicken and cham-
pagne ; took the paper of its members out of the
hands of the Jews, and rescued good Parlia-
mentary revenue-tariffists from the Bankruptcy
Court and the debtors’ prison. Burdekin, as a
man, is a good fellow who never in all his days
turned a poor tenant bedless into the rain; but
his patronage of the bogus-Freetraders was an
excellent investment. The interest on his ex-
penditure would go a very short way in defraying
his instalments of a heavy land-value tax.
The “Queensland Patriotic League”—
equivalent to the übiquitous National Ass.—has
published a*whining circular and its second
annual report. The circular mostly begs for cash,
and says that the “ Council ” has “ again and
again during the last year been in
unpleasant straits for money,’’ and blubbers that
too many Labour members have been returned to
Parliament. The “ report ” boasts that it doctored
the electoral rolls of 11 electorates returning 14
members, 12 of whose present personnel are M’H-
wraithians; also that it helped to manipulate 9
other rolls, gaining 10 more members out of 12. It
is a revelation of the machinery by which the
nomad workers have been disfranchised, and pro-
perty clothed with plural privileges.
A woefully awkward question will have to
be answered some day by those teetotallers who
have thrown in their lot with the “single-tax”
party. The single-tax means that there shall be
one tax only—a tax on land. Therefore, the tax
on liquor must be abolished, and these teetotallers
are putting their shoulders to the wheel to secure
its abolition, and to bring about an era of cheap
drink, when brandy will be somewhere about a
penny per glass, and everyone will be able to get
fearfully and wonderfully drunk for threepence.
The Bulletin can understand all the hard
drinkers of the community, the red-nosed men,
the men with blind staggers, and the men with a
breath that is calculated to explode when you put
a match to it, voting for the “single-tax” right
out. But why the teetotallers should be there
passes comprehension.
Thus a correspondent
Editor Bulletin,— Re payment of members. Can a,man
live on air? Can a man honestly and successfully repre-
sent the great bulk of the voters simply because he is
wealthy? Is not the proper people’s representative the
man whose abilities strike bis friends so forcibly that they
strain every point to bring him out as a candidate? Can
any Parliament be satisfactory which ignores one section
of the community (the poor), by practical!}' refusing them
direct representation, while another section (the rich) are
directly' represented by every member? If an able but
poor man cannot go into Parliament, are we not left to
the mercies of self-seekers who become candidates, not
because other people discover good qualifies in them, but
because they do so themselves? If one of our employes
does not perform his work satisfactorily, do we get a
better workman (possibly at better pay ), or do we get
one who will do the work for nothing? Can indignation
(just or unjust) be removed by simply sitting on it? Is
it safe to sit on the safety-valve ? Has N.S. Wales’ pre-
vious cheap legislation been cheap to the country?—
Industrial Peace.
Willis, M.P., to N.S.W. Premier Dibbs,
24th July, 1893
Your attitude towards the democratic measure of pay
ment of members is the.cause of the change, and that
your aim is to eradicate from the political arena all those
who are not blessed with long purses, or tainted with
corrupt Parliamentary practice, there can be no doubt.
The same Willis, in N.S.W, Hansard, 26th June,
1890 :
I coincide . . . that payment of members is de-
moralising the House. If any hon. member chooses to
move a Resolution rescinding payment of members, I shall
be one of its strongest supporters. I can see quite plainly
that if men come to the House for the sake of the £3OO a
year, we shall have corrupt Government after corrupt
Government, be they Freetraders or Protectionists. The
country will be prostituted simply' because some unfor-
tunate, miserable wretches sell their consciences for £3OO
a year. I can see this corruption day after day in this
House.
Willis’ present ignominious position is simply the
result of his utter insincerity. Like his quondam
leader, he is a shameless expedientist, hopelessly
devoid of t>e guidance of a fixed political star.
Where is the Democrat who, after seeing the
Willises and the Dibbses of the world wriggle in
the pillory of print, would seek to‘abolish Han-
sard, and trust to the scanty and garbled news-
paper records ?
THE PATRIOT.
“ I’ll take no pay ! ” the patriot cried,
“ But freely serve my country dear,”
The country heard her son with pride,
And trusted him, and had no fear.
The patriot had logs to roll ;
He robbed his country day and night,
And none complained, for on the whole
He served his trusting country right.


THE FINANCIAL DEPRESSION
Newcastle, Thursday.—Services of hu-
miliation and prayer Were held in the
Masonic-hail this afternoon and evening,
under the auspices of the Ministers’ Associa-
tion* which were fairly attended. Prayers
were offered up that tho present period of
depression and distress might speedily pass
away, and that the people of the colony
might profit by the tribulation they were
now passing through, and learn to lea'd
better lives.
VcORDIfIQ AnQEL - Well'
I sljoulctyt hloyder if l|ey pehlioyed us b
guarantee tfjeir imputes Soop
J e -
y« i
JI/Cj
W'*. i. rtf'* <& " • V
r /v« j?, / iy Tipir 0,^9
fCLAIM /
1 OR-DIE \
I i-laii* .J
DF
& £ <b /
/VV> 0 / 7
’•**,& Tf o
At**//
<9 . ® C> n
«p *
/*/&#s
■Q © O .O
-•? <£
Tf O
c
>
y 5 "Hir(jairecj Jtoij
W i
I fp
bilk
K/
f/ jt
■Mml
\&\
Uj
4
I
Jam!>
I
f«K
0
0°
” fljt (ofjpo^
~ . f«h ■ rfrohJ'h
- ~ u /'J t»-f “- 1 ’«
-4 :L^ r j- r ur ? a >J *fhm
Ehl-hal of hrtuljL («V|> -,1 |f o^-
f e /
? r
i -
'f
0 yi
,
Sc L-^fT^
//°° }
y^hs 1 '
IN SYDNEY AND THEREABOUTS.


' /A . *tKJ7t
ta x
|5
L-r
LH ,
iTf?7 TfrfecTf
Co vcr AT
£uf<jTes7eo( ~To~
OKt- /m/erfToh
e.
Spelt A t \P
<*(<
Case,
? UN CH IfklnUy- hs
•• Tk &re. are ilro word* nett JcanT
Triage cut J must' Jiaif'e—
-fhem 7p>e Itrritfen 4ar 7sc-
ii
TOTH 6 W
MEMORY 1
Of 1
i JOHN W'DOIMRLO, ’
\ J-P-
He oio
DUTY
TO THE DISGUST
OF
7ATMRN.
of f h¥
*
. o,
Wi
m
\ o
\<s->
X' W
m 4W
J/T£l£re* d'<
\ Wiemcmbew' of the 'Government.knew that
no oneTesired to turn out the
lat this hoor. ( Hear, hear, trom me
I Onnosition ) It was not good enough.
IffflhU?) The situation was a strange
f ont It was the most marvellous situation
I no had ever known. -
r/ias^sAeUfo n$ A^c ,r«7*/-«<?<* v h f~
u cup'hoa^d. 'hpssejsfo^^,
//}/
JW
'ureefis-
8 ftlflfUE- 4
i ibs&.n-*-
I • —PTTK *
CfiaHTy’
OMtnisaliVi* I
* Society.
annuo. I
refoortT
T(ie moae/
It t
Ael^f/^uT'
i' ftK o, 1/ <» ?*» v
k ,oj Oi-aa.>\ifa Ufltv.''
StcxirVinf TATdWtaVW «-.* K foO/IT
VKOYILy jfOY ? S
' <=- VfV f•ar'tkc ho or
A
y >cV
I s
IOfFIC I R L
-DECO'RUW^:
\O/f?4e-fA Ckf7^<
press
IN MELBOURNE.


Gold discoveries. Very rich fields have
been opened at Southern Cross, Coolgardie, Mur-
ohison, &c., in West Australia, which will be one
of the greatest gold-producing countries of the
•world Land in Perth and Albany, the principal
cities, is ridiculously low in price, and must cer--
tainly increase very much in value in the next
few years. One of the best investments at present
time is to secure a few lots. The Intercolonial
Investment Co., Ltd., 309 Pitt-street, Sydney,
offers exceptionally well-positioned blocks from
.£lO eaoh on very easy terms, or for cash,
guaranteed title. The company has been estab-
lished in Sydney and Perth for many years, and
is well known throughout the colonies for straight
dealing. The manager is Mr. W. J. Douglas,
who will be pleased to forward plans to any
address, and, having a personal knowledge of the
properties, will select faithfully for intending
purchasers where required.
Arrival in AUSTRALIA of
Prof. ROBT. HERMANN,
the"great French Specialist. No medicines. His treatise
on “Woman’s Salvation” sent FREE, in close envelope,
upon application by letter (or personally) to t 5 Collins
Place, COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
WOMAN'S SALVATION,
Advice to Young Men—Dr. Richards’ ad., p. 1.
WOLFES
SCHIEDAM AROMATIC
SCHNAPPS
A
Superlative
Diuretic
Antidyspeptic
AND
invigorating
CORDIAL
NEW YORK:
Don’t
forsake
old friends
There can be
NOSUBSTITUTE
for
Wolfe's
Schnapps
Society
At the Mayor of Melbourne’s quarterly
luncheon, the other day, there was a very signi-
ficant resurrection of bank managers. For many
weary weeks these representative persons stood
back in the shade, and trembled away into silence,
like the Lost Chord. But their schemes have
received the sanction of the Court, and their
chests are expanding again in public, more
especially at functions where “restoration of con-
fidence ”is the business in hand. James Service,
Robert Reid, and G. D. Carter were much to the
fore at the Mayor’s little guzzle, and the mob of
bank managers cheered their remarks with modest
arrogance.
• # #
A humorous feature of the Duke of York
marriage literature was the description of Princess
May’s trousseau. Miles of costume have been
cut out for the fair young bride without the least
regard for the laws of Nature by which May is
condemned to wax plump at a prodigious rate.
Flesh is bound to run in the Teck family, and in
six months’ time the trousseau built for the anxious
and comparatively slim maiden will be six sizes
too small for the comfortably settled wife. If
May struggles into one of her bridal bodices, York
will never get her out of the arm-holes.
• • •
Ex- Attorney-General Homburg, who has
been viciously attacking the S.A. Judges over
their'expenses on circuit, is accused by his enemies
of being actuated by malice against Chief Justice
Way. Homburg and Way had a big row over the
suitors’ funds, which went to revenue instead of
beingutilised fornevvLawCourts,asWayhad fondly
hoped. Not very long ago Homburg had a stormy
interview with Sheriff Boothby, the latter being,
of course, backed by the Judges. Homburg, how-
ever, has the whip-hand in this latest trouble.
# # *
Sammy Tomkinson, M.L.C. (S.A.) once
acted as'Sheriff on a Mt. Gambier Circuit Court.
Sheriff Boothby was ill, and Tomkinson filled the
gap. The economical M.L.C., however, was
shocked at the extravagances and had the accounts
brought before Parliament, from which it was
found that a few days’ trip had cost S.A. over
£4OO. The little man has not again been invited to
act as Sheriff.
* * #
There is a rumour that the S.A. Supreme
Court Judges will resign in a body should Parlia-
ment continue to harass them. This would be
awkward, for neither Symon, Q.C., Downer, Q. 0.,
nor Kingston, Q.C., would accept an appointment
under present conditions. Nesbitt loves the ladies
of the stage and other judicially-forbidden fruit
too dearly to sacrifice it, and there is no one else
who would carry confidence—except, perhaps,
Russell, Commissioner of Insolvency.
The robbery
of the huge opal
from the safe in
Wilcannia Police
Station reminds
of the illicit dis-
tiller at Geeloner,
30 years ago, who
carried on opera
tions next door to
the lock-up, and
conveyed the
smoke from his
still through tho
police chimney.
• i *
In a Sydney
divorce case last
week it was de-
posed that “ the
respondent, a
Govt, clerk, used
to come home the
worse for drink
at the end of the
month.” Pay-day
was the only time
when the poor
wretch had a
chance to get
drunk ! What an
existence for any
man with any-
thing like a rea-
sonable thirst in
his possession !
# »
“ Labourers,
go to your death,
at 6h. a day.”
Inscription, in 6-
inch letters, on
the Equitable
hoarding, Mel-
bourne. The con-
temptuous con-
tractor declines to
obliterate it.
American Consul Wallace is leaving Melb.
to make way for the next man, after a fairly long
stay, as such Yankee officialism goes. Wallace
succeeded Lesesne, the good-looking Southerner
who went all wrong, and was ultimately found
drowned ”at Sydney. By the way, the pathetic
ending of poor Lesesne is still unknown to many
of his one-time Melb. friends.
• • •
“ Not one ! ” dejectedly exclaimed the
manager of a Sydney newspaper entering his office
one evening last week, “not one out of eight!”
“ Hit again ! ” answered a clerk. “ Who’s
tote were you on this time ? ” “ Tote ! ” cried the
stricken manager ; “ it’s the Pert case I’m talking
about. At the very least we ought to have had
two’angings ; the’ole crowd should ’a’ swung if
the law was alive, and ’ere we are without one ! I
say, look down the ’Merican files and mark a
couple of columns o’ outrages for the people up-
stairs.”
* » w
Judge Harding (Q.) refused to attend last
Full Court sittings on account of some trivial
oversight re payment of his salary. It took an
hour to hunt up the cashier, during which time
“Justice” waited. In the ordinary course of
events he should have been promptly arrested and
charged with breach of contract, and lectured by
P.M. Pinnock, who would have given him 14 days’
hard, and docked two days’ pay, and ordered his
return to his bench on being released. Plenty of
precedents.
* * «
Not very long since, an elderly Melb.
citizen, who has lately been famous, became
engaged to a young and accomplished woman.
He then wanted to break off the bargain, but the
lady would not hear of it. He consulted his
“ I have it!” says the ’cute attorney.
“Take me, and a thousand pounds in a bag, with
you. See her, and say ‘ I don’t want to marry
you, but here’s compensation in gold. If you
won’t take it, then I’ll marry you.’” This was
done, the bag of so vs. was promptly refused by
the lady, and the wedding came off.
* # #
Commandant Hutton’s new uniform for
N.S.W. swaddies includes a “scarlet and orange”
puggaree round the hat. An admirable foil for
grogblossoms.
• * «
One of very many curious facts connected
with the recent big Melb. law-suit concerning the
custody of little Miss Macpherson, the .£70,000
heiress, stepdaughter of a nephew of N.S.W.
Attorney General Barton, is that the stepfather’s
suit, which has now proved entirely successful,
was carried on against the advice of the “ very
best ” Victorian counsel (who emphatically pre.
dieted failure), by Attorneys Woolf and Destree.
• • •
Fitzgerald Brothers once struck a town in
the wild west of Westralia. A young man was
pointed out to them as having ridden 50 miles to
their first performance. He was interviewed by
Tom, anxious to know a man whose love of
circuses rose to such sublime heights. What par-
ticular feature of the show had dragged him—the
fame of Commodore, the Bronchos, or the riding
goat, or was it the beauty of the firm itself ?
“ How did you like the show ?” asked Tom. “ Not
much !” replied the youth. “ How is that? ” said
Tom; “don’t you like the horses?” “Not
much!” “Like the clowns?” “Not much!”
“Nor the riders?” “Not much!” “Did you
ever see a circus before? ” said Tom. “No ! ” was
the answer. “ Don’t you like circuses ? ” “ Not
much!” “Well, then, what the deuce did you
ride all that distance for?” “Oh,” he replied—
“l came to see a girl. Haven’t seen one these
eleven months.”
I v
TWO MEN ON A FENCE.
1ST SQUATTER: “See
what a fine intelligent
head he has. He knows
as much as I do.”
2ND DITTO : “That’s
it, he knows too much —
like the bush-hands now-
adays. Give me the old
stock-horse style and the
old hands; both were
good slaves.”
David Charles, alias O’Loghlen, lately cast
for death at Melbourne, has had his sentence com-
muted to ten years’ hard labour with two floggings
and terms of solitary confinement. The Victorian
law is a brute beast. Grant that Charles is a
tiger ; the State has now got him into its cage for
ten years. Why now torture him? Such a thing
could happen nowhere but in Australia. It could
only happen in Ashantee under King Coffee
Oalcali. Either the Australians or their rulers
are savages. Which is it? Both?
# • •
Australian hotels are roundly abused by a
writer in The Hotel (London). In one thing at
least Australian hotels shine: You are not charged,
as in London, Is. fid. for a cold bath and half-a-
orown for a warm one. What a luxury, thinks
the travelling Australian, a bath must be to the
Englishman, or what a dirty man the latter
must be, when his country’s hotels charge for re-
moving the outer deposit at the rate of at least
half-a-guinea a week !
The Sydney clergy precedence question
shows that the shepherds are still striving on the
gospel principle that the last shall be first.
* * *
It is not irrationally surmised that had
the jury which tried the Makins been women, it
would have been Makin and not Mrs. Makin they
would have recommended to mercy. And had it
been a mixed jury
• * #
Extract from a Maoriland lady’s letter
written at the time of the Peninsula election a few
weeks ago :
. . . You will be pleased to hear that young Mr.
William Montgomery has been to call on us. He was very
nice. He talked a great deal of politics, and said some-
thing about our cow and my husband's vote. He has
such a sweet way with children, and kissed all my three.
. . . I am told he has been to call on a great many
people on the Peninsula, and always kisses the baby. . .
The measles are spreading dreadfully among the babies on
the Peninsula. . . 1 !
The Parliamentary candidate, as a medium for the
spread of infection, has never before been properly
appreciated.
* « *
An equity suit, involving the management
of a large Australian newspaper property, is on
the stocks.
An Auckland
(M.L.)man writes,
complaining that
he was recently
serving on a
coroner’s jury,
and when the
twelve men went
to view the body
they found it had
been dissected and
not put together
again. The in-
ternal organs were
scattered about on
benches and the
head was stand-
ing by itself on
a table. When
he complained
that the spectacle
turned him sick,
the coroner, he
asserts, smiled
cheerfully, and
told him that he
would get there
himself some day.
Therefore, he
wants to know if
the Government
can’t find a less
facetious person
for the billet ?
* *
The next move
at N. S. Wales
executions will
be to exclude the
press.
A gentleman with a Scotch name wants
N.S.W. Anglican Synod to induce tire Govern-
ment to proclaim “ a day of national humiliation
for sin and prayer for the removal (if it bo God’s
will) of the present commercial depression.” The
Bulletin is getting ready some plans and specifi-
cations for that day of humiliation for sin. It
would begin early in the morning with a vast
gathering in the Domain and a brief open-air ser-
vice. Then there would be a procession of rich
and highly-respected Christians who own filthy,
rack-rented tenements, many of them let as houses
of ill-fame, in various parts of Sydney, and each
of these individuals would be led away in chains to
his own dirty tenement, which he would be made
to personally scrub down by hand (with his bell-
topper on) under the supervision of a committee.
When each one was finished with'the job he would
be required to publicly reduce his rents in the
middle of the street. Another procession of
managers and directors of reconstructed banks
would march —each man dressed only in a bag,
with ashes on his head and a big ledger under his
arm —to some conspicuous site say Church
Hill —and there answer all questions put by a de-
positors’ committee, and deliver explanatory
addresses about the various bank balance-sheets.
* # •
Then several Hundreds of those benevolent
Christian ladies who assist “fallen girls ” by em-
ploying them as domestic servants athalf-wagesand
double work be led, at half-past 6a.m., down
George-street tied together with clothes lines, and
would put in the day of humiliation washing
clothes in the varh us city laundries while the
regular staff had a holiday. All the city parsons
and church elders—except, of course, those who
were away scrubbing or doing laundry work
would run the dust-carts and watering-carts and
sanitary vehicles that day, and in the evening
would listen to a sermon preached by a Chinese
missionary. Any superfluous parsons could do
some repairs to the roads. Miscellaneous Chris-
tians, philanthropists, Charity Organisation
people, and the like, would spend the
day cleaning up Wexford, Sussex", and
similar streets, and painting the grimy houses in
the vicinity, while lady Christians cleaned the
windows and made themselves otherwise useful.
Mr. Andrew Menzies, the gentleman who suggests
the humiliation idea, could specially humiliate
himself in the “doss-house” at Woollooraoqloo,
with a hose and a broom. The proceedings might
appropriately wind up by a general washing of
larrikins in hot water, and a hymn. Some further
plans and specifications are in preparation.
# * *
N.S.W. Full Court has Just suspended two
solicitors from practice for 12 and 18 months
respectively, for “ misappropriating ’’considerable
sums. At the quarter sessions last week, two
men, merely because they happened not to be
lawyers, got 18 months’ hard labour in gaol for
embezzling a few shillings from their employers.
• • #
It is proposed that, to afford decent amuse-
ment for young men, the discussions of Sydney
School of Arts should be held in a larger hall open
to the public. Now that prize-fighting has been
abolished the idea seems very reasonable.
# * *
The “Princess May” Village Settlement
died, not for want of snobbery, but of cash at the
back thereof. There are as many snobs as ever in
the Melbourne district, but, happily, they are
hard-up, and their donations in commemoration
of the recent royal marriage have not fulfilled
Mrs. Bryan O’Loghlen’s expectations. So the
dame in question has returned the few miserable
guineas that trickled into the fund, consoling her-
self as well as she may, with the theory that sho
didn’t wish to injure the business prospects of
other Village Settlements. This idea seems to
clash somewhat with the bare fact that she
couldn’t collect any more coin. As an excuse, how-
ever, it answers the purpose.
• # •
The August criminal sittings of Adelaide
Supreme Court lasted but three hours. Downer,
Q. 0., says this is a good moral sign, but not a
token of activity. The criminal calendar, he adds,
is a most reliable test of prosperity. “The,bur-
glary business is very dull, except in politics,
agreed Grainger, M.P., alluding to the charge
that the present Ministry had stolen the pro-
gramme of their predecessors.
* * *
A British officer, who got into trouble
recently, is reported to have received an official
appointment in Australia. “ Rubbish shot here.
* # *
A “Woman’s Column ” rears a diminished
head in the S. M. Herald again. Here san
alleged “quote” from it ;
Where the pearls lie deep
Beneath ih n dark-blue waters of some silent sea,
Unwept, unshriven, and unsung.
A line of Mrs. Hemans’ 1 A line of the Lord-
Knows-Who 1 A line (misquoted) of Scott ! And
here are some of its cuss-words : “ Knightly
guardance,” “rebudment,” “rebuddance,” “sar
SHE HAD BEEN CAMPED
FOR YEARS.
MISTRESS (watching
new domestic from the
back-blocks making the
bed and punching it in
the middle) : “Why are
you digging your fist in
like that, Eliza?”
ELIZA: “Making a
hole for the hip-bone,
mum.”
torial retrocession.” “His ample, vest swelling
proudly over submidriffian ponderosity, and
shaking with lusty laughter at some precocious
tonguetry of his youngest” Good Lord
deliver us !
# * *
A point of etiquette. In N.Q. you follow
the man you are to “ shout ” for into the pub. In
South Queensland he follows you.
In. Brisbane suburbs many houses are now
let free of rent to “ respectable ” people, who keep
out the goats and “dossers.” Also, the scavenging
contractors lately appointed the nightman whose
name had been on their “waiting” list for two
years. Queensland is now a fine country for the
working man.
# * •
Most of the Bananalanders in England
have been seriously affected by the bad times up
North, and the last annual Queensland dinner was
a very sad affair indeed, despite the ever-
cheerful Pritchard Morgan’s efforts to enliven the
company with some of his famous songs.
One prominent man has been obliged to
let his house and find situations for his accom-
plished daughters, and others have much drawn
in their horns. Meanwhile the Mount Morgan
men (of whom there is a big contingent, Knox
D’Aroy at their head) are “going strong.” D’Aroy
(now a member of the Carlton) is fast getting to
the top of the social tree, per medium of his
dinners and his wife’s dances.
# # •
An amusing farce was lately played at
Hamilton (Vic.) Police Court. A. C. Palmer, a
solicitor, was charged by the borough inspector
with allowing two horses to stray in the streets.
As borough solicitor Palmer appeared to pro-
secute, and in his private capacity he appeared to
defend himself. An objection raised by Palmer
(for the defence) that the horses were not horses
but ponies was denounced as frivolous by Palmer
(for the prosecution). When the P.M. attempted
to impose a light fine on Palmer (defendant),
Palmer (for the prosecution) objected to a distinc-
tion being made. “ There was not one law for
the rich man and another for the poor.” Costs,
on the lower scale, were given against Palmer
(defendant), which, also, Palmer (for the prosecu-
tion) objecjted to, claiming at the higher rate.
These were given.


The Argus commences a story.
4
f L/MlT£jl
are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS OF PIANOS IN
AUSTRALIA.
No Better Value to be Obtained Elsewhere.
THE “VICTOR” and “BELLING” PIANOS,
Manufactured Specially to OuV Order.
Their sterling merits liave been so thoroughly proved
in these colonies during the past ten years that they have
become unquestionably the MOST POPULAR of all low-
priced Pianos. Our principle from the first has been to put
forth none but thoroughly reliable instruments, and, as a
result, tiro sale has now reached phenomenal proportions.
W. H. PALING & Co., Ltd.,
Sole Agents for the Celebrated Pianos of
STEIN WAY AND SONS, JULIUS FEU RICH,
UEBEL andLECHLEITER, CARL ECKE,
THE “ VICTOR ” AND THE “ BELLING.”
Pianos by all Good Makers.
ESTEY ORGANS, BOOSEY’S BAND INSTRUMENTS.
333 Goorgo Street, SYDNEY
Largest Stock of Ne' ' v ud Popular Music.
Both as an anodyne and expectorant, Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral is prompt in its action. It checks
the advance of disease, allays all tendency to in-
flammation and consumption,- and speedily
restores health.
“ The depression-retrenchment reaches all
olasses alike ? ” No! It is merely moved on to
the workmen at the lowest rung of the ladder.
For instance, unemployed Australian architects,
besides taking the places of draftsmen, are now
usurping the positions of clerks of works, the
latter those of the men just below, and so on,
till it reaches the poor wretches at the bottom.
They can starve, while the voices of the worms on
the leaf are heard crying out at their poorer
brethren in the dust.
* * *
After the formal annexation of the Solomon
Islands, the Union Jack was taken down by one
of the niggers and given by him to two of his
dusky wives as a blanket.
* # «
Montague Levy, the Israelite that failed,
told his tale of woe all over again, last week, in
Sydney Insolvency Court. It was a pathetic
story, dotted over with Hebraic names like
Nathan and Cohen and Moss and the like. The
insolvent apparently lived in a whirlwind of pro-
missory-notes and strange “ shecurities,” He sold
his interest in his father’s estate, said interest
being worth about £20,000, to a relative with an
Israelitish cognomen, for £3300. Most of the
money went to another man with an Abrahamio
designation, for racehorses. The rest was
principally “blewed” in jewellery—here the
awful yearning of Jacob’s descendant to wear
six diamond rings at onoe on the same finger shines
out conspicuously; and the only other thing he
seemed to remember was that he backed some-
body’s bill for a large amount over a purchase of
sheep. The spectacle of a Hebrew buying sheep
is patriarchal but unusual. Probably the saddest
item in the category, however, was the gaudy
bankrupt’s statement that he was now living at a
Nurses’ Home. It seemed to suggest somehow
that he had got back to first principles and was
taken out for an airing every morning in a peram-
bulator, and was spanked when he woke up and
cried for his jewellery in the night.
* * *
The “vagaries of fortune.” A certain
Australian potentate, chairman of everything, was
once poor enough to accept as wife, for a con-
sideration, the cast-off mistress of a friend of his.
The friend is now a waiter in a southern club.
Dock to block, and block to dock are
familiar turns in Melb.
• # #
Journalist: “ Why should University pro-
fessors write for the Argus ? Other civil servants
are forbidden.”
# # #
Many London music-teachers now give
instruction at fourpence per lesson.
# # *
Over 1600 men, women, and children are
depending for life upon the rations issued from
Melbourne charitable depot. Country districts
are organising “ shooting bees ” for Melbourne’s
foodless citizens.
At Inverell (N.S.W.), 42 miles from the
nearest railway-station, bread is now sold at 2d.
the loaf; the state of the road to Glen limes
rendering it impossible to forward products to the
Sydney markets, where, alas ! so many empty
stomachs are.
# « *
“ Partner wanted, Christian, with £400.”
—Argus.
# # #
Title of a “novel” now running in a
Melbourne weekly :
THE TEMPLE OF DEATH,
Or /
THE BUTCHER’S SHOP IN THE MOUNTAIN ;
Or
BLOOD AND FLOOD,
Or
YARMA THE GOD OF DEATH ;
Or
STAGGER AND HOLD YOUR BREATH.
# # #
Melbourne Evening Standard says that
“ Many happy unions have been brought about ”
by matrimonial advts. in its blood-curdling
columns. Yes, but what about the premature
births and the sudden deaths ?
* * *
A Maoriland woman who got married the
other day carried to the altar a beautiful bouquet
gathered by her father, the local grave-digger,
from the graves under his charge. It reminds
The Bulletin of the undertaker’s daughter whose
bracelet and wedding-ring were made of gold
tooth-plates filched by her pa from the mouths of
the dead.
The defaulting
S.A. Public Trustee,
whose capture in
America is now being
arranged, was a fat,
bald-headed gentle-
man, who quitted
Adelaide on leave
years ago and did nob
return. An audit of
his accounts showed
deficiencies of over
.£lO,OOO, but no one
knows really what he
did take. He was an
inveterate gambler,
and had a morganatic
family by a young and
comely Irish lady who
accompanied him to
America, but, it is
believed, left him in
’Frisco. The last
heard of theabsconder
was from Mexico,
where he was known
as Don Something,
and married the
daughter of a cattle-
king. Not long ago
a leading official
received a note from
Mexico unsigned, en-
closing two S.A,
£lOO-notes for Mrs.
Wood, and express-
ing contrition. The
money was given by
the unfortunate lady
to the police.
# #
It was artful on
the part of Somers
Vine to have the
Royal wedding-
presents —ranging
from a pair of stock-
ings knitted by an
anonymous old
woman to a 3500-
guinea cabinet from
Baron Hirsch—on
view at Wales’ Folly,
the Imperial In-
stitute which, it was
expected, would be
visited by at least half
a million people, many of them at a shilling per
head.
# # •
One of the uses of the “ Australian”
squadron is to aid a kanaka king in sending his
enemies into exile. The Katoomba, after the
recent fight, went to Manono and summoned
Mataafa and his leading chiefs to surrender, and
conveyed them to Apia. When the next uprising
takes place, the level - headed Mataafa won’t
forget it. English men-of-war captains have
distinguished themselves in Samoa by more
than one act of outrageous folly—notably
when the Barracouta, in Steinberger’s time,
sent what Capt. Stevens facetiously called
“a guard of honour ” to a native meeting
at Mulinu’u Point. The guard of honour landed
with fixed bayonets and loaded rifles, officer with
drawn sword, and the natives fired on them.
Four blue-jackets were killed and 11 Samoans.
• m #
One Parson J. Marshall delivered a lecture
at Redfern (Sydney) last week on the venerable
question, “Is Marriage a Failure?” The good
man is thus r eported :
The lecturer quoted from the Bible to show that most
of the notable men and women in sacred history had been
married persons. In secular history, also, married per-
sons had, in almost every instance, been foremost in
action. Thus, throughout all time God had set His seal
upon His own institution, and thus they could see that
marriage was not a failure in the evolution of the happi-
ness of mankind. There had been people who had advo-
cated polygamy, while to others easy divorce laws had
been what they wanted. To Christian people these plans
were abhorrent and sinful, and nothing could be found to
be substituted for the simple marriage tie, till death do
part.
Yet, so far as The Bulletin can remember, a
few of the greatest men in sacred history (includ-
ing the greatest of them all) were bachelors, and
the rest of the great men had from two to six
wives apiece, and divorced them any time they
felt inclined. They were a tolerably mixed lot,
these great men of scriptural times, and a parson
who abhors polygamy and divorce should say as
little about them as possible.
* # #
Is there anything in the fact that nearly
all those ruffians in wax aboard the convict hulk
Success (now doing good trade in Brisbane), have
light-blue eyes?
# # »
Ex-Attorney-General Hmnburg told S.A.
Parliament recently that no Minister, M.P., civil
servant, or private person has any claim on the
hospitality of the Governor, who has as much
right to save out of his salary as any other public
official.
* * *
Measles are rampant in South Australia.
At one Adelaide school 240 out of 1100 children
were affected during the first week in August.
* # •
Lewd songs, at Masonic gatherings, are
complained of, in the Melb. Masonic organ.
* » *
“Bread for children, £d.,” is painted up
at a Melb. suburban restaurant.
# » •
Things are cheap in Melbourne. Age
advts. :
TIT ARRI AGES solemnised ( solemnity for 20s. !) any-
-JT where by fully accredited minister, fee £1;
appointments arranged by , stationer, Queen-st.
Also,
T ADY will give eight weeks’ Board for loan of £i.
M.A., P. 0., Collingwood.
And
T ODGINGS and Breakfast 3s. 6d.,superior oocommo-
dation, bath.
And in Sydney now you can buy 121bs. sirloin
of beef for half-a-crown, or half a lamb for 18d.
Likewise, three restaurant-courses for fourpence ;
three meals a day, three courses each, for a shil-
ling. But it is hard to get that shilling.
# * *
A member of the Vic. Assembly obtained
a free railway pass, ostensibly for the daughter of
another hon. member. It now appears that the
daughter was a baby at the time.
AN INSANITARY BARD.
LOCAL POET : “If you won’t love me, Sissie, I’ll drown myself.”
SISSIE: “Well, go lower down the creek— we drink this water.”
“‘Time’ was made for slaves”—and
banks.
* # •
Ihere are to-day in N.S. Wales over 7000
men who are known to the authorities to have
been, at one time or another, members of the regular
police-force.
* * *
Percy Clarke, in “The Valley Council,”
peoples Central Australia with a race of aboriginal
whites who are thoroughly up in all modern
science, and use hydraulics and electricity to do
all their heavy work, even to putting the baby to
bed. Also, they are vegetarians.
• * *
Gov. Jersey’s arrangement of the prece-
dence question between Primate Smith and Card.
Moran, so far as N.S. W. Government House fes-
tivities are concerned, was effected on the same
basis as the arrangement between Card. Cullen,
the uncle of Card. Moran, and the Protestant
Archbishop of Dublin in Dublin Castle entertain-
ments.
* * #
Atheist Symes : “Is it possible for the
Church to undo the mischief she has done?” We
should think not—look at the marriages !
• # *
A Cowra magnate offers 2gals. rum as a
prize for the man who can muster, at the local
show-ground, the biggest family.
• * •
Wail from the Leongatha (Vic.) Labour
Colony: “First-class bushmen make from 3s. to
ss. a week and no more. Nearly all the men here
nro in debt for boots and tobacco. They dare not
leave for if they did they would have to go with-
out a stitch to their backs.”
Another Melb. larrikin , trick. Holding
black cotton across the road at night to tip off
belltoppers.
# m *
One hot day, the late Justice Barry (Vic.)
rebuked the late Joseph Henry Dunne (afterwards
County Court Judge) for removing his wig in
Court. “ I hope well soon have done with all
this nonsense,” growled Dunne, as he replaced the
horsehair. Soon after Hodges was raised to the
Bench, he created a sensation one day in the
Criminal Court by taking off his heavy wig and
throwing it down on the bench before him. Since
then it has been no uncommon thing to see a Vic.
Judge wigless in Court. Madden, G. J., however,
is rather glad of an excuse to cover his well-
polished pate.
The wane of the honeymoon at Fish River
Caves “Help me down the ladder,
Joe.” “No fear ; we’re married now.”
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest-
A “put-up” joke against a notoriously long-
winded N.Q. parson. A man enters his church in
the middle of his delivery of the sermon, and asks
audibly: —“How long’s he been pitching?” “Close
on 20 years, but I can’t say ’zackly to a month or
two.” “Then I’ll stay and hear him finish; he
can’t last much longer.” Benediction.
A WOOLLOOMOOLOO LOVE SONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
FMise, by that name let me call you,
It has a Svvinhnrnian sound,
Let the overcast sky nob appal you,
We may as well do a mooch round ;
'Tis true the clouds heaped up in mounts are
Looking very like rain, to be frank,
And the stars much like current accounts are
Locked up in a hank.
’Tis true that the footpaths are muddy,
And the “ pushes ” are out in their might,
And only one word, namely “bloody,”
Is borne to the ear of the night;
From the wharf where the mail-steamers Yankee,
Lie moored, let us launch on the bnj-.
Though our gondola is somewhat cranky,
Our souls need be none the less gay ;
“ A gondola? ” Yes, do not flout if,
Though ’(is not quite as clean as I’d wish,
There is one thing Italian about it,
The smell of dead fish.
No doubt there’s some fear that returning
You’ll get a black eye from your “ hoy,”
Who’ll he jealous of us two, hut spurning
Such terrors, the present enjoy ;
The proceeding; perhaps, were more gallant,
If his wrath sought an object in me,
But that were less safe, say the “ talent,”
I can but agree.
But enough of inconsequent rhyming,
You are tired, my Felise, so am I,
Prom Darlinghurst ten o’clock’s chiming,
And the pubs, will ho shut by-and-bye.
’Tis two hours and a half since we started,
As you say, you must not "st’y out lite,”
And now, sweet, 'tis lime that we parted,
You’re home now. Good night.
R.C.H.
TOM COLLINS.
Who never drinks and never bets,
But loves his wife and pays his debts
And feels content with what he gets?
Tom Collins.
Who has the utmost confidence
That all the banks now in suspense
Will meet their paper three years hence?
Tom Collins.
Who reads the Herald leaders through,
And takes the Evening News for true,
And thought the Echo’s jokes were new?
Tom Collins.
Who is the patriot renowned
So very opportunely found
To fork up Dibbs’ thousand pound?
Tom Collins.
WHAT MR. INGHAM TOLD
MR. HEYDEN.
It was a very lucky thing for Mr. Heyden tha
Mr. Ingham called to see him just when he did.
But it would have been better still if he had done
so long before. For Mr. Ingham turned out to be
the only man able to give any advice worth a rush.
Lots of other people had talked and suggested
things, as they do when they see a house on lire.
But it is commonly the firemen who put out the
blaze after all. And so Mr. Ingham happened to
have a bit of useful knowledge that nobody else
had. And indeed the case was very like a fire,
although it wasn’t a house, you know, it was a
man ; namely, Mr. Heyden himself.
Only the day after Christmas (1891) he told the
story in these very words. “ Fifteen years ago,”
he said, “in December, 1876, I met with a slight
accident and had great pain in my ankle, which
at first I thought was sprained. In a few days
the pain moved up to my knee, whilst all the sur-
rounding parts became swollen and puffed up. I
could not bear to put my foot on the ground or
even let the bed sheet touch the leg. A doctor
who attended me for two months said it was
rheumatism, and treated me accordingly. When
I go 6 a little better he sent me to Southport for
three weeks. I returned to ray work again but had
great difficulty in getting about, and from time to
time I had to leave work, owing to the intense
pain. Later I had excruciating pains in all my
limbs, and the joints- of my fingers became en-
larged and grew out of shape.
“Then I consulted another doctor who attended
me through several severe attacks. He said my
complaint was Chalk Gout. He gave me medicines
but said he could not do much for me, and that in
time the disease would kill me. In this way I
continued to suffer for fourteen years. During
that period I took every gout and rheumatism
medicine I heard of, but nothing gave me more
than temporary relief.
“In March, 1890, I had a bad attack and was
bedfast for over two months, when one night a
friend of mine, Mr. James Ingham, of Old
Tafford, called to see me. The pain was at its
height, and seeing my condition, he said he knew
of something that would do me good. He brought
me a few doses in a bottle but refused to say what
it was. It gave me so much relief that I sent my
wife to ask him. He replied, ‘ I will come and
tell him all about it.’ He soon came and said it
was called Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup. Upcn
this I told him I had often heard of it, but re-
garded it as a quack medicine. I sent at once to
Burgon’s stores in Oxford Street and got a bottle,
and after using it twenty-four hours felt much
better. In a few days I was out of bed and at
work, and have never lost a day’s work since, nor
had any attack of my old enemy. I will gladly
answer all enquiries.” (Signed) Henry I!.
Heyden, 28, Booth Street East, Oxford Road,
Manchester.
Now this statement of Mr. Heyden’s is surpris-
ing. The reader wants to know how it can be
true, and he has a right to ask. The explanation
is this : —Mr. Heyden was afflicted with rheumatic
gout, an almost universal complaint, very painful
and dangerous.
The cause is a poison in the blood produced as
follows -First the stomach becomes inactive and
torpid with indigestion and dyspepsia; more work
is thus thrown on the liver than it is able to do;
the overloaded liver fails in the manufacture of
urea, leaving it in the blood in the form of a solid
called uric acid. This acid, a deadly poison,
unites chemically with the soda (an alkali) in the
blood, forming urate of sodium, a hard crystal
poison. This poison goes round in the blood
current until it is finally deposited in the muscles
and joints, setting them on fire with inflammation
and inflicting fearful agony. Continued, the
disease causes chalk stones in the bladder, Bright’s
disease of the kidneys, and disease of the heart
and lungs. All comes from the same source,
indigestion and dyspepsia, and are properly
symptoms of that ailment. What a pity people
don’t understand this fact better.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup cures by its wonderful
action on the stomach and liver, and thus it cured
the above case described. It begins at the right
end. Perhaps it would be wise in you to paste
this account in your scrap book, or where you can
find it in time of need.
Sir George Dibbs at Penrith.
No speech of recent years, political or otherwise,
has excited such wide-spread interest as that
which the Premier delivered to the electors of
Penrith. His words have aroused the country to
arms, and the coming struggle is now the common
subject of conversation. Old warriors are burnish-
ing up their armour, and instilling confidence into
their followers, while the more recent recruits are
on the platform, and through the press declar-
ing war to the knife to a system of retrenchment
that would stop their prize money. Sir George
himself, not in the slightest alarmed at theconfusion
with which he has filled the politicalhenroost, gazes
calmly and complacently upon the scene of
activity, for he knows full well that his ruse de
guerre has succeeded, and that his enemies, until
now in ambuscade, have left the safety of their
entrenched position, and before a shot has been
fired, or a shell exploded, but simply the proclama-
tion of war issued, exposed their weakness in
numbers and strength. The fighting will be
severe, and the fusilades, on both sides, most
deadly. Everyone must prepare for battle, and
no trustier allay can be secured than Marshall’s
Tonic Nervine, it promotes strength, renews the
sinews, quickens'the intellect, and imbues the
whole system with such vitality, that it’s Govern-
ment never goes out of office, nor fears the opposi-
tion of disease, nor the danger of a dissolution.


ENERGY, AMBITION,
Cheerfulness, Strength,
A SPLENDID APPETITE,
and Perfect Health,
May be secured by all who follow the example
of Mrs. Lizzie W. De. Veau, No. a6a 15th
St., Brooklyn, N.Y., U. S. A.
It is what others testify to, from personal
experience and knowledge, of Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla, that tells the story.
READ THIS STATEMENT;
“ Every spring for years I have had intolerable
headaches , and total loss of energy, so that the
season which should be welcomed by me was a
dread, for, as the warm, pleasant days arrived,
they brought to me lassitude and pain. My
druggist had known mo from childhood and
S
i
r--
S
Z
advised me to take, early in the spring, Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. I commenced using it in March, and
have not had, since then, the first symptom of
headache ; my appetite is splendid, and I perform
my daily duties with a cheerfulness ana energy
that surprises myself. I take pleasure in telling
all my friends of the merit of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla,
and the happy results of its use."— Lizzie \V,
Db Veau, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Ayer's Sarsaparilla
Made by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co, Lowell, Mass., U.S.A.
Has cured others, will euro you.
D
Reuter’s Little fills
■ tl IE LIVER.
Guaranteed to cure every disease of
the liver, stomach and bowels, also
sick headache, &c. A safe cathartic
for the weakest, as well as active
...... enough for the strongest, do not after -
wards constipate but by their general action please all who
ure them. The standard Pill of the U. S. Medical Profo*.
'■on. T! a smallest and easiest to take. Forty in a phial.
Amusements.
£IRITERION THEATRE.
SATURDAY, 2nd SEPTEMBER.
"W alter IB e zi t 1 e y.
Grand Production of Buhver Lytton’s Historical Drama,
“ RICHELIEU.”
Cardinal Richelieu .. . WALTER BENTLEY.
New and Elaborate Scenery by Mr. Walter B. Spong-
POWERFUL and TALENTED COMPANY.
Box Plan at Nicholson's. Prices as Usual.
Theatre royal.
Lrssee ~ Mr. S. LAZAR.
Under the Management of Mr. FRED. MEREDITH.
THIS EVENING (Thursday) and Every Evening
until Further Notice,
“ -A. Convict Martyr.”
Dress Circle, 35.; Orchestra Stalls, 25.; Stalls, Is.;
Family Circle, 6d.
Bus. Manager, FRED. GUNTHER.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS!
GEO. DARRELL'S GREAT RACING DRAMA,
“ THE DOUBLE EVENT.”
A Cast of Exceptional Excellence includes Miss Jennie
Lee, Miss Myra Kemble, Her Majesty’s Dramatic
Company, and Geo. Darrell.
Saturday, August 19-“ LIFE FOR LIFE.”
PRICES as USUAL. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEAT R E
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Sole Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO.
LAST TWO NIGHTS ! LAST TWO NIGHTS I
of
“I- -A. O I Q- A- X. 3E3.»»
Saturday, August 19—“ THE OLD GUARD.’’
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
fjjlO W N HAL L, SYD N E Y
The Closing Musical Event of the Year.
Antoinette Sterling Concerts,
POSITIVELY TWO NIGHTS ONLY.
Saturday and Monday, August 19tli and 21st.
Farewell to England’s Most Acknowledged
Renowned Contralto,
* lladamc Antoinette ilterlinq *
'HO' I C~G)N» 4J
assisted by her unrivalled Concert Party:
Miss MAY HABGOOD Miss ISABEL WEBSTER
Mr. H. R. HOLDER Mr. JAMES WOOD.
ENTIRE CHANGE of PROGRAMME EACH CONCERT.
Popular Prices-35., 2s. and One Shilling.
Special Reserved Chairs, 45., secured at Paling and Co.,
where day tickets may also be procured.
Doors Open 7 p.m. Concert at 8.
THOS. P, HUDSON, Director.
11l
111
NOW HEADY, post free
Is. 6d., THE LIFE.
ADVENTURES, and CON-
FESSIONS of A SYDNEY
Harmaid.
Highly Interesting.
To be had only o( And Unique.
MADAME PANZA, Box 913 G.P.0.,
Sydney.
JJELLER’S ODDS AND ENDS COTERIE.
JUST CONCLUDED TASMANIAN TOUR.
Now Resting.
QUEENSLAND SHORTLY.
Notice.—HALL PROPRIETORS anti SHOWMEN,
FOR SALE (Cheap)—Magnificent Silk Rep Curtain, Fit-
up Oas Bracket, Rubber-piping, Carpet, complete. Also,
good Variety Pictures.
Address RADCLIFF, 271 Crown-street, Sydney.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
66 T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.’’
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St, N. Adelaide, S. Australia
fl. C*. MOOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
RELIEF FROM COUGH IN TEN MINUTES.
FD
F
IS A MOST
SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY
FOR
INFLUENZA, COLDS, ASTHMA, &G.
STOPS A COLD.
CURES COUGH.
Sold by all Chemists in Bottles Is. IJd. 2s. 9d.,
4s. 6d., and lls l -.TSy-
Prepared only by A. HAYHAN & CO.,
15, Albemarle Street, London, Eng.
Agents.— Elliott Bros., 8. Hoffnung & Co.,'
and Australian Drug Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Miscellaneous.
m
KIDMAN’S BUILDINGS,
GEORGE & MARKET STREETS,
SYDNEY.
6
ENAMELLED CABINET
PORTRAITS
the ||anel portrait,
Size, 9x7 in.,
15s. PER DOZEN. 15s.
A CHARMING PICTURE.
The Crown Bromide Enlargement Co.
£49,460 worth for £l,
THE CHANCE OF A LIFETIME.
THE EQUITABLE BUILDING SOCIETY,
Biusbane, Queensland.
105,000 SHARES at £l.
Anyone Can Apply ! !
No Liability ! ! !
2403 PRIZES valued at £105,000.
BALLOT immediately LIST fills. Early
application is therefore advisable.
Fiest Peize, MAGNIFICENT BANKING
CHAMBERS, value .£30,000. Rental value,
.£l5OO a year, and other properties valued as
under :
2 of .£10,000; 1 of .65000; 4 of £2500; sof
<£looo, and 2390 of from £5 to £5OO,
Cleae Titles ! ! No Deductions ! ! !
See particulars in advertisements in other issues
of this paper, or apply to SECRETARY,
Albert-street, or CORRIE & CO., Queen-street,
Brisbane.
Remember ONE SHARE (£1) may win 13
SEPARATE PRIZES, valued at £49,460.
XJENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
J 1 and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “ Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “ Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 251 Svvanstos Street, MELBOURNE.
“ Leger” Tobacco. “ Leger” Tobacco.
ARROURCEMERT EXTRAORDINARYI
BONUS DISTRIBUTION TO SMOKERS OE THE
“LEGER” TOBACCO.
£5O DIVIDED £5O
Competition CLOSES 17th DECEMBER, 1893. Bonus Distribution, 23rd December, 1893*
UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS! DEMAND RAPIDLY INCREASING!
“ LEGER ” ha? caught on, and the unanimous verdict is that a better tobacco has never been introduced in
Australia. To mark their appreciation of the startling success of the “ LEGER,” the manufacturers have instructed
their Agent (Mr. M. SIMMONS) to increase the Bonus to FIFTY POUNDS.
£5O £5O £5O
DIVIDED, is now offered to Smokers of the new brand, “ LEGER,” distributed as follows
To the person forwarding to the Agent the largest number of the “LEGER” paper tags or labels
from the plugs during the Six Months ending 17th DECEMBER, 1893, FIFTEEN POUNDS ...
For the Second Highest Quantity, TEN POUNDS
For the Third Highest Quantity, SEVEN POUNDS TEN SHILLINGS ...
For the Fourth Highest Quantity, FIVE GUINEAS
For the Fifth Highest Quantity, FIVE POUNDS .. .. .. .- »
For the Sixth Highest Quantity, THREE GUINEAS
For the Seventh Highest Quantity, TWO GUINEAS
For the Eighth Highest Quantity, TWO POUNDS
Competition closes December 17,1893. Tickets must be sent in not later than December 21,1893.
Competitors in Town, Country, or Suburbs must send in their Tags securely packed and sealed, with Name and
Address in full. Each parcel will be opened on December 23,1893, in the presence of a committee of gentlemen, and
the public may be present to see the contents counted.
We ask all smokers to try this new Brand—" LEGER.” It only costs ONE SHILLING to test the accuracy of
our statement that the “LEGER” is the best dark tobacco ever offered. Try it, and judge for yourselves. One
Shilling will purchase a block the same size, but of superior quality, to what you have been paying Is. 3d. and often
Is. 6d. fqr. The proof of the pudding is in the eating!
Ask for the “liegor” Tobacco—Price, Is. per Block.
“ Leger ” has oaugb.t on I
Try the BEST VALUE in the Colony, and the chance of a good, fat Christmas Box. Something for nothing, and
your week’s-supply 25 per cent, cheaper.
£l5 0 0
10 0 0
7 10 0
5 5 0
5 0 0
3 3 0
3 2 0
3 0 0
Parcels of Tags will be received by Mr. M. SIMMONS, Haymarket, SYDNEY, who is
authorised by the Manufacturers to pay the Cash Bonuses to the successful competitors.
Country Storekeepers can obtain a Sample FREE, FREE, FREE, forwarded to any part of
New South Wales on application to our Agent,
Mr. M. SIMMONS,
HAYMABKET, SYDNEY.
Miscellaneous.
Marsha li? s paddi ngtolS
BREWERY, Limited.
NOTICE is hereby given that the ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Shareholders will
be held at the Mercantile Mutual Chambers, No.
118 Pitt-street, Sydney, at 3 p.m. on MONDAY,
28th August, 1893.
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance
Sheet to 31st July, 1893.
To elect two Directors in the room of H. C.
Gleeson, Esq., and W. Trotter, Esq., who
retire in accordance with the Articles of
Association, and are eligible for re-elec-
tion.
To appoint two Auditors in the place of M.
Franckel and John Rowland, Esqs., who
retire, and are eligible for re-election.
And to transact any other business which
may be brought before the meeting in
accordance with the Articles of Associa-
tion,
By order of the Board.
JOHN BEVERIDGE,
Secretary.
CANDIDATES must give notice in writing of
their candidature at least fourteen days prior tr
date of meeting.
H. O. GLEESON and W. TROTTER, Esqs.,
have given the requisite notice that they are
Candidates for re-election asDirectors, and LOUIS
RICH, Esq., has given notice that he is a Candi-
date for the position of Director.
Messrs. M. FRANCKEL and J. ROWLAND
have given notice that they are Candidates for re-
election as Auditors, and Messrs. N. F. GIBLIN,
J. SALENGER and FRED. FULL WOOD have
given notice that they are Candidates for the posi-
tion of Auditor.
NEWBY’S LINCTUS
(REGISTERED).
m
m
&3T The only thoroughly
reliable Remedy for
COUGHS, COLDS
BRONCHITIS
AMD
INFLUENZA.
It can now be had of all
Chemists, in Is, and 2s.
bottles.
Sole Proprietor:
T. H, FOOT, Pharmaceutical Chemist,
Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
3ity Retail Agency—J. S. Abraham, Chemist, George-st.
Wholesale of Elliott ik Others. Limited
“CLOTHED WITH AIR, ”
Cellular Aertex Underclothing
FOR WINTER COMFORT.
A consignment of the Celebrated Unshrinkable Merino
Singlets and Pants just opened.
NATURAL MERINO SINGLETS (J sleeves), 7s. «d.
NATURAL MERINO PANTS, 7s. 6(1.
This Line is specially recommended as being easily
washed, unshrmkable, and very durable.
ECRU COTTON SINGLETS, 4s. Gil.
ECRU COTTON PANTS, ss.
When Ordering by Post, state Chest and Waist measure-
ments, also height, and include in Postal Order or
Cheque amount to prepay carriage.
Price-list and Pamphlet sent post free to any address.
Sole Agents :
BEAHAB Si MUTCH, 76 King-st., SYDNEY,
RUPTURE CURED!
in
Dr. Pierce's Celebrated Mag-
netic Elastic Truss is curing
cases of rupture in all parts of the
world and giving relief to thousands
of sufferers. This entire newspaper
oouidbe filled withlettersliketbese:
A Resident of London.
Mr. John King, of N 0.17 Sturgeon
Road, Surrey Garden’s Estate, S.E.,
says:—“l feel so delighted that I
must write to you about the Truss I
had of you. I have had no trouble
with it or seen any rupture since I
have worn your Truss. Xtfitssoeasy
that I don’t notice that I have gota
Truss on. I d on’t worry now as I did
with the old steel trusses.l can j ump
off and on ’busses with safety: can even dance, and no sign
of its return ; itholds everything firm andsure.”
From Belize, British Honduras.
Mb. J.ToMASKLLI.of the Government House, under data
of December 9,1892, writes: —“On the 17th of last April I got
one of your trusses andithas already nearly cured me of a
very bad rupture of about 26 years r standing. I tried all
kinds of trusses, but they made me worse. Your Truss has
done what doctors and trusses have not been able to do in
26years. You may publish my letter for the good of tbo
afflicted.” _ .
Latest from New Zealand.
Mb. T.W. Naebet, of Akaroa, Canterbury, in aletterda ted
Peb.2l,lB93,says: “I receivedtheTrussingoodorderand am
§ladtosay itjits me liheaglove. I can ride with ease, lift,in fact,
o anything, and don’t feel sore or chafed. No more steel
trusses for me while I can get one of yours
B®*Oall orwrite to-day forourfree “111 ust.PamphletNo,
1,” and please mention this paper. Address the Australian
agents. Messrs. W.H. Sou IAOo., 168PittSt.. Sydney' Elliott
Bros., Brisbane; or, the Magnetic Elastic Trra Co.,
No. 704 Sacramento Sx„ San Fbancisco, Cal.; U. S. A
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, August 15,1893.
riIENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
JL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Govkbnmknx Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o’clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 23.
Supply of Steel Cable Tramway Ropes for King'
street to Ocean-street Tramway
Erection of Engineer’s Cottage, Parkes Water
Supply
Bridge over Parmer’s Creek, road Bowenfels to
Wallerawang, at Ooerwull ; fresh tenders
Manufacture within the colony, Supply, &0., of
Pumping Machinery, contract No. 4, Joril-
derie Water Supply
Pipelaying, contract No. 5, Dubbo Water Supply
Erection of School of Mines, University of Sydney
Dining, &c., Room, Hospital for Insane, Glades
ville.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6.
Construction of Timber Truss Bridge, with Iron
Piers, over the Murrumbidgee River at Wagga
Wagga
Pipelaying, contract No 5, Moss Vale Water
Supply
Pipelaying, contract No. 4, Nowra Water Supply.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
A thousand bundles of firewood having
been chopped without any charge by the poor
tramps and criminals in the Church Army Labour
Homes, application was made as to whether
Princess May of Tick would accept them as a
wedding present, to which the following reply was
sent“l am begged by Princess May to say that
slm will gladly accept the bundles of firewood
which the Labour Home Brothers wish to chop
for her, and to say how much touched she is at
their wish to give her a wedding present, which
she will value most highly.” All is fish to the
royal net. Royalty sent no cheque to the miserable
wood-cutters.
One day last week a man named Walter
Gale was found lying on the floor of an otherwise
untenanted house at Carlton (Melb.). He ap-
peared to be suffering from starvation, so two
constables took him, with the best of intentions,
to_ the local police-court, where the Bench com-
mitted the case to the gaol hospital. On his way
to gaol, in a cab, the object of compassion died.
He was taken to the Morgue, and is doubtless
doing well by this time :
A simple tale of Walter Gale.
In “stickless” cottage, lying
Upon the ground, two “peelers ” found
This foolish person dying.
They, therefore, brought him into court—
The court-house being handy ;
The Bench said ; “ Gaol for Walter Gale,
He looks uncommon thin and pale—
Commit the case—for brandy 1 ”
A cab they hail, and Waller Gale
Is moved again, instanter ;
The pace is hot—betwixt a trot
And Carlton eab ’orse canter.
“ Sound grog and food will do him good,”
The “ traps ” think (tender-hearted).
A bit ton late ! He couldn’t wait ;
Before they reach the prison-gate
His spirit had departed.
No mourners wail for Walter Gale,
The hero of our story ;
'Twere vain regret ; he’s bound to get
Refreshments up in Glory.
’Tis plain as how he is not now
In need of earthly succour;
Hip, hip, hooray ! for Law’s delay
Whereby he slowly slipped away
Because he wanted “ tucker.”


AUSTRALIAN
MUTUAL
PROVIDENT SOCIESTY
ESTABLISHED 1849,
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established in Australasia, and the only one which
DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR.
DißKCTOns— The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.L.A., Chairman; JAMES R. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman; J. T. WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN,
J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary; RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.E.A.
Annual Income: Two Millions sterling- Accumulated Funds: Over Eleven Millions sterling. The CASH BONUS for the One Year
of over One Million sterling.
Kecfad <o>£o.oe: o*7 IF* ITT STREET, S'STXDIKriES'Sr.
, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq.; A. W. MEEKS, Esq.; ROBT
1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses
ROBERT B. CAMERON, Secretary.
D
FD
—Kaurtwlclt, September 3. 180*
25,000 at 10 25,000
OX73- —Flemlnglon, N'ovelnbcr 7, 180*
100,000 m~ at 30 100,000
REGISTER TO
GKOKGIi; ADAMS,
Owner Tattersall’s Hotel &
Old Club Premises, Pitt-st.,
Sydney, N.S. W.
THE BEST
ARSAPARILLA
AYER’S
BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIC
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
giP® Beware of cheap imitations.
The name Ayer’s Sarsaparilla —is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself.
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever,
Beneficial as a Diet in severe oases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extracts from Prof. Ziernssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
‘‘Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” — Prof. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Yol. XVI.
“In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” — Prof. Senator.
On SOROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
Indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Bikoh-Hiksch fe ld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S
'‘Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore Throats, Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes :
It is a lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is. per Bottle.
WM. AYTOUN SILVER.-As your mother
is dead, and your sister anxious to hear
from you, please communicate with the under-
signed. Any person supplying reliable informa-
tion of the present address of the abovenamed if
living, or certificate of death if dead, will receive
£lO on application to Manager, Union Bank,
Maryborough, Queensland.
ADAMS’
| TATTERSALL’S HOTEL |
PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
rpHE extensive ALTERATIONS and ADDITIONS to the
above old-established and popular Hotel being now
completed, arrangements can be effected for accommoda-
tion WITH or WITHOUT BOARD.
Fittings , Furnishings and Surroundings of a superior
quality. Electric Light. Charges strictly moderate.
Table d’Hote DAILY at 1 p.m.
The new Palace Bar is now the popular Rendezvous.
Luxurious Marble Fittings. Artistic Panel Paintings.
Wines and Spirits of the choicest Brands only.
Fitt Street, Sydney.
TOHCKII3O!
Liinnnrrrin
in
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is ‘-THE CRESCENT,” situated 63p
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE," situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor CEO. W. ELMS.
C H E A P_M U S I C.
PRINCESS MAY WALTZ, with Portrait of H.R.H. The
Duchess of York, and 1000 other Waltzes, Songs, Duets,
&c., at 3d. each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers;
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AXD
251 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
rafc « / , ,
V>* Env
from
every flower that
breathes a frasrrance
SWEET SCENTS
LOXOTIS OPOPONAX
V FRANGI PAN N 1 PSIDIUM,
May be obtained
Of any Chemist or
Perfumer.
cA
O'-
Beware of imitations .. Th egen nine issign e<
F
D
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MERLIN'S
LACTO-GLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
ADAM BEDE’S
Consultations.
All the Year Round on Principal Events.
Our Printed Circulars Posted to any Address.
CAUTION,
The PUBLIC are respectfully requested to be
careful of a person sending out circulars pur-
porting to come from us. Such a person is an
IMPOSTOR trading on our name.
Our
ONLY Vis
Address J
Adam. Bede,
Post Office Chambers,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
M. 4.1, MOLONEY,
134 a PITT STREET (near King Street),
(opposite Gunaler’s)
SYDNEY.
Commissions Executed on following events :
Epsom & Metropolitan.
500 TO 1.
Caulfield Cup and Melbourne Cup.
Straight-out books on the above.
Now Open at Prices from 100 to 1 to 5.
V.R O: Derby and Melbourne Cup,
200 to 1 this double (3 chances).
Caulfield & Melbourne Cups,
1000 to 1 (or any portion) Tins DOUBLE.
THREE CHANCES.
5. EACH.
V
5. EACH-
[MON*
FD
F
ON THE
CA NTERB UR Y 'HA NDICAP.
August 19. (For Horses Only.)
At 5 Each ifc-iT” 4000 ‘igj At 5 Each
First .. .. 800
Second .. .. 200
Third .. .. 100
S. and N.S. d. equally 400
Less 10 per cent.
Important Notice. Subscribers register and
address Letters to
H. Alexander, 67 Oxford Street, SYDNEY.
Early application is necessary,
“Yorkshireman’s” selections
—FOR—
EPSOM and METROPOLITAN,
CAULFIELD CUP,
V.R.C. DERBY and MELBOURNE CUP
Should be obtained at once.
Suburban meetings (Horses and Ponies) can be bad as
usual. Prospectus on application. See Rkfrrkf, Nkws
and Star. “ YORKSHIREMAN,” c/o VV. J. Frank,
S Ridge-street, Surry Hills, SYDNEY.
THE NAECMA ESTATE,
W ellington.
VERY ABSOLUTE and POSITIVE SALE
of about
7000 Acres of Rich Agricultural and
Orchard Lands,
Sub-divided into large and small areas, forming
portion of the
CELEBRATED and EAR-FAMED NANIMA
ESTATE, situated at Wellington, N.S.W.,
on the GREAT WESTERN LINE OF
RAILWAY, with the further advantage of
having
THE MARYVALE RAILWAY STATION
on one portion of the property.
The NANIMA ESTATE, of which Mary vale is
a portion, has been carefully sub-divided by
Messrs. Atchison and Schleicher into
TOWNSHIP LOTS, SUBURBAN AREAS
AND FARM BLOCKS,
Delightfully situated on the banks of the MAC-
QUARIE RIVER, immediately adjacent to
The TOWN OF WELLINGTON,
20 miles from Dubboand 00 from Orange.
NANIMA, including MARYVALE,
either adjoins or is near to the following well-
known Estates :
GOBOLION, the far-famed property of J. A.
Gardiner, Esq.; APSLEY, owned by E. A.
Gaden, Esq.; and the properties of Messrs.
A’Beckett, Barton, and Cureton, the latter
being laid out with great care and expense for
AN IRRIGATION ORCHARD.
WELLINGTON IS ONE OF THE MOST
PROSPEROUS TOWNS IN THE WEST,
and the Climate and Soil are very suitable to
the extension and further settlement of
FARMERS, GRAZIERS, ORCHARDISTS,
&C. &c
TOWN LOTS vary from I ACRE to 3 ACRES ;
SUBURBAN AREAS, from 3 ACRES to 12
ACRES;
FARM BLOCKS, from 30 ACRES to 200
ACRES,
And will be offered so that purchasers may in-
crease these Areas by buying Consecutive Lots.
THE CHARACTER OF THE COUNTRY is
as follows :
The Frontages consist of Well-grassed Arable
Flats and gently undulating Ridges, lightly
timbered with box and apple tree. The Back
Portions consist of Rich Wheat-growing Land,
with higher box country, eminently adapted for
Grazing Purposes. The MACQUARIE RIVER
bounds the property for miles, and there are some
VERY RICH ALLUVIAL FRONTAGES.
GOOD ROADS are made for miles through the
estate, and, in addition to river and creek front-
ages, ample provision has been made for water
by dams, water-holes, &c., &c.
UNDERGROUND WATER
may be tapped on almost any part of the property
at a very moderate depth. Many years of great
effort and much money have been expended
on this estate in bringing it to its present
cleared and fruitful farm position ; indeed,
some 500 to GOO acres have been for years
under wheat, lucerne, corn, fruit, and orchard
cultivation. Theotherportion is under-cleared,
and yields abundant grasses of a rich feeding
quality. The rainfall is large, and the district
(1000 ft. above sea level) is peculiarly sheltered
from the biting winds which prevail at
greater altitudes. Recently farmers from Vic-
toria and visitors from England have settled at
Wellington, and their work of a real and pro-
fitable character is apparent, and only needs
inspection to excite admiration. The rich and
fertile valleys of the WELLINGTON Dis-
trict, with the surrounding hills, form quite
an amphitheatre; and the solidity of the
country, with happy, prosperous and con-
tented settlement, form object lessons of the
highest character. The Auctioneers, with
confidence, invite inspection before the day of
sale, which is fixed to take place at WEL-
LINGTON, on SATURDAY, AUGUST
26, 1893. From its exceptionally advan-
tageous position, NANIMA offers particu-
larly favourable opportunities alike for a
mixed system of Farming and Dairying, com-
bined with fattening and wool-growing, and
as a site for a Stock Depot or Meat-chilling
Works is second to none on the Western line ;
indeed, a great market for produce of all kinds
is already established at Bourke. The mineral
resources of the district are considerable, and
a large gold-mining industry (Mitchell’s
Creek) is being successfully carried on in the
immediate vicinity. The route of the Werris
Creek-Wellington line is laid off through the
property, and it is probable it will be con-
structed in the near future.
The title is Torrens. The Terms of Sale have
been arranged to suit the various classes of
lands and of purchasers, and are as follows :
20 per cent, deposit and balance in four annual
payments at per cent., or 25 per cent,
deposit and the balance in 5 years secured by
a fixed mortgage at 6 per cent., or 331 per
cent, deposit and the balance in 12 months at
5 per cent., or the balance may be paid for in
CASH. Lithographs, together with descrip-
tive particulars can be obtained on application
to the Auctioneers, 133 Pitt-street, Sydney.
Messrs. NORTON, SMITH and CO., Solicitors,
O’Connell-street, Sydney.
HARDIE and GORMAN (in conjunction
with Mr. W. P. Pridham, of Wellington)
have received instructions to sell bv public auction,
at WELLINGTON, on SATURDAY, AUGUST
26th, 1893, the above-described property, known
as NANIMA, including MARYVALE.
The Auctioneers desire to d ; rect special atten-
tion to the Important Pastoral Interests in con-
nection with the disposal of this very fine pro-
perty, and to point out themany profitable advan-
tages that may accrue by the starting of Dairy
Farming on a large scale ; also by the erection of
Butter Factories, &c. This class of country is
exceptionally adapted for such enterprise, or foi-
sted farms, the facilities afforded by rail carriage
being specially good. AGRICULT'U RESTS will
do well to pay attention to the chances of this
sale, and the VIGNERON and ORCHARpIST
can profitably indulge in Vine and Fruit Culture,
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Abgus fires off two columns of Andrew
Lang on golf, written by special request. Simply Hebrew,
* * #
Two Melbourne amateurs fought to a gory finish
in Albert Park on Tuesday last week. They were a baker
and a wood-merchant’s assistant—both light weights.
# # #
The Australians collapsed in the Kent match
through “over confidence,” it appears. Now a British
team usually collapses in consequence of the “irresistible
bowling ” of Turner, or Trumble, or somebody.
ff # •
The bowling of Essex man Mead against the
Australians was very fine. Seventeen wickets for an
average of 12 runs—the rainfall improving his average
from 15 in the first innings to 8J in the second,
* » #
The stories about Giffen and Goningham are not
untrue, all of them, but the chief reason for letting the
latter man “stand down” so often has been his tom-
foolery in the field, they say. He makes an undignified
show of himself.
» * *
Only four members of the Lord Sheffield Eleven
played for All England this week, and but for Briggs
being amongst them,, the old bowling talent would have
changed entirely. Australian cricket is not so much out-
classed as outnumbered. First-class players here come on
one and two at a time, whilst in England, with its ten or
a dozen big cricketing counties, there is so much the
more “ new blood ” always in circulation.
# # #
The choosing of an All England team is a more
genuine business than of yore, when men who had passed
their day, or were quite out of practice, used to be put
in from year to year because of their names. The lot
picked for the Oval match of this week might have been
improved, nevertheless. Either Wainwright or Brow nis
a better bat than Briggs, and a better bowler on a bad
wicket. All three of the Surrey bowlers should have
played, seeing that they won both matches against the
Australians for their county. Mold w’as substituted for
one of the Surrey men, and however Mold may have hap-
pened to come off this time, it is certain that he couldn’t
take Australian wickets on former occasions this season.
As a batsman, he averages a “duck” or thereabouts.
# * *
Bannerman carried his bat out in the second
innings of the Kent match. He was in throughout the
innings for 7 runs. The innings lasted one hour and
three-quarters. Cheerful,
* # »
A remarkable circumstance, remarks a Bulletin
correspondent writing by last mail, is that in England, so
far, Lyons had been unable to score off Peel. He had made
but seven runs from the Yorkshireman’s bowling in the
season.
* * #
Amateur pug. Jack Dougharty, the genial stock
and station agent (Slavin’s backer), filed his schedule in
Melbourne last week ; liabilities, £15,310 ; assets, £1325.
Amongst the assets is the dishonoured cheque of Johnel
Sullivan for £lOO, wdiich amount Dougharty lent Johnel
to enable him to get out of Victoria.
# # «
The name of Hon. W. Pearson, who died last
week, will live in Australian turf history in connection
with his splendid horse Commotion, winner of the Cham-
pion Stakes in ’B3 and ’B5. Also, in mining history re
the golden Long Tunnel at Walhalla.
* # #
Mr. Pearson was one of the most luckless turf-
owners in Vic. history. He may have lost a quarter
million, during his 40 years battle with the books., from
blue-nosed Tom Coker to red-languaged Joe.
* # *
“Mick” Jenkins, killed in a steeplechase at
Sandown Park (Melb.) the other Friday, belonged to an
ill-fated family. Two of his brothers had been previously
killed in flat races, so it would seem to have been a case
of more pluck than judgment with all three of them.
• * *
Carbine’s fee reduced, 200 gs. to lOOgs. Highest
in England, 250—Hermit, Isonomy, Common.


Established 1876.
D
I WRITE
/ D?
/ HAIR’S
I TREATISE
«N
ASTHMA,
ron
/<h
Q
FD
Agents:
sour
Rocke,
Sydney. Elliott Bro?.]
BhISBAWE: flll0tt8f0»(° /
ude : nTEauTdlng y(°. /
EU
lucklahd: sna7land &C? .si? s>.
fjW Treatise and Testimonials frge
iwyAddress^am’^'^
2/6
RELIABLE MEDICAL ADVICE
Dr. Baldwin
L.E.C.P. and S.
(Registered bt the Medical Board op N.S.W.)
May be consulted at the moderate Fee of 2/6,
daily from 9.30 a.m. to 8 p.m.
In these times of great depression it is
a matter of impossibility for a great
many to pay the fees usually charged
for medical advice ; we hope, therefore,
that our new departure will meet with
as liberal patronage as has been accorded
to our Chemist’s business in the past,
and which enables us to sell
PURE DRUGS, PATENT MEDICINES
And CHEMISTS’ SUNDRIES
LONDON & NEW YORK PRICES.
OUR DENTISTRY DEPARTMENT
IS CONDUCTED BT
Dr. H. A. BETTS
Of the Philadelphia College of Dental
Surgery.
We guarantee Perfect Fit of our Artificial Teeth.
UDper or Lower Sets from JB2 2s.
Full from JE4 4s.
Dr. BALDWIN will administer chloroform or
ether for the extraction of teeth at the mode-
rate charge of
FIVE SHILLINGS.
Extraction under Laughing Gas, 10/6
Correspondence promptly attended to and Price
Lists forwarded upon application .
The Cosmos Apothecaries Co.
The C
J PHYSICIANS, CHEMISTS, & DENTISTS,
Ik 674 GEORGE ST.,
BRICKFIELD HILL.
DOCTORS RECOMMEND BEAST’S PATENT
IKVICDBAjm?
LAniES, MAIDS, GIRLS,
BOYS.
The COUNTESS OF SUFFOLK, Aug.
26, ’9O, says:—“l think them such very
good stays, and those you scut for my
daughter answered admirably.”
“SALON,” May, ’9O: “It is the Queen
of Corsets. They are delightfully comfort-
able, and give great relief to the back.”
Dr. O. Kelly L.R.C.P., Edin , says he be-
lieves it is the best invention of the kind for
Improving the carriage and appearance of the
figure without the injurious effects of the ordi-
nary Corset, EVEN WHEN TIGH'I LACED.
Don’t be put off with old shapes ; insist on
having our new long waist. If any difficulty m
Obtaining from Drapers’ write Patentee, 15,
Olaremont. Hastings, England.
FOR SALE (Cheap).— Quad-Demy Two-feeder
WHABFKDALE PRINTING PRESS, by
Dawson and Sons. In good order. Apply
Manager, this office; or to John Close, Engineer,
393 Kent-street, Sydney.
.
I
m/
it
Wik
wm
m
m
/
m
The most Suitable and Scientific Soap for Delicate Skins.
CHOICE SCENTS, DELICATE ACTION, PfKEST MATERIALS.
“An ideal Soap, delightfully perfumed "-Chemist and Druggist (London). In five kmds-
Premier, Floral, Balsamic (Medical), Atto (Toilet) and Vestal.
PUREST.
SAFEST.
BEST
Depots/
,Rylaad Road
R)/VDON'^^
FOR ITCHING ECZEMA,',
ROUGHNESS 1 & SKJ-frJ IRRITATION
For SUNBURN, INSECT BITES,
PRICKLY HEAT, &c.
In Three- Sizes.
■
1 '' BLONDEft,U&C! E
De A London. Pa d (s7. ncwYork
4 °A C~~~ - v VJ r^~ T ‘ A
kpRvLAND RoAP-fr Lon con kvjc/S)
For Toilet, Nursery&i
A SANITARY, SOLiUBIjB ROSB-
DUSTING POWDER.
In Three Sizes-in Pink, White and Cream Tint*.
CAN
BE OBTAINED THROUGHOUT THE
WORLD.
FD
Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
Os
AsTc for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Bottle and Stopper.
Wholesale and for Export h, the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse $ Blackwell, London, sc., sc. j
and bp Grocers and Oilmen throughout the Wot la.
Agents: Messes. VIKGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO.. SYDNEY.
Positively tire Best Hair-Dressing.
H ARLENE
, WORLD-RENOWNED HAIR PRODUCER AND RESTORER.
AFTER USB.
POSITIVELY FORCES
LUXURIANT HAIR,
WHISKERS,
AND
MOUSTACHIOS
AFTER USE.
To grow heavily in a few weeks, without injury to the Skin.
The World-Renowned
Remedy
FOR BALDNESS
From whatever
cause arising.
As a producer of Whiskers and Moustaohios it has never beer, equalled. Asa Ourer
of Weak and Thin Eyelashes, or Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Coloiu, nc\ei fails.
r~———————— 000000 1 ■
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless and devoid of any metallic or other injurious ingredient.
Is 2s. 6d. 3s. 6d., and ss. 6d. per Bottle, from the leading Merchants, Chemists,
’’ ‘ ’ Hair Dressers and Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
M.VN'UFACTL’IiKU OM.V BY
EDWARDS & CO., 95, HIGH HOLBORN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
A Thousand Pounds for a Kiss.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
At a charity bazaar in Vienna an Englishman offered
£lOOO for a single kiss from the Marchioness Pnllavioini.
He got it, and put down a £lOOO Bank of England
note to pay for it.— Extract from daily paper.
Vienna’s holy churchmen once proclaimed a fancy
fair,
Vienna s lords and noble dames were congregated
there;
The arts 1 won’t enumerate —you’ve all been there
before—
To make us bid reluctant coins farewell for ever-
more ;
Pallavicini’s gentle spouse in beauty reigned
alone,
They crowned her Queen of Love and Joy and
worshipped at the throne ;
Thence right and left she scattered nods and becks
and wreathed smiles,
And fascinated young and old with Cleopatrian
wiles.
“Now all my loyal citizens this tariff I impose—
One hundred golden crowns pay down for every
royal rose,
Two hundred in my treasury will buy a bouquet
rare,
Each bound by slender ringlets of my lustrous
auburn hair,
And from those taper fingers I’ll blow to you a
kiss ;
’Tis wond’rous cheap at fifty pounds, the gold
you’ll never miss ;
But, lo ! the love-lorn knight who dares those lips
to osculate
Shall plank a thousand pounds upon the queen’s
subscr i ption -plate. ”
Eftsoons, a wealthy English lord, on amorous
conquests bent,
Inspired by love and Tokay, not by generous
intent,
Drew forth a Bank of England note, ye gods ! a
thousand pounds;
Straightway a kiss from ruby lips through all the
haH,resounds.
The noble Count, her husband, grinned obso
quiously nigh,
When lip met lip to pay the debt, he winked the
other eye :
“I’ faith, the Countess and milord are welcome to
such pranks,
While kisses sell each one for five-and-twenty
thousand francs.’’
The Bishop liked the jest full well, and counted
it no sin.
Mayhap a trifle naughty, but it raked the shekels
in;
Thus e’en at holy church bazaars Vice spreads her
tempting snares,
And under saintly patronage sweet Virtue’s mantle
wears ;
Our noble British plutocrat took stock and pon-
dered then,
“If thousands one can kisses buy, what can’t I
get for ten ?
This tender lady’s heart I’ll ope with Mammon «
golden key,
And her affections I’ll besiege with tons of £ s. d.
On all my Irish tenantry I’ll saddle ten per cent,
I’ll raise my London tenements to reach starvation
rent, .
At Hull my sturdy union men with blacklegs 111
replace
On reconstruction’s wages then my losses I’ll
efface;
I’ll grind the faces of the poor, their bitter tears
ignoi’e,
While foreign charity bazaars for English aid im-
plore ;
And pious parsons preaching to the lower orders
tell,
Humility must practised be under penalty of
hell.
Welcome Pocket, Cairns, N.Q.
D.H.
The Cook Islands, in Polynesia, have been
for many years governed by missionaries, who
regulate the criminal and civil code, and make
a hell for the nigger among his cocoa-nut groves.
Government Resident Moss, sent there some little
time ago to take charge, thus reports on the joys
of parsonical rule when the “shepherd gets
uppermost: —
Punishment is inflicted in the shape of a fine involving
the suspension of church membership, the fines being
paid to the police. Suspension of church membership
means boycotting and liability to imprisonment. Crimi-
nals are termed “ filth from the irons ” till their peace is
made with the church. Fines are generally paid by
natives, but Europeans, called “ papaas ” in the verna-
cular, may sin, and the fines cannot be collected. One
European fined 15dol. paid instead a box of matches, a bar
of soap, and some calico eaten by rats, which the
Queen was forced to accept; hut when her own cousin
was fined sdol. and could not afford to pay, the church
officials took his boat, although it was his only means of
livelihood. For sorcery there is a fine of 5d01.; visiting a
village other than one’s own on Sunday entails a fine of
sdol. ; if a man cries for a dead woman who was not
related to him the fine is 15dol. If a man puts his arm
round a woman’s waist in the road at night and has a
torch in his hand he goes free; if he has no torch he is
fined lOdol. These fines are divided among the police,
and in the hunt after cases the police enter houses by
night and extort confession from women by torture. Mr.
Moss found three policemen mounting guard over six
girls imprisoned in a dark hole. Another practice was to
make them stand on a 4in. drumhead for long hours with
their hands raised over their heads holding a stick, any
lowering of which brought a sharp rap on the elbow from
the policeman’s cane.
Dear Paraguay argonauts,
did von ever hear of the Martin’s Bay (M.L.)
expedition? About 25 years ago a party of
Methodists left Maldon (Vic.) on a similar lay.
They were going to be all brothers and sisters.
One of their shining lights was a Yankee local-
preacher. Well, they got agrant of land from the
M.L. Government, near Martin’s Bay. The land
was good, the waters were full of fish, they had
seeds and tools for working the land and fixing a
sawmill, and every needed, &c., &c. Same
old yarn. One fellow would think he was doing
too much and knock off. Another would follow
suit. So they got into a bad state, although eivch
family had a hut and did its own ivashiny-up. The
Yankee got a billet as postman, going once a week
over the mountains to a good-sized town for the
mail. Govt, paid him, and he had a good time.
Well, things got worse and worse, although any-
thing put into the ground grew up for the asking.
They got lazy and discontented. The Yank, who
saw how things were shaping, suggested that he
should stump the country and raise funds to
relieve the distress of the Martin’s Bay settlers.
Carried unanimously. Oft went the Yank and
did well. You can imagine the rest of the story
so far as that Yankee is concerned. The settlers
broke away one by one. I worked in N.S. Wales
with the last man to leave the place. He was the
laziest man I ever saw.—Yours, Loo.


WHAT CURES PIMPLES
F
DF
The only really successful prevent-
ive and cure of pimples, blotches,
blackheads, red, rough, and oily skin,
and most complexional disfigurations,
is that greatest of all Skin Purifiers
and Beautifiers, the celebrated Cuti-
cura Soap. For irritating and scaly
humors of the scalp, with dry or fall-
ing hair, red, rough hands, chaps,
painful finger ends with shapeless
nails, and simple humors of the skin
and scalp of infancy and childhood, it
is simply infallible.
CUTICURA SOAP
A marvellous beautifier of world-wide celebrity, Cuticura Soap is simply incom-
parable as a Skin-Purifying Soap, unequalled for the Toilet, and without a rival for
the Nursery. Absolutely pure-, delicately medicated, exquisitely perfumed, it produces
the whitest, clearest skin, and softest hands, and prevents inflammation and clogging
of the pores, the cause of pimples, blotches, blackheads, red and oily skin, and most
complexional disfigurations. It derives its remarkable medicinal properties from
Cuticura, the great skin cure, but so delicately are they blended with the purest of
toilet and nursery soap stocks that the result is a medicated toilet soap incomparably
superior to all other skin and complexion soaps, while rivalling in delicacy and sur-
passing in purity the most noted and expensive of toilet and nursery soaps. For the
prevention of facial blemishes, for giving a brilliancy and freshness to the com-
plexion, and for cleansing the scalp and invigorating the hair, it is without a peer.
Sale greater than the combined sales of all other skin soaps. Sold everywhere. 25c.
Skins on Fire
with Itching and Burning Eczemas, and other itching,
scaly, and blotchy skin and scalp diseases, are relieved
by a single application, and speedily, permanently, and
economically cured by ClltiCUra Remedies, the greatest Skin Cures, Blood Purifiers, and
Humor Remedies of modern times. Price: Cuticura, the great Skin Cure, 50 cents; Cuticura
Soap, 25 cents; Cuticura Resolvent, the new Blood Purifier, $l.OO. Prepared by Potter Drug
and Chemical Corporation, Boston, U. S. A. 455““ All about the Blood, Skin, Scalp, and
Hair,” 64 Pages, 300 Diseases, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent. "
/eveh
\* QU b*P?MD.NG
D
ft Pleasure us £
Mr. HENRY
IRVING- writes
“ I find your
Razors excel-
lent.”
KROPP
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW-GHOUNO
From all Dealers,
or Street from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
RAZOR
MILWARD'S
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
mm
SHARPS
F
STANDARD NEEDLES.
STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery.
NEWEST DESIGNS, at Makers’ Prices, all Government Hall-marked, DIRECT from their HEAD ESTABLISHMENT, LONDON.
Ususify
Sa'jS
at £ll/M's.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 108.
Ladies’ 18-cfc. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 10.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
513.-
-Q.H.M. 9-ct. Gold Brooch, 9/6.
Ditto Silver, 2/6.
T Kil,
True
Lover’s
Knot
Brooch.
With Charm Lucky Bell.
514.—G.H.M. 9ct. Gold, £1; 15-ct., £1 15.
518.-O.H.M. 9-ot. Gold Broooh, 15/6.
Ditto, Silver, 4/6.
DF
The
New
Lucky
Bell.
516.—Brooch of unique design,
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 12/6.
.3
518.—G.H.M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, £1
388.-Suite Studs, G.H.M.
Very Strong-,
t-ct. Gold, 12/6; 15-ct. £1 5.
Silver, 3s.
226.-Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
The “Nuptial” Brooch.
505.-G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold
and 2 Diamonds, £3 3.
227.—Set G.H.M. Links,
9-ct. Gold, 18/6;
15-ct., £1 15; Silver, SS.
IU
224.—G.H.M. 15-ct.
Gold, 12/6; Silver, 2/6.
225.—Combination Pin and
Stud, Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Gold, £2.
The New Lucky Belle. Latest London Novelty.
756.-G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold 6-Bell Bracelet, £2.
755.—G.H.M. Silver Bracelet, 8 Bells, 7/6,
D
506.-G.H.M,
Diamond Centre,
15-ct. Brooch,
£1 15.
757.-G.H.M. 9-ot. Gold Bracelet, £2 10.
Ditto 15-ct. ditto £4 10.
FD
Ghana
Ball
*i against
Fascination.”
517.—Elegant Brooch, New Design.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 18/6; Silver, 5/6.
758.
-G.H.IJ. 9-ct. Gold Bracelet, fl 10.
Ditto Silver, 10,6.
819.—G.H.M. 15-ot. Gold Brooch, Set with Pine
Oriental Pearls, £3 10.
106. —Gent. ’s Albert.
G.H.M. 9-ct. £4 4; 15-ct. £6 15; Silver, 15/6. 107.—Gent.’s Albert. O.H.M. 9-ct. £3 12 6; 15-ct £5 17 6; Silver. 13 6.
126.— Elegant Seal to match either Albert. G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, 21/-; 16-ot. Gold, £1 17 6; Silver, 4/6.
F
35.—Single Stone Diamond
Ring, 18-ct. Gold, £lO 10s
Special Value.
36.—Ladies’ 5-st. Diamond
18-ct. Gold Ring, £5 5.
32.—18-ct. Gold Ring,
1 Diamond, 2 Rubies, £2.
33.—18-ct. Gold Ring,
7 Diamonds, 2 Sapphires,
£4 10.
25.—18-ct. Gold Massive
Wedding Ring, 21/-
18-ct. Keeper, same price.
For size of Ring, cut hole
in card.
No. 839.-G.H.M.
5-ct. Gold Earrings, 15/6.
50.—Electro - Silver Break-
fast Cruet and Spoons, 10/6
Delivered free, Is. extra.
«01.—G.H.M. Silver Match Box, 11/6.
A size smaller, 8 '6.
G.H.M. 9-ct. Gold, £2 10.
SeBW
520.—G.H.M. 15-ct. Gold Brooch, handsome
design, Diamond Centre, £3 5.
SOVEREIGN
DF
asarid
605. —G.H.M. Silver, 9/6. Plain ditto, 8 6
G.H.M. 9ct. Gold, engraved, £2 10.
621.—Elegant Bow Brooch.
G.H.M. 9-ct., 17 6; 15-ct., £1 10;
Silver, 5/-.
51.—Magnificent Oak and Silver Electro
Mounted Liqnpr Frame, 3 Fine Cu»
Bottles (11 inches long, 13 high), £3 10
Delivered Free, 2 6 extra.
NOTE.—The Letters CULM, stand for “Government Hall Marked.” Each Article being so Stamped Guarantees the Quality and protects the Buyer ;at the same time our Prices are about Half the Colonial Charges.
t'W° Add to Remittance for Post and Register; One Article, 6d.; Two, 9d.; Three, Is.; Six, Is. Cd.
VVe despatch Goods daily, post paid, at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address—
STEWART DAWSON & CO.
412 GEORGE STREET
SYDNEY, NS W.
Move On.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Move on ! ’Tis the voice of a master,
Spoken loud*lo his servant of toil;
His riches must multiply faster,
Wax fatter his share of the spoil—
The wages of workers must suffer,
To meet this his gilt hour of need,
Move on, must the man who dare murmtlr,
For the policeman is Greed.
Move on, and from dear ones go drifting,
While fruitlessly seeking for work ;
By State ostracised, ever shifting,
Outcast of cathedral and kirk —
There’s no church for him without riches,
No worshipper he for god Greed,
Move on, or dog’s death die in ditches,
For the policeman is Need.
Move on ! ’Tis the voice of King Belly,
Unceasingly craving for food ;
Till the starveling feels spite of Hell, ho
Must eat, let it cost what it would ;
Move on ! Aye, from toiling to thieving,
Go forward with motion aslant;
Move on, to Hell, there’s no retrieving,
For the policeman is Want.
Move on ! Yes, but good is kind Nature,
She lendeth not strength unto sin,
She cancelleth her stumbling creature,
She gathereth her sick children in ;
For now, like a shadow comes creeping
A Presence that catches the breath ;
Move on ! Hush, the loiterer’s sleeping,
For the policeman is Death.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.
“ I am not a coloured man, I was born
so.”—lrving Sayles.
He (an unregenerate bachelor) : “Do you,
think there will be men in heaven ? ” She : “ No!
They will want to go somewhere where they can
smoke.” —Ex.
Chamberlain says Gladstone’s Home Rule
Bill is “ a fraud from beginning to end.” Even if
it’s true, Chamberlain is not exactly the right
man to say it.
Colemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
The three (really five) percent, primage duty
now charged in Victoria on all goods which don’t
pay over 25 per cent, ad valorem, applies to news-
papers.
California now annually produces about
21,000,000ga1. of wine and 1,500, OOOgal. of brandy.
Of the former, home consumption absorbs from
0,000,000ga1. to 8.000,000ga1., of the latter about
3Jo,ooogal.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
In Nov., 1841, Daniel O’Connell, in the
Repeal Association, moved a vote of congratula-
tion to Victoria and Albert on the birth of Albert
Edward, and said he hoped the youngster, as
Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, would open the
restored Irish Parliament. That was 52 years
ago.
Premier Patterson (Vic.) can understand a
tax on unimproved land, but can’t fathom the
meaning of a tax on unimproved land values. He
should buy a corner block in Collins-street, Mel-
bourne, and then he would know all about it.
“In isolation our wants exceed our powers,
in society our powers exceed our wants.” —
Bastiat.
“Dealer in Money” is on a Collins-street
brass-plate. A rose by any other name will smell
as sweet.
Will W. H. Head (or anybody knowing
his whereabouts), son of Capt. Head, Kings Co.,
Ireland, and who left his home for Australia
about 14 years ago, please communicate with the
editor of The Bulletin.
An English woman writer at the Chicago
Pair discusses Mrs. Potter Palmet, President of
the Ladies’ Committee :
Mrs. Potter Paliner leads “Sassiety” here, and her
husband, a millionaire many times over, keeps a drinking
bar and hotel, otherwise known as the “Palmer House.”
Mrs. Palmer is a lady with the (here) usual white hair,
who drosses regularly in purple velvet, and wears dia-
monds at breakfast. Her style is founded on that of the
Duchesses, dear to the heart of readers of novelettes. She
has a retinue of 20 devoted females, and she stalks through
the buildings followed by this crowd of strangely-attired
creatures. It is the funniest sight in the world to see her
receive at the Women’s Reception Room in the Fair. She
sits upon an ivory chair ornamented with cow’s hoofs,
trophies of some relation in the slaughter-yards, I pre-
sume. The chair is upon a dais, and her court group
round her; then she hastily extends the tips of her
fingers to those who have fought into the front rank, and
after a few minutes she rises and languidly drawls through
her nose, “I dew grawnt no more audientzes to-dai,” and
so sails away with her 15 yards Of purple velvet train and
her famous pearls. “Oh, ain’t she elegant and lovely,”
cries the crowd.
Colemane & Sons (Ltd.), Eucalypte manu-
facturers, Cootamundra, N.S.W., will give three
gold medals for the highest tallies, shearing season
1893, as follows: One gold medal for the most
sheep shorn in one week by hand shears, also one
gold medal for the second highest tally by hand
shears for one week. Also one gold medal for the
most sheep shorn in one week by machines.
These gold medals are for the colony of New South
Wales only, and each medal will have the winner’s
name engraved on it. No shearer is allowed to
win these gold medals two years running. Tallies
tube signed by the manager of the shed, and for-
warded to Colemane & Sons, Ltd., Cootamundra,
N.S.W.
Some repairs were wanted lately at a
suspension bridge near Auckland (M.L.), and a
workman was sent to do them. The damage was
outside the parapet, so he took off his coat and
started to climb over the rail. He was just on top
of it when three ladies with umbrellas and
spectacles came that way, and promptly sizing
him up as a suicide they rushed shrieking along
the bridge and clasped him by the back of the
waistcoat. Two of them cried out wildly,
“ Pause, rash man ! ” or words to that effect, and
the third, in her irresponsible frenzy, belaboured
him with her umbrella. He hung on desperatelj
to the wire rope and turned to remonstrate with
them, but his words were drowned in cries of
“ Police!” and after a short but desperate struggle,
in the course, whereof his waistcoat and collar
were wrecked, they got him down and held him
until assistance should arrive. At least two
of them held him while the third lectured
him severely on the folly of self-destruction,
punctuating her remarks by sternly shaking her
umbrella at his head. And when at last the
matter was explained with much difficulty, the
trio sternly refused to pay for the ruined clothes
and the bruises, and went away looking like three
women who had been personally insulted.


D
FD
It is well-known to the public of Australia that Herr RASSMUSSEN (the celebrated Danish
Herbalist), of 547 George-street, Sydney, has devoted his whole life-time to the study of how to
prepare a genuine remedy for Affections of the Nerves, and it is not necessary to say that he has
succeeded, because it is known to every Australian that his Registered and World-renowned
ALPALINE VITALITY TILLS are without their equal in the world as a genuine and per-
manent cure for all Affections of the NERVES, no matter how caused, and there are, in Australia
to-day, thousands of walking monuments of the virtue this wonderful remedy contains, as a Nerve
luvigorator and Restorer.
Herr RASSMUSSEN is in possession of over 100,000 Genuine Testimonials from grate-
ful cured sufferers, as well as several Gold Medals, and it is not too much to say that his Remedies
have cured more than all others put together for the same complaint. . T ,
The ALPALINU VITALITY PILLS will cure the most obstinate Nervousness, Loss of
Memory, Despondency, Melancholia, Nervous Irritability, Nervous Dyspepsia, and all other Affec-
tions of the Brain and Nerves, no matter how caused. A trial of them is recommended to all sufferers
from above symptoms. A Special Powerful Course is posted for 435. G_d.; an Ordinary Course, 235. bd.
Smaller Boxes posted at 6s. and 12s, Warning:—lmitators will be Prosecuted..
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS.
iElegistered.. PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
CURED over 100,000 SUFFERERS. Awarded Two Cold Medals.
How to Cure THE NEE/VES.
Take a Course of Alfaline Vitality Fills.
Guaranteed to Cure
NERVOUSNESS, WEAKNESS, DESPONDENCY, DEBI-
LITY, NERN OUS IRRITABILITY, SPECKS BEFORE
THE EYES, WANT OF SELF-CONFIDENCE, MELAN-
CHOLIA, LOSS OF MEMORY, WEAK BRAIN AND
NERVES.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435. tid.
. ,
Te atimomal.
R. ADAMS LUCKHAM, Esq.,
The well-known and popular representative of the Sydney
Bulletin, a gentleman w hose testimony carries especial weight,
writes thus to Herb Rassmussen. —Dear Sir,— l think it my
duty to inform you that a course of your Alfaline Vitality Pills
acted very beneficially on my nervous system, and, in consequ-
ence, I have recommended them to many friends who have all
been cured by their use.—Very truly yours, R. Adams Luckham.
How to Cure THE BLOOD
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALFALINE LOCK PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES,
BOILS AND PIMPLES, ECZEMA, SALT RHEUM. OLD
BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, AND OTHER UN-
PLEASANT SYMPTOMS OF THE BLOOD.
Boxes—6s. and 125., Posted. Ordinary Course, 235. 6d.
Special Powerful Course, 435, 6d.
Testimonial.
The Alfaline Remedies completely cured me of a severe
Internal Affection, and completely restored my health. — Neils
Larsen, Ithago-st., Normanby Hill, Brisbane.
How to Cure RHEUMATISM.
TAKE A COURSE OF
ALF ALINE RHEUMATIC PILLS.
Guaranteed to Cure
RHEUMATISM, GOUT, SCIATICA, NEURALGIA,
STIFF JOINTS AND LUMBAGO.
Boxes —Bs. and 65., Posted, 235. 6d. per Course, Posted.
Xestimonial.
Parliament House, Sydney.
Herr Rassmussen.— Dear Sir, — I can truthfully assert that
since using your Eucalyptus Oil and Rheumatic Pills, I have
experienced an immunity from my attack of Sciatica. I have
recommended the Alfaline Remedies to a number of my consti-
tuents, and I will do the same to all whom I hear complaining
of Rheumatic attacks. With kind regards, I have the honour to
remain, yours truly, E. W. O’Sullivan, M.L.A.
Herr RASS3IUSSEX, the Celebrated Danish Herbalist
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered ALP ALINE REMEDIES !
Which have CURED over 100,000 Sufferers for BLOOD and NERVE DISEASES.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of Academic Parisienne des Inventeurs, France ; Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U. J.F.C.; Hoi ourably mentioned in “ Centennial History of New South W ales for Herbal Discoveries ;
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney for his Herbal Remedies; Author of “The Natural Doctor;” formerly Editor of “ Medical Herbalist Journal,’ Sydney; Discoverer of the “ Minto Process of extracting Eucalyptus Oils and Scents,
GXJAFtA.KTTEBD HERBAL CURES
FOR THB
BLOOD and KT E R V B
REGISTERED AND AWARDED TWO GOLD MEDALS.
Correspondence strictly confidential. Packets sent unobserved. Register all Letters.
Make Money Orders payable to HANS RASSMUSSEN.
Expert Blood & Nerve Remedies
Cured 100,000.
Send for Free Pamphlet, which contains Valuable Advice and Hints on all Complaints.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
Victorian Head Depot; .... 150 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Head Depot: .... 160 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australian Head Depot: 151 Bundle Street. Adelaide.
New Zealand Head Depot: .... 91 Lambton Quay, Wellington,
Herr Rassmussen’s Chief Laboratory and Head
Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Columbian Land Distribution of 1893.
NAMBROK and MELTON PARK.
250,000 Shares of £1 each.
«THe Only Agricultural Property Distribution!
251 Valuable Agricultural Properties and 100 Township Allotments !
“ NAMBROK.”
Schedule of Properties:
m
m
■
t
m
mm
i
M
KTamTarok House.
“Melton Park.”
Schedule of Properties;
Second Property, estimated value
Also, 59 Properties ~
£12,000
each 1,050
On Isth JULY, only £2G,700 additional was required to include the FIRST PROPERTY in its entirety, and, therefore, EARLY APPLICATION for SHARES is required.
The BALLOT (under the supervision of the following gentlemen, in conjunction with not less than Ten Shareholders and the representatives of the Press) is to take place without
iti wnVKMIiER and results will be duly advertised. All moneys are in the hands of Trustees, and perfectly secure. P. P. LABERTOUCHE. Esq., Melbourne; Major
U M. OFFICER Melbourne; CHRISTOPHER WADE, Esq., Adelaide; Captain J. WHITNEY, Auckland, N.Z.
The FIRST BALLOT will be from the “ NAMBItOK ” Estate, which (as will be seen from the above schedule) comprises 285 Properties of the best selection (out of a total of
351), and is universally admitted to be the better estate.
APPLICATIONS for SHARES should be made by Registered Letter to
THE COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION COMPANY
(Or E. J. De ROMFORD), o/o .T. H. A strop,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Connell Street, SYDNEY, N.S W.
State amount forwarded, and enclose one addressed envelope with 2d. stamp for reply (two, if
results required direct). Do not attach stamps if other than N.S.W. Add exchange if payment is
made by cheque.
N H —ln the case of the extra =£2G,700 not being subscribed by November, the best value of pro-
perty for the amount subscribed will be included in the pro rata drawing, and a proportionate per-
centage of bonus money allowed, as originally fixed.
Should the amount required be not more than 10 per cent, short, the Promoters have agreed to
forego to that extent, in order that the most liberal terms may be allowed che Shareholders.
asr REFERENCES can be made to the well-known Firms of Messrs, ALEXANDER
COLUMBIAN LAND DISTRIBUTION.
»>«»«<♦-
PLEASE ALLOT me
Shares.
1893.
£
Name
s :
Address
To the Columbian Land Distribution Co.
(Or E. J. Dk BOMFORD), c/o J. H. ASTROP,
Marlborough Chambers, O’Cornru, Strrkt, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
WILSON & CO., of Sydney, and Messrs. RICHARD NEWTON & CO., of Brisbane.


F
gjr J
Si
IPIPii
KMHH
%
BJ
'O^
i\\ ££
V,
su
r<
kOßti
m
§»
=1=1;:
ipip
Bps*
!®SSfI»
s' - : i
m
.>
g=p-;
... : -
THE BEST
BEVERAGE
FOR
CHILDREN
Absolutely fure.
* CADBURY’S COCOA is closely allied to
milk in the large proportion of flesh-forming and
strength-sustaining elements that it contains. It is pre-
pared on the principle of excluding the superabundance
ol fatty indigestible matter with which Cocoa abounds
—supplying a refined thin infusion of absolutely pure
Cocoa, exhilarating and refreshing, for Breakfast, Lun-
cheon, Tea or Supper, giving staying power and im-
parting new life and vigour to growing children, and
those of delicate constitutions.
Laying on the Screw.
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WOOLTRADE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
You can dunnage casks b’ tallow, you can handle
hides au’ horn,
You can carry frozen mutton, you can lumber
sacks o’ corn,
But the queerest kind o’ cargo that you’ve got to
haul an’ pull
Is Australia’s “staple product”—is her God-
abandoned wool.
For it’s g-reasy an’ it’s stinkin’, an’ them awkward,
ugly bales,
Must be jammed as close as herrings in a ship afore
she sails.
So you yakker, yakker, yakker,
For the drop o’ beer an’ bacca,
For to earn your bloomin’ clobber an’ the bit b’
“ tuck ” you eat,
When you’re layin’ on the screw,
With the boss a-cursin’ you,
An’ the sweat runs like a river, an’ you’re chokin’
with the heat.
Yes, “ there’s someone got to do it,” as I’ve often
heard ’em say,
But it means a iot o’ graftin’ for a very little pay,
An I aint a bit contented with my bloomin’
earthly lot,
An I'd take an easy billet—oh, I’d jump it on the
spot.
For it s greasy an’ it’s stinkin’, an’ I’m getting
pretty full
Of this everlastin’ sweatin’ over blarsted bales o’
wool;
An’ they stow ’em close together,
An they never ask you whether
There is room enough to stand in, or a blessed
breath o’ air
When you’re layin’ on the screw,
When you’re haulin’ on the screw,
An’ the captain starts performin’ and the boss
begins to swear.
With the trollies all unloadin’, an’ the press upon
the go,
You can bet they keep us at it, like the devil, down
below.
You can take your affidavy that the foreman at
the hatch,
When the tally clerk is busy, makes the talent toe
the scratch.
When the “double dumps” are cornin’, an’ the
winch begins to grind,
They wifi raise a “shanty ” forrard of the steve-
dorin’ kind :
“ I’m qoiri down to Tennessee,
Oh, take me love and come with me ; ”
Or, it s “ Cheer up, Missus Riley,” or “ niow my
Bully Boys, Blow ”
When you’re layin’ on the screw*
When you’re haulin’ on the screw,
In the fluffy, dirty darkness of them anchored
hells below.
Oh ! they say that Labour’s n oble ; but I'd rather
be a toff,
An’ I’d wear a “ donble-breaster,” an’ I’d never
take it off.
I can do me pint o’ tangle, an’a pipe afore the bar,
But I wouldn’t sniff at sherry an’ a bloomin’ fine
cigar.
Costs me just a “sprat” for dinner—meat an’
tea an’ spuds for that ;
Id prefer a taste o’ turkey, nicely browned, O
Lord! an’ fat.
lor it’s twist the screw and turn it)
And the bit you get you earn it.
You can take the tip from me, sir, that it’s any-
thing but play
When you’re layin’ on the screw,
When you’re draggin’ on the screw,
In the summer, under hatches, in the middle o’
the day.
If Australia’s “staple product” is her glory, an’
her pride,
An the makin’ of her future, an’ a lot o’ things
beside,
I hen I reckon I’m assistin’ for to build the nation
up,
While I’m graftin’ on the product for mo bloomin’
bite and sup.
An’ I’d strike, for ’fglier wages if t thought I ’ad
a show;
I would down me hook this ihinnit,' ah’ I’d tip tlie
hatch an’ go,
But there’s plenty of ’em prayin
For a chance to graft an’ sayin’
That the times is somethin’ dreadful; an’they
stand a’ lookin’ on
When you’re layin’ on the setow*
When you’re toilin’ on the screw,
An’they’d jump the job an’ keep it soon hs eVel
you was gone.
feo it’s ‘‘ re a ri a rally,” an’ another tier o' bales
lor the glory o’ the Hempire, an’ the good o'
New South Wales,
But they’re stinkin’ an’ they’re heavy, an’ they’re
awkward for to lift,
An’ the place you’ve got to stow ’em—w’y, there
isn’t room to shift,
But you’re “ broadenin’out the channels of out?
great an’ growin’ trade,”
An’ you’re helpin’ make our progress though it
_ isn’t yours when made ;
So it’s yakker, yakker, yakker,
For the drop o’ beer an’ ’bacca,
For the blessed doss an’ tucker, an’ a “crown ’’ to
treat the gel,
That you’re layin’ on the screw,
That you’re haulin’ on the screw,
At a bob an ’our for ever in an iron-plate'd—
Hell.
Sydney, 1893.
EDWIN J. BRADY.
“TRUE FRIENDSHIP."
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Of friendship, ’mongst the low and high,
Poets sing, and sang in days gone by;
“ But show me, if you can,
Four stauncher comrades than
My dog, my swag, my billy, and I!”
6x8.
Sceile Land-appraisement Court, out
back. Chairman : “ What dd you consider, Mr.
J—are the carrying capabilities of this hold-
ing? ’ Mr, J : “ About 40 acres to a sheep.”
Chairman :“ I think, Mr. J , that if I wanted
to purchase this run, you would give it a very
different character.” Mr. J : “ Very likely,
your Worship, but I am on my oath now,”
Gold Medal Artificial Tbetii, full sets £5. Warranted
to Fit. Natural Appearance. Old Misfitting Cases Re-
modelled. Painless Extractions with Gas or Cocaine.
Consultations free. J. I. Marshall, Dental Surgeon, King-
street Arcade (George-street entrance.)
A Pastoral Idyll.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Everyone knew Jock M ‘Croaker, of
Katooie—big, red, fighting Jock, who could nose
whisky or scent a woman from one end to the
other of his big paddocks.
Jock wanted a married couple—man as “ panni-
kin,” woman as cook —and the Brisbane labour-
agent, old Catchpenny, had sent up a suitable
pair. At least, Jock, at first sight, thought that
one was an acquisition. “Ma cawnshence !” he
said, helping himself from the bottle at the side,
board, “she’s a screamer 1”
» # •
She was a screamer. About 20, six
months married, with big, hungry, blue eyes, and
a figure which absolutely made Jock’s lips twitch.
£})jie was native-born, and had been brought up on
ail oiit-station. Her husband was a little felloiy,
about 40—a really first-class hand amongst sheep.
They don’t cany many hands on the sandhills
bf the iior’-west; and at Katooie, Dawson (tbe
t>annikitt) and two others were the only men to be
found at the homestead.
Jock Vvds home much oftener than the others,
and so it was but natural that he should talk a
great deal to Mrs. Dawson, who was constantly in
and out from the kitchen. Often, of an afternoon,
they would play cards together undisturbed, for
travellers were almost unknown, and the men
were not home before sundown. And, somehow,
within a month, the formal “Mr. M‘Croaker ”
bad been dropped, and the handy “Jock” had
taken its place.
* * *
*■ By the Way, Dawson,” said Jock, one
morning, “I want you to take Tom and Ben and
go out to Brando well. I was there yesterday;
it needs cleaning out. You’d better take tucker
for three days, as you’ll be all that in finishing the
job.”
Dawson obeyed instructions.
* # *
That night, when Katooie homestead was
in gloom and silence, the stride of an approaching
horse might have been heard—at first faint, then
more and more audible, until the animal, having
leaped the low hurdles that even in the horse-
paddock did duty as gates, the hoof-strokes re-
sounded on a harder piece of road, and set the
dogs barking.
A disturbance inside the cottage. ... A
pause . . . and then a shrill shriek that made
the dogs furious.
“Don’t, Mr. M‘Croaker ! Don’t! Go out!
Help ! Bob ! help !”
The cottage door opened, and Jock emerged
therefrom. At first he gazed around searchingly,
with a troubled look, and then he stood still
and laughed harshly.
“ By Jove! it’s old Bowler !” he said. “ I see
how it is,” he went on, turning to the woman.
“ Your husband put him in the old horse-paddock
there, and he has jumped the fence, and come
back for the sake of the bit of chaff he gets. And
now, what have you got to say for your se lf
wanting to get a fellow into trouble ?”
• * •
“No, I couldn’t have wished for a better
boss, at first,” said Dawson, a month later, in
Port Sandy. “But he got on to me so much the
last few weeks, that I told him that if I didn’t
suit I was willing to break the agreement and
take my cheque for the time I’d been there. And
the missus couldn’t stand him either.”
“No, he wasn’t no gentleman,” said Mrs.
Dawson, with her nose in the air.
CLIO CLEOPE.
Wycliffe, the religious reformer, was an
Australian, but not a native. At Oxford, in his
day, men from the Southern counties were called
Australians.
Henniker Heaton has discovered that an
unstamped letter is better looked after by the
English authorities than even a registered one, so
he now posts his (the important ones) unfranked,
enclosing money in the envelope to recoup the
adressee for the fine levied.
An admirable work from the pen of that
well-known scientist, Mr. J. Douglas Ogilby, of
the Australian Museum, Sydney, entitled “ Cata-
Australian Mammals,” has been handed
us. The work contains carefully-written and
easily-understood descriptions of all indigenous
mammals of Australia, together with copious
notes on all allied fossil forms. Unquestionably
the most interesting passages in this excellent
work refer to the native dog. Triumphantly
capsizingall hitherto-accepted theories, the author
forever settles a vexed and long-contested ques-
tion by conclusively proving the dingo to be in-
digenous. This fact alone should ensure the popu-
larity of the treatise, Mr. Ogilby’s work contains
six excellent woodcuts and 12!) pages of letter-
press. Its price being but 3s. Gd., it should be
found in the hands of every well-educated Aus-
tralian.
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
When Gerald Supple, who, in 1848, had
contributed patriotic ballads to the Nation,
arrived in London from Dublin, he had letters of
introduction to Geo. Jacob Holyoake, then editor
of the Reasoneb, who got him work. In 1870,
Supple, having emigrated, was sentenced to death
at Melbourne for shooting John Walshe (father of
“ Willy ” Walshe, the tenor) while attempting to
kill G. P. Smith on account of the latter’s “scur-
rilous abuse of the people of my country,” written
by his pen and published in the newspaper he
edited (the Age). In Supple’s speech before the
court, he asserted that Smith never ceased to
slander him after he “stood up for his country,”
and asserted that he had done the community good
service by attempting to punish the assassin of
character. According to Holyoake, the latter was
asked by E. J. Williams, a gallery-reporter in the
Commons, to assist in obtaining a commutation of
Supple’s sentence, and to that end made declara-
tion before Sir Wilfrid Lawson, J.P., that, to the
best of his belief, Supple was a moody and despair-
ing man, “liable to dangerous delusions.” This
affidavit was despatched on August 4, 1870, by
the favour of Lord Enfield in the Foreign Office
mail-bag, while Lord Kimberley directed that the
substance should be telegraphed to the -Governor
of Ceylon, with instructions to cable it on to Lord
Canterbury, then Governor of Victoria. It
arrived on the very day the appeal was heard,
and “gave the court the impression that the
Government desired the prisoner to have
the benefit of the doubt that existed as to his
sanity.” Eventually sentenced to life-imprison-
ment, after eight years confinement he was liber-
ated, and left for Maoriland.


im. %
u
A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Skin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
(Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons , England.'J
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
Cnd the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
the first place among Toilet Soaps,
V.v*
•y/.vV
n
g
m
I
will
w
m
If-fc
IK*
nk
I
1
w
r A •
The Great Calamity.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
M'Fierce’un came to Whiskyhurst
When summer days were hot,
An’ bided there wi’ dock M‘Thirst,
A brawny brither Scot.
Gude faith ! They made the whusky fly
Like Hielan’ chieftains true,
An’ when they’d drunk the beaker dry
They sang, “ We are nae foil !”
“ There is nae folk like oor ain folk,
Sae gallant and sae true !”
They sang the only Scottish joke,
Which is, “ We are nae fou !”
“ Let Irish prate and English jaw
Aboot their great concerns,
But Bonnie Scotland beats them a’—-
The Land o’ Cakes, and Bums !
The land o’ mountains, deer, and grodSh,
Fill up yer gless, I beg,
There’s niuckle wdiisky i’ the hrtosO,
Forbye what’s in the keg !”
An’ here a hearty laugh he laught,
“Just come wi’ me, I beg!”
M'Fierce’uu saw, wi’ pleasure daft,
A twenty-gallon keg !
“ Lord save us a* !” M'Fierce’un cried,
“ Saw ever man the like !
Now, wi’ the daylight I maun ride
To meet a Southron tyke.
But I’ll be back ere summer’s gone,
So bide for me, I beg,
We’ll mak’ a gran’ assault upon
Yon deevil of a keg !”
M'Fierce’un rode to Whiskyhurst,
When summer days w’ere gaue,
An’ there he met wi’ Jock M‘Thirst,
Was weepin’ a’ his lane.
“ M‘Thirst ! What gars ye look sae blank?
Has a’ yer wits gane daft,
Has that accursed Southron Bank
Ca’d up yer overdraft ?
Is a’ yer grass burnt up wi’ drouth,
Is wool and hides gone flat ?”
M‘Thirst replied, “ Gude Men’, in truth,
’Tis muckle waur than that.”
44 Has sair misfortune cursed yer life
That ye should weep sae free ?
Has harm befel your bonnie wife,
The children at your knee ?
Is scaith upon your hoose and hame ?”
M'Thirst upraised his head,
“ My bairns hae done the deed of shame,
’Twere better they were dead 1
To think my bonnie infant SOJi
Should do the deed o’ guilt—
He let the whiskey-spigot run,
And a’ the whiskjrs spilt !”
Upon them baith these words did bring
A solemn silence deep
Gude faith it is a fearsome tiling
To see two strong men weep !
THE BANJO.
My Father, who was Dead.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ Now for a good sleep,” I thought.
The catile had been rowdy for tvtfo nights, it
had been raining and the camps were wet. This
night we had come to an old tailing paddock, in
tolerable order, with any amount of room in it,
and we anticipated a night’s unbroken slumber.
There were but three of us and a black boy with
over 500 head* so the watching had been heavy.
There was little conversation that evening, and
shortly after the first smoke all hands were in
their blankets. The spot had once been a sheep-
station, and there was an old hut on it, but as old
huts are generally full of fleas we were camped in
the open.
I awoke—it seemed to me before 1 had well
closed my eyes, but I must have been asleep for
some time* as the moon, which did not rise until
10 o’clock, was well up in the sky. With a drover’s
instinct I raised my head and listened for noise
from the yard ; but the occasional cough and
united sighing sound showed that all was peace
and sleep in that direction. I was about coiling
myself up in the blankets once more when another
noise attracted my attention. As the old yard
was none too strong we had kept a “ night-horse ”
up, and the old fellow was now cocking his ears
and snorting strangely. He was a horse who, on
ordinary occasions, would not have been
astonished at anything, so his conduct surprised
me.
I got right up and looked around. A swagman
was standing a short distance away looking
towards the yard. He took no notice of me but
started walking in that direction. I called out to
him to keep clear of the yard or he would rush
the cattle; and he seemed to sheer off. When
cattle are all asleep, the least start will rush them;
so, to make sure, I unhitched the horse and was
about to mount and ride round them, when the
mischief seemed done, for I heard the rumble and
reverberation that every drover dreads, and
hastily mounting I rode off.
The cattle fortunately appeared to have only
rung round, for they were all huddled up in one
corner. I spoke to and soothed them, and when
they seemed fairly quiet I went round the yard to
see if any of the fence was down.
When I reached the corner the whole side
seemed gone, and when, in ray surprise, I dis-
mounted to see what had become of the posts and
rails, everything—horse, cattle, and all—had
vanished, and I was standing near a hut in which
I could see that a fire was burning. From close
at hand came the pungent smell of yarded sheep.
I felt no surprise at my change of identity, but
entered the hut as mine. It was empty, and I
began to spread my blankets on what to me was
an accustomed bunk. Whilst doing so the dogs
commenced barking, and I went to the door and
quietened them. Then I saw the swagman
approaching. He came on, into the hut, threw
his swag down, and looked at me. I stared back
without a word.
Presently he burst out laughing, and exclaimed,
“ Well, if this isn’t a go ! Why, it’s you, Frank.
Ha! ha ! brought down to shepherding! Well,
I never expected such a happy family re-union
to-night.”
“Who brought me down to shepherding?” I
asked, for I knew it was a reckless, and worse
than reckless, brother of mine, some two years
younger, that sat, before me, who left me to
meet his dishonoured bills and ruined me, and
broke every promise he ever made ! And now
he laughed to find me here !
“Now, Frank, we were gentlemen once. Let’s
behave as sich. Give me a feed.”
I put some corned mutton and damper on the
rude table and motioned to a billy of tea, still half
full.
He took out his sheath-knife and sat down —
even his way of eating showed to what a level he
had sunk.
“I think,” 1 said, “we can have a little talk
together, to mutual advantage.”
“Wait until I have got through.”
1 turned and looked moodily into the fit-e until
he had satisfied himself. Then lie arose and went
to his swag. Unstrapping it, he took out a bottle
of rum. “ I touched the publican back therefor
a bottle, expecting to find some cranky old shep-
herd hem Now, let’s sit down and have a
brotherly drink.”
I scornfully rejected the offer.
“ Never touch it, eh ? Heard you did. All the
more for myself.”
It was quite true. Drink, following on misfor-
tune, had helped to bring me down, and now I
could not resist it but filled some rum out and
drank.
“ That’s more sociable. How’s Isabel and the
kids ? ”
“ I managed to save enough out of the wreck
you caused to give her something. Enough to
keep them humbly with what little I can send.”
“ That’s better. We’re getting along. Now,
poor swagsman as I look, I’m only foxing. I’ve
got more than two hundred notes stowed away
and can get as much more in the next township,
with your assistance.”
“ Some villainy, of course?”
“That’s as you take it. Now, I can write a
cheque with anybody. Somebody else’s cheque, I
mean.”
“ You’re an expert forger ! ”
“ Well, yes, as there’s nobody to hear.”
I went to the table and drank some morq of the
fiery ruin, “Say, what you have to say quickly.”
“ Have you any mbuey coming toiyou ? ”
“Yes, a trifle.”
“ How does the old man draw? To name or to
number?”
“ It’s a superintendent. He draws to number,”
“ On the bank in the township ?”
“ No, right away in at G n.”
“That’s good. Now, you go in’and get paid
off. Say you’ve got a man to take your place.
That’s me.” Get your cheque for <£3 exactly ; if
it’s a trifle over take it out in stores. I’ll fake it
for .£3OO. You see?”
“And who’s to present it? Who would pay a
shepherd a cheque for ,£3OO without suspicion ?”
“You’re a good-looking fellow when you’re
shaved and cleaned up, and I’ve got a proper suit
of clothes here. I’ll get you a horse and saddle,
never fear. I can buy one cheap out of some of
the money I have, and give you a few quid in
your pocket as well. How far is it from here to
G -n?”
“Seventy miles, I believe ; I was never there.”
“ Right. You’ve sold some horses to the super,
here, understand. I’ll mark the cheque so—
(‘Horses’). Why, it’s as easy as tumbling off a
roof.”
I had been listening quietly all this time to hear
the full extent of the scheme ; now I pointed to
the door —“ Out you go. Say no more! Out at
once !”
“ One hundred and fifty for you and no possible
danger. One hundred and fifty for Isabel and the
youngsters.”
“Go on out!” I repeated.
“They must be growing up now and she wit 1
want more money.”
I drank off some more of (lie rum and sat down.
“ You could go down and See them.”
I heard no more until as in a dream came a far
away voice singing—
() what joy to follow the fresh green trail
In the first grey (lawn of morn !
It was my mate’s favourite song as he brought u|!
the horses in the morning. The stars were only
paling, and the quarts merrily boiling by a brisli
fire.
“Are the cattle right,” I asked.
“ Right as the bank ” (that was before the “re-
construction ” era) —“ never moved all night.”
“ Why, I heard them rush and wont up to the
yard. ”
“ Nonsense ! you dreamt it. Not a beast stirred
any more than we did.’’
“ Was old Prodder hitched to the tree?”
“He was, you bet. Jack’s riding him, bringing
up the horses.”
We had a hundred miles more to go before wc
delivered, and at the station I found, amongst
others, a letter from my mother, asking me to
come home south at once, as she was not strong
and wanted to see me. _ ,
I need scarcely dwell upon what the information
was. My father, whom we supposed to be in
America, was, in reality in gaol (fortunately for
us, sentenced under a false name), serving a long
sentence for presenting a forged cheque for .£3OO.
He would be out in a year, but my mother’s
health was failing, and she divulged the secret to
me, as the eldest son.
“Be kind to him, and keep it from others. He
was a sorely-tried man,” she entreated, as she told
me all.
When the time arrived I was kind to him, for I
knew for whom the unsuccessful attempt had been
made. Should I have been so but for that strange
dream? I cannot say.
DELCOMYN.
Dear Bulletin, One of S.M. Herald
leader-writers uses the simile “ A conjuror at a
village fair.” Why doesn’t he get similes nearer
home? There are no “ villages ” in Australia—
there are “townships, ’ and “bush towns,” and
“country towns,” but the term “ villages ” is
merely an atavistic paroxysm. Neither are there
village or other “fairs,” though there are “ shows.”
The writer has imported his similes from England,
where there are fairs, and villages, and so on ; but
he never could have been outside Sydney to any
dli3tanc , e ’ ° f r If " h ? n
he wrote of a conjuror at a village fair ’ If he
Ult f ds „ us \° “° f P ast « ral and
Picturesque he may speak of a speech at a race-
sbow’ ° f r a Murrumbidgee whaler at a corroboree
Any , of ,. thes ® • would round oft a sentence and
tbe artlcle Wlfc h local colour. But damn
England, anyway. We are sick of having it
rammed down our throats.-F.
To The Deaf. — A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.


“THE BULLETIN’S”
Missing Word Competition-No. 6.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Coupons received to 23rd September,
1893.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps ; when the
latter are sent, a penny to be added for
exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
** The Bulletin’s’* Missing Word Competition Coupon. —Ho. S.
XX
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or IS penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, 23rd, September, 1803.
The cornered Parkes'says he is willing to refer to a plebiscite the question of
payment of members in N.S. W. If payment of members can be settled
by a plebiscite, why not also every other vexed question ? Pavkes endorsement of
the plebiscite foreshadows the abolition of Party Government and the absurd English
custom of endeavouring to settle live hundred questions at one election.
Name
Addrexs . '■ ' —-———
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word, will promptly pet a cheque for the total amount
received —no deduction whatever being made. Should, there be inure than one successful compel-hi ,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B.—Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation ot the paper.
«C
Bulletin ” Series, KTo. 2.
“ Tales of the Comet System
B j PBICE W ABUTS G.
P
i
“ The series of powerful stories which have from time to time appeared under this heading in the columns of Thk
Bulletin, now appear in a neat and excellently-printed volume. Between its covers will be found much that is shameful and
terrible, and far more that is strictly true than is usually to be met with in such publications. The late Marcus Clarke, before
producing ‘ His Natural Life,’ was careful to inform himself fully of the dark details of criminal administration under the old
convict system.. The success of that tragic book impelled a host of imitators, possessing little of the writer’s knowledge and
none of his talent, to surfeit morbid sensationalism with gross banquets of resurrected horror. ‘Price Warung,’ as the author
of these tales calls himself, is decidedly not of this class. Two things are unmistakably apparent throughout ; his thorough
acquaintance, even to the minutest particulars, with the official records of the time, and the distinct literary ability with which
the subject is treated of. It will be questioned by some whether the shocking circumstances which attended the initial stages
of Australian settlement should be written in modern chronicles. But history should be honest, neither concealing what is bad
nor exaggerating what is good. The evils of the convict system were forced upon the colonies j the rebellion against that
system, its overthrow, and the magnificent progress since made are our own work.
“ ‘ The Transportation System,’ said Archbishop speaking in the House of Lords in 1840, ‘is a. monument such
as I suppose was never, before erected by any people, Christian or Pagan, of combined wickedness and absurdity.’ How true
this is Marcus Clarke’s great novel has shown and ‘ Price Warung’s ’ stories in this collection show. He has not drawn upon
imagination to a much greater degree than in the alteration of names and dates, so that needless pain should not be given tn
worthy persons now living. Written very plainly between the lines of formal documents of the period are narratives of the
blind brutalism of almost irresponsible authority, heroic devotion and comradeship stronger than the fear of the torture of
death, noble efforts of truly Christian clergymen to stem influences which deformed body and soul, pathetic records of lives
wrecked by savage laws and men scourged into kinship with devils. ‘Price Warung’ has taken this material and, choosing
the most suitable to his purpose, placed it with dramatic force before his readers. The stories, although connected by a thread
of general sequence, are so written that each is complete in itself," —Sydney Daily Telegraph, 25th June, 1892.
Price, ONE SHILLING ; posted to any Australian address, Is, 3d.
“ Bulletin” Series, 3XTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
SECO32TI3 ZEOITIOILT
-OF-
ee
A Golden Shanty”:
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “BULLETIN” WRITERS.
Price ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia's Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper
“The Bullet! ml,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
I* tke only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Com ole to Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System,
A United Australia and Prote6tion against
the World,
Australia for the Australians. —The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
• rather Government by Contradiction.
A new Parliamentary System one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of ‘ the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum,
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.”
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the' newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started eleven years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless newspaper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by Comparing
the met hods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly pfess prior to and immediately after the
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form —printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
Secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of hall the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla'ins of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, avainst thedark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the biishman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in .the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another. *
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially written reading matter is the bright ist
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance). Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One. Pound
pci' Annum.
Businas- communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Alan aging Director, to whom
gll renni lann < arc payable. Editorial omniuni-
at ions to be aihln ssed to J. I. Audi I HALO,


NOW PUBLISHED.
“ TEE LAST OF SIX: ”
Tales or the Austral Tropics,
BY
EEUEST FAVEHC,
Price, One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper , and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
“The Wedding Morning.”
THIS CHARMING ACADEMY PICTURE,
Or Firth’s “So Clean/’ or Dorothy Tennant’s “Head over Tails/’
•Will be sent FHSX3
On receipt of 25 Sunlight Soap Wrappers; with 50, Framed ; and with 100, Framed in Gilt.
ADDRESS:
LEVER BROTHERS, LTD.,
232 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
From Weldon’s Illustrated Dressmaker.
“ It is full early to remind my readers about the spring dean up, but ‘ SUNLIGHT SOAP '
will be always welcome by those who take a pride in their home and surroundings, while to help
one over the trial of washing day, and make clothes as white as snow, ‘SUNLIGHT SOAP’ is
without exception the best and most economical preparation in the market. Its cleansing power
is wonderful, and yet its purity enables it being used for even the most delicate cambric or lace,
or for cleaning the most choice paint, while for washing woollen goods this soap justly deserves
the attention of those ladies wishing to keep their flannels soft and equal to new. ‘ SUNLIGHT
SOAP,’ cleans anything and everything, is very economical, and greatly lessens household labour,
therefore what more can be needed of a soap.”
Sunlight Soap is used in Her Majesty the Queen’s Laundry.
Sole Agents for HKNRY HEATH.
Price Bs. t»c3L.
«*■ >±&STo,
(JENRY >jEATKf3
TRADE MAR*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. ; 6dL.
gOS-T JTCTOOIr
A Splendid Hat for Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three nlgligg shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
G. XX. SUkXITXX & SON,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Look Out fob
“THE LAST OF SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price, Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
Huntington Quartz Mill.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
True Vanner or Ore Concentrator.
Sole Patentee for Australian Colonies.
PARKE & LACY GO.
(LIMITED),
187 & 189 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
MINING & HYDRAULIC ENGINEER
AND
General Machinery Mercliant.
■ i< —>Qi"' m i
Importer of all kinds of American Machinery and Supplies.
MINING MACHINERY of EVERY DESCRIPTION.
Wood-worMng Machinery, Engineers, Sawmill, Contractors’ and Mining Requisites.
Proprietor of tb.© “ Pioneer ” Ore Treating Works,
PYRMONT, SYDNEY, tor the Treatment of Ores by Dry and Wet Crushing, Amalgamation and Coneeatratioa.
ALL INQUIRIES PROMPTLY AND INTELLIGENTLY REPLIED TO.
if
Vt'ov
* i s i Sr
D
Knowles' Steam Pumps.
Sole Agent for Australian
Colonies,
LIFE IS SHORT I
SO VERY SHORT!
What a pity we cannot have a Lease of Life!
Townspeople inquire a trip— ruralise in the country. Cojmtry folk, on
the other hand, improve their health by a change of air—sea air, city air,
Sydney air—and such is life. Still, how much better to study one’s health,
and live so long as we can. One and all should make the best of this
planet. Even an occasional trip to Sydney does one a world of good, and
the cost is but a trifle. NoW, good husband, if your wife be ill or unsettled,
send her straight away to Sydney. Probably, she will require to spend a
few pounds in house and family requisites, in little necessary articles men
never dream of, and should know naught about, merely simple little things
which all good women require to adorn and make home what a home should
he a paradise of its kind. And, again, little nic-nacs-—Boots, etc.-—for
the children are wanted. Nice, tidy fashions to decorate your dear chicks,
and make them happy. Make your boys ambitious, it’s a good plan. Your
son may some day hold Duff’s or Dibbs’ position ; every boy has his chance
in this lottery of life.
We are now coming to business. lam FOY, good sir, and I vow to
you your wife will save surely Four Pounds in every outlay of Ten Pounds
in DRAPERY, BOOTS and SHOES, etc. —that is, by coming and dealing
with your humble servant, Foy. Foy is a little, fat, unpretentious haber-
dashery man—a draper who is not proud, but truly loves his trade.
Foy never deceives or cheats. Foy feels most proud and contented
when the public praise his shop, his goods, his assistants, his prices, and
admire his endeavours to please. Say ! Foy is not a bad man.
OXFORD STREET, SYDNEY
(Nkab HYDE PARK).
MARK FOY’S.
IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WynyardL Square, STTDMEY.
[KSTABLiamO «VBR A QUARTKE OF A CbKTDRY.]
W
MOST CENTRALLY SITUATED. ACCOMMODATION UNSURPASSED.
FACING THE RESERVE.
IF'" Termo—lo», ML per Day.
Walter Sidney date of Newcastle), ‘ Prop.'
‘■PBrYATB HOSPITAL-
CAMDEN MOUSE, Milton's Point, SYDNEY.
i’’ 1 1 .1 3, ■'
an ■ ■
!ppiag;hi
::
I a
, US! I
*i>
- I=’ £ 1
■yi.
m
Kesident Medical Officer-Dr- LEIGHTON KESTEVEN, MRO-S, Eng., etc.
Form-rly Medical Superintendent Brisbane General Hospital ; Government Mi dical Officer, Brisbane, etc.
TffXmSIIXTG}- S-X"
TERMS STRICTLY MODERATE—inclusive of Residence, Medical Attendance, etc.
For MEDICAL, SURGICAL and GYNECOLOGICAL CASES,
MIDWIFERY TAKEN.
CAMDEN HOUSE stands in pleasant grounds, on an elevated position, commanding extensive
harbour views, and from its excellent and sanitary situation, is thoroughly suited to the health and
comfort of patients.
“THE BULLETIN” SERIES, No. 3.
NOW PUBLISHED.
Price, Is.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’;
