

CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE therefore BEST.
r
arsons’ Flaked
Street,
FOB—
Sydney,
107 Kent
. retractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
Mining EXPLOSIVES BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sdfg
FRY’S MALTED COCOA
eiiaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
*
A
za
T *,
So
4
o
o
o
■
*
<RAckA«
+»'s>
C
O
o
o
S'
Jr
m
r,
A,
V
K, A. Hervcy, Agent, as « Sydney.
W. H. SSMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Doff, the Earl of JERSEY,
Lord Carisoton, etc.,
385 GEORGS STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING and HAND BAGS, ETC.
' A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Pi ice.
Ilf” Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage* to any
Railway Station or Port.
r*.
-'O.-j; 1
o*
T*iS
Ofi£
o*L
Si
111
Tlxe Oxford Eiotel, XSZiixg Street, Sydney.
H. THORPE ... -
Proprietor.
s
iCf*
śd
Before viyiHng fhc Of/ wife to me Manager
Qr a of Tariff, (prrejpomlence prompfjy amended To.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY.
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
upplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
TORONTO HOTEL,
LAKH MACQUARIE.
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week.
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train direct from Sydney or the
North ’ h. A. BRETT, Manager.
TfoU^M
mmmgm
Sol© d
ns
3Sr e-wr Wales xox* Mea3lJS
tftfl !
OX* &SX.
Clacton »»«!
—THE—
Oldest Piougli-Tua^crs
In the World.
THE SUILDERS
OF TUB
First Irpn Plough, in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough-
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
%
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
firms.
fr-
-1
--
--THE
Howard Digging Plough.
The most perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had iu.all descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
()!■■_•
Agricultural Implements
aucl MKIIISKBS
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely- extended SHOW-
ROOM
2801 Pitt Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin
Yol 14—No. 748.]
(Saturday, June it), 1894.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


Medical.
STOP THAT COUGHI
TAKE
Bennington’s
™ Irish Moss
Certain Curb for
COUGHS, COLDS, INFLUENZA
ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, and all
THROAT and CHEST COMPLAINTS
1». 6d. and 2s. 6d. Sold everywhere.
[Please mention this paper. ]
Wholesale: 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
(Registered)
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
The original and only genuine. Ee-
nowned the world over as the most
exquisite Perfume. Avoid Imitations.
ATKINSON’S
FRANGIPANNE
ESS. BOUQUET
STEPHANOTIS
JOCKEY CLUB
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance.
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yellow label and usual
k Trade Mark—a “ White Rose”
(gv and address in lull. A
£CH4
to
PATENT
PILLS.
w
'Si
&
*
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, Ac., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, Ac. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
mffsrer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
*• a few doses of them carry oft all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
abetruction or irregularity of the system, If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
► - *
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
#f the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
Mrgans in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
taring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ao-
Msb with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
aoerpy of the human frame. These are “PACTS” testified
continually by members of all' classes of society ; and
woe of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
Hid Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, Ac., these Pills
•tend unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
uid difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbhcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
klugland, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
to. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
iverywhere.
IT. B.—Pull directions are given with each box.
BT" A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
Ibe healing virtuesof thes a> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. gW p ur .
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford-street, London, they are
•nurious
t
i
1
m
&
iT
V i
V)
*
Vt
0
\Joulont I like: to b£ injt
MANUFACTURED BY THE
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO (70.,
Cleveland Street, SYDUNTE'ST.
Medical.
The First Step
KOK
NERVOUS MEN
m- APPLY FOR
Dr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. M. PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AM) INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT POOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H, Pibssb,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c M Public Analysts,
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MANHOOD.
HEALTH. STRENGTH AND VIGOR RESTORE*
In Four Weeks by the use of
O ' RECORD’S
f t*
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr Ricords Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitvtio7hs %
regenerating all the important elements of the human frame.
In cases of Us, or four quantities in one for 365. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
Agents for Australasia —Perry d Co., 73 Gertrude
Street. Fi&roy. MELBOURNE
Agentsfor N. S. Wales— W. H. Soul &Co., Pit t at., Sydney.
DOWS
[vEMBRO CATION
if
LVERYWHERE^i
3/6
Medical.
<•' \ V >a>\ /
bL/
KRUPP
V/)
So
ill
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS.
What even one says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout, In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money_and health by procuring and taking USE-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudici d physicians
to be the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of testimoni ls re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by the appliance above
referred to. Our confidence in this appliance is so
complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application. ,
yw The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt ana
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtney.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO-
BOX 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost.
Free Fresoriptiona
Are to be found in the “Light and Inf®*
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sen*
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD St CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
“ THE BULLETIN."
(Published at Sydney, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly—Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
“ Tlle Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis
tinctive Australian National Policy .
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government).
One .Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of Stat
education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection agains
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The chea
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and th
cheap European pauper to be absolutel 1
excluded.
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be
State monopoly.
The direct election of Ministers by Parlia
ment, instead of Party Government o
rather Government by Contradiction.
n ® w Parliamentary System—one House t
be elected by constituencies as at present
the other to be chosen by the whol
. country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Lif
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility.
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers o
the day. It is only the remainder that is founc
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti
cally-condensed columns all matter that is noi
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lackec
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spenl
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest alliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the cla ; ms of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald,


Medical.
K
ill 2 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS A SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Doyou experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in theTlead ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first, letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin6s will, on receipt of !
send the necessity rem dies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate ease of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vinds with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge KTothing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. for Advice and Treatment; he
will oure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation;
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,- Thursday, Friday 9.30
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications f
Dr. JECK:ET.Ii VINES,
112 Phillip street. Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRITING
KTo Cure, 3NT o Pay.
suspense
belt
M HIS is the ONE and ONLY Eleetrlo Belt which will
1 cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore tire wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH? This marvellous Electrle Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cute
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. - Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address-
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
Early Decay !
4 TT men, young and old, suffering from
XjL.JIJ JLj Debility and Nervous Prostration,
caused ■ through losses, lead a life of misery, the
reward of their ignorance and folly.
If you will have a CURE that is PERFECT as
well as CHEAP, and so SIMPLE that you can
DOCTOR YOURSELF, send your address, with
stamp for reply, and we will mail you (SEALED)
a description of an instrument worn at nights, a
never failing remedy.
Foreign Novelty Agency,
Private Box 347, G.P.0., SYDNEY.
BEEP iron and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY PIIKE,
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medical.
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Oentrally-
sitnated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBDOMS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOUKTO- HVdIEIIIXr
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely :—Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing ; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt of 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WOEK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DEBIIiIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not_ Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either oal’l
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out. a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
dr. gibbons
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPATE,
As in every ease undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured .
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Gases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—
Dr. GIBBONS,
,137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors from street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Publications.
r*KORGK ROBERTSON AND COMPANY,
M SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE
BRISBANE, and LONDON.
NEW BOOKS.
Two Shilling: Novels, picture boards, posted two and four-
pence :
Gunter, a Princess of Paris | Linton, The One Too Many
Simsj (0.R,), My Two Wives Fane, Helen Davenant
Warden, A Wild Wooing I
Epps (William), Land Systems of
Australasia 2s Or! posted 2s lOd
Todd, Parliamentary Government in
British Colonies 46s lt 48s
TXENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “Lucrezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera,” “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music,
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom.”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Kush for the
Spoil,”
By ZOLA.
1/6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by Q.
W. Reynolds, 2/•; by
post, 2/6. Secrets of
Nature revealed 1 Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
tions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Deaant's Law of Population, 1/-, post 1/2.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/8.
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. P. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
CHEAP MUSIC.
“THE DEAR HOME SONGS,” and “PLAY-
FELLOWS.” These Charming Songs and 1000 other
popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &0., at 3d. each. Of all
dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
26S SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
VuHAt
CUPID
5^
fs
BEFORE AFTER
■ .MOUSTACHES ■ IN • A • MONTH
Von Ritter’s Celebrated Hair and
Beard Mixture prevents the hair fall-
ing out ; 'positively cajjses a luxurious
, growth^on the baldest head, and forces
whiskers and moustache in a few weeks.* Recommended
bytha faculty, and extensively'need by the nobility and
military of'Burdpe. Never failing in effects ; easily ap-
plied,' and guaranteed harmless. Thousands of young
men, having used t to 3 packets,jdready wear whiskers
and'moustache ; its rapid, actioh'surprislng everybody.
Write at once; letters answered by return post. Packets,
2s. each, 3 for 55., post paid, sent free from observation.
Address STEPHEN PRINCE & CO.,* Sole Australian
Agents, Box 565, G.P.0.,, Sydney, N.S.W. [Resist'd.
Shipping.
England via amebioa
by the
Australian & American Route
(A. & A, EOUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the eold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under;—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land ;
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, £52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street,' and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES_MARITIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, catling- at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows: —
Steamer
POLYNESIEN
AM’D BEHIC
Dates of Departure.
Commander Sydney Melbourne Adelaide
5 p.m. 1 p.m. X p.m.
L. Boulard
A. Poydenot
J’ne 27
July 27
July 1 July 3
July 31 Aug. 2
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberalconcessionsto families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.— ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet,
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars,-apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
w
EST AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS.
COOLGARDIB and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accom-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co,,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
MANLY
00-Operative Steam Ferry 00. (Ltd,)
v —EBOM— >
No. 1 jetty, circular quay
(Foot of Pitt-street), to
Main Manly WHarf
mHB STEAMERS of this COMPANY run as follows
-C (weather permitting, and as far as practicable):—
Leave Sydney— 7.ls, 8.0, 9.0,10130,11.30,12.30 (1.0),
1.80 (2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (CO), 4.8 Q, 5.0, 6.90, 6.15,
7.30, 9.30, 11.15.
-Leave Manly—7.ls, 8,10, 8.45, 9.46, 11.50, 12.30, 1.30
(2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.80 (4.0), 4.30 (5.0), 6.80, 6.0, 6.30,
7.0, 8.30,10.16.
Trips marked () Saturday only.
Special Time-Table, Sundays and Holidays.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CURES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD w PARIS w
J. F El R. R ZE3
(Successor to Bren), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemist*.
MiVNHOOD
WEAKENED by youthful folly, excesses or any
other cause, CURED IN 34 DAYS by
Dr. Brown-Sequard’s Triple Compound
Lire Essence.
The greatest discovery of modern days. Price ®l. By
parcels post (unobserved) to any colony 2/- extra.
Pamphlet sent FREE. Young men contemplating mar-
riage, the married—young and old—should send for free
pamphlet. Write?" F. H. De LEON, 325 Collins
Street, MELBOURNE.
fJmS
a®
P, O. BOX 920.
Qualified Specialist in the Diseases of
MEN.
Nervous, chronic, skin,
and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire con-
fidence and success.
All Consultations Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
Viffor Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55., or 21s. for 5 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
tions. 10*. & 20s. per box. Guaranteed O.K.


Petty’s Family Hotel* Sydney*
WYNYARD SQUARE,
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Barge, well-ventilated Bedrooms,
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies' Si Gentlemen's Dining Si Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hote as preferred, at very
_ Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
- Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
ANUFACTuRE
m
ATS
Merger^
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
proclaim
TUB
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Bo not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"W orld-renowiiecl!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s,,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Yan Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
grand Tottery
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent.!
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
Apply Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Xiimite d,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SIDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam XSuglu.es, Boilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING* MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MININS MACHINERY.
tr Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 A part-
ntents and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute, &"c., are easy of access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, B.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. 9
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
‘ DRITiIXX »
YfTi
Plum*
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should nob fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public.
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Two Years.
Price
I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d.; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
\ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonies, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Sole
Agents
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Business Announcements.
Fire Itistos at Lowest Hates,
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
]
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITA!*
£150,000
y
,r
Directors:
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
{Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.0.,
JAMES P. GARYAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY. Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq,
SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
Cellular JEitex Underclothing.
A Positive Safeguard against Cbllls.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
JUST OPENED:
MERINO and WOOLLEN UNDERCLOTHING.
Natural Merino Undershirts (half sleeves), J B
» ~ „ (long sleeves), 8/6
Natural Merino Pants 8/6
This line is specially recommended as easily washed
unshrinkable, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Day Shirts, Pajamas, Caps,
Hosiery, Belts, and Braces.
Sole Agents—
David. Bra.lxEi.ivx & Co.,
75 King Street, and 305-307 George Street, Sydney
(Nearly Opposite Hunter Street).
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Dost Free, 6a. 6d.
2-3 Size.
R. A 0. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 George St,, Sydney.
Post our Razor to be Ground and Set—enclose 1/3.
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES.
IS
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking.
-THE-
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches:
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
. G. A. WILSON. Manager.
ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £3O»,«0«
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND 23,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Hank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up .. £200,000.
Reserve Liability ~ 250,000.
Head Office - I£3riabane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
TEETH.-A COMPLETE SET, ONE
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, nainlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR. HAC K ETT writes: “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m,
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
„ . (VA m
*Yv vUTJA* ov»
IS (A) CURES COLDS,
ABSOLUTELY * COUGHS,
PURE. * INFLUENZA, A«.
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
Wholesale by
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELP & CO.. Sydney,
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney.
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
HOLDSWORTH, M'PHEHSON & CO., Sydney.
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney ,
FACTORY. YOUNG. N.S.W.
YES
We have the patronage of most of the leading
SENIOR and JUNIOR Clubs,
So it follows that OUR FOOTBALLS must
give the very best satisfaction.
TIK
UGBY
ball
WE ARE
the people for all
the latest and
BEST things in the
FOOTBALL line
or any other kind
of sport.
MARTIN’S
SOCMTIfI
Gilbert's Match 11.
14/6 each, by post 15/-
Wisden Match 11.
13/6 each, by post 14/-
MARTIN’S
«sr P.S. —Speeul Terms for Oluba.
Wisden ‘Perfect’ Match
13/6 each, by post 14/-
Wisden ‘Wonder’ Match
10/6 each, by post 11/-
SYDNEY SPORTS DEPOT,
CORNER OF
MARKET & GURENGE STS., SYDNEY
London. & Melbourne Tailoring* Go.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY. *
We are just OPENING UP a splendid assortment of WINTER GOODS— Tweeds, Series and
Viennas, in all Shades and Patterns.
Tweed Sac Suit (to measure) 45/- .. .. .. Trousers, 12 6
Serge „ „ 60/- .. .. Trousers, 15/-
Corkscrew „ (Coat & Vest bound) 50/- .. .. .. Trousers, 16 6
Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS. rsr* Oari-Wo
Paid to any part of the Colony. 1 '
LONDON S MELBOURNE TAILORING CO.
8. M. BAUMASHB, Manager.) 31 ERSKINE STREET.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14—So. 748.
SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1894.
Price, Gci,
hloPlr^f"
A
jvJ
df
-/T/f
&k ? oc/ l-_^
MOUNT HOAXLEY: SOME MIXED METAPHOR.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians."
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt stbekt, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £lO 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... ... ... 0 6 6
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
hare The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
% year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, but is entirely
m the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
‘Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
whether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
Hut we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under •
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission uj such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained In London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal :—The Standard and Diggers
Neivs Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also:- B. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will be sent unless the subscription be pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rude.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
7?ie
SATURDAY, JUNE 16, 1894.
The Dead Absentee.
It is one of the many blessed principles of
the British constitution—whatever that
vague and nebulous thing may be—that it
permits of no taxation without Parliamentary
representation. This principle is one of
which the British nation is inordinately
proud; it has been affirmed over and over
again in many elaborate public documents ;
at least two sanguinary wars have been
fought over it; and it is generally regarded
as the corner-stone of British freedom.
Like most such principles, however, it has
been, from the beginning even unto the
present day, a delusion and a sham. The
entire native populations of India, the
British African territories, and many other
dependencies, making in all about nine-
tenths of the people of the empire, have
always been taxed without any shadow or
semblance of Parliamentary representation.
Of the white population of the British isles,
the female half is taxed in the same auto-
cratic and “ unconstitutional ” fashion ; and
until within the last few years nearly three-
fourths of the male half was disfranchised,
and paid taxes without having any voice
whatever in the government of the country.
In spite of all reforms the present situation
of the empire is that about 99 per cent,
of the inhabitants are taxed without
representation, and the remaining one per
cent, is represented so far as concerns
one - half of the Legislature only, the
other half—the House of Peers—being
an institution which represents nothing save
itself. The fact that, despite all these obvious
discrepancies, the aggregate J. Bull still
fervently believes that he enjoys the full
blessings of liberty and self-government, is
one of these strange examples of popular
infatuation for which no one can account.
# * #
Under these conditions the now inroad
which the Rosebery Government proposes
to make on the alleged principle above-
mentioned will probably leave the Constitu-
tion very much where it was. The latest
individual whom it is proposed to tax with-
out representation is the “ colonial '* absen-
tee, or rather his corpse. Hitherto when
the “ representative ” Australian has died in
England, and been solemnly gathered to his
grisly forefathers, and his bones have been
duly squashed with a vast and shoddy monu-
ment bearing the record of his alleged
virtues, the State has levied succession-duty
on his English property only. Then the
Australian province to which he belonged
has levied its customary tax on his local
estate, and a fair division of the plunder has
thus been arrived at. The Rosebery Govern-
ment, however, proposes to alter this arrange-
ment by charging succession duty on the
whole estate, British and “colonial” alike, so
that the latter will pay a double tax, and Aus-
tralia will thus be made to contribute to the
British exchequer simply because the British
Parliament issues its ukase to that effect.
This is the grand old principle of taxation
without representation in its baldest and
most aggressive form, for it distinctly im-
plies the right of the Imperial Parliament to
make laws for Australia without the consent
of the local Legislatures, and to tax Austra-
lians for the benefit of England for no other
reason than that England feels that way.
• * •
The fact that the tax is proposed to be
levied, not on the live Australian, but only
on the remains of the dead one, in no way
affects the principle involved. The deceased
“ colonist,” in fact, is wholly a side issue;
he has no bearing on the question at all, and
his dust may be left entirely out of the dis-
cussion. The assumption of the British
Government simply is that, under a certain
set of circumstances, it has the right to
charge a heavy rate on property situated in
Australia, and which should be a source of
revenue for Australia only. If the Imperial
Parliament can give itself the right to tax
Australian property under one set of circum-
stances it can give itself an equally good
right to tax it under any other set of circum-
stances. Also, if it can give itself the right
to tax a certain class of Australian property,
it can give itself the right to tax any other
class, or all other classes. Therefore, the
matter to be decided is whether the alleged
blessings of self-government are of any
account or if they have any real existence at
all. The assumption of the British Govern-
ment is evidently that they are of no
account, and that the Australian and the
Asiatic nigger stand on the same political
footing.
# # •
The rich “ colonist” who goes “Home” to
live and die in England is not personally an
object of sympathy. He is generally a
groveller, engaged in a pitiable scramble
after a cheap and nasty title; he is fre-
quently a pretentious and vulgar personage
whose weird social gyrations bring this
country into ridicule and disrepute ; and he
is invariably an incubus upon Australia,
which supplies the ways and means for his
various uncouth proceedings. The idea of
levying a special absentee-tax, and thus
making him contribute something to the
country from which he derives his wealth, is
steadily growing in favour. It is proposed
to make him pay for the privilege of living
in England which he values so highly, and,
if possible, to make that privilege so costly
that he will prefer to reside in the land
where his wealth is located, and to finally
leave his unpicturesque bones there also.
This scheme is not based on any actual
desire for his presence while he is alive, or
that of his bones when he is defunct, but
simply arises from the fact that the
curse of foreign capital lies heavy upon
the land, and that the exportation of
many millions annually in the shape of rents,
interest and dividends is a drain which no
country can stand without disaster. Mean-
while, England is enriched by the receipt of
all these millions ; it grows wealthy upon the
absentee who makes Australia poor; and
having benefited by his presence while he
was alive it proposes to charge him for the
privilege of being dead in the land of his
adoration. Or, more properly, it proposes
to charge Australia for the privilege of his
being dead there, for the money must be
provided, in some shape or form, by the
country where the wealth of the deceased is
located. The absentee is a burden upon this
country while he is in the flesh ; and the
Rosebery Government promises to make
him a burden when he is in the spirit also.
• * *
If there were any reason to hope that the
proposed duties would act as a deterrent
upon the representative Australian, and tend
to abolish the absentee curse, they would be
comparatively unobjectionable. But every
man regards himself as immortal, and a tax
which is only payable after death deters no
one, for no one seriously expects to die
under any circumstances whatever. The
only possible remedy is an impost which
will reach the absentee while he is
yet alive an impost so heavy that it
will make absenteeism absolutely ruinous.
Meanwhile, if the British Government per-
sists in its autocratic policy there is very
little that Australia can do by way of retalia-
tion, save by levying a similar duty upon
the English property of English residents
who may chance to shuffle off the mortal
British coil in this country. Bur, unfor-
tunately, no wealthy person with large
English estates ever does die in Australia,
so this proceeding would yield but little
satisfaction. Even when an English
Governor dies here it is always a poor
and utterly stone-broke Governor whose
estate is of absolutely no account. The
one effective proceeding is to make absentee
landlordism impossible, by the imposi-
tion of a tax which will make the occu-
pation of the Wilsons and the Coopers
synonymous with absolute beggary, and
which, by making it impossible for them to
t • Tii i j -n r xv j i . i• i
hve in England will afford a substantial
guarantee against them dying there. One
good feature of the British Government s
latest device is that it may hasten this emi-
nently desirable consummation, and, if so,
the Rosebery Cabinet will not have lived
in vain.
The Divinity of Debt.
Many men in many lands believe, or profess to
believe, in the existence of the indefinable thing
called deity. In savage countries it is generally
belief ; in civilised countries it is generally pro-
fession, since the more civilised a man gets the
more proof he wants. Civilisation is based on
intellectual scepticism ; for doubt is the parent
of knowledge, dogmatism the handmaid of
error. A great day dawned when humanity
began to doubt. There is no proof whatever of
the existence of deity, which is precisely the
reason why the intellectual savage is so confi-
dent that it exists. “ Credo quia impossible.”
At the utmost there is a plausible theory which
is rather less plausible than no-theory, since it
implies a comprehension of the infinite that is
obviously impossible to the finite.
# • #
Luckily, a man’s ideas of deity are practically
decided for him by the environment in which
he is born and reared. “If we had been born
in India, we should believe in one god with
three heads; as we were born in England, we
believe in three gods with one head.” But
civilised man, as a rule, does not bother his
head about deity, beyond conforming, more or
less, to the religious rites customary in the
country where his lot is cast. Even those who
publicly pose as adherents of a particular creed
rarely remember their creed and their deity
on more than one day in seven. For six-
sevenths of the week their actions are guided,
not by the God who made the heavens and
earth, but by the thousand minor divinities of
custom, opinion, natural lusts, and artificial
restraints. These are the deities to whose
domination we bow perforce. And if power be
the test of divine right, the real deity, the chief
divinity of the world to-day, is Debt.
• • »
Debt is the true Omnipotence. It rules,
not one day in seven, but the whole week,
and next week, and next year, and next
century, and next cycle. There is no escaping
its sway. We are all mortgaged, and our
children, and our children’s children to the
remotest generation. Even the creditor is
a debtor. If you owe nothing as a private
citizen, you owe as a citizen of a State ; and if
not so, then as a citizen of the world. The
interdependence of mankind is absolute and
unconditioned as anything in Spencer’s philo-
sophy. In an eloquent passage of “Eureka,”
Edgar Poe writes that to displace by even the
billionth part of an inch the microscopical
speck of dust which lies upon the point of a
finger, is to do a deed which shakes the moon
in her path, causes the sun to be no longer the
sun, and alters for ever the destiny of the
universe. The forces of the organic world are
similarly conserved.
* « •
No man lives or dies, suffers or rejoices, with-
out influencing all the millions of living men,
and all the myriads yet unborn. At a moderate
estimate, since the human smiled out from the
brutal, there have existed on this planet
250,000,000,000,000 lords (and ladies) of crea-
tion. R was necessary for the whole of this
vast multitude to be born and expire in order
that Parkes’s poems should be exactly as
execrable as they are. If a single corpse in
that enormous pile bad not undergone decom-
position and reintegration, the curse of Dibbs
upon Chicago could never have been launched
with precisely the same gratifying force.
These are fanciful facts; but that every man
drags the chain of debt is a fact very real,
though the weight is unequally divided. King
Debt is as substantial as King Death is shadowy,
and far more terrible. The death of life is
often a blessed release from the nightmare life-
in-death of debt.
* * •
We may pay “ the debt of Nature,” but we
can never pay the debt of commerce while
saving continues and interest endures. And it
will be a long time before the evolution of
human nature leaves either behind. Marx
may shriek that capital is robbery, but nobody
who has any capital will believe him. When a
person has saved up enough to buy a brick house
he objects, as a rule, to its nationalisation—
and, for choice, with a rifle. It is only the
people without brick houses who are willing to
be “nationalised.” And Flurscheim may
prove most convincingly that if A lends B a
cow for a year he has no business to expect any
interest or rent—the milk and the calf which
have meantime accrued being justly annexed by
B for his trouble in “ taking care of the cow.”
But, though this is plain enough to the B’s, the
A’s are unanimous in finding the doctrine far
too thin.
* « «
In the meantime, the public debt of the
civilised world is about 6500 millions of pounds
sterling, and some 120 millions are added every
year. Taking private debt at about the same
figure, the total debt of the world tots up to
£13,000,000,000.
Black it stands as night,
Fierce as ten furies, terrible as hell.
Although to some extent everybody is both
creditor and debtor, there exist, for practical
purposes, two well-defined classes ; and, broadly
speaking, the people who work—the producers
—owe this amount to the people who do not
work, since it is the former who pay the
stupendous annual interest of 450 millions or
so. This sum represents the claim-to-wealth
by consumers which producers must satisfy
before they can validate their own claim-to-live
according to the ethics of finance.
# # #
As consumers continue to save, and there is
such a thing as compound interest, the burden
on toil is always increasing until the strain
reaches breaking point, which is about every
ten years. Then there is a crisis, with thousands
of failures; perhaps a hundred millions of
liability is wiped off, and industry gets a fresh
start, with some of the creditors turned to
debtors. Unluckily, it is contrary to civilised
notions to reduce public debt in the same
fashion. Ancient nations occasionally did it.
The heroes of the French Revolution repudiated
438 million pounds of debt contracted by the
Grand Monarque and his successors, and felt
much better afterwards ; some South American
Republics have imitated them ; and Turkey and
Egypt would like to follow suit if it wasn’t for
ironclads and rifled ordnance. But the “Great
Powers” nowadays—especially England, as the
chief creditor nation —set their faces sternly
against such pleasant practices.
»' * •
So far as the public debt of the world is con-
cerned, there is hardly anything to show for the
vast accumulation of claims. Most of the 6500
millions have been wasted in war—sent aloft in
smoke, melted for bullets, converted into
“glory.” All the “consideration” which
those who are saddled with the interest got for
their pains is the right to be mangled or killed
to gratify the pride of some royalty or other
authorised by Heaven to make mankind
miserable. But the foundation of the debt
matters little ; it is the debt itself we have to
reckon with. Happy savages know nothing of
this permanence of obligation after the original
claim has been paid in interest many times over.
Debt is the peculiar incubus of civilisation,
crushing its spirit, destroying its blessings, and
marking with the blood of toil every step of
progress.
# # •
Debt has multiplied ten-fold in the last 100
years, and population not three-fold. This
cannot continue; and a catastrophe is im-
minent. Europe is staggering under its load ;
America, despite an unexampled increase of
wealth and population, is in little better con-
dition ; and Australia pursues with a light
heart the road which leadeth to destruction.
In a single century, a population of less than 4
millions has piled up a debt of 328 millions !
Already the burden of interest is killing our
industries, though applied to phenomenal natural
wealth. Every year, did we pay our way,
450,000 primary producers, besides main-
taining the dependent population and the
Government, replacing used capital and pro-
viding fresh, have to send out of the country
tribute amounting to millions; the average
interest on our accumulated debt, public and
private, being nearly 4| per cent.
• * •
The valuable tables recently compiled by
N.S. W. Statistician Coghlan show this and
more. They show what has become of the con-
tinual excess of Queensland exports over im-
ports of £4,000,000 to £5,000,000 a year, seeing
that Queensland has paid away in 22 years
£13,453,000 as interest on State loans, and no
less than £38,444,000 as interest on absentees’
investments, so that she has actually sent out
in 22 years £14,152,000 more in interest than
she received in principal ! Gympie, the
Palmer, the Towers, Croydon, Mount Morgan,
the wool industry, the stock industry—the
absentee has drained them all. The debt has
been repaid, with £14,000,000 added; yet the
debt remains as large as ever.
« » •
Mr. Coghlan’s figures show that in the 22
years, 1871-91, from outside sources not includ-
ing new residents, New South Wales has
received £68,796,000 capital, and has repaid
£62,615,000 in nett interest and earnings (in
excess of income from investments abroad) ;
Victoria has similarly received £89,836,000,
and repaid £21,395,000; South Australia re-
ceived £22,587,000, repaid £11,585,000; Wes-
tralia received £3,868,000, repaid £2,546,000 ;
Tasmania received £8,098,000, repaid £5,516,000;
and Maoriland received £50,834,000, repaid
£49,660,000. Altogether, £281,764,000 has been
invested in Australasia during 22 years, on
which £205,214,000 has been paid in interest
and earnings, while the capital remains intact!
Including capital introduced by persons taking
up their abode in the provinces, and capital
sent out of the provinces for investment, the
total capital received was £339,725,000, and the
total withdrawn £252,837,000— f0ur-fifths being
interest as shown above.
* * •
At 4| per cent. Australasia repays her debt
nearly five times in a century ; and still the
debt remains. The producers of the country,
during the next three generations, may look
forward to the payment of 1600 million pounds
in tribute, if debt and interest subsist as at
present. This is the penalty we pay for
extravagant government, rapid fortunes, and
ambition to cut a dash and outrun the natural
process of development. Obviously the policy
is ruinous. To relieve the burden we must look
to stoppage of public borrowing, as in Maori-
land ; the creation of a sinking-fund, as in Great
Britain ; conversion and consolidation of the
debt at lower interest through Federation;
economical administration, content with un-
hurried evolution ; and the direct and propor-
tional taxation of wealth, particularly unim-
proved land values. So may Australasia
partially escape the Nemesis which follows
sacrifice to the Divinity of Debt.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Parliament’s Private Affairs.
The Victorian Legislative Assembly discussed
last week, with unwonted sincerity, an interest-
ing question of its personal convenience. Country
members, who have mostly reached Melbourne
on Tuesday afternoon and started their return
journeys early on Friday, now put forward a
proposal that the House should have its Thurs-
day sitting by day instead of by night, to
permit of a 6 p.m. adjournment until the
following week, whereby they would be able
to catch the evening trains for home, and
resume their private business first thing next
morning. This request was granted (for
the country party practically “runs” the
firm of J. B. Patterson and Co.), but not until
sundry town members had protested against


the innovation from their business point of
view. Robert Harper, the wholesale grocer,
drew a gloomy picture of gentlemen like him-
self being driven from the Senate if the rule of
26 daylight sittings per annum were introduced.
Commerce and Finance agreed that it would be
impossible to forsake the busy mart for the
haunts of legislation at 11 a.m. on Thursdays.
Isaacs, the barrister, insinuated that Victoria
would soon go to ruin if Parliament sat
whilst its legal lights were shining else-
where, and somebody else referred to
the brilliancy of those members who would
not be able to attend during business
hours. The private interests of the rural party
triumphed over the private interests of the
Harper-Isaacs crowd, as was only fair, and a
verdict was arrived at without any sort of refer-
ence to public welfare. If the State thought
over this matter (which it does not) and were
consulted (which it never will be) upon the
point at issue, the State would vote for two
eight-hour days of Parliament work per week,
commencing at nine in the morning, when the
heads of members might be fairly clear, and
their general demeanour pretty brisk. Robert
Harper is doubtless in the habit of saying,
after the manner of city men in general, that
his greatest deeds in the coffee and mustard line
have been inspired before noon. Barristers are
notorious for being less prosy in their pre-
luncheon periods than towards the Court’s clos-
ing time. No intelligent man willingly drifts
into desultory talk and unprofitable excitement
before the afternoon is fairly advanced. He wants
to do something quickly and well, to dispose
of wordy business with the fewest words
possible—in short, to be as unlike the traditional
Parliamentarian as circumstances will permit.
Members of the Victorian Legislature are paid
£3OO a year (for the moment they may be
“ retrenched ” somewhat, but that is merely a
passing incident), and it were not unreasonable
to expect them to do 50 (but 30 would suffice)
fair days of work per annum in the Assembly.
The State would fain have the benefit of their
gigantic intellects before they get fuddled,
clogged or inflamed with the effects of super-
fluous food and drink. As for brilliancy—if it
mean the tonguey exhibitions of a Shiels or a
Deakin— well, the State would rather have
none of it. A disposition to come to the point
promptly, and stick to the point when they are
on it, is what should be cultivated by these
paid servants of the people. If this 11 a.m. to
6 p.m. on Thursday arrangement merely gets
rid of a little “ brilliancy ” and diminishes the
odour of alcohol in the Vic. Assembly, the com-
munity will feel indebted to those country
members who brought about the new departure
with purely selfish motives.
A Flea for Ugliness.
A few months ago the Australian Star pub-
lished a pathetic plea for unkempt nurses. It
complained bitterly of the extravagant arrange-
ments made for the comfort of certain Sydney
hospital attendants, but more particularly of the
baths and the hot and cold water supply—which
latter roused it to a kind of feeble and tooth-
less frenzy. Now, Magistrate Delohery, of
Sydney, has taken up the same parable with a
plea for unkempt industrial schools. In the
existing establishment, he is reported to
have said, “ the girls are too well cared for,”
also “ there arc carpets and good furniture in
the bedrooms, a piano,” etc. Apparently Magis-
trate Delohery believes strongly in the saving
influences of bare floors, and whitewash, and
hard straw mattresses, and washstands which
consist of a battered tin pan on an inverted pack-
ing-case. Further, he has a visible yearning after
discomfort, and cold, gaunt corridors through
which the wind whistles dismally at nights, and
he loves hard, wooden chairs and pine tables.
That is to say, he loves these things for other
people, therefore he regards the fittings of the
Industrial School as a kind of personal griev-
ance. Probably it never dawned upon the
intellect of stipendiary beak Delohery that
there is more saving grace in nice furniture
than in all the exordiums of all the Dogberries
on this earth. The waifs who are consigned to
the Industrial School are not criminals as a
rule ; they are simply children who have become
coarse add offensive, and who are in a fair way
to become something worse, through the influ-
ence of riffle and unlovely surroundings. They
are the product of that state of society which
eats its meals off a bare table, and wipes
its mouth with the back of its hand because it
has never heard of a serviette —which is ac-
customed to uncarpeted floors, and yellow,
mangy-looking window-curtains, and whose
horizon is bounded by a Chinaman’s shop
in front and a dirty yard behind, and
where the cat always looks scalded and
the dog sleeps under the bed, and the
time-payment furniture man turns up in-
cessantly like an accusing spirit on the front
door-step. Three-fourths of the crime and
misery now existent is born of circumstances
like these; it is the custom nowadays to
describe man as the creature of his environment,
and his environment is simply his tables and
chairs, and his dirty window-curtains, and the
view of the Chinese emporium from his front
window. Therefore, Magistrate Delohery’s
reported craving for discomfort and gauntness
and general unloveliness as a means of reforma-
tion goes merely to prove that he is a man with
an unfurnished soul, and with bare floors
in his brain and cold draughts whistling
through his intellect. Too many men of Mr.
Delohery’s class regard ugliness as a virtue and
a thing to be encouraged both in this world
and the next—and have a holy reverence
for ugly gaols and reformatories and schools,
and for ugly whitewashed churches where a
haggard snuffler preaches an ugly creed which
ends in an ugly and unclean hell.
It is easy to understand why Switzerland, by a
referendum vote of 293,000 to 75,000, denied it
to be the State’s duty to find work for the un-
employed. Situated as it is, it is a breathing
space free from the militarism of Europe. The
inhabitants of half-a-dozen countries, bruised
and bleeding under army taxes and taxes of
multifarious forms and oppressiveness, leak
week by week and hour by hour into the small
Republic, and, as its natural resources are
limited and its area only a tithe of that of its
great neighbours, it would, if it accepted
the duty of finding work for the unem-
ployed, have presently to set about subjugat-
ing one-half of Europe. Australian news-
papers, however, in making prominent mention
of this outcome of the referendum under
Republican auspices, intend the information to
be a corrective to those who hold that Australa-
sian Governments should provide work, instead
of charity and abuse, for the thousands of hands
which imperatively demand it. But there is
nothing corrective in the information. Aus-
tralasia has land enougli and resources enough
awaiting development to employ its present
population many times over. If Governments,
instead of wrangling over office and wasting
energy in hunting after titles, devoted them-
selves even moderately to land reclamation and
mineral development, there would be work and
to spare for everyidle hand from the Gulf to Bass
Strait. Nor is this the only point of difference
between the condition of Switzerland and that
of Australia. Switzerland sends no agents
abroad inviting immigrants, as Queensland and
Westralia are now doing, and as other provinces
have been doing till there was not standing
room on the field of labour, and until every
employer in the land had the option of a
hundred needy applicants for every one man’s
work he had to give. With these vital dif-
ferences—and there are others—in view, the
suggestion of a correction from the result of the
Switzerland referendum can have little effect
on the discussion of the question in Australia.
N.S.W. Inspector Lenthall, pleading for
examination of spirits in bond, says that no
publican can profitably sell a glass of good
spirit for less than 6d., but the general charge
is only 3d. This means that the spirit is bad,
which, says Mr. Lenthall, is the cause of
nearly all lower-class drunkenness. Frequenters
of the clubs and first-class hotels often drink
twice as much good liquor as the “drunkard”
who gets the rubbish and is fined in the
Police Court. Precisely what The Bulletin
has been saying for a dozen years. The
“ evils of drink” are to be cured, not by prohi-
bition, which is impracticable, but by regulation,
which is comparatively easy ; not by making it
penal to drink good liquor, but by making it
penal to sell bad liquor. It is the quality, not
the quantity drunk, that does the mischief.
The latest rumour from the dismal settlement
of Rue Australia is that some of the pioneers
are now beginning to dream of another exodus,
this time to Central Africa. The land that is
afar off always looks green, and, viewed from
Paraguay, Central Africa probably seems a
veritable Paradise. It looks, in short, just as
Paraguay looked when viewed from Australia,
and just as Guatemala, or Celebes, or the Falk-
lands, or any other place will look from Central
Africa when Lane’s pilgrims get there —if they
ever do get there. The one almost invariable
rule is that every place seems like an Elysium
until it is reached, and when it is reached it
proves to be only another specimen of the same
Gehenna. Yet the world believes in the next
Elysium just the same. It is on this same
human weakness that the Church has built its
theory of the New Jerusalem; that alleged
golden city is so very shadowy and remote,
and so utterly impossible of verification, that the
pastors have lived and grown rich on the job of
professing to point out the road to it for many
centuries past. The old legend never fails, for
the sufficient reason that no traveller returns to
tell whether Paradise is up to expectations or
not. But the earthly Paradise always proves a
failure, and the fever-stricken, nigger-haunted
wastes of Central Africa will only be a worse
edition of Paraguay. Even if the unquiet
argonauts move on till they leave their bones
by the wayside from sheer old age and ex-
haustion, they will never find the happy land of
which they are in quest, for the sufficient
reason that it exists nowhere at all in this
world. Whether it exists in any other world is
a matter of conjecture. Possibly the melan-
choly dead still keep moving on among the
stars in search of it, and meet with no more
success in their search than they did while in
the flesh.
♦
Through Parson Hastings’ latest letter the
nakedness of the Rue Australian land looms
huge and ghastly. Caterpillars, locusts and
weevils eat the crops ; hornets sting the mates;
jiggers pierce them, snakes bite them, the sun
scorches them, and their only solace is to sit in
the evening and watch the strangely and
wonderfully made fire-bugs—particularly the
railway-bug who has a red danger-signal
on his head and seven or eight electric-
lights on each side. And all the un-
fortunate wretches are casting scorn at
Moses Lane who led them forth to such a
wilderness, and sighing for the cucumbers and
the melons, the leeks, and the onions and the
garlic of dear old Australia. Lane himself, in
the intervals between evictions, has “ got the
joy,” and realises that God is with him, and
against all the other mates who sniff at him.
They, on the other hand, think God is with
them ; and, judging by Lane’s letter to the
Worker, his nervous system has completely
broken down, and he is in for a bad attack of
religious D.T.
Ex-Dictator Lane, of Paraguay, writes in the
following awful vein of snuffle, self-glorification,
and pious frenzy to his colleague, W. W.
Head :
To me, turning with aching heart from wrangling and
groping, Truth has whispered. To me, sinking in the
self knowing agony on the dungeon-floor of life, Freedom
has shown what might be. To me, faltering often because
Wrong triumphs, the knowledge of how Justice is ever
done has come. For God has given a task to me who am
unworthy, and has not deserud me altogether, though for
years I have tried to do llis work without declaring Him
openly, relying on my own intellect rather than on the
Supreme will, and shrinking from the scoffs and jeers
of men. It is reaping of my own sowing that the Settle-
ment we have tried to build has been uncemented by the
sense of Qoi), without which there can be no firm trust
among men. I am sinful, as we all are. To know
oneself is to learn how weakness and evil struggle
in every life to crush down strength and good, and how it
is only by ceaseless effort that the good in men asserts
itself. It is in ignorant men who would be wise, in sinful
men who would be better, in selfish men who would be
unselfish, in wrongdoers who would do rightly, that the
will of God must first be manifest. And if in my message
there is aught of good to any man unfelt by him be-
fore, sinful as I am, I am to him a guide guiding him in
God’s name, as God has guided and is guiding me.
Lane, even in his most rational days, was a
man with a dreamy and far-away expression,
like one whose eyes were always fixed on a
golden gate situated somewhere in the dim
remote. Judging by the above letter, he is now
becoming dreamier and more wildly remote than
ever. Loneliness and mental excitement, and the
exaltation of being a small imaginary potentate
in the wilderness have evidently aggravated his
case, and he seems to be fast attaining to the
condition of the gaunt, bony, wild-eyed seers
of the Scottish Covenant, who heard heavenly
voices calling to them among the savage glens,
and communed with angels, and gesticulated
frantically on the mountain tops, and felt that
they were large, hairy, unbending “ instru-
ments ” specially selected by Providence
to shore up the walls of Zion. When
a man begins to hear voices and to
regard himself as an “ instrument ” he
is in a bad way. Apart from the holy dirti-
ness of the Review of Reviews apostle, Lane
and Stead are approaching the same goal;
the difference between them is that Stead is
troubled with the fat and sleek variety of
fantasy—the kind that is born of feather beds
and prosperity; and Lane has got the gaunt
and haggard kind of exaltation which comes of
dreaming in a mud-hovel out in the primeval
wilderness, and belting with an axe at the
giants of the forest, and living on a vegetable
diet, and not getting one’s hair cut regularly.
Meanwhile, Lane’s new frame of mind doesn’t
by any means improve the prospects of the
settlement.
■
True to “form” Lord Rosebery’s unbeaten
colt, Ladas, won the Epsom Derby, and 90 out
of every 100 humble British punters cheered
vociferously, either because they had backed
the winner, or because their faith in so
consistent a performer had prevented them
from investing their shillings and pounds
upon one of the losers. Ladas was fol-
lowed past the post by the same animal that
got nearest to him in the Two Thousand
Guineas, a month before. All that could be
“ known ” concerning the Derby favourites was
already in print for anyone to draw conclusions
from. No question as to wdiether owners were
“on the job” troubled the motley crowd
on Epsom Downs. And since it is the rule
for popular events to be contested in
England by genuine “goers,” and the bulk
of the horsey community confines its interest
in racing to the principal meetings, where
“ form” is an honest matter for debate, and bad
horses are not run with a view to jostling the
favourites, therefore the sport lives, even grows,
in spite of the criminal blackguardism that
would, under Australian racing conditions,
speedily knock it out of existence. In this
country we have very little “ scum of the
course,” yet the turf is being slowly murdered
by pettifogging horse-owners, few of whom
appear to get fat upon their dishonesty.
-♦
Every time a man is hanged the good old
doctrine of how death acts as a “deterrent ” on
the criminal crops up again. The Bulletin’s
own conviction is that death is not one whit
more effectual a deterrent than life-long im-
prisonment—if it is even so effectual —and after
hearing the old blood-stained sermon preached
from the gallows over and over again it is only
strengthened in its conviction. Death by hang-
ing is not so very widely different from any
other kind of death, save that it is less painful
and lingering than the majority. It is far less
painful, for example, than death by lead-
poisoning, and the gallows is the less
reliable Nemesis of the two. The homicidal
burglar’s chance of life is better and his occu-
pation is, on the whole, less risky than that
of the Broken Hill miner ; therefore, if the
deaths of Montgomery and Williams are a
deterrent to the next burglar, the deaths of a
long list of lead-poisoned miners would be
an equally effective deterrent to the toilers
of the Barrier Ranges. But the supply of
miners grows more plentiful instead of scarcer,
and the supply of burglars will keep on in the
same fashion. When death fails miserably in
the one case as an incentive to the abandon-
ment of dangerous courses, it will fail also in
the other. Again, supposing premature extinc-
tion to be the solemn warning which the
respectable press represents it to be, the supply
of workers in a vast number of other trades
would long since have absolutely stopped.
There are many occupations which, to all
intents and purposes, mean certain death
within a short space of years, and yet these
trades boom along serenely, and as fast
as one generation of workers dies off
another lot is willing and anxious to fill
the gap. Burglary with violence is safer,
more healthy, less arduous and vastly more re-
munerative than many honest pursuits, and if
death is the deterrent it is supposed to be then
hundreds of miserable toilers in poisonous mines
and factories would, for that very reason, give
up their present occupations and take to house-
breaking forthwith. The only reason why they
do not is that the great majority of mankind is
not criminal by instinct, and will not become
criminal even if the gallows is abolished for
ever ; as for the minority which is criminal by
instinct, it will remain criminal even if the
terrors of the rack and the thumbscrew are
added to those of the soaped noose and the
noseless executioner.
THUS "TOM COLLINS":-
Dear Bulletin,— Writim? as an offensively virtuous
man, I would suggest that if the “ moral tone ” of the
60 Laneites be true to label, that section of the busted
community—all other conditions being equal—will, by
reason of fitness, be the survivor. But let us have clear-
cut definitions. “ Moral tone,” in this instance, appears
to embrace the qualities of temperance, fidelity to pur-
pos ■, and continence. Do these look like elements of
failure? Would an accession of these tend to cement or
to disintegrate democracy in Old Australia? But
your correspondent, “ Schwarzkoff,” in the fullness
of his heart, booms only the quality of naughtiness.
Doesn’t this erring brother know that the Laneites have
gone to form a settlement, not to traffic with savages?
and can’t he muster sufficient self-effacement and mag-
nanimity to perceive that his eminently princely hobby is
not a requisite to social co-operation, but rather the
reverse, however essential it may be in South Sea trading?
His Huguenots and Ironsides are not exceptions; they are
the rule—a rule seldom at fault, namely, that the higher
the “moral tone” of a community, the better that com-
munity will fight for freedom. Sparta was by far the most
moral state of classic times; and, for 400 years (says
Plutarch), no Spartan woman ever saw_ the smoke of an
enemy’s camp-fire. But Sparta deteriorated morally,
and went down before the sternly moral Republic of
Rome. Then when Imperial Rome had reached the South
Sea-trader stage of immorality, she went down before the
hairy barbarian whose correlative and sole virtues were
morality and fighting capacity. And so on. The Vaudois
—the most strictly moral community on earth —
have held their three valleys in the Cottian Alps from the
dawn of modern history to the present time. Would im-
morality have given the little company which landed
among the red skins on Plymouth Rock, in 1620, a better
show of survival ? Reason, reason— pit an Appius Claudius
against a Virginius, and which goes under ? multiply
your factors by 10, by 100, by infinity, and you still
enhance the all-round superiority of Virginius. The
moral man has fight in him —and why not? Pity that
“Schwarzkopf’s” contention is not sound, for it would
make us a great nation, and do it cheap. But, seeing that
history points unmistakeably to continence as a very
important ingredient in fitness for social survival,
the stock argument in favour of roguishness lies in a
crushing category of great and good men gone wrong.
This is weak. In the first place, it remains to be shown
that the men in question were giddier than their oVscure
contemporaries; in the second place, the secret of their
greatness lay rather in the front than in the back of their
heads—greatness and goodness having no connection
with the attribute opposite, either as cause or result. For
all this, if the “ moral tone ” of the Laneites proves to
consist in parsonical cant and Social Purity snuffle, I
throw up my brief, and may the Lord have mercy on
their souls.
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will he taken of communications insuffi-
ciently stamped. Name and address must
appear on MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted, and in no
case will MS. be returned unless stamps are
sent.
Holy Friar ; Received with thanks M.B.
(Mary boro) ; Par to hand Not a Ghoul: We fully agree
with you.. .A Brunswick Funeral; The tale of the green-
grocer’s dead wife being humped to her grave by a
drunken person named O’Morrahmore has nothing save
its ghoulishness to recommend it “Golden Story”:
There is a kind of poetry which seems to be built by the
poet dragging his muse behind him by the tail, and
you’ve got it badly... .W.C.0.: Not poetrj'. Only wooden
prose sawn up into short planks of verbiage Boorabee
(Lismore): Thanks The Scamp (Glenrowan): (l)Plea-
sant jingle, but idea small and weak ; (2) Tale hopeless
W.L. (Sydney): Only one memorable verse:—
“But a Smile flashed over his sunburnt face,
A face that might have been carved from a log ;
• Will yer give us a loan of yer bucket, sir,
Yer bucket to boil me blanky dog ?’ ”
We have met that verse before, only the dog wasn’t blanky
—then. The blankiness of the dog shows an original mind.
Carpe Diem: The Bulletin objects to tan boots because
it often wears them itself and wants to keep up the
bloated monopoly, and it hates cheek pants because they
always set it wondering whose move it is next.... Greaser:
No J.B. (Balmain): The murderer’s “fair young
wife ” isn’t admitted to the hanging, which knocks your
gallows poem out in one act Tenderfoot: Can’t tell
you whether Parson Isitt “ travi Is on the ordinary old
cuff" or not. What is the ordinary old cuff ? F.B.
(Wyalong); Your mean man duly entered for the compe-
tition Kit (Surry Hills); (1) Same man. (2) What
would we “advise you to take for it?” Take anything
you can get. Take a rich husband, or Tattersall’s first
prize ; take a dictionary, or a cold, or a dog, or a gold
bangle, or whatever else comes handy. Take every-
thing, and take it often Young Australia :/True,
but hackneyed, and a fresh lie takes better than
an old truths. .Democrat: The average club always
gets the local gold-bug to act as “patron” for the same
reason that the bush mayor’s old fowl generally gets first
prize at the poultry show. You can figure the rest out for
yourself .. Palerang (Redfern): Humorous, but dirty....
Straggler (Ultimo): Metre not good. Also, rhymes shaky,
and spelling inferior, and subject hopelessly dreary, and a
bald-headed girl who swears isn’t poetic, anyhow. Like-
wise, the grammar is bad, and the composition execrable.
T.M. (Mildura): Too little fact and too much loose,
unattached howl Numskull: Not of sufficient interest.
Besides, nobody is allowed to “wend his way” in this
paper. He has simply got to walk.. . Nemo: Too jagged.
We’d as soon publish the teeth of a saw W.8.M.;
Thirty-four verses of poem is too much. Also, what do
you mean by wild statements like—
For blood will creep like wits in a heap
When you feel like Epsom salts?
R. Coyle : Your parliamentary analysis, if published,
would bring down 145 libel-actions all in a heap. We
prefer to get into libels over something interesting
Leth : Simply because you have got in four lines, please
don’t bombard us daily with four things of 400 lines each.
H.P.L.: Over the line Charles F.: No, it is not
“good” enough G.F. (Charleville): Unprintable
D.R.E.: The allusion quoted had reference to the fact that
the co. has been, roundaboutly, most handsomely subsidised
by its friends, the Govt Threes (Neutral Bay): Your
idea that convicted bank directors should be “ assigned ”
as servants to any of their victims who like to pay for
them would apply equally well to all criminals, and be
equally fiendish all round. Why don’t you suggest, in
the same economical spirit, that the bodies of hanged
criminals should be sold for cats’-meat?. Aloha: A
prettily-written skeleton with no literary meat on it. If
you had a decent plot to start with you should do well
Polype: There never was any lynching at Ballarat, and
men didn’t shoot each other much—which knocks the
bottom out of your story. Further, do write one yarn
in which the woman doesn’t go wrong, if only to give
your soul change of air G.E.R. (Hobart): Indian stories
are altogether off our beat E.K. (Bendigo): Afraid
from your letter that they wouldn’t do Charley’s
Aunt: Too brutal—“even tor us.” M.G.: Kindly let
St. Peter have a spcdl at that gate Amy; No inspira-
tion G.H.T.: Style unsuitable. And “the inspired
book ”is meaningless. No book monopolises inspiration.
Every book which lifts, the race is inspired, every man
who does something to better humanity is a saviour
J.R.: Yarns lack local interest and novelty W.J.:
Your soul can’t “thrill with dare” in this paper
Lucilla: Useless; returned Victor Zeal: “Colours”
will do H.A.R.J.: You’ll ask us to reprint the Lord’s
Prayer next H.M.M.: Dibbs’ federation scheme isn’t
worth comment. It has nothing of brains but the bray.
J.M.0.: Your wail is very genuine, but it is too vast and
too vague.. .Boomerang: You can’t throw it Tom
Gayndah: “Ram” too “ linkit." And just look at
“ Andromeda ” in blank verse :
“ Passion-trembling, evil-bound. Deserted
As a rifle-range he finds the track and 11 !
Gertie: Rough, homespun yarn Q.H.E.: Poem
gives an unpleasant falling-into-cellar sensation—and only
water in the cellar ..Ghanet: Verse not new and strong
enough H.M.M.: Don’t care for dactylic battle-shrieks.
Butcher-poetry was well enough when Homer’s savages
strutted ; but it’s time civilised people gave up murder-
glorification N.C.: Can’t trace Student: “Piece
of tanned skin from leg of a fallen girl ” duly catalogued
for office museum. Now send along a virtuous “Y ’*
corpse H.L.; Penny novelettes don’t charm us
Parmer F.: Try the Religious Tract Society E.J.N.;
Depravity too complicated; give us concentrated sin
W.G.8,: May cultivate., ..Coley: Take away your
flower Victor: Get newer pots New York: How
the ensilage can we tell what the land will cost to clear ?
Ask somebody on the spot Cornstalk: It died without
a pang.,. Tenakoe : May do Danton : Better ; still
laboured, lacking spontaneity, melody ; drop knack of
ending lines on weak words. . .C.H.E.: “To refusal ”is
better ; since refusal, the only course open, cannot itself
be an alternative, or other possible, course. Prefer to
avoid awkwardness by paraphrase Hab: Dashing
accounts of the Flood and contemporaneouseventsshould
have reached us 6000 years ago.. .. Wurlie; Can’t say till
we see them Maorilander (New Plymouth): We can’t
discover that the “Property Distribution” in question
was ever advertised in Bulletin. Please give date of
advt. Are you not confusing it with the Australian
Building Society? W.E.G. : (1) “Environment”
doesn’t mean conventional environment. It includes
all states, all forces. (2) Positivism, or the religion
of humanity, founded by August Comte, rests upon
a basis of positive knowledge— i.e., it is a religion of
facts, not fables. When you ask a Positivist if he believes
the whale swallowed Jonah, he merely winks the other
eye. Its leading tenet is the inculcation of duty to
Humanity instead of Deity ; but it is overlaid with much
fantastic ritual foolery. (3) So tar as we know, Francis
Adams’ later proms are not printed in book form.


Equitable
Society U.B.
STANDS ABOVE All OTHERS.
It has more Assurance in Force,
Does a Larger Business,
Holds a Larger Surplus, than
any other Life Office
in the World.
20-YEAR TONTINE.
REVERSIONARY RESULTS OF A
£lOOO POLICY.
If Whole
Life
£1584
If 20 Ltd.
Premiums
£l7B
If 20-yoar
Endowment
£3390
RESULTS of 1894.
THE SMOKES OJFJTH E CENTURY.
T AMBERT and BUTLER’S Honey Vale, in Jib.
Tins; MACLIN and SONS’ "Correct Thing at
Last ’’—the finest of all American dark plug tobaccos.
The above can be obtained, Wholesale or Retail, from
the Sole Agents,
M. A, H. WOOLF & CO.,
78 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (next Q.P.O.
Tho Wildcat Column.
An Interesting side-light is thrown upon the
alleged “restoration of confidence” by the present
quotations for Commercial Bank of Australia deposits.
In this institution the deposit-receipts which are recon-
structed for a comparatively short terra are selling at
16s. 6d. in the £, but for the ten-year deposits the best
offer is about 10s., and sellers are willing to accept
lls. 6d. These “securities” bear 4J per cent, interest.
As interest has a constant tendency to go down, the
one great want of the community is some good,
long - dated investment whereby the investor is
secured a steady return for a considerable term.
Hence long-dated Government bonds almost always fetch
a better price than those of short date. Therefore, when
the Commercial’s long-dated securities sell at such an
alarming depreciation as compared with the others, it
admits of only one explanation that in the public
opinion the devil takes the hindmost depositor. In other
words, confidence hasn’t been “ restored ’’ worth a cent.
The public has still a lingering fear that there won’t be
money enough in the Commercial to pay everybody, and
that the last depositor will be left, and left very badly.
All the enthusiasm of all the influential citizens in Vic-
toria can’t argue against the logic of the share-market.
a a a a
The reconstruction scheme of the Freehold
Investment and Banking Co. (Melb.) has been accepted,
with some slight alterations, by the British creditors, and
that institution therefore expects to hold up its battered
head again at an early date. Its capital is all gone ;so is
its reserve-fund, and part, at least, of its deposits.
There is practically nothing to reconstruct, so far
as the shareholders are concerned, save the deficiency,
and when the business starts again there is nothing for
the directorate to do in the present state of affairs save to
keep the flies off the unsaleable properties and wait for
better times. Altogether the reconstruction seems to be
simply a scheme for digging up a dead body and putting
a ticket on it stating that it is alive. Its one visible merit
is that it may not be dearer in the long run than
liquidation.
• « • «
A humble Melbourne clerk went broke the other
day with £46,000 of liabilities and £175 assets. His
schedule is a whole essay on the insecurity of “‘securi-
ties” in general. He seems to have carefully invested
his savings in 24 different companies, in order not to have
all his eggs in one basket, and about 20 of them went
down in a heap. Therefore, his “ thrift ” landed him in
about £40,000 worth of calls and about £6OOO of contin-
gent liabilities, whereas, if he had, like a lot of other
people, “ blewed ” the money as it came, in cigars and
totes, and in backing doubles, and taking miscellaneous
Flossies to the Cup, and in midnight roystering over nap
and poker, he would have escaped all this disaster. Truly
thrift is about the most ruinous virtue ever invented.
a a a a
The Federal Bank pays a first dividend of 2s. 6d.
in the £.
• • a •
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and Build-
ing Co., of Sydney, one of the few institutions which
weathered the storm of 1893, presents a humble balance-
sheet for the half-year completed April 30. This docu-
ment shows that the Intercolonial has taken in sail to a
considerable extent, the deposits especially being reduced
to about £12,000. The net profit for the half-year is some
£5OO, and even this small amount is a thing to be grateful
for. The worst feature in the accounts is a ban.k over-
draft of £67Bo—a liability which doesn’t amount to much
in good times but which is ominous under present con-
ditions.
• • * «
Manly (Sydney) Co-operative Ferry Co.’s profit
of £1067 for five months’ work is a splendid evidence of
the results to be attained by a liberal policy as against the
antiquated system of high fares and rigid conservatism.
a a a a
It is cabled that letters have been published in
London papers, demanding a judicial inquiry with regard
to the collapse of the Anglo-Australian Investment,
Finance and Land Co. How singularly quiet the Sydney
daily press has been over this monstrous smash !
a a a a
When the N.Z. Loan and Mercantile directors
were being examined in London, Judge Williams asked to
see the bill of costs in connection with the reconstruction
arrangements. An immense document like an enoyclo-
peedia was handed up. “Is there an index to this?”
asked the Judge.
* A * A
Even the miserable caretaker and night-watch-
man of the Federal Bank is among its victims. One of
the numerous Munro family kindly ailoWed his shares to
be put in the name of this unhappy menial, and it isn’t
even mentioned that he offered him one cent by way of
compensation for the risk he thus incurred.
A A A A
The Hand-in-Hand Building Society (of Syd-
ney), a feeble, little institution which has led a pre-
carious existence for some years as an earthen-pot sailing
on the troubled financial waters, was ordered to wind up
last week. Even at its best it never did enough business
to afford any reasonable justification for office expenses,
and its collapse has passed almost unnoticed.
A A A A
Aid. Amess, of Melb., suggests that the bursting
of the land-boom was a very recent event. The City
Council expended a quarter of a million sterling upon a
ghastly white elephant known as the Flinders-street
Market, and it is seriously stated by Amess that
"at the beginning of ’93 the shops could have
been let, but before Aug. the boom had burst, and
they had not been let since.” There is some humorous
satisfaction, however, in hearing an alderman admit that
Melbourne’s glory had begun to fade ere Aug. last, for
most of the city fathers repudiate the notion that any-
thing unpleasant has happened at all.
A sad state of financial affairs prevails amongst
some of the big Sydney hotels.
A A A A
They say that the gentleman who, the other
day, addressed the Sydney bankers on the subject of
“ Securities ” eught really to know something of his sub-
ject. Experientia docet.
A A A A
Women are usually regarded as preferable to
men .as cashiers, in that they don’t gamble. However,
one big Australian firm has “ struck ” a lady-cashier who
—well, perhaps she had a friend who looked upon that
noble animal, the horse.
A A A A
It is not strange that the brothers of many
Australian bushrangers have changed their names.
Wonder whether the brothers of certain “high finan-
ciers” will follow the commendable example?
* A A A
Some well-known Melb. firms now have their
city letters delivered by members of the unemployed, to
whom they give Id. per letter delivered.
One obstacle to federation la the way in
Which it would interfere with some existing commercial
arrangements, Here Is an example. A Sydney merchant
volunteered to advertise an article in a paper, provided
the circulation were confined to N.S.W. With an inter-
provincial circulation his money would be benefiting the
Brisbane and Melb. agents tor the same article, who were
really his rivals. Though generally lost sight of, little
matters like this mean a good deal.
a a a a
The A.M.P. Society holds a mortgage over the
Stock Exchange of Melbourne building for about £140,000.
The land cost, it is said, £lOO,OOO, and the building
£lBO,OOO, so the society has a big margin—on paper.
• * • *
"That sovereign” is the title of the favourite
personal reminiscence of Mr. T. A. Dibbs, general
manager of the Commercial Bank of Sydney. “ That
sovereign ” was one of four given by a bank-olerk in ex-
change for a £3 cheque proffered by Mr. T. A. Dibbs
aforesaid many, many years ago. Mr. T. A. Dibbs
promptly returned “ that sovereign.”
* a a a
Ten years ago a certain bankrupt estate panned
out much better than all, including the bankrupt,
expected—paying the handsome dh. of 19s. 6d. in the£,
but even at this certain creditors demurred. The other
day the same man went “through” for 6d. in the £.
This time, of course, there was very great dissatisfaction
and bankrupt was asked to explain. “ What 1” he cried,
“ you grumbled when I paid 19s. 6d. in the £, and now
that I can actually pay 6d., which makes 20s. in the £,
don’t it, you still growl.”
• • • •
The Victorian Parliament is asked to pass a
bill to help careless trustees and trustee companies out of
the slough they fell into through valueless valuations
during the boom era. The bill is retrospective and prac-
tically relieves trustees of their just liability. The Act,
when passed, will squelch several actions now being
brought against allegedly negligent trustees down South.
• « • •
When forgeries are about, remarks an English
paper, “ what a temptation it must be to a hard-up bank
to write * Forgery ’ across the face of every note it can
lay its hands on.”
• * • *
Thus an insolvent Melb. tailor : " I never kept
a banking-account. I kept my money in my left pocket—
nearest my heart. I would not trust a bank with my
money. lam a little man, but lam not afraid of being
robbed by larrikins at night.” He should have been a
millionaire.
♦ » ♦ •
The late Colin Longmnir, manager of the City
of Melb. Bank, habitually wore a check suit in place of
the funereal frock-coat usually affected by financial mag-
nates, and was more than once mistaken by the uniniti-
ated for a metallician.
* * ♦ *
A Sydney firm, in answer to a recent advt. for
a secretary, at £250 per annum, received over 300 applica-
tions. The former “ sec.’s ” salary was £4OO.
* ♦ ♦ *
Reason why W. J. Clarke’s Green Hills land
didn’t sell was that his terms were too short, and he
hadn’t the nous to arrange with some bank or mortgage-
company to finance buyers. The estate would have sold
all right in the pre-boom -days, when the banks were
lending to farmers. The land’s good enough, but few
farmers in the wide world can buy land for cash straight-
out.
« * « •
The Bulletin some weeks ago generalised on
the ill-luck of the Jews in gold-mining, and sorter pre-
dicted that Mount Huxley wouldn’t turn out a 140-million
mine. It has come to pass. Israel, which went out to
quarry “sugar,” has struck salt. A long time ago, King
Solomon had a hit of good fortune in some gold mines
supposed to have been situated in South-eastern Africa.
It would appear that Solomon’s mozzle exhausted the
gold-mining luck of the race. Who put salt on the tail of
Moses? Weil, you could “ name him in two.”
On the fatal morning when it was first pro-
claimed in cruel print that Tas. State-geologisc Mont-
gomery had denounced Mount Huxley as salted, gold
went to a distinct premium in the very same Sydney bill-
discounting circles which had predicted that, by means of
the colossal output of the glittering mount, the royal
metal was to so slump that every Gentile shepherd was
to boil his post-and-raiis in a golden billy.
Taranganba was good, Last Call was better, bub
Hoaxley—if geologist Montgomery is to be believed—is
destined to take the cake in the matter of disappointed
hopes. There is not the slightest ground for suspecting
that promoter Samuel and his colleagues are not abso-
lutely honest in the matter. The smarties seem to have
had him on toast to such an extent that the disgusting
richness of Mount Huxley was as much an article of faith
with him as pickled cucumbers. The manner in which
he disposed of the shares (placing the money in trust with
a committee of the shareholders themselves, and stipulat-
ing that only £2O out of each £250 subscribed was
available for expenditure until experts’ reports satis-
factory to each individual subscriber should be forth-
coming) speaks for itself. Even now he refuses to accept
the Govt, geologist’s conclusions and has got Mr. Mont-
gomery to go back, taking with him his own staff, and
make a further examination.
It is idle to throw cold water on the geologist’s
conclusions. The argument that Mr. Montgomery’s pre-
liminary or progress reports don’t square with his final
judgment amounts to very little when it is remembered
that in the earlier stages of the enquiry Mr. M.
himself may have been humbugged by the salting-
brigade. The Montgomerian confidence-trick prac-
tised on the salters was a brilliant inspiration.
The ordinary smart expert seals his sample-bags.
Mr. Montgomery didn’t—he left his open. But before ho
put in the stone he scraped—probably scrubbed—it
thoroughly and satisfied himself that there was no gold
on its surface. When the stone was taken out by his
confidential assistant at his office, it was scrubbed again ;
and when assayed gave only a trace of gold. The loose
dirt in the bag, on the contrary, gave at the rate of, say,
lOOoz. to the ton. This was “tew mutch ; ” besides, the
glass showed the gold out of the dirt to be alluvial, not
reef gold. It had, therefore, clearly been added to the
bag in transit.
The booming of Mount Hoaxley was about the
most vulgarly blatant thing in the history of Australian
gold-mining. The great boost, so far as it went, was
accomplished wholly and solely per medium of several
persons who admittedly had never been on a mine in their
lives, and one or two of whom were so ignorant of
mining detail that they confounded porphyry with phos-
phorus. Their chief organ in the press, which dignified
the shameless boost in leader-type, was Sydney B. News,
the medium mostly responsible for the recent rascally
Clyde-river alluvial bogus-boom.
For the Mount Hoaxleyltes i“-‘ ‘ Jdxpei'to crede M i
You must believe the expert.
e • • •
The three practical miners sent over, Messrs.
Hugh Pulton, William Brown and P. A. Bizant, wire from
Mt. Hoaxley that they have “ seen nothing to substantiate
Mr. Montgomery’s statements."
a a a •
Last crushing of Brilliant (Towers), 2196 tons
gave 20900z5., and a monthly div. of 3d.—£3125.
*•• , *
At current market prices of stock, all Gympie
mines could be bought for a trifle over £400,000. Yet
the dividends for last month, £32,833,_ pay interest at
the rate of £95 per cent, per annum on this figure; and the
nett divs. for the year to date, with calls deducted, pay
£32 per cent. If aman put£loo into, say, each of a dozen
picked mines on Gympie, and paid calls and took divs. all
the year round, he would almost certainly come out a big
winner at the end of 12 months. With the risk well dis-
tributed there is no better investment than mining
securities on a steady field like Gympie.
• * * a
Towers (Q.) crushings for May, 19,365 tons,
17,8200 z low yield, accounted for by Mount Leyshon’s
4337 tons having only yielded 7790 z.; payable, however.
Divs. for the month were £21,775, so that Gympie easily
takes first place, £ll,OOO ahead. The chief contributors
—Mills United with the regular £7500, and Brilliant
Block, which put in two, and reached the same figure ;
then Brilliant, £3125; Kelly’s Queen Block, £2400 ;
and Brilliant Central, £1250. The small number of
Towers diy.-paying mines is always in contrast to the
number quoted and worked.
♦ * * •
Croydon (Q.) May crushings were 3852 tons, for
48970 z. At latest, 8 North Golden Gate, from 330 tons
got 8900 z., div. £lOOO.
a a a a
Phoenix Golden Pile Mining Company, Gympie,
paid two divs. last month amounting to £14,400.
• « • *
Gympie last month produced 14,8940 z. of gold
from 7651 tons stone.
a a a •
The Day Dawn P.O. at Charters Towers, out
of a profit of £2OOO, paid last year £lOOO to London
directors, who do absolutely nothing for _ the_ money.
Mills’ United, which gave last year £95,000 in divs., pays
local directors and secretary less than £3OO all told. The
English investor bleeds like a pig.
* a a •
A Wyalong correspondent naively tells one of
the Sydney papers that “We have more than enough
workmen here of all kinds, but we would like some mining
speculators to visit us, and invest in the mines.” But
mining speculators don’t see their way to give the prices
asked until a little more has been done in the way of
proving the shows, and until the results of the first 1000
tons crushed at the local battery are known. There’s
plenty of money waiting to invest when Wyalong justifies
investment. It only costs 2s. 3d. to cart crushing stuff
now, as against 15s. when it had to go to Barmedman,
which considerably increases the profit-margin.
* • * *
Broken Hill returns, week to June 7: Pro-
prietary, 11,385 tons Ore treated for 925 tons bullion,
giving 248,9290 z. silver. Block 10,145 tons ore, 27 tons
bullion, 10,5400 z. silver.
♦ * * a
N.S.W. Peak Hill Proprietary crushed, for
May, 1660 tons for 6410 z.; or nearly Bdwts. to the ton.
a • a a
A new find is reported nine miles W. of Mount
Margaret, on the N. edge of Lake Carey, equidistant
about 150 miles from Coolgardie, Kurnalpi and Cue ; and
men are streaming to the centre, which isn’t quite so arid
as the surrounding country. Bayley's Consols has struck
quartz at 125 feet in the eastern crosscut, but no gold
visible. The formation carries heavy water, which goes
to Bayley’s battery. The 1.0. U. rush is reported a duffer.
M‘Aulifle’s Reward crowd have retired from the fight
with a final deposit of £6500 paid by Lord Percy Douglas
on behalf of an English syndicate for the claim at White
Feather.
a a a a
The Coolgardie warden, whose original pro-
jumping decisions were the means of giving him plenty
work to do, is now discouraging jumping in ail cases
where it can be shown that the lease was being developed
in good faith. The matter of the Ritanita lease has been
re-opened, and the owners are sanguine of the ultimate
result
♦ * • e
Mount Morgan, taking a late share-quotation,
would be worth £2,626,000.
» * * *
The native name for Kurnalpi is “ Billa-Billa,”
which, by interpretation, is “ the land of gold.” Mr. J.
W. White, M.P. of S.A., put in three months digging on
the field, and during that time unearthed 1520 z. of gold—
the biggest lump weighing 27Joz. On May 14, when ho
left, there were 500 men at Kurnalpi.
« « * «
The Day Dawn (Murchison) battery has, of late,
been most erratic and now (writes a correspondent) the
derrick of the pumping-gear has confe down with a run.
About one day’s run out of 10 is not an over-good average.
Day Dawn, 455.; Baker’s Creek, 255. 1 No man can be a
prophet in his own country, and a oareful perusal of last
reports from each mine would certainly afford food for
reflection, especially when it is borne in mind that Baker’s
has paid nearly as much in actual cash divs. as the Day
Dawn represents on paper. ’Twas ever thus.
The Murchison has been conspicuous for the
absence of Chinamen, since Sam Wilson raised the ire of
his miners by employing one as a cook. Whatever work is
going on there is supplied from legitimate sources at a fair
wage. Even the Proprietary stores, owned by Afghans,
have only white men.
♦ • *
Shares in the Silver Queen Co. (Tas.), which
was to make the fortunes of its shareholders, were once
freely selling at £9; now they are down to 2s. 9d., the
co. is in debt some hundreds and—a 6d. call has just been
made.
a • ♦ *
In Melb. it is suspected the Junction Silver
game is being repeated in the Bayley’s Reward. But the
push oan’t get the jobbers to oome and be scalped. The
Exchange Gun Club is too wary nowadays.
No, after all, they are not wary enough—for it
is asserted the North Duke flutter has squeezed the over-
sold jobbers badly. The duoal push hold 30,000 out of
50,000 shares.
• • • *
Reporter Stevens, late of the Age, has been
appointed mining-manager at a good salary in one of the
payable Coolgardie mines.
Dayspring (Parkes, N.S.W.), 506 tons—s4BJoz.
of retorted gold.
♦ * • a
Eight hundred back in Melb., from Coolgardie,
in a fortnight.
* * * *
Charlie Westhoven, a good fellow whom every
old Stanthorpe miner knows as he knows his father, went
down the deep shaft at Wollongong, N.S.W., last week.
* * • •
Just before the cjpse of its last missing-word
competition The Bulletin received from a western N.S.
Wales town the following piteous and amusing letter
, May 28.
Please, sir,—
I am going to try luck; the people here do not
believe in this, because no one has won anything yet. I
wish God would give me the right word. I have 12
ohildren—lo girls, two boys ;heis 9 years old ;my eldest
girl is 18 years, the youngest 2. My husband got blowed
up in the mine; through that same accident he was in the
hospital, and had one eye out open to get the stone taken
out, so you will see he has one good eye, one bad ;
he is now at work in the same mine, 6s. 6d. per
day. My little girls are very good ; as soon as they get
their pay they bring it to me: one gets 10s., one Bs., one
65., at honest service. Please, excuse my taking up so
much time. I wonder if you will ever get this letter. I
think some P.O. will know what this is, and take out the
stamps.—l am, your ever well-wisher, .
♦ * »
One wire from Coolgardie states that two men
have arrived with 10,000 oz. gold from an Eastern locality.
This will probably sink by degrees to £lOO worth.
Another item is that Sohlink and party have recently
arrived with camels from S.A., after Journeying 1300
tolle* in 67 days. One stretch was 180 miles without
water, which proved nearly fatal to the party^
Cabled that the Port Jackson Coal Mining 00.
has succeeded in raising in London the necessary capital
—something like half a million—for their projected
scheme of coal mining under Sydney harbour. Verily.
Tiger Inglis didna qoort Alrl Jairsey for naethin*. Eh,
mon I
• • * •
Missionary Reid, back again at Melb. Town
Hall, with bottles and things in front of him, stated that
he was glad to find Patterson still at the head of the
Government, “doing his best for the toiling masses and
the community as a whole.” Patterson, for his part, was
delighted to see the invaluable Reid once more at his post
ready to save the country at a minute’s notice. If stocks
should happen to fall one-eighth Victoria need only tele-
phone to Patterson and Reid, and all will he well. God
bless those twin defenders of national credit—especially
Reidl *
Dear Bulletin, —Teams from the Cross to Oool-
gardie only get through on permits, to stop the rush for
water. How is it, if Igo to the Govt, boss for a permit I
am told to wait a fortnight, while if I go to a storekeeper
he will get me half-a-dozen permits same day ? Tell the
crow-eating, gumsucking and cornstalking teamsters
from me that they’d better stay where they are. Chaff is
£lB a tori ; no grass j wait 24 hours for water.—
Northerner.
* a a a
Croydon Mining News tells some stories of the
managers sent out from ’Ome to the North in the good
old days. One of them had the honour of being first
cousin to a “lord,” and when he did muster up sufficient
courage to go below, always wore a pair of lavender kid
gloves and carried a gold-mounted cane. His successor
brought a ship-load of guns, revolvers and ammunition to
protect him from the niggers, and his first report stated
that there was “ a mile of solid gold on the surface.” On
this report his father realised most of his property,
and invested the amount—about £30,000 —in the mine.
He’s a lot wiser now.
* • a •
Silver has now got to so low an ebb in Calcutta
that it is sold by auction for what it will fetch, like any
other job-lot of damaged goods. Therefore, some en-
thusiast will probably arise before long to expound bi-
metallism in a popular form, and the bi-metallic gospel
will take the place of the Single-tax as the craze of the
hour.
* • * *
Inglis, Robson and Co., of 108 Pitb-street, Syd-
ney, have issued a very excellent cheap (Is.) map of the
leases on Coolgardie field, charted up to date, and giving
full particulars of number, area, and holders’ names,
besides much other information.
• • * a
It is stated that during his mining career Harry
Newman, M.P., has raised at Lucknow, N.S.W., 20 tons
of gold.
• * • a
The Westralian Mining Act is singularly defec-
tive. For instance, it contains no provision for the con-
solidation _of leases—so that a co. having half-a-dozen
leases adjoining must work each independently of the
others.
• * • *
Complaints are rife throughout N.S.W. con-
cerning the awful trash which is being sold as “ pure
tea.” Bad tea is as injurious as bad whisky. A Sydney
tea-canvasser lately told the writer that he got sd. out of
every pound of 18d. tea which he sold. His boss made a
similar amount. This leaves Bd. per lb. to cover expenses
of growing the tea, packing, storage, freight, the Sydney
importer’s profits, the wholesale buyer’s profits, cost of
advertising the “ choice new season’s blend just to hand,”
and a host of other incidental expenses. Problem: Find
the real value of that tea.
* * * •
lb may be that the Northern pastoralists will
yet find partial salvation in the raining centres. Bullocks’
blood is worth £l5O per ton in the cyanide process, and
as the Croydon cyanide works—largest in Australia—
will open in two months, there may be a small boom in an
article hitherto of little commercial value.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEV SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's "The Flying Scud.”
Lyceum “A Life of Pleasure.”
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's Comic Opera Co.
Theatre Royal " True as Steel.”
Buou English Opera.
Alexandra Fitzgeralds’ Circus.
The Brough-Boucicault company is fare-
welling at Sydney Lyceum in a series of revivals
which, owing to the multitude of mourners
present, look like the funeral of a public bene-
factor. There is bub little joy in Sydney these
times, and the departure of the only company
which can be relied upon to make fifteen hundred
people laugh every night is a depressing circum-
stance. Therefore, The Bulletin writes the local
epitaph of these mummers with a heavy heart.
Last Saturday and Monday were devoted to the
pathetic drama of the “ village Priest,” and the
rest of the week’s programme was to consist of
“Niobe,” the "Idler,” and two nights of
the "Amazons.” The last-named was wisely
selected for the final sensation of the season,
as a comedy which is calculated to leave
behind it a pensive, lingering, yearning memory
of Mrs. Brough’s knickerbockers. Sydney has
long worshipped that lady in skirts, bub it likes
her in knickerbockers best, and it is in this latter
costume that it would prefer to remember her.
Whether the 00. will return later on to farewell
some more is uncertain, but the chances at present
are said to be against this desirable consumma-
tion—The Bulletin, for one, would be pleased if
Mrs. Brough and the other two amazons would
stay on and farewell (in knickerbockers for pre-
ference) till the end of the century. On Saturday,
Bland Holt will take possession of the Lyceum
and endeavour to console a bereaved city with
" A Life of Pleasure, ” one of those immense and
gorgeous dramas in which his soul delighteth.
Miss Jennie Maynard’s monologue enter-
tainment opened at Sydney School of Arts under
moderately cheerful circumstances. Mr. Fitz-
maurioe, a singing gentleman who is thrown in with-
out extra charge, has many good points about him,
and the pianist leaves an impression that her head
was cub off in the French Revolution, and is
now held on by a black band fastened tightly
round the neck. Miss Maynard’s part of the
entertainment is built somewhat on the lines
of the lamented Frank Lincoln, that mixer of
spectral cocktails and weird lecturer on poultry
and other subjects. But the monologuist needs
to joke with his feet, his boot-soles, his legs,
and every other part of him, and a lady’s skirts
are a woeful handicap, A feature of the enter-
tainment is the dancing of Miss Clare Navette,
an exceedingly pretty and agile little lady who
departs altogether too soon.
** * %
Partly owing to the two artistic bow-legs
of Mo Davis, and partly owing to the general


THE OLDEST LIFE INSURANCE OFFICE STILL LEADS THE VAN.
THE
MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
Of NEW YORK.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
ESTABLISHED 1813.
ASSETS, DECEMBER 31, 1893 « - - *38,338,332 13 7
INCOME FOR 1893 - - - *8,614,608 19 5
SURPLUS .. .. - - ~ - - •• •• *3,686,367 6 8
FOUNDED AND CONDUCTED ON PURELY MUTUAL PRINCIPLES.
CLAIMS SETTLED ON THE SPOT IMMEDIATELY ON PROOF OF TITLE.
POLICIES CURRENT THROUGHOUT THE WORLD. /
AUSTRALIAN DEPARTMENT:
(Company's own building in course of erection)
MARTIN PLACE & PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
TEMPORARY OFFICES: .. .. 131 PITT STREET.
Z. 0. BENNIE, General Manager,
excellence of the company, “Flying Scud ’’ is pay-
ing its way handsomely at Her Majesty’s. There
ere many good features about the performance,
but Mo. Davis’ curly legs fascinated The Bulle-
tin man’s eye, and while Albert Marsh was dis-
playing these members on the stage it invariably
lost the thread of the proceedings. It is only a truly
conscientious artist who can continue bow-legged
without one break all through five long acts, but
Mr. Marsh achieves this feat—in fact, he is gener-
ally believed to keep bow-legged between the acts
as well, from pure love of his art. The upper o
straight part of Mo is almost equally pleasing.
Also Miss Emma Chambers is steadily growing in
favour, and the gods have, metaphorically speak-
ing, taken her plump little figure to their unani-
mous bosom. Twenty-six other people do a Jot of
good work, Messrs. Sterling Whyte, Plimmer,
and Scot Inglis being especially deserving of a leg
up from a discriminating press.
** * *
That good old favourite, Alfred Dampier,
with Mrs. Dampier, daughter Rose, and George
Buller as business-manager, will sail for England
in about three weeks’ time. Dampier’s present in-
tentions are to take a theatre in London and put
up a series of Australian dramas beginning
with “ Robbery Under Arms.” The world
has gone exceedingly ill with Alfred for
some time past, and though his artistic
capabilities are as strong as ever his in-
variable kindness of heart, and his readiness to
help everybody under all circumstances, have
caused his worldly assets to take wing and fly
away unanimously. The chances are that his
departure will be final, and, under the circum-
stances, he ought to be sent off with the biggest
benefit ever seen in Australia.
** * *
The W. and M. Opera 00. came back to a
(crowded Melb. Princess’s on Saturday, when that
apostolic cherub, the “Vicar of Bray,” resumed
ihis assiduous attentions to the corps de ballet.
Also Tapley, who shapes his mouth into a rounder
iperiod than ever, and is even more suggestive of
a blameless bun-struggle than at first, turned up
:again as the curate. Howard Vernon was the
.same old family solicitor with responsible “spats,”
and Miss Florence Young, looking like an
anthem in her poke-bonnet, infused a feeling of
peace into an elegantly-mounted show. A few
'changes in the residue of the cast made no real
(difference one way or other, although they
(included the popular baritone vision who is
ipassing hence. It had been stated that Ryley
would begin to tear'himself away from Australia
iin an afterpiece, instead of which he played the
minor part of Tommy Merton, in “The Vicar,”
(handicapped by a jerry-built coat and a nasty
(cough. The afterpiece is not, however, a very
■desirable matter for anybody to take up. Under
ithe name of “Penelope,’’ it admits to being a
musical version of an ancient farce, written at a
(time when policemen were just beginning to com-
pete with soldiers for possession of the pretty cook.
’The action, lively enough in the original, yarn, is
'hampered by many flabby ditties set to tame
music. The same subject has been more amus-
ingly treated by a variety company at the Alham-
bra, and might as well be treated by nobody at all.
♦ 9 *
At time of writing it was possible that
“Ma Mie Ro°«tte ” would be ready by Saturday
(16th).
** * *
The wise administration of the Montague-
Turner 00., whereby a lot of opera is produced,
and respectably produced, at comparatively little
expense, has been cheerfully recognised at Mel-
bourne Bijou. The shortcomings in a performance
of “Faust,’’ as given last week, are less apparent
than the experience and all-round industry neces-
sary to giving it anyway, with such limited re-
sources. Charles Turner’s tenor organ has happy
moments, in spite of wear and tear of unfavourable
■weather; and the veteran, Farley, although con-
siderably out of gear, produces some imposing
sounds. The ladies are more than satisfactory.
Miss Cecily Staunton sings the contralto parts
sweetly, and Miss Montague’s economical method
■enables her to finish a long task with delightful
'vigour. Harcourt Lee gets everything possible
'out of orchestra and chorus. “ Borgia ” and “ The
*Gyurl ” were to be attacked by this indomitable
■combination during the current week, and the
season will finish on Friday or Saturday with
“Maritana.” After which anything may happen
— the Deluge, perhaps,
** * *
Fitzgeralds’ Circus having completed the
■original contract with Dan Barry, continues at
the Alexandra under its own plain, unvarnished
name, vice “ Bucephaleon.” There was always a
•dark, haunting doubt as to the meaning of
“ Bucephaleon,” whereas the word Circus speaks
with no uncertain sound. Arrangements have
been made for bringing the wild-beast portion of
the show into further notice, and a gory-minded
public is now cordially invited to look out for the
lion tamer. A toyer with 561 b. weights is a new
feature of an improved show at the Alhambra,
also the Gaiety seems to evolve a new idea from
time to time.
** # *
** True as Steel,” at Melbourne Royal, is
a four-act nightmare in which one appalling hero
occupies the centre of the stage, whilst everybody
else ministers to his greatness. Charles Holloway
is that hero. His penetrating twang pervades
nineteen powerful situations, and the things that
happen behind his back are not worth men-
tioning. When a cold, dead female lies upon
a limelit bedstead, with paper snowflakes falling
upon her black counterpane through a hole in the
roof, Mr. Holloway comes to the fore, as the
corpse’s husband, and curses the bloated capitalist
who made the rift in his humble home. A grey-
haired “King of Diamonds,” turning up twenty
years later to carry on the drama, is still Charles
Holloway. When a deaf nondescript falls out of
a wheelbarrow in the iron- works, after swallowing
a pint of morphia, but recovers consciousness in
time to save a browless dude from destruction by
a steam-hammer, the irrelevant interloper is
Holloway once more. Villains of all shapes and
sizes are circumvented by Plain Bill’s brother
'until the gallery grows almost weary of whistling
at him. Miss Williamson, Miss Conroy, J. W.
Sweeney, Cathcart, and G. R. Melville come in
'for occasional notice, the latter as a British work-
man prepared to squash anybody with the steam-
hammer for .£lOO, payable in advance. The
weird dudeling, who was to be duly crunched
during dinner-hour, is enacted by one Henry
Willard, and this journal doth protest against
any further interference with his righteous doom.
Holloway may reckon on a free pardon for the
J?est of his sins if he will but once permit the
hammer to do its worst. “True as Steel” is so
well mounted and managed, and so crowded with
incidents that couldn’t possibly occur elsewhere,
that it ought to flourish. As a specimen of play-
making it invites an honest eurse, but as a well-
served dish of horrors, at popular prices, it merits
■unstinted praise of a low order.
Fi)r “ Poverty Point ” see page 16.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
J une 12, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
The hop in aid of the Fresh Air League, the!
other Wednesday, was such a heavily-attended
function that it looked as if the Town Hall autho-
rities ought to have provided a gigantic shoe-horn
for the purpose of crowding the folks into the
place. Dancing was almost impossible, and I
hardly blamed a fond and foolish pair whose sil-
houetted embraces against the glass of a gallery-
door made a number of evidently sympathetic
people in the ballroom clap their approval of love’s
young dream with the light behind it. They had
no opportunity of hugging one another in the
waltz, you see, owing to the crowd. But nobody
minds being jammed bargain-sale style so long as
you are jammed against the right man or woman,
as the case may be, and are being reduced to pulp
in the interests of deserving indigence.
The fancy sets were interesting, but I would
have liked them better had the set-ters danced
something more flighty than the good old lancers;
and if they would have that respectable square
why didn’t they dance it d la Parisienne in
parallel lines ? Mrs. Harvey’s Rouge et Noir set —
black velvet with floured hair-patches and wands
adorned with scarlet poinsettia like Aaron’s floral
rod—was the sportiest of the fancy squares. The
Scotch set, under the aegis of Mrs. Douglas Mac-
Kenzie, gained interest from the fact that only
men sporting their own violent family check were
entitled to dance in it—no gilded youth without a
recognised family kilt in his wardrobe was per-
mitted to compete in borrowed tartan. So the set
was cut down to four couples, and it is a serious
thing to reflect that there are only four genuine
kilts in the best Sydney society, and that the rest
are imitations as spurious as Mr. Lebanon’s attire
at Drumdarris.
Miss Innes’ butterfly set was just the sort of set
a nice young lady might be expected to get up,
only the wands with apotheosized caterpillars on
top were rather too massive. They looked as if
the holder had been out spearing Brobdignagian
butterflies with a elothes-prop. The naval and
military sets only seemed to give the officers a
chance to sport their mess jackets and to prove
that the Australian Thomas Atkins can’t support
one tip of a green garland without sloping his
shoulders, while the imported Jack Tar stands
like a bronze statue—barring his eyes, and they do
roll over the ladies, I must admit.
The University set (they were all in lively
humour—because a pretty amateur actress-cum-
sweet-girl-grad is going to make a good match,
I wonder?) looked rather dingy—but it does
amuse me to hear of anybody “getting up ” a
University set, which is only a matter of asking a
posse of people to dance in their working clothes.
By the way, the aggressive stage-management of
a certain old lady made the fancy sets still more
amusing, especially when she appeared to hit a
gallant major (who was piroutting in the wrong
place) a smart tap with a roll of paper. But she
advertised herself most effectively when she stood
with her arms thrown out before the supper-room
door and dared the mob to advance. It was quite
an Ancientßoman spectacle—one determined dame
protecting the pastry from the rude attacks of the
populace, desperate at not being fed until 12
o’clock.
The decorations were distinctly “gyp” at the
F.A.S. Ball, and the music (they played Maude
FitzStubbs’s two dashing waltzes “ The Heather”
and “Orlando ”) was as dependable as a newly-
oiled hurdy-gurdy. The gowning generally was
tasteful, tho’ I don’t include a lady in four o’clock
crimson silk and a dark brown wig of the wiggiest
description in any raptures that may follow that
statement. Mayoress Manning, in a brocade
g OWn — the colour of Australian gold—was on good
terms with her toilet; Miss Darley, in black and
green, was too soberly armed for her years ; Mrs.
Prendergast wore white brocade and old lace with
a bow (everybody wears a bow now—with the
effect of a pet pug-dog sometimes) of sapphire
blue velvet; Mrs. T. W. Woodin (a very active
hon. sec.) was smartly turned out in white brocade
and intervals of heliotrope with powdered hair,
diamond ornaments and a large bouquet of orchids;
Miss Bessie Tarrant (“Miss Hammond,” of the
B. and B. Co.) wore white silk and violets, and
came with Grace Noble in the same angelic colour,
which Miss M'Donagh also sported with good
effect. Miss Maud FitzStubbs in shell-pink and
silver, and Miss “ Flowerland ” Bell, apparently
sprinkled with violets, also cut good figures in the
heaving throng.
Sydney Philharmonic Society gave “Elijah ”an
airing, with the assistance of the Cole co. (just
tumbled in, as it were, from Brisbane), the other
Tuesday, and the result was a hall crowded to its
capacity, and a flattering success for the Phil-
harmonics. Hazou seems to have imbued the
society with a lot of his magnetism, and though
he does perform as if the conducting-stick were a
galvanic battery you hear the effect of it in the
spirited and electrical attack of the chorus. And
the choruses were the most taking things in
“Elijah.”
You couldn’t hear what they were haranguing
about, certainly, but I think chorus-singers always
stand a better artistic chance than soloists. The
obtrusive personality that bristles all over a man
rising to lift up his voice in song, and gives the
most diffident performer the effect of being a
supreme egotist for the time being, is beautifully
lacking in the chorus, which merges the self-
conscious individual in the complete musical whole
undistraoted by personal mannerisms. But, all
the same, I don’t mean these complimentary
reflections to be taken to heart by the theatrical
chorus, which always does its little best indi-
vidually to glue the eye of the house on its pink-
legged, gold-washed self.
I cannot assert with any degree of verisimilitude
that the Cole 00. is born to oratorio as the sparks
fly upwards. Belle Cole, in black satin and spec-
tacles, looked like the grandmama of her usual
self, and was not a startling success, warbling
with the corners of her mouth turned down after
the sanctimonious fashion of all “ sacred” singers.
A naturally jolly woman trying to look pious only
suggests having violent toothache in a public place.
On the other hand, Emily Spada, in airy and
artistic low-neck and diamond ear-drops (it was
once de rigueur to dress in penitent walking costume
for oratorio), didn’t bother to act the part, but
smiled and nodded to friends in front, and sang
in her usual good-tempered way that doesn’t
match with oratorio sentiment. Tenor Newbury
scored a success with his first solemnly-sung solo,
but all the vocal “fat” went to Mr. Magrath,
who not only bullied the priests of Baal in fine
style as Elijah, but everybody else besides. Mr.
M. is a slim youth, something like a spring-
chicken, with a poultry-like habit of clapping his
elbows as if he wanted to crow, and yet he raged
through his work (while his voice lasted) as con-
vincingly as if he were the late Elijah, come back
to renew his violent language against the opposi-
tion shop.
Lady Duff, in familiar plumage, and her two
most generally-known daughters in cream silk,
with Duff tartan scarfs, were the V.R. people on
view. Governor Duff was not present. The
alacrity with which his Excellency stops away
from almost every social shivoo, barring the races,
which he religiously attends, ought to bring him
within range of Dr. Sevan’s anathemas and set
him on a line with Governor Kin tore, who is
regarded in a bony light by the apostle of Collins-
street because he attended the races and the
theatre the first day he landed. The leonine
doctor didn’t so much mind the Governor going to
the play (he couldn’t very well —he’s a bit of a
showman himself), but he drew the corners of his
mouth down at the races. You see, parsons are
taught that the race isn’t a sure thing for the
swift, so how can a weak and sinful man know
what to put his money on ?
Why, I wonder, do people persist in humping
along the full score with them when oratorio or
heavy opera is on the cards? I always think it
makes the audience look like one hydra-headed
pedagogue and the performers the scholars reciting
without the book. It must oppress an artiste to
know that a herd of people are following his top
notes with their fore-fingers and that the whole
house is waiting for the vocal five-barred gate he’s
got to clear on page onetieth. But awjences
will be awjences, and they think it looks very
learned to go rustling through the score with a
noise like the summer breeze wandering through
the back hair of Mr. H. Parkes. Of all bores and
prigs, musical bores and prigs are the worst.
I am sorry to hear that the School of Industry
ball will not come off this season—the committee
holding a cake-and-apron fair in lieu thereof,
though I could have prophesied as much, judging
by their last elegant but not over-crowded hop.
And it was by far and away the most long-
descended festival in Australia. The various gilt-
edged committees were always exceedingly con-
servative over the ticket-sale, but there isn’t
enough cream to make a jugful in N.S.W., and
rather than put their wares in the window, as it
were, they let the historical dance go under—for
one season only, I hope. Australia isn’t so em-
barrassed with long-pedigree’d presentable cere-
monies that we can afford to lose the oldest of
them, although in harking back to a bazaar the
committee is still following in the tracks of the
School’s traditions.
The A.J.C. broke out into a one-day Winter
meeting at Rand wick last Saturday, and achieved
the usual sparse “ one-day ” attendance. People
who bet on a certain contingency, to wit a horse-
race, prefer the long-drawn-out possibilities of a
sequence of sport, and the feature of the June
meeting was the hungry roar of the “ bookies ”
trying to provoke a disaffected crowd to put its
collar-studs on some horse or other. Another
nerve-destroying feature was the jangle of colours
swearing at one another (as the French say) on the
lawn. It was a day of primal hues, wherever
wraps were not sported, and by bad luck all the
most violent dyes seemed to be parading cheek by
jowl.
To explain what I mean, a society w oman in a
ruby-velvet gown, for instance, looked as if some-
body had dipped her in a butt of Malmsey, and,
of course, she was always in the wake of another
in Royal purple cap k pie like a prize mulberry.
Mrs. Willie Mitchell’s top-heavy black gown re-
minded you of the way Hebe Is alleged to dress
herself—all the trimming put above high counter
mark; and Miss Enid Maearthur’s black hat and
feathers were eyed enviously by an amateur
Hamlet on the members’.
The one new style observable at Rand wick was
the long-tailed black moire bows with ends reach-
ing to the hem of the skirt, which you pin on
under your chin and' which are only a fashion for
certain figures. I can picture Mrs. Falstaff get-
ting up quite a symmetrical effect behind one of
these sweepers—but for anybody of a more concave
habit they are a big mistake—like the “full
fronts ” women used to wear which gave the effect
of Jack the Giant Killer when his leather-bag was
full of porridge. I don’t think moire will be the
rage—at least, not for spinsters.
Mrs. Brough turned up at Randwick in what
the race-books would describe as “lavender-black
hoops,” and looked done up after her unceasing
hard work. Mrs. Brough is a marvellous per-
former. Since the B. and B. season commenced,
on the 24th March, she has never once been out of
the bill, playing wear and tear parts like Mrs.
Tanqueray, Mrs. Erlynne, and, perhaps, Lady
Twombley (it’s no jest to bang your head
on the floor for a run of seven nights, and knock
Dot Boucicault head over tip into the bargain),
and putting strong nervous work into them all.
Even the small and merely dressmaker’s dummy
part of Lady Kate Ffennel in the “ Bauble Shop”
was piled on to Florence, who hasn’t had a night
off for the whole season. So no wonder that Mrs.
Brough, who is guileless of paint and powder out
of office hours, looked like her own wraith at the
races.
To-night (Thursday, 14th) the Randwick dance
in aid of the local R.G. church fund happens at
Paddington Town Hall, and promises to be a suc-
cess. On the 21st instant the University ball—
always one of the nicest hops of the year—comes
off in Sydney Town Hall, with an imposing list of
patrons and a very strong committee; and on 26th
the Tempe ball takes the floor at Sydney Town
Hall, and promises to go off like a Chinese fire-
cracker.
Among a batch of new music which I have more
or less thankfully received, Aug. Junker’s “ I
was Dreaming ” (contralto song sung by Ada
Orossley, and neatly published by H. J. Samuell)
is worth anybody’s while to warble. Singers not
stuffed with sawdust could get very tender effects
out of it. “Golden Spain,” a muleteer’s song
sung by Geo. F. King, is a lively composition in a
baritone key with rather a circus-ring monotony
of tune, perhaps—each of the three verses and
their refrains being the facsimile of the other, but
that difficulty is got over by pruning off the
middle verse. Mr. W. J, Banks sends me the
maiden issue of the “Australian Musical Album,”
smartly got up with hitherto-unpublished com-
positions of Oharbonnet-Kellermann, Kowalski,
Wiegand and Poussard heading the list and Parkes
writing poetry for some of the songs. Only
N.S. W. composers scintillate in this edition, but
the musical cream of the whole continent can be
whipped in later on. From Miss Lena Brasch I
have received “The Olga Waltz,” dedicated to
the Madonna-faced Miss Nethersole (whom I
never could imagine as a waltzer). In view of the
dedication, perhaps it is fitting that the waltz
should be reminiscency here and there, and the
strongest parts are where one is reminded of some-
thing else. By the way, Miss Brasch has com-
posed a “ Melody ” which the City Organist will
shortly play at his recitals.
The Genevieve-Ward-looking Miss Jennie
Maynard had a good audience to open with, at
Sydney School of Arts, for her drawing-room
entertainment. The stage was cheerfully deco-
rated, and Miss Maynard, in a pale pink satin
gown, trimmed with white chiffon and fine lace,
cut a commanding figure among the potted plants.
The only fault to be found (from my point of
view) was that Miss Clara Navette (in blue
and gold art fabric) had wrinkles in her long tan
hose, which is a thing no gallery condones in
a pas seulist, and Mr. Fitzmaurice was pitilessly
frescoed for a hall only 40ft. long. Miss Maynard,
on the other hand, was very artistically made up,
and ought to have set a good example to her over-
painted company.
Mrs. Gordon Baillie, Australia’s pet adven-
turess, has just been sentenced in England to
seven years’ imprisonment for larceny, which sen-
tence probably writes “Finis” to the career of
this undoubtedly clever and handsome woman.
For Mrs. G.B. isn’t so newly hatched that she
can tuck away seven years of dreary, skilly-fed
seclusion without leaving a furrow on the surface.
When the English Judge gave her seven years he
really sentenced her to grey hair and wrinkles and
toothlessness for the rest of her visible career.
Imagine the effect of no face-powder or curling-
tongs for eighty-four months on a naturally dainty
woman like Mrs. G. 8., and every hour of it spent
under the lynx-eyes of pitiless female officials,
who take good care that the severe discipline of
British prisons is not contravened ! Talk about
the punishment fitting the crime! 1 think it’s
very slop-out in this instance.
I hear from Melbourne that at the funeral of
Madame Lucy Chambers, on Sunday last, the
floral offerings on the grave made a pile 4ft. high.
St. Patrick’s Cathedral choir sang the Requiem
service at the cemetery, and was joined by num-
bers of Madame Chambers’ old pupils and nearly
every professional in Melbourne. The pall-bearers
were George Musgrove, Leon Caron, Armes
Beaumont, Signor De Alba, Signor Zelman, Signor
Cecohi, James Ure, Edward Miller, Signor Campi,
Amos Norcott and Signor Steffani.
And now I am going to throw the apple of dis-
cord. During the last week or so, every man
has, I hear, been asking every other man whether
he had noticed a uniquely handsome woman
on Sydney Block. The other man invariably said
he had, and they both always agreed that she was
a girl of four or five-and-twenty, and often dressed
in pale-grey with black velvet trimmings. I
myself have seen her, but do not know who she is.
But I do know that she is the most magnificent
olothes-stand ever dreamt of, by a costumi&re.
Major Rennie, of the Mutual Life Assurance
Co. of New York, has devised an elegant little
blotting-pad for the use of ladies, and is giving it
away from the Co.’s Sydney office to anyone who
sends her address, writes the name of the com-
pany correctly, and tells the big sum that makes
up its advertised assets. A specimen has been
forwarded me in proof that the present, which
bears the poetical title of “ Absorbed Thoughts,”
is well worth having on the terms specified. It is
a neat and tasteful sample of ornamental print-
ing, and serves to remind woman that “the
chief end of man is to get his life assured for his
wife’s benefit.”
Yours affectionately, Sappho Smith.


fsd
Edinburgh.!
Old BletvdL
Wlusky
°f ‘ h - c ifE Horse
11 Cellar
WHl'
DIRECT «OM DISTILLERS,
aLMAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW
V£tub£d scotch malt
/y/7^nß
’ *4 WiV: / > i .Vi
VUi
o ,;
SftfeMWi
i hii...' .»■ * .ir • • >i• • 11111T)»i<»• •11 -t ; 'i ..tfra
* ■* “ • ■ ■ n v 1 1 •
n . < ;.;i.L(n,iiiiinn>i^
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston Si Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney
NOW ACKNOWLEDGED
THE BEST
IN THE MARKET
Him in*
InfiJOlfil
hiskv
SOLD
EVERYWHERE
KLHAC*
Personal Items.
Speight v, Syme : Space v. Time.
Batcher Patterson, K.C.M.G.—Killer of
Cows Made Glorious.
The cable says Emperot William is much
troubled with his cheek.
Evan Rowlands is dead. Starting in Bal-
larat, in 1854, he gradually developed into the
Schweppe of Australia.
Andrew Lang, the critic, has a sister in
Melbourne—married to a member of the carrying
firm of M'Culloch and Co.
Parkes is also a bit of an ornithologist,
according to a Melbourne paper. His favourite
bird, we believe, is the p.n.
Labour M.L.C. MacGregor, of S.A., once
worked as a gardener for the present President of
the Council, Chaffey Baker.
A relic of the “ System ” in the person of
Deputy-Assistant Commissary-General Jones,
aged 88 years, died at Macleay-street, Sydney, last
week.
Archbishop Murphy (S.A.) was born on
“the loud Sabbath” on which Waterloo was
fought—June 18, 1815, so that he will be 79 next
Monday.
Australia encourages the artist. To-day he
paints the portrait of a Premier; to-morrow the
portrait of the Premier’s socks for a draper’s
advertisement.
M‘Kenzie, M.L.A.', who replied to Deakin
in the Vic. want-of-oonfidence debate, is the only
blind member of that Assembly. And is there
another in any Australian Parliament ?
Colonel Fraser, well-known in Maoriland
sporting and legislative circles, succeeds Mr. De
Quincey (son of the famous author) as Sergeant-at-
Arms in M.L. House of Representatives.
Melbourne Herald’s London cable-man is
Henry Norman, who married Menie Muriel
DoWie(“ the Girl in the Carpathians ”), and wrote
that fascinating volume, “ Through Japan.”
Mr. Barnstaple C. Rodd, of Five Dock,
the oldest solicitor in age and practice in Aus-
tralia (he is 85 years old), sent ex-Premier Parkes
his congratulations on entering his 80th year.
The general cussedness of Wingen Abbott,
the great universal letter-writer, is generally attri-
buted to the fact that all his life he has breathed
the sulphurous air of the burning mountain beyond
Murrurundi.
The Age: “The Sydney people, with
their unmatchable harbour, have put their new
Governor into Coventry, because he was indiscreet
enough to say a few complimentary words about
Melbourne.”
“ Sacred Ibis” Meston has broken out in
a fresh place. As a medical expert, he attributes
the increase of cancer to the prevailing fashion
of wearing boots. Some element in the leather, he
avers, is the root of the evil.
Purves, Q. 0., has been so engrossed in
the Speight case that he forgot to register the
little Purves which arrived recently. The
registrar did his duty, and the man of law has
been fined ss. The new-comer’s name is William
Richard Wontner Purves—the second name as a
compliment to “ Dick ” Speight.
In the Australasian of May
12, Mr. J. A. Barrie has a story
of how an Australian mail-steamer
was captured and looted by a little
band of pirates from Sydney. The
desperadoes who organised the
proceeding W6rt> an engineer, a
master-mariner, a person of no
particular occupation, and a jour-
nalist. The author, however, by
some unhappy mischance, fixed on
to the journalist the name of a
rather well-known Sydney press-
man, and this is just where the
trouble begins, for the pressman
now demands either that the
offending paper shall apologise
and pay compensation, or that lb
shall publish a story of his own
in which a lost bushman is killed
and eaten by his mate, the name
of the cannibal being J. A. Barrie.
Also, he proposes to further ex-
plain how J. A. Barrie developed
into a vampire and used to dig up
the freshly interred bodies of the
dead, and how he was ultimately
hanged amid general execration,
and his ghost used to walk amid
a variety of horrible circum-
stances.
Another Judge story. The
Governor of Atlantis was the
particular antipathy of <)udge
Nemo of that province, but the
latter’s wife, on the other hand,
was the personification of grovel
in the great man’s presence. Une
day his Ex. was ushered into tne
drawing-room, and my en ‘
tered all smiles. Good after-
noon, Srgeorge,” she said, A l “
so sorray that the Judge left for
Kingsclilf last nate. It s a
damn lie!” came from the next
room, where his Honor was enjoying his pipe and
Lis New York Police Gazette— as was his habit.
Tableau! . ~ , .
Cabled that the Duke of Marlborough is
not engaged to marry Mt. Morganaire D Arcy s
wetty daughter Lena. The Bulletin congra-
tulates Miss D’Arcy. It would be a great waste
of good girl, for Marlborough is a hog.
What it costs to obtain the patent of
knighthood, after the political intriguing has had
siu-cossful issue ; Home Office fee, £7 13s. od. ,
Crown Office fee, -£59 10s. ; patent stamp, £3O ;
warrant stamp, 10s.; docquet stamp, 25.; total,
£ ( J7 l5s. 6d. .
Rev W. D. Fletcher, M.A., who died m
Adelaide recently, “ ad e a fortune! m Adelaide
land-boom, years ago, and lost it. He recovered
again by making thousands out of Broken Hills,
but died a poor man. He was an able preacher
when he preached.
During last session of Yic. Parliament,
Premier Patterson had two inoreasingly-bald spots
on top of his head. Daring the recess hair-
restorer did its work well, and the thatching is
now complete. Shiels, however, has become quite
hairless and shiny a-top.
Agent-General Bray, who left London per
Adelaide, May 25, is too ill mentally to write an
effectual resignation; and as Govt, cannot very
well dismiss him, Playford must be content with
an acting appointment until January next when
poor Bray’s term expires.
A good-natured Protestant once said to
“Dane” O’Hea, of Melbourne, over a whisky-
toddy, that he wished the Dean were St. Peter so
that he could let him into Heaven. “’Twere
better that I had the keys of hell, for then I could
let you out,” replied the Dean.
During the past few weeks the R.C-
denomination has lost by death, in Sydney, fou r
wealthy adherents—W. E. Plunkett, Pete r
Faucett, Michael Tierney and Michael Shalvey.
The “last will and testament”of each is anxiously
looked for in ecclesiastical circles.
Samuel Griffith, who made himself such a
cosy billet as Chief Justioe of Queensland, will be
49 next Thursday (June 21), and Ohaffey Baker,
president of the S.A, Legislative Council and
high priest of local Conservatism, will be 52 on
the following day (Friday, J une 22).
Kate Kelly is rapidly becoming omni-
present. She is now to be found everywhere.
She is conspicuous at Bathurst, N.S.W., as the
bride of a well-to-do settler; she is also to be
found in the vicinity of Orange, where she follows
the picturesque and wholesome career of a dairy-
maid.
Buzacott says there is no truth in the par.
going the round of the Queensland papers that the
Fairfaxes, of S.M. Herald, bought his shares in
Brisbane Courier, and also 29 held by the co.
“I intend,” he says, “starting another daily in
Brisbane, or re-joining the Courier” —of which,
by the way, F. W» Ward is now in absolute
charge.
A much-boomed scientist on tour recently
took a bottle of beer with his hotel-lunch, but
couldn’t quite finish it. Next day he asked a
friend in to have a drink (Is. each out back, smile
included). Barmaid, after serving: “ Are these
yours, Mr. ?” “ Oh, yes ; they can go to the
account of the half-bottle I left yesterday at
lunch!”
Dr. Be van at Sydney Y.M.O.A. :
If they were to take out of the intellectual force of the
English-speaking people what had been contributed by
those who bore the name of Stephen that life would be
very seriously impoverished.
Bad case of back-scratching! “The English*
speaking people ” can spare anybody—except the
hangman !
The editor of Melb. Weekly Times, pub-
lished in the Herald office, is “ Uncle Ben ” of
the children’s page. He offered a prize, the other
day, for the best pictorial guess at what he was
like. He happens to be a slender blonde, with a
long, silken moustache, a vox angelica, and a
pride in publishing paragraphs about his new
baby, but all the infantile scrawls sent in and re-
produced made him out a mixture of pastor
Bevan, S. V. Winter, and Santa Claus. “Uncle
Ben ” puts it down to the absence of religious
instruction in State schools.
Mr. GEORGE UPWARD (Muscular Christian and Sergeant-at-arms).
Melbourne P.O. officials hold a German
letter addressed “to the richest man in Mel-
bourne,” in which a poor Teuton applies for the
loan of sufficient money to serve him at college for
six years. He adds casually that in all probability
he will not be able to repay the money, in which
case, however, he will generously treat ic as a
present and not worry.
Scene, Melb. “Pleasant Sunday” after-
noon. Salvation Army captainess to Age re-
porter : “ Come to the Fountain.” Conscientious
scribe: “Sorry, madam, but I am here solely on
professional business and have no time.” “Ah,
but in this ease, dear brother, surely you can spare
a few moments?” exclaimed the maiden. “Would
that I could, my dear,” returned the reporter
sadly, “ but you don’t know David Syme !”
N.S. Wales Postmaster-General Kidd had
an awful experience at a recent Bourke banquet
in his honour. One speaker held the floor for two
solid hours with amelancholy dissertation on tallow
fat, mutton, bones, sheep-skins, tinned tongues,
wool, rains, lambs, oil. wages, work, drought,
f rwi u »Xu”»v°" ld
° r J
Another Tyson yarn. A stranger was
talking to him one day. Stranger turned his back
—
COMPETITION.
SOHLEINTERSTEIN (noticing hoard): “Mein Gott! der kerockery pishness vosh get on up
derrible dese times.”
and commenced to write something on a bit of
piper. The suspicious lean Croesus twisted him
round and grabbed the paper. Read; “Dear Bulle-
T i N) _Another Tyson yarn ” here he paused
and said several things, but the cloud of dust
down the road answered not. He is short and
sharp with strangers now.
To the resolution arrived at by the Inter-
national Arbitration Committee in connection
with Chicago Exhibition, and forwarded to the
Australian Govts, are appended the signatures of
the members. Most scribbled “John Smith” or
“Tom Brown,” as the case might be, but the
High Commissioner of N.S. Wales wrote “The
Honorable Arthur Renwick, M.L.0.,” with his
office to follow. What a mercy he was not then a
knight!
Premier Patterson has no connection with
the Melbourne auctioneering firm of that name,
and is very indignant with The Bulletin for
saying he has. His brother and twonephews form
the auctioneering union, and the eldest of the
latter has made himself famous by marrying Bella
Mitchell, Melba’s younger sister. “Tom”
Patterson has since thought it well to make music
a craze, and he is one of Marshall Hall’s most
devoted followers.
When Smith, M.H.R. (Maoriland), was in
Adelaide recently as a Wesleyan Conference
delegate, he was introduced to a prominent
National Mule potentate. The conversation
became political. “This country,” said the Fat
Man, “is cursed with ignorant politicians. Fancy
entrusting your destinies to carpenters and
mason’s labourers!” “This is certainly awk-
ward,” calmly rejoined Smith, “ for I am a mason’s
labourer myself! ”
Some years ago a big policeman got a tough
customer in William-st., Sydney, who resisted all
efforts at arrest. A crowd gathered, which sympa-
thised with the “lumbered ” one and made serious
demonstrations against the officer. The crowd
was suddenly parted and a stalwart man, using his
elbows vigorously, appeared at the policeman’s
side. It was Mr. Darley, now N.S.W. Chief
Justice, who then assisted the constable with his
prisoner to the look-up.
When old Jack Robertson was N.S.W.
Colonial Secretary he was constantly worried by
billet-hunters. One pertinacious office-seeker in
particular he could not shake off, and this person,
whenever he called, was always shown in by the
chief messenger, “Johnny” O’Loughlen, now
dead, who somehow believed he was a chum of
“Jack’s.” The latter called O’Loughlen in one
morning and snuffled out: “Johnny, do you
know what that blanky man who has just left
wants here so often ? ” “ No, sir.” “ Well, then,
he’s after your blanky blank billet.” Needless to
say, that man was never shown in to old Jack
again.
J. P. T. Caulfield is in evidence again.
He helps to run a Melbourne grog-paper, wherein
he describes his reptile contemporary as a “ brawl-
ing, barging, barking, barneying, babbling
bellowing, belching, belated, belligerent, blatant,
blathering, blabbering, blustering, bouncing,
boisterous, bullying, bungling, brazen, brawling,
browbeating, buffoonish, blowhard, bedlamite,
barnacle, bumpkin, and braggart."
r ,nalist
died at Ascot Vale (Vic.) in the person of Michael
A. G. Middleton (father of Mr. James Middleton,
of Melb. Herald), who was one of the original
proprietors of the Hobart Town Advertiser, and
subsequently associated with Graham Berry in
conducting Geelong Register, and afterwards
Geelong Advertiser. By the way, the original
office front door of the long-defunct Hobart Town
Advertiser (in its day the oldest paper in Aus-
tralasia) now does service in a cottage at Sandy
Bay, Hobart, and the name of the paper can still
be traced under the thin coat of paint on the
door.
The story goes that “Billy” Morgan,
Sydney’s tenor attorney, waited upon Parkes to see
if that grizzly veteran would help him for Hawkes-
bury against millionaire Burdekin. After Mor-
gan (introduced by a friend, who accompanied
him to the Parkes mansion) had talked with the
ancient for half-an-hour, the latter said, in his
piping treble :—“ And would you mind telling me
your name? I really didn’t quite catch it.”
“ Morgan—William Morgan,” replied the tuneful
William. “Morgan!” squeaked old Parkes;
“Morgan—are you any relation to Morgan, the
bushranger ?”
Among the first rush of diggers to Cool-
gardie was a young German medico, whose earliest,
prank was the decapitation of a gin who had died
a week previously. At this time the only sauce-
pan on the field was owned by a compatriot
of the doctor’s. The owner of the much-prized
utensil, returning unexpectedly to camp one morn-
ing, was horrified to find a hotch-potch of stewed
duskiness simmering over the fire in his saucepan..
A barney ensued and the two Bismarcks did not
speak until an olive-branch came along in the
shape of a new saucepan. The local bobby took a.
more serious view of the case and expressed his
intention of “ lagging ” the ghoulish sawbones for
running an unlicensed gin-still, The doctor now
uses the skull as a specimen-box.
M'Burney, Wallis & Co.’s Report.
The market this week has been exceedingly quiet, and
prices may be quoted slightly in favour of purchaser.
We still see no chance of immediate improvement, but
have hopes that the arrival of the new clip will see prices
much better.
It is interesting to note that American buyers operated
at the London sales, recently closed, and this should be
a promise of increased competition in the Sydney market
during the coming season.
In face of the bad news periodically received from
London, we cannot help feeling pleased that prices here
have not fallen much more, and this is a sign that, even
m the off-season, our market does not fluctuate in sym-
pathy with the London market so much as it did when
most of the pucohases made in Sydney were of a specu-
lative nature, and for re-sale in London. Sydney is now
an independent wool depot, and all Australians should be
proud of it.
Sydney, June 9, 1894.


CHEAP BUILDING BLOCKS
Close to the City of Sydney.
£2O each Grand Blocks at CARLTON. 8 miles from
Sydney, 40 x 132. Gas and City Water. Asphalt
paths. Easy terms. 14s. per Month.
£8 each Marine Villa Sites, MANLY BEACH. 10s.
Deposit and ss. per Month; no interest, tree
Deeds included in the £B.
£5 each Capital Residential Blocks, ROOTY HILL.
10s. Deposit; ss. per Mouth ; no interest, r ree
Deeds; Torrens.
£lO for Blocks 50 x 150 at MERRYLANDS. £Bl
for Land 89 x 396; cost £65. GUILD! ORD
• Cheap Lots £5 each ; ss. Deposit; ss. Monthly.
£25 for Land 82 x 190, next Clyde Railway Sheds;
£1 Deposit; 10s. Monthly.
If you want to make Money, buy now. Land will neve r
be Cheaper. Plans sent anywhere ; Post Free. Apply—
K. C. V. KItoIICHTON, Auctioneer,
801 Pm Street, SYDNEY. Established 1878.
FROSSARD’S SWISS
A Good a.ud Cheap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD :
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
£32
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & GO.,
I*AVERSE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
mSmm
<3-0 TO HELL-
-IGOLAND tor Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set ot 14, unused, for Is. 6«1.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free, and
gratis.
D. A. VIN DIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.Wi
POLITICAL
POINTS
“ The Patterson Government lit the sun.”
—Deakin.
The real reason of Premier Dibbs’ trip to
England may yet leak out.
Danahey, M.P. (N.S.W.): “The man
who consents to enter Parliament without pay is
either a rogue or a fool.” Amen.
J. T. Toohey swears he will go to the poll
at Tamworth —to spoil the chances of Premier
Dibbs against Turkey Piddington, junr.
Latest report from New Australia: “A
perfect hell upon earth.” And they were going
to raise everything on the settlement but hell!
Patrick Perkins, M.L.C., prophesied, when
in Sydney last week, the imminence of a quin-
quennium of the rosiest times Queensland has
known.
Far Western definition of Worker editor
Higgs : “ A gentleman who for £4 10s. per week
has discovered that this country can do without
capital. ”
Pastor Jefferis, who may be presumed to
have studied the matter during his stay in Eng-
land, says that English Church disestablishment
is still a long way off.
Religious deputationists, to Professor
Pearson, as Vic. Education Minister : “ Will you,
sir, have the Ten Commandments hung in the
schools ? ” Pearson : “ Which ? ”
S.A. Tory politicians are so anxious to
have Copley, recently rejected, in Parliament,
that it has been virtually decided to make some-
body insolvent as a modus operandi.
Morning sittings, supported by Patterson?
very probable in Vic. Assembly during the present
session. And they roared at Maloney, M.P., last
year when he mooted such a thing.
A Disqualification Act in Queensland like
the Maorila id statute would have prevented
Griffith “accepting” the Chief Justiceship, and
Hume Black being pocketed by MTI wraith.
To show the complete bouleversement in
Sydney politics, it is only necessary to point out
that Stock Exchange Secretary Hayes, erstwhile a
frenzied Parkesite, is now barracking heart and
soul for Dibbs.
The S.A. Opposition would much like to
part with John Downer, who is a good Premier,
but a bad leader of the outs. The coming man is
Castine, the solid-jawed politician who last session
talked all through one night.
Premier Patterson is for ever whining
about State interference with private enterprise,
especially when any socialistic measure is mooted,
while, at the same time, he is doing his level best
to pun the team traffic off the roads.
|Where is the Parliamentary candidate who
will promise to reduce the Ministry to five or six
members ? The defunct N.S.W. Parliament shows
how the affairs of the country do not suffer though
certain offices are unfilled by salaried holders.
Australia for the
Australians! The can-
date for a Sydney con-
stituency, his general
chairman, his secretary,
and every member of
his committee, are re-
cent arrivals from Eng-
land.
“ An Old Gradu-
ate ” occupies half-a-
column of Sydney D.T.
in proving that what-
ever else is taught at
Sydney University
logic isn’t. He argues
that when the Govt,
subsidy is reduced by
£Booo—which is rather
more than one-fifth of
thp total University
income two-thirds of
thfe students can no
longer be educated here,
but must go to Europe,
thus taking .£25,000 a
year out of the province.
Sothatif Govt, knocked
off another £4OOO, the
remaining third would
disappear ; and a Uni-
versity on which
£BOO,OOO has been sunk
wouldn’t be able to
rear a single student
for its private income
of £25,000 a year. One
can see now how those
97 professors earn -their
money. “ Old Gradu-
ates’ ’’ heads must take
a lot of hammering.
“The country that limits itself to export-
ing its raw material ends by exporting its men.
Carey, in “ Principles of Social Science. ’
The chosen candidate of a Sydney suburban
Labour Electoral League is said to have spent £o
in making 100 of his cronies members at Is. a
head. But for this, he could never have been
chosen. No matter how Democracy tries, money
will tell.
A long time ago barrister Lusk (since dis-
barred by N.S.W. Supreme Court for “having ” a
client) won the prize of £250 offered by N.S.W.
Public Instruction Department for the best school-
history of Australia. The book has never been
published. Why?
Premier Dibbs, discussing Harcourt’ 3
death-duties, hints that America was lost to Eng-
land for the sake of a little tea, and this matter of
the absentee may lose her Australia. Our duty to
the British investor is ahead of our duty to the
Crown if we are K.C.M.G’s.
The Argus :
The Governor’s speech will state that, for the first time
for some years, our exports have exceeded our imports in
value, which shows that the province is paying its way.
Which shows that the province is paying its
interest, or at least a part of it.
Anarch fooleries will, of course, be made
a pretext for setting up the broom against all
Radicalism. Thus Pitt viewed the French Revo-
lution, at the outset, not with disfavour, but as
soon as the axe was laid to the roots of the tree, it
became his game to lead the Tories.
Mr. KIDD, the new New-
Australia leader.
Dear Bulletin, —
I am glad Billy Little
is “going to fight Glaa-
sey.” 1 never knew
him to fight before. I
remember him in the
early days of the Hodg-
kinson, very ready at
challenging men to
come outside, but if the
challenge was accepted
he would only spar a
bit and then say, in
his jerky way, “Give
you best, give you
best; you’re a good
man, a dam good
man, coman a va
drink.”
The Queensland Judges all agree on one
point—their love for Sam Griffith. Two of them
recently gave it as their opinion, from the bench,
that the last Bananaland Electoral Act (S. G.’s last
Legislative abortion) was expressly framed for the
purpose of keeping voters off the roll.
“J. D. Fitzgerald is one of the successe 3
of the Labour-party,” says Sydney D.T. Just so*
W. M. Hughes is the L.E.L. candidate, and if
Fitzgerald and Hughes can be made to fight like
bull-pups the Labour vote of that electorate will
be rent, and Freetrade Fraser Martin will slip in
The constitution of the N.S.W. Freetrade
Council labours under the same load of vicious
self-seeking as the Central Committee of the
Labour Electoral League. In both bodies are
men determined to run for Parliament yet to
whom will fall the duty of excising unsuitable
candidates.
Speaker Bent, of Vic. Assembly, presents
an extraordinary resemblance to a natiVe bear,
especially when he cuddles himself up into the
Speaker’s chair, and his beady eyes shine out
contentedly. It would surprise nobody to see him
chew gum-leaves, but he doesn’t he merely bawls
out “ Haw-w-der!”
During this last session of N.S.W. Parlia-
ment the Council handled 34 bills sent up by the
Assembly, whereas the Assembly dealt with only
four sent down by the Council. Two or three coun-
cillors openly declare that they will insist next
Parliament on bill for bill, and on a bill of theirs
being set down for a distant day they will set
down the next Assembly bill for the same day.
sdf
“AFTER LIFE’S FOOTBALL FEVER HE SLEEPS
WELL.”
_
Brisbane Courier re Queensland Scate
children : “It is abundantly; plain that the eas£
acceptance of illegitimate children by the State is
a premium on vice and a serious moral wrong to
cominunity> .. It is alao abundantly plain that
the const ant refusal of illegitimate children by
the g tate is a premium on infanticide and a serious
wrong) etC ( etc<
The “Lobengula’s Gold" incident is the
key to the character of Cecil Rhodes’ latest South
savage they naturally stuck to the coin. What
had they all been fighting for, if not for anything
they could lay their hands on ?
T 7- . /o a \ ,
Kingston (b. A.) Govt, policy summed up .
Progressive Land-values Taxation, Amending
Land-values Assessment Bill, Woman Suffrage
for both Houses, issue of Treasury notes, rail-
ways, irrigation settlement under Govt, control,
referendum; State Life Assurance on Maoriland
line. Democratic and practical.
All Orangeman, invited by mistake to
Melb. Federation meeting the other night, asked
1
OBVIOUS.
BILL THE DROBER: “Can yer direct me to the boneworks?”
SETTIER: “Boneworks is it? Faith, I dunno —the bones are not far
away, but the divil I know where the works are.”
Chairman Deakin in what character he sat—as an
Orange delegate or merely a spectator? “The
gentleman asks in what character he sits,” an-
nounced Alfred ; “we are pleased to see him, and
hope he will sit with all the character he has.”
Capital punishment will never be abolished
until it is proposed to extend the inestimable
benefits of the gallows to the crimes usually com-
mitted by the wealthy classes. If Society will
hang its common robbers and murderers by con-
struction of law, the refined robbers and murderers
(not yet by construction of law) should hang also.
Those who make mere attendance at .Par-
liamentary divisions a criterion of usefulness and
intelligence, should take note that Bruce Smith
was present at but three divisions during last
N.S.W. Assembly session, while G. F. Hutchin-
son was present at 58. Is Hutchinson 19 times
a better member—more useful or influential in
that capacity—than Bruce Smith ?
An Australian abroad, writing to a Sydney
friend from Portugal, says that he has found on
his Continental travels that Australian M.’sP. are
generally supposed to be gaol-birds and ex-gaol-
birds. In many places the Premiers are supposed
to be the heads of the penitentiaries, and, as this
correspondent puts it, “our vices are known
everywhere, but our virtues nowhere.”
The Age condescends to argue :
The furious agitation in Sydney for the reprieve of the
two criminals lately executed looks very much like a
popular movement in favour of robbery and murder.
Now, as the Age does not openly advocate hang-
ing for petty larceny, bigamy, insulting behaviour,
arson and embezzlement, Syme and co. appear to
be in favour of those iniquities.
“Queensland can learn much from Mr.
Gladstone’s career—much as the folly of his recent
legislation is to he deprecated."—Northern capi-
talistic M.L.A.
I would rather (though you manifest surprise
At the paradox 1 give you as a rule)
1 would rather have the folly of the wise
Far rather than the wisdom of the fool.
Candidates who say that they object to
payment of members, but “ would accept payment
while such was the law of the land,” ought to be
jumped on with both feet. Any man who assumes
this attitude is a political fraud of the first water,
Example is better than precept, and there is no
law forbidding any M.P. to refund his salary to
the Treasury.
Judge Forbes said, the other day, that the
decrease in crime in N.S. Wales during the past
year is partly owing to the increased vigilance of
the police. Now, crime is a matter of record,
while there can be no such thing as a record of
prevention of crime. How, then, did the Judge
discover and measure this element of extra vigil-
ance? May it not be that the decrease in the
records is owing to a relaxed vigilance ?
One of the Patterson Government’s acta
of retrenchment during recess was to unlawfully
usurp the functions of the Public Service Board,
and make a new regulation to the effect that ‘ the
curled darlings of the State ” should only receive
half-pay when absent on account of sickness. But
the Cabinet was not united upon the ukase, and
the dissenting Ministers declined to apply it to
their departments, so that all depends upon a
man’s location whether his pay is docked during
sickness or not. It is now seriously intended to
raise half-a-million or so by compelling all public
servants to take one month’s leave without pay,
in lieu of the ordinary thn e w < ks annual holiday.
The old Adam is
very strpng in Parkes.
According to Bible
mythology Adam was
a mean white who,
yielding to thenatural
longing for intoxi-
cants, ate a ferment-
able apple belonging
to the Lord of the
shining universe.
When taxed with the
theft he ungrammati-
cally put the blame
on Eve, saying—“lt
wasn’t me, O Lord,
it was her.” Exactly
what Parkes does
(omitting and includ-
ing aspirates). He
didn’t believe in call-
ing N.S.W. Australia
-not he. But Par-
liament wished it—
especially that villain
Dibbs—and, of course,
Parkes had to give
way. According to
Parkes, a man is only
put as Premier at the
head of a Govt, in
order to do what the
Opposition tells him.
What a pitiable shuf-
fle ! The old Adam
is very strong in
Parkes.
Q. Attorney-
General Byrnes blurt-
ed out at Ounnamulla
that he thought rail-
ways should be kept
in the hands of the
State, though as Soli-
citor-General to the
Coalition Govt., he
passed the L.G.R.
Act through the
Council in 1892. Now
he explains that he
only meant that the
projected Charleville-
Cunnamulla railway
should be built by the
State, which makes
his case worse than
ever, for that very
line was the first of
the land-grant series
which he asked the Council to approve. Byrnes
seems to be trying to combine conscience and loot,
He can t do it.
Alfred Deakin did refuse a K.0.M.G.-ship
once.
Premier Patterson was stabbed to the
vitals by Deakin’s sarcastic remark that he “made
himself up ” for his part. The crude old poseur,
w bo lately stood for his photograph in a long,
representative cut of frock coat, with one hand
behind his backbone, sat and writhed as Deakin
(who also poses, but in a less wooden way) drove
the skewer into him. He had almost persuaded
himself that the stage Patterson was a genuine
article an artless child of Nature-and now to be
twitted with his amateurish make-up, and
ridiculed for studying his cheap effects before a
looking glass! ‘ Buffoon,’ growled Patterson,
Barnstormer! replied Deakin. At least he
should have done so.
The Dibbs crowd will likely succeed m
keeping power in N.S.W. Theirs is the only
solid party in the Assembly. At one time the
only solid party was the 1 arkes party. Ihe
Parkes party is now almost dead, and consists
chiefly of Parkes, Wise, the two brothers Cullen,
and the Dales, M Oredies and °tb er political
trash, lor a long while Dibbs, who had m ade
many ineffectual clutches at power, was regarded
ag a man w b o could not last. But he has lasted,
d ltd go j as to ma ke it appear that he
“ uu , ,
has taken the place of 1 arkes as a permanent
political incubus. Next N.S.W. Assembly will
consist of 125 members. The man who can crack
the stockwhip over a solid party of 50 to start
with, can rule N.S.W. for the next three years.
Twenty-six Ms.P. attended the National
Park picnic to N.S. Wales Opposition - leader
Reid. “At the entrance to the pavilion a pretty
triumphal aroh had been erected.” “A pretty
triumphal arch”—it recalls, not grim resolution
and bloody battle, but scented petticoats and a
village wedding. Nobody ever thinks of erecting
a tr f umphal a ” ch {or hairy old Parkes. B. R.
deputy -chief of the “ other ” Foreign-trade
sec tion, didn’t attend, but “deeply regretted his
una voidable absence.” Ye gods ! Parkes’s poli-
tioal Tobies, the two Cullens, didn’t turn up.
H h Taylor, Parkes’ handy man, “could not
CQ but he would keep the ticket as a souvenir!”
and old man p ar kes himself neither attended
nor apologised. M'Millan presided, and in
piesenting Mr. Reid with an address said that he
W as now the foremost man of his party (cheers)
an( j one of the foremost men of the country
(cheers). Which comforting declaration recalls
the story of the Queensland priest who cere-
moniously baptized his myall retainer and strictly
forbade him to eat meat on Friday. One
Friday, however, his reverence caught Monday—
iafc was tke n i£S er ’ s name—with a pound of
steak on which he was sprinkling water, after the
baptismal practice of the holy father. “ What
are you doing, Monday?” asked the good man.
“Oh, me crissen’ that peller. Me call him fish.”
Similarly, George Reid is only steak, and the
whole world knows it, but Monday M'Millan
wants to trade him off as salmon on the poor old
revenue-tariffists.


-—Cv*'
Vicrof?iH-
sd
pMHgjp
" They had had propositions
from New South Wales, and South Aua-.
tr.ua. but these were of a most imprac-
ticabls character. It was for them
decide not merely that fferat.on waa
desirable, but also as to the form which it
should take. To do this alone sou d forsome
time occupy all the energies of any league that
might he formed.
2>ea.#sn —erfTown /JeJL
.Premier Patter-
son says time enough to shako hands
with the devil when you meet him, etc.
/3cZf~ was
%7/en on Wot s
Ct&oc/&U «,
q.
A lh\tla girl who bad fled from
noma influences and been eeiaed by
the police came up in the City Court
to-day. She had left homo because
she feared a flogging, and Mr. Keogh,
P.M., lectured her eerloualy. Hi«
conclusion was : “If you don't take
care you may be sent to prieon,
where yon would perbapa be flagged
s couple of time* a day and ba on
.bread end water.**
i:ij| 11 ||j||||i i
sk a liiii hI HUiUHi
Luckily 7/ie latest /ye I bourne.
/ji<A Society
Took ik*fireectuhon
fa /na-uq u.n<xte.
//self- tcrlf-k refresh menTsT
Th« Premier was entertained last evening by
hJSSE at a dinner at
K iven to mark their appreciation of tho Mylar
honor lately conferred upon him
PITIFUL CASES *■'
About 9.30 on Sunday morning ConrtftU
Donald discovered a man named Henry Bruce
lyin» in an exhausted condition on the verandah
,V to wdtenanted house Jo Audershn-street.
North Richmond. The. po.rf.Uow wa. .o
gone he could not partake of food or drink.
His Excellency the Governor will give
his usual Fourth of June “EtonDmne
this evening at Government House. Old
Etonians in the colony, and .
men of scholastic attainments, will be the
guests
, The ceremony of starting the PO*«W ««
engines-at the pumping etation of the Hanna
.Street drainage work, was performed yesterday
afternoon by the mayors (Mr?. Gvitus)
presence of a oi f
VUU the‘ ; itxtwS
(pitftlfty,
THE BUTOHEES' <*b6OESJjTOS.
/7 shee/at
q/iS'eri oCS L
cJ.ecora.ttec/ turnoith
‘ S A. *■!/<». ■ (TAe oversea/ DecmtnjT)
>v
c°
Vic. custom i
V'/6 d o n q f\ .
He was going
next day to Sydney. Htahould not have to
change his iaitb, or his face, but he would
have to face the perils of the Custom-house.
(Laughter.) He was not a smuggler-at least
outfits occasion- jQera-yy aaV' 7~e tvnfl «•' < •
J
Jf
M
_ V
2>S Besu n 8 Officer) Jif/
tercel, Q)o 3 /jo/i l/Ae.
$ yyv lAjflef ?
MOSTLY IN MELBOURNE.


BUT THE LION DECLINES TO BOAR


WEST AUSTRALIA.
TT'ORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
T Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years back, and fortunes are waiting for those who buy
nowin PERTH (the capital oity)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
'GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
CIO Each. £ t Deposit; 10/- Monthly. No Interest,
PERTH CITY LOTS,
From £4O each. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS.
Grand position. From *l5 each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect. No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of land.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 1886),
80* PiU-tt. SYDNEY. W. J. Dowua, Manager.
oO\S
Wonderful Discovery!
ROSE’S
CKLKBRATKI)
EYE LOTION .
mHIS Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Might,
J- Inflamed Dyes and Lids, Dimness of Slyht.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Dyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s. per Bottle.
Manufactured Solelyby 11. A. ItO.SK, Chemist,
681 OKOBGK SXUEfiI. SYDNEY.
DRINK
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
FOR RHEUMATISM.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
FOR DYSPEPSIA.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
FOR DEBILITY.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
FOR KIDNEY DISEASES.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS'
FOR DISORDERS OF THE LIVER.
WOLFE’S SCHNAPPS
FOR BILIOUSNESS.
Society
His unmarried condition keeps Duncan
Gillies out of his knighthood, one supposes.
Queen Victoria has a finger in these bauble
matters, and when her finger comes to an elderly
bachelor she shakes her royal head and snorts.
Such a man can have no domestic virtues, any-
how, whilst the chances are in favour of him being
highly improper, the Queen thinks. Nor is the
venerable personage far out in her reckoning, as a
rule. A bachelor may not go further astray than
many married men, but he doesn’t sin with such a
thorough respect for appearances. The fear of
the wife finding it out is a splendid moral in-
fluence, as regards appearances.
♦ * * ♦
People who are accustomed to be sentimen-
tal in conservatories should make a mental note of
the fact that the electric-light is dangerous. In
the day when conservatories were dimly lit up
with fairy lamps, or the like, it was quite safe to
embrace a girl behind a fern, or to hug her in the
shadow of a pot plant, but the modern illuminant
throws its glare right through such obstacles. At
a Sydney public ball the other night one giddy
man took a young lady into a nook among the
flowers and there proceeded to carry on in the
good old way, quite oblivious of the changed cir-
cumstances. Naturally a crowd assembled out-
side. When he took her golden head between his
hands and kissed her on the lips and eyes there
were about fifty people looking on. When he put
both arms round her and squeezed her slender figure
to his bounding chest the audience probably
numbered seventy. Then, a little later, when he
pressed his lips rapturously to her white shoulder
a hundred and ten people viewed him with an
envious expression, and wanted to kill him and
jump his claim. After this he was just about to
kiss her other shoulder, and the nape of her neck,
and her hair, and both her hands, and to gently
bite her shell-like ear, and a few other things,
when a friend stepped in and asked him, in a
hoarse whisper, not to be a bigger fool than he
could help. Whereupon the House adjourned
suddenly, blushing all the way down its ivory
spine.
• • • •
The Bulletin pleads guilty to having
started the “ society column” business in Aus-
tralia, but it pleads, in extenuation, that this
paper now contains less society slush than any
other Australian print. The writer has just
perused an 87-line report of a suburban surprise-
party printed in an evening daily, wherein it is
gravely stated that “Miss Jones sang ‘TheLittle
Nipper,’ with much acceptance, and Miss Bookin
and Mr. Jones, junr., quite charmed the company
with a magnificent duet on the piano and tin
whistle.”
More boy-
reporting in
Melbourne. A
rising Dickens
on an evening
paper lately bad
to paragraph
the finding of
an infant’s body
—d ea d babies
are locally
plentiful as
pebbles. He
wrote: “ The
body was too
decomposed to
be able to say
whether it was
a male or a
female.”
* •
The Warra-
wee (Ladies)
Club, Melb.,
held a meeting,
the other night,
to discuss the
advisableness of
putting up the
shutters. After
many hours’ talk
they reconstruc-
ted with a fresh
committee — the
former commit-
tee contained 24
members!!
* *
Dear Bulle-
tin, Phidias,
the Greek, cor-
rected his most
famous statue to
meet the criti-
cism of a cob-
bler. • Let me
then, in all
humility, point
out to the au-
thor of “Ananias and Sapphira ” that the mar-
riage laws of N.S. Wales permit marriage with-
out the consent of parents at 19.—F.R.
• • •
A case of phonetic spelling came before
Judge Windeyer the other day in N.S.W. divorce
court. A fair plaintiff was trying to describe as
delicately as possible the awful language which
had been thrown at her. Most
out the language and hand it up with a crimson
blush, but she fell back on initials. _ “ He called
me a ‘ haitch,’ yer Honor,” she said indignantly ;
if the word had been “cat” she would probably
have complained that she had been called a_‘ k.
Then all the small, sucking barristers giggled
softly, and the gallery guffawed, and Judge Win-
deyer scorched the offenders with his fiery eye,
and said they were brutes and no men to laugh at
such a tale of sorrow, and if it happened again
they would be boiled.
• • •
Gov. Hopetoun, like Major-Gen. Hutton,
carried out the Caringtonian tradition by enter-
taining a few old Etonians at a private dinner on
June 4. If somebody would but gather together
the old Etonians who are not invited to these sec-
tarian feeds, one might fully appreciate the hol-
lowness of a seemingly genuine sentiment.
• • •
Fifteen more attorneys admitted in Syd-
ney. The community now consists of only two
sections—alleged lawyers and their victims.
• • •
Church is the bore of childhood. So the
little girl who, the other Sunday, laughed and
pranced on the seat of a Sydney church pew may
be forgiven. Not so the mother, who pulled the
girl down and smacked her—in most conven-
tionally domestic fashion. It changed the
decorous fold into a huddle of shaking sides,
blushes and pocket-handkerchiefs; turned the par-
son’s smooth eloquence into stammering con-
fusion. ‘
• • •
Ladies’ day at Pentridge Gaol. One recent
day, 104 women were removed from Melbourne
Gaol to Pentridge. Black Maria led the way,
like a hearse, while the mourning-coaches were
represented by vans, similarly laden with women.
All this might bo right enough, in a funereal way,
but the proceedings were marked by a jollity
which betokened that these ladies, who gave three
cheers for the Governor —not Hopetoun —and
sang merry choruses all the road along, were
infinitely better off than the sempstresses, wait-
resses, and other poor she-toilers “outside.”
• • •
Statement of qualifications lately received
from an applicant for the position of caretaker to
a Tasmanian country hospital :
I am a handy man, able to make coffins, etc. My wife
has been in lying-in hospital, and I have a son able to cut
firewood and run messages, also a daughter growing up,
who may be of use to the committee.
• * •
At a N.S.W. country hotel recently, an
aristocratic and close-fisted stranger gave the
Chinese cook six hares to skin and clean. When
they were done to his satisfaction he handed the
cook 3d,, and told him to pack them nicely in a
box to send to Sydney. This John did, first care-
fully replacing the entrails and sewing on the
skins. “Mycli!”said the Chow to “ Blidget,
the housemaid, “ they havee big tleepenny smell
in Sydney!”
* • •
The four daughters of a boss boomer were
lately placed at a most fashionable college. At
this genteel establishment they are not likely to
meet the daughters of any common people who
speculated in pa’s banks, because their papas have
had to take the girls away to do the housework
and washing.
'L a,f l?
VERY LIKELY.
DE BERE: “Say, old man, the johnnies at the aw—club tell me you have
jackaroos up heah on your station. Lots of our chappies at Home
have —aw —cockatoos and kangaroos, don’t-cher-know; but if I
could —aw—pot a couple of jackaroos, I guess I’d take Home a
trophy that would—aw—lay ovah theirs, don’t you?”
Mrs. Bowles, the youthful Melb. bride
who lost her arm in a local railway accident on
her wedding morn, was awarded .£2OOO damages
by a sympathetic jury. Her husband’s damages
in being deprived of one of bis wife’s arms were
assessed at £6OO. The Railway Commissioners
intend appealing, on the ground that the jurymen
were influenced by sentiment. The objection
appears to be strongest against the consolation
awarded to hubby—who, after all, would seem to
be the more injured party. A one-armed hug is
lop-sided and unsatisfactory—especially when a
man has been to the usual trouble and expense of
permanently winning a woman. And allowance
must be made for mental wear and tear, too, in
wrestling with the problem that naturally arises—
was it the lady who was cut off or only her hand ?
The young man may hold that he has been vio-
lently divorced without his own consent or con-
nivance, and have a conscientious conviction that
he is now in honour bound to win the other hand.
. . , . . . , .
t„ • t ii ul i . • t
Ju isfc. After long court experience 1
am amused at the smug complacency with which
juries fetch in verdicts as if it were the end of the
matter. Thus with the .£2OOO awarded the bride,
whose arm was chopped off through, it is claimed,
the default of the Vic. Railway Commissioners,
on her wedding-day. The Banco Court may cut
this £2OOO-arm down to £2OO, or £lOO, or
nothing. ”
* • •
The Argus’ latest trouble is that a young
Ballarat woman wants £5OO damages because
somebody gulled it with a bogus advt. announcing
her marriage. Complainant is single still, and
thinks it a £5OO insult to be specified as a married
person when one isn’t. If complainant can Drove
that she lost “ a chance ” through the bogus advt.
she will probably get her damages.
fds
ROBBERY UNDER ARMS.
M OTHER (in a panic): “A-ah! you little wretch, take it out!”
Her Eldest: “All right, mum; give us a shillin’ then.”
The great What Isitt from Maoriland com-
bines woman’s rights, temperance, and piety in
his Melb. lectures. Water and extreme-unction
blend well, but why is the woman seeking eman-
cipation so anxi us to tack her cause on to that of
the purist and the pollywog ? The woman’s-fran-
chise party are booming Isitt, and their case, as
presented to mankind in general by the reverend
apostle, is—“ Give us political power and we will
force you to be pious and teetotal.” Most men
shudder at the prospect of being pious and teetotal.
It is not a fair deal.
* « •
Maitland (N.S.W.) Mercury has passed
into the hands of a new firm, and the proprietors
announce in a leading article that they propose
to swear off the husks and the swine, and abjure
all the paper’s past sins, and lead a respectable
life for the future. The said article is cheerfully
ingenuous about the old management. An
extract; —
The Maitland Mercury in time to come, then, will no
longer be used in the selfish interest of any person whom-
soever. It will never be permitted to become from the
side of the proprietary the channel of individual
malignity, the agent of self-seeking, or the vehicle of
personal abuse. No wilful misrepresentation of speech or
writing will be allowed. No sect, denomination, clique,
or party will have dominion over it.
The announcement that it will “no longer” do
these things must be pleasant reading for some-
body.
* * •
No intelligent person can read the hopeless
gabble of Dr. Bevan, atSydney Y.M.C. A. meetings
last week, without realising why the churches play
such a trivial part in Australian thought and life.
Such a tangle of self-sufficient word-spinning has
about as much bearing upon vital social problems
as a blind mule’s kick has upon the cycle of the
seasons. The S.M. Herald reported the dreary
verbiage in full; the Telegraph, wiser in its
generation, cut it down and hid it in a corner.
Piety doesn’t pay so well as it used to.
Enclosed with last month’s cheque, N.S.W.
State school-teachers received a collecting-card,
together with a printed circular, addressed from
the Department’s office, asking for subscriptions
to a proposed memorial to the memory of the late
Under-Seoretary for Public Instruction, Mr.
Johnson. The time chosen is considered by
teachers very inopportune. Out of last month’s
cheque they have to provide for the mid-winter
holiday expenses, besides which the pupil-
teachers, being paid quarterly, will not receive
their cheques till July.
In the intemperance township of Mildura
(Vic.) eleven men were seized for sly-grog selling,
last week.
Yic. Minister
of Education says
“he does not think
any married woman
should be in the
service of the State
• —her proper place
is at home, mind-
ing the baby!” But
supposing there
isn’t any baby? Will
Mr. Baker officially
supply the defi-
ciency ?
# #
A C. of E.
clergyman recently
visited a O.Q.
station. He did
not think it worth
while to call at the
out - station ; but
asked the manager
to deliver this order
to each man em-
ployed there; “The
manager,
station. Please pay
the Rev. £
s. d., and charge
same to my ac-
count.” The blanks
are still unfilled.
» #
“When :jou
talk of passion to a
modern woman, she
wants to talk poli-
tics.”—Mrs. Hum.
they Ward’s “Marcella.”
* * •
A sample of Botany Bay justice. At
Darlinghurst Criminal Court, when a wretch
comes up for s utence, the gaoler reads out his
record of previous convictions, and in addition
tells whether he has ever been tried and acquitted !
The other day a Supreme Court Judge told a
prisoner that no doubt he was guilty that qther
time he was tried and found not guilty. British
fair play and the rights of juries, by thunder!
Again, the Judge sometimes tells a police-
man to enquire into a prisoner’s “antecedents.”
The officer goes round the place where the prisoner
has lived, talks over the gate to Mrs. Muldopney
about Sikes’s habits and customs, drops into the
bar parlour of the Policeman’s Arms, has a drink
“on the nod,” and yarns with the landlord,
Fogarty, about the men who drink long beers "with
Sikes, and then goes and makes a report to “His
Anner” as to the result of his “inquiries.” And
the miserable in the dock (undefended almost
as often as not) has no chance to cross-examine
anybody or suggest motives or discredit a witness.
• • *
The other day, in Maoriland, Mrs. Brown
fell from a ladder and was killed. Two days
afterwards this advt. appeared in the ' local
paper :
UJ. EORGB BROWN AND FAMILY desire to convey
VY their sincere Thanks to the numerous kind and
sympathising friends in their bereavement of the loss
of a beloved wife and loving mother.
GORGE BROWN takes this opportunity to thank
his numerous Customers and the Public gener-
ally for their favours and support for the past 14
years, and trusts by giving every attention to their
wants a continuation of the same as in the past, as he
will still CARRY ON THE BUSINESS by the assist-
ance of his Family with the able assistance of Miss
Johnson in the DRESS and MANTLE-MAKING.
Businesslike ! No wonder Maoriland successfully
battled through her financial depression.
# # *
Traveller : “ One Melbourne charity
satisfies me, the Old Colonists’ Home. It is a
collection of 12 delightful villas, in an out-of the-
way spot, at North Fitzroy. There is not the
faintest taint of the workhouse, asylum, traol, or
charitable institution, as usually recognised, about
the place. Each villa has its beautiful little well-
kept garden. One does 1 not grudge the gilt
memorial stones, to the donors, for the endeavour
seems to have been to make each new one more
pleasant than all that have been built before.
Yet the first is the most noble, in its associations,
inscribed ‘Founder’s Cottage. Built by Geo. S.
Ooppin, Esq., comedian, 1870.’ A mighty honour
to that same comedian esquire! For from this
proceeded all the others.”
THE OLD DEGREE.
Beneath the University, in reverie perplext,
A dainty maiden knit her brows, and tapped her
foot, and next —
“ B.A. seems to me
A nice, chaste degree
For a modest young maiden to own ;
And the M.A. degree
Is a rank, I am free
To admit, which is very high-flown.
Still, methinks I can see
A far higher degree—
Pure and holy, and everywhere known !
The old M.A. degree
Of the World’s ’Varsity;
I live not until that is my own !”
She shook her skirts, and turned her back upon
that hoary pile,
And knocked a youngman passing with a Number
Seven smile.
Sydney.
THE JONAH.
THE DIFFERENCE.
Languishing eyes that
So restlessly roam,
Like baby violets
Floating in foam.
Oh for the touch of her
Splendid white arms
Folded as if to
Embrace her own charms.
To tell you the truth, I would
Damnation dare
To smother my soul in
Her billowy hair.
In fact, she has all that
The verse-writers sing—
Mouth of a rose, and all
That kind of thing.
What’s the use eyeing her 1
Divil a bit—
She’s in the “circle,” and
I’m in the “ pit.”
N.S.W.
W.J.R.
TWO MOODS.
The tokens (so treasured) I lovingly brought her,
The songs that she sang, and the angel I thought her,
The kisses she gave me-such kisses! My God,
What are they now when she’s under the sod 1
The care for my life whate’er pain it cost her,
Angelic indeed I see now when I’ve lost her—
But instead of the woman we laid ’neath the sod,
1 now love a spirit whose love is from God.
Vic.
H.


THE THREE BEST STOVES.
The Chef &
The Parramatta
The Housewife
Don't he persuaded to purchase any
other kind until you have written to
us for a Catalogue , giving illustra-
tions and full particulars.
Holdsworth, Macpherson & Co.,
250 TO 250 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHA-T
IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
Stably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
cot for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence then it l . domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
B rich ones richer. What say you? Will you do your business at
ANTHONY H ORDEH3XTS ?
ANTHONY HOBDEItN’S ?
REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI
SO
THAT YOU MAY
ItTTV EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town.
ONLY ADDRESS op the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYMARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
GOOD WINE
Within the reach of everybody. Health and strength to>
the weak and suffering! Pleasure and luxury to the
healthy ! Sent to any address on receipt of Cheque,
Postal Note or Money Order for i Q/- (carriageextra), ONE-
CASE of One Dozen reputed Quart Bottles of our famous ■
Superior SHERRY.
Securely packed in straw envelopes, in a strong case. This !
is absolutely the pure juice of the grape, made in N.5.W.,.
and is a splendid dinner wine, 5 years old, full-bodied,
beautiful bouquet and very rich. Superior PORT to be'
had on same terms. Pure HOCK and CLARET from 1 2/-
per doz. Storekeepers and publicans supplied at whole-
sale rates. Delivered free in Sydney and suburbs. AIL
kinds of wines kept. The Largest Stock in Sydney.
Price Lists on application. 11. INNES, N.S.W. Wine•
Merchant, 14 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
How to Get a Piano or Organ..
YOU, of course, want the highest quality of tone, action, ,
touch and beauty of exterior you can afford; but
you must have DURABILITY. Durability is an indispensable;
condition, and however cheap an instrument may appear,
without durability it is worthless. Avoid the cheap
pianos, for which there are agents in every town, who tell
—and often through ignorance believe—that they are
equal to the Steinway or the Erard or some other first-
class maker. Therefore, no matter how big a bargain you
think somebody else offers, investigate
OUR LARGE AND VARIED STOCK OP
THE BEST MAKERS.
STEINWAY & SONS’
AMERICAN PIANOS.
The great superiority of these Pianos is the result of
thoroughly seasoned, absolutely faultless material, and
more perfect workmanship, and of essential differences
and improvements of construction.
ERARD & CO.,
Established in Paris in 1780.,
The new Parisian models may be seen in our Show-rooms.
The world wide fame that the firm of Erard & Go. have
enjoyed for more than a century is more than maintained
to-day, owing to the great increase in the number of
instruments manufactured.
LIPP PIANOS.
These celebrated manufacturers having discovered several
bogus makers imitating their famous instruments, have
decided to entrust their entire Australasian business to
us, and have appointed us absolutely Sole Agents for
Australasia.
SAMPLES NOW ON VIEW.
We have also in Stock the first-class Pianos by Julius'
Feurioh, Carl Ecke, Gors and Kallmann, Uebel and Lech-
leiter. The Victor, The Belling, Kirkmann, Oollard, Sohied-
mayer, Kaps, and others.
w. H. PALING & CO., LTD.*
388 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Some tableaux vivants were lately mooted
amongst the congregation of a Melb. suburban
church as a means of wiping of! the organ debt,
but the elders, scenting a pose plastique of the
44 Greek Slave” or 44 Queen of Sheba ( type,
vetoed further proceedings pending their 44 con-
sideration.” The result of the conference was
that they, the elders, were to have a private view
of the ungodly scene first to judge whether or not
it was fit for the public to witness.
• • •
There is one class of labourers who never strike and
seldom complain. They get up at 5 o’clock in the morn-
ing, go to bed at 11 or 12 at night. They die in harness,
and are supplanted as quickly as may be. These are the
house-keeping wives of labouring men." —Recent Bulle-
tin quotation.
Meteorologist Wragge says that a storm is
coming along called “He.” Most men have a
storm coming along called She.
» • •
Pall Mall Gazette tells this story from
Rue Australia
Mrs . R was a delicately nurtured young woman who
was made supremely happy one day by her husband
coming in from the scene of his labours carrying a pair of
fowls He had obtained them as a thank-offering from a
grateful Guarani for some slight service rendered Mrs
r knew something about fowls, and she saw with
delight in her mind’s eye future broods of chickens and
fresh eggs for her children. She staked off and fenced in
with hfr own hands a little hen-run outside of the mud-
ranch, happily resolving that her hens would not lay
awav, all unconscious that in a few days the inexorable
laws' of the association would pounce down on her fowls
and declare them common property. Th e y were
removed to form the nucleus of a communistic hen-
farm As a nucleus they lived, and as a nucleus
in a few days afterwards they died. There is no
nucleus now ; no one is sufficiently interested in fowls to
provide one. A— had a sick child, and the common
store was sadly deficient in ordinary comforts. A friendly
Indian was riding by with a jar of milk, and Mr. A
negotiated the purchase of it by swapping his razor. A
neighbour witnessed the transaction and reported it to
Mr Lane. What remained of the milk was immediately
confiscated, because by the rules of the association Mr
A had no business to possess a private razor. Mr.
A— protested that the razor was as sacred to his person
as his garments, and that because, for the sake of his
child, he had determined to grow his beard he -was Quite
at liberty to dispose of the razor. But this plea was
rejected and the milk confiscated.
* * *
Dear Bulletin,— -My mean man’s a woman!
Paddington tram. Small boy unwittingly drops
his only ticket. Well-dressed woman annexes it.
Conductor demands. Boy blubbers. 1^ e ® ellt
writer gives 44 lady” away.
boration—indignation !—and (?) cake. A.M.
« * *
Dear Bulletin,— Mere abuse of language
to say that good tobacco 44 pollutes” the air. Even
44 sheepwasfi ”is Araby to the filth-evolved per-
fumes ” masquerading under floral titles. Also
though a few women honestly dislike tobacco
smoke—the bulk of the protestors “travel” on
the gag that women’s sensibilities are keener than
men’s. Artist, musician, tea-taster—eye, ear and
mouth (as well as— teste “ Sappho Smith ”—nose),
fe ■“ u virtl, * lly ‘ hB
” RE TOH.
* * •
Jpropos the current costly N.S. W. judicial
expedition to Norfolk Island to try an infanticide
al d Sh*’
always accompanied the judge and suite on official
Visits to the island.
9 » m
. , .» mi .•
Let mm marry the girl! The time-
honoured magisterial panacea and poultice. It
as come round again in a Yic. Court. A black
man had to answer for criminal assault, under
the stringent new legislation, on a girl only 14.
The panacea! Rhadamanthus had the delight of
bringing the wedding off in the barristers’ room,
while prisoner’s counsel, of course, led a sub-
soription to buy the ring. Had the poor child
been older,, she would probably have refused to
marry her deceiver, and simply insisted on the
maintenance of the progeny, if any.
Why men don’t marry
Single blessedness Now here.
Double do ....... Nowhere.
• •
Dear Bulletin— “C. A. J.L.,” writing in
a recent issue, refers to the Mormon colony at
Cape Hawke (N.S.W.), and says that they repudi-
ate polygamy. I was with the Westernport (V 10.)
Mormons a few years ago, and though they repu-
diated polygamy, by word of mouth, males and
females P domiciled together in an altogether un-
Gentile way. They are Josephite Mormons—that
is believers in Joseph Smith, jun., and scoff at
Brigham Youngites. The “ Elder ” was a young
man, and many of the saints are Scotchmen.
am not a disappointed polygamist, but perhaps
some day I shall write up 44 How I Wooed and
Lost a Mormon Maiden.” — Wurlie.
# • •
News from a Vic. village settlement at
Macedon : 44 Our horse has died of starvation, also
our dog. All our fowls are dead—we had no
means of getting them food. We are getting
settled nicely.”
# * *
Sydney Benevolent Asylum reports that
for April it provided 2500 persons with provisions
costing .£216 3s. This, when worked out,
gives an average per head per day of less than
three farthings.
# • *
A gathering of parsons is generally an
assemblage of about the plainest, not to say the
ugliest, men in the community. At a recent in-
duction service in Melbourne between thirty and
forty expounders were collected together, and
there was not one decent-looking expounder in the
crowd. And just when the congregation had had
time to take a long look at them and assimilate
their exceeding plainness, the officiating parson
gave out the anthem, 44 How lovely are the mes-
sengers that preach the gospel of peace.” The
congregation smiled, but not one sin-shifter of the
lot moved a muscle. There is no humour about
the Church. A really humorous Church is the
greatest want of the age.
The Brisbane temperance drink up to date
contains 11| per cent, alcohol—just about the
strength of decent claret.
Synonyms : —Artist, liai 4 * Champion liar,
photography. Truth, insanity* Riches, roguery.
Honesty, failure.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of
the U.S. has removed its Sydney offices from
the old premises at the corner of Hunter ana
O’Connell-streets, where its has been located
since its advent to Australia in 1881, and has
established itself in the premises recently
vacated by the New Oriental Bank. The magniti-
cent new building of the Society will not be ready
for occupation until October, but from the
temporary office, which is ii\ George-street and
immediately opposite, Mr. E. W. Scott, the Vice-
President, and his assistants in the management
may feast their eyes on its massive proportions
and superb workmanship. It is worthy of note
that the temporary offices form the ground floor of
the building of the Mutual Life Association of
Australia, and it is matter for congratulation that
the mutual relations of the Australian _ and
American companies are such as to permit co-
operation in a matter of the kind.
Parkes has been bombarded with con-
gratulations on the attainment of his 79th birth-
day last Sunday. A Sydney D.T. interviewer
went with a blithesome, springy step to dive into
the old man’s recollections of infancy, and ex-
tracted much information regarding his capacity
for goo-goo utterance and mud-pie manufac-
ture. Singularly enough, however, the veteran
omitted the one thing material, and did not say
that he owes his strength and health, under Pro-
vidence, to a judicious use of Marshall’s lonic
Nervine, sold at corner of Regent and Wells
streets, Redfern, and Park and Pitt streets,.
Sydney.
AN INTELLECTUAL OPINION.
I think her charming, argue as you may.
Her cheek is sallow, I admit;
Her mouth's alarming (so you choose to say),
Her nose turns up a little bit.
Her eyes lack lustre and have lines beneath.
Her smile is feeble-call it 44 tame ” ;
She cannot muster a fine show of teeth —
1 think her charming, all the same.
She suits me nicely, though her ears project I
I’m 14 gone upon her ’’—that’s the term—
Just so, precisely 1 She has my respect,
And claims ray admiration firm.
You chaff me vainly. Criticise your own
Best girl, whom 1 thought rather dull;
Madge loves me plainly ; on that fact alone
I’ll stand, and call her beautiful.
Melb.
E.F.
Yes, I see that the wife’s always graftin’,
An’ I know all the points of her case j
And I’m sure that most men’d go daft in
Half a year if they took on her place.
She has no recreation nor leisure,
’Cause the mendin’ is never quite through—
I’d be glad if she had, in good measure,
But, say, what is a fellow to do ?
For in spite of her toilin’ an’ strivin’
Half the night an’ the whole of the day,
Of her cuttin’ an’ clever contrivin’,
We just manage to live on my pay ;
An’ although we are duly observant
Of the beautiful teaohin’s of Thrift,
Why, we can’t keep a cook an’ a servant
With six kids an’ six shillin’s a shift!
I have often read similar stories.
But I can’t find the sense of the sneer,
If you don’t, like the horrified Tories,
Blame it all on my smokin’ an’ beer.
Could I give my wife lux’ries an’ leisure
I’d be a proud man, bet your life ;
But I can’t, an’ provide for the pleasures
Of my mistress, Monopoly’s wife.
E.D.
"THE SENSES"
' ‘fwAt, Wit>j S(€£P<NG,
7^
si[iENri7'/\f?oSe / ANI? o^£E,PjNG»,
Sk C(0 SEP the door^
+ ♦ -*■ r * -
»hTenT oT sJeaL'NCx
Stjt S H /(/CA"\E,B^ ,p E 'AE K^EEL"^ o*-' 0 *-'
(gHf 60T oT QN AA*P C jo VES.
/ I -I- + ■*■ ■*
( i Hap
seen
wtT^
CoVe£> :)\
JkK
-
UNDAUNTED.
Q-
I came from the town
To my darling’s this morning ;
She coldly looked down
When I came from the town,
And passed with a frown
My blandishments scorning;
I caine from the town
To my darling’s this morning.
She left me alone
To reflect at my leisure;
With wrath in her tone.
She left me alone,
My darling, my own,
In haughty displeasure;
She left me alone
To reflect at my leisure.
Don’t think I shall die
In despair at your door, dear}
For, to tell the truth, I
(Who, you fancy, may die)
Such rebuffs can defy,
For I’ve had ’em before, dear ;
Don’t think 1 shall die
In despair at your door, dear.
P. LU[?]O.
MUCH—A LITTLE WHILE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
44 Love me little, love me long ”;
Laggard lover sung such song ;
Rather, Peg ! in other style,
Love me much—a little while.
If of old that minstrel knew
Maid so kissable as you
(Like you? There was never such !)
He’d have warbled, 44 Love me much.”
Since creation, never yet
Aught arose, but it must set;
Wayward Love at Time may flout.
But Father Time shall rub him out.
Brown-eyed, bright-faced Margaret,
Kiss me, whilst you’re able yet!
Sweetheart, with the sunny smile,
Love me much —a little while.
Warrego.
THE BREAKER.
LIFE.
From the dark emerging
To the dark we go :
Life is all that lies between
Which we never know.
STRRLE GRRY.
People’s Mistakes.
44 It is surprising what mistakes even some of the'
best people in the world make.”
The speaker was one of the greatest doctors the
world has ever known.
“Take, for example, one of the most common'
things in the world, namely, a cold. People speak
of ‘ taking cold '; there is really no such thing.
A cold is a symptom, an effect, not a cause. Didl
you ever know an absolutely well and healthy
person who took cold ? I never have, even under
the greatest exposure. Yes, indeed, a cold is »
symptom, not a cause.”
The gentlemen and ladies, to whom the doctor
was speaking, exchanged looks of astonishment but
did not dispute the words of the learned man.
“ You may be surprised,” he continued, 44 when'
I tell you that nine-tenths of all colds occur because
those great organs of the body, the kidneys, are
out of order. More men and women are troubled
with imperfect kidneys than with any other
known form of disease. The unfortunate thing
about it is that they do not know that this is their
trouble. Why? Because all difficulties, derange-
ments, and diseases of the kidney are usually
without any pain, in fact, without any symptoms
whatever, and this proves just what I said at first,,
namely, that 4 a cold is a symptom.’ ”
The looks of amazement which were upon the
faces of his hearers remained, while the doctor
continued ;
44 What I say is true. If you have a cold in the
head, a cough, pain in the muscles or joints, if
you sneeze or wheeze, do not try to doctor these
symptoms, but go at once to their cause, which is
invariably the kidneys. Use the best discovery
of modern times for these organs, which is War-
ner’s Safe Cure. Put your kidneys in proper
condition and any cold, however bad it may be,
will disappear as if by magic. Indeed,” continued
the doctor, most deliberately and earnestly, “I
assert that the grip, which has been so disastrous,
which has brought so much trouble into the world,
would never have had its run if the kidneys of
those who had suffered from it had been in perfect,
condition. These great organs, if unclogged,
would have thrown the disease from the system l ,
so that the grip would have been unknown.”
The doctor’s words, startling as they may seem,
were true, and the remedy of which he spoke, the'
only one known to the world for regulating the-
kidneys. No class of people know or realise this
better than the medical profession, but thousands
of men and women have learned it to their owm
great advantage.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Hassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.


TATTERS ALL’S
JUNB GIFT (Brisbane)i—JUNE &3bß ... *T 10,090 ki 0.
GRAND NATIONAL HURDLE. JULY 7 ... *2T 100.000 ki 6.
“ unuiuu,”
o>r« a i fXmmui* Adams,
< 44 The Telegraph " Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
, Brisbane, Queensland,
KS- THIS MONTH ONLY. *B*
CLARET! CLARET!
VINTAGE, 1891 .. “BORDEAUX’*
VINTAGE. 1890 ~ “GRAND PINEAU’*
VINTAGE, 1889 .. “PETITE VEDURE”
CLARET!
Per Dozen, a SHILLINGS.
Per Dozen, 12 SHILLINGS.
Per Dozen, is SHILLINGS.
These thoroughly matured qualities of excellent flavour and bouquet, wholesome and bloodmaking,
superior to the best imported clarets, we are offering at above low quotations—3s per cent, less than
our usual prices—delivered free to any part of Sydney or suburbs.
COUNTRY ORDERS MUST BE ACCOMPANIED BY P. 0.0.
In Bulk, Considerable Discount.
AUSTRALIAN VINEYARDS DEPOT,
Agents for the Growers,
331 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY (OPP. PALING'S.)
X
PIKE BROS.,
SHIRT-MAKING A SPECIALITY.
Write for Samples and Self-Measurement
Forms.
Old Shirts Re-fitted with Collars and Cuffs.
y
The discovery op the age.
THE EUCALYPTUS CIGARETTES
AND CUT LEAF
Is the most pleasant and invigorating Smoke. A
good appetiser and after-dinner Smoke. The
Cigarettes are strongly recommended for all Bron-
chial Affections. Colds, Influenza, and Headache.
Invaluable in a Sick-room. Ladies especially should
try them. Boxes (100), 10s., post free ; and retail
of all chemists.
THE ABRADIO PROPRIETARY CO.,
91 PITT STREET.
The aus t r ax. gallery
(Strand Arcade, Sydney).
Magnificent Display of Paintings Representing
Thrilling Scenes from the
BUSHRANGING HAYS.
Most Realistic Paintingsand Exciting Events.
STRAND ARCADE (Centre of Thoroughfare).
Open Dally—lo a.m. till 10 p.m.
ALBURY MISSING WORD COMPETI-
TIONS. DOUBLE GUESSES.
NOTICE TO COMPETITORS.
As the No. 8 Competition closes to-day (Thursday)
it is impossible to give the result in this issue. In next
week’s Bulletin the successful guessers will be named,
and a fresh paragraph will appear for competition.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
T°
SHOOTERS.—Complete set of Reloading and Clean-
ing TOOLS, 12 gauge, central fire, containing de-
capper, re-capper, turnover, loader, extractor, powder and
shot measure, cleaning-rod, wire brush, jag, oiler, &c.,
free by post to any part of Australia for 10s. 6d. stamps or
P. 0.0. A. J. POTTER, Newcastle, N.S.W.
Read this:— Croydon, 23/1/94. Dear Sir,—l received
the set of tools some time since. I have reloaded hun-
dreds of cartridges and found the tools work splendid
and could not wish for better. In fact, lam quite sur-
prised with them for the price. You are welcome to use
this if you wish.—Faithfully yours, SAMUEL STONE,
Croydon, Queensland.
Bowridge’s Bona Fide 2 6.
George Street, Brisbane.
grand national hurdle race.
Flemington, June 7, 1894. p?" 10,000 at 2 8
JUNE GIFT 5000 at 2 6
Eagle Farm, Brisbane. June 23, 1894.
r ». r-sir -y TirTJi r y
I 111 111 ill Jl111LH! ill ill
in nf-rrmn
M i i in m in
FOR the person who Is not a millionaire, there ar<
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at it
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 63:
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other!i
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 60 KING STREET
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. «80. W. ELLIS.
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam, of Oopaiba, Oubebs or In-
c,tvNT4<
MI O'*.
iections and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
Sold by all Druggittt.
Wholesale Agents:
Elliott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
Each Capsule fs
Stamped “
LADIES’
ORIENTAL FEMALE PILLS.
_ _ TRIPLE POWER. Restore regularity
without fail, no matter what cause or how long
standing. Box posted, ss. Write. Mr. W. GARFIELD,
Universal Buildings, Collins-street, Melbourne.
m
• >•
Towers JX'. Handicap.—Charters Towers, June 21.
5000 at 2 6 and 5000 at 1.
June Grift. —Eagle Farm, June 23, 1894.
5000 at 2 6 and 6000 at 1
Grand National Hnrdle Kace.—Plemington, July 7.
20,000 at 2 6 and 20,000 at 1.
120 Extra Ones. I 95 Extra OnL,
Address “STAR,’ care ol MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE, Q’land.
CHARLES WESTBROOK,'
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
“"'r
m
MM
TELEPHONE, No. 1542.
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
Colonies. Double and Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups—lo,ooo to 10 to 20.
V.R.O. Derby and Melbourne Cup—s,ooo to 25 to 20.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, June 12, 1894.
f | TENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
X SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 20.
Bridge, Cooradigbee, road Yass to Tumut
Bridge, Jilliby Jilliby Creek, road Jilliby to
Little Jilliby
Bridge, Mangrove Creek at Warren Warre Cross-
ing, road Bullock Wharf to Upper Mangrove
Creek
Bridge, Mangrove Creek at Douglas’ Crossing
Supply, &e., of Cooking Apparatus, Benevolent
Asylum, Newington
Erection of Goods Shed at the Eastern side of
Circular Quay, Sydney
Altering the 10-ton Crane, Naval Station, Garden
Island
Supply of Portland Cement for the remainder of
year 1894. (.£lO deposit must accompany each
tender.)
Manufacture within the colony : Supply and Erec-
tion of 20,000 Gallon Wrought Iron Tank at
Murwillumbah, Lismore-Tweed Railway.
Purchase of old Wrought and Cast Iron and six
Boilers now lying at Cockatoo Island
Additions, &c., Court and Watch House, Moss Yale
Alterations, &0., Water Police Barracks, Newcastle
WEDNESDAY, JULY 4.
Erection of Cottage for Wharfinger, Goff’s Harbor
Bridge, Illgutherie Creek, road Forbes to South
Condobolin
Bridge, Watt’s Creek, road Oowra to Grenfell
Bridge, Pian Creek, road Walgett to Kercargo
Erection of Passenger Stations, Waiting Sheds and
other works at Bellinudgel, Mooball, Burrin-
bar, Dunbible and Murwillumbah, Lismore-
Tweed Railway
Screwing up, Scraping, Painting, &o. f Bridge
Lachlan River, at Oowra
WEDNESDAY, JULY 18.
Bridge, Mulbring Creek, road Sandy Creek to
Mount Vincent
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
JJE AL PROPERTY ACL
NOTICE OF INTENDED REGISTRA-
TION OF DISCHARGE WITHOUT PRO-
DUCTION of ORIGINAL MORTGAGE.
In the matter of the mortgage, dated 27th Decem-
ber, 1873, registered No. 10,946, from John
Burgess to the Permanent Mutual Benefit,
Building and Investment Society, over the land
comprised in Crown Grants registered respec-
tively: vol. 75, fol. 146, and vol. 122, fob 51,,
also in Certificate of Title registered vol. 18, fob.
169, being 44 acres 1 rood and 75 acres 2 roods,,
portions 92 and 93, and 50 acres, situated in the>
parish of Towrang, county of Argyle.
NOTICE is hereby given of the intention of the
Registrar - General to register the above Dis-
charge of Mortgage, after the expiration of
twenty-one days from the date hereof, without
production of the original mortgage, reasonable
cause having being shown, pursuant to sec. 91 of
the Real Property Act.
All information respecting above may be
obtained at the Land Titles Office, Elizabeth-
street, Sydney.
Dated at Sydney this Ist June, 1894, at the
Registrar-General’s Department.
CHARLES PINHEY,
Registrar-General.
<£2oo
GIVEN AWAY IN 140 PRIZES
For Guesses on this Rebus.
Which represents when correctly solved the names of Three Great Military Heroes of European
Celebrity. To the First Five Persons sending correct answer on or before June 30th, 1894, we
will give to each A Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £lO. To each of the
next Ten, a'Sterllng Silver Lever Watch, Value £3. To each of the next 20 a Nickel Silver
Keyless Watch, Value 26/-. To each of the next 25 a Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch, Value
20/-. To each of the next 60 a Ladles’ Sterling Silver Brooch, Value 10/-. To each of the last
five correct answers, a Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £lO. To next
25 a Mode! Sewing Machine or a Paragon Washing Machine. With your answer send
Fifteen Penny Stamps for a Box of either “Star Ahtihilious Pills” best Liver, Kidney
& Bowal Recrulator ever iiraH rinnorli r-.n *1
“ Star Rheumatic Pills ” cures Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. “ Star Neuralgic
Pills ” cures Neuralgia, Tic Doloreux, Toothache. These Valuable Gifts are made solely to
tmroduce our wonderful Medicmes. Every person answering this will receive list of names &
nddressesof Prizewinners. Fair proportion of prizes reserved for each Colony; write at once
« TI V?,£ A ,?^9 N , AI i DRIJG Co., Russell St., Melbourne, or MARSHALL BROS.
Cor. Pitt & Park Streets, Sydney, Agents, for N.S.W.— Mention this Paper!
cm'' .
m
%
*
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The Cup entries include three former winners—
Malvolio, Glenloth, and Tarcoola. But The Admiral’s
name is absent.
• • • •
A South Africa team now touring England has
defeated Marylebone C.O. and Ground by 11 runs. South
Africa is a handy half-way house of call for future English
and Australian teams.
• « • •
A certain sporting tipster has a double pen-name.
When one of his double-barrelled tips comes off he calmly
alludes under his other pen-name to the success of “my
colleague, Blank.’’
• • • *
Jem Hall has challenged Fitzsimmons, and says
that Lord Lonsdale is ready to back him,
• • * •
Sydney University Rugby team beat Rand wick
by 3 points to nil —the feature of the day being the fine
play of Barrie for the loser. As usual, his experience of
the Australian game proves useful in Rugby.
* * « •
To console the expatriated Johnny, two Sydney
bootmakers, “ Oxy ” and little “Wessy,” had books open
on the English Derby.
♦ ♦ • •
Camoola has gone to the stud after a racing
career which began brilliantly at Caulfield and ended
ignominiously. Like all the Chesters, he could not
stomach wet going.
* • • e
According to a Sydney compiler, out of 87 big
recent Randwick events, the favourite got home on only
21 occasions.
* • • e
The Commercial Bank of Sydney and Bank of
Australasia forbid their employees playing football.
* * * *
Of Sydney football teams, perhaps the best is
the University. Yet, how seldom a University man gets
hurt 1
• • • •
Stennett, of Manly swimming baths, has taught
three girl-pupils to dive from the top of the palisading
around the bath—a height of 25 feet.
» * * *
Flock-pigeon shooting for three days in the
Gosford district, N.S.W. Monday; Walked over ridges
all day ; sport, 12 ticks, 5 leeches. Tuesday : Paid a guide
t'l; started out at 5 a.m., walked 50 miles over ridges; shot
a lizard. Wednesday: Paid a fresh guide £1 ; whole party
lost in a swamp from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. All flock-pigeon
guides are liars.
♦ • • •
The Victorian football premiership looks a
monte for Essendon—fourth consecutive year, A wild
attempt to make its matches attractive takes the form
of a weekly rumour that three or four of the cracks are
laid up. On the Saturday the “cripples” turn up and
kick goals. Essendon is the best team, but its luck is
marvellous. Faulty shooting for goal has already sent
Melbourne, runners-up in ’93, half-way down the list.
Despised Footscray has rushed like a score of mad bulls
into the first three. Fitzroy keeps in the first flight.
Jockey Hayes has abandoned the idea 'of pro-
ceeding further against the Australasian, and “it is
understood that a mutual arrangement has been arrived
at in regard to costs.” The spectacle of Hayes and the
bulky organ fixing a fair division of the accumulated
sorrow is pathetic indeed.
♦ • e •
The strange performance of a handsome horse
called Mercury, in a Maiden Steeplechase at Moonee
Valley, was commented upon by the Arous. “ Such a
collapse as Mercury’s has not been seen on a racecourse
for many a day; but want of condition, or something
else, may have accounted for it.’’ There are only three
other causes to account lor a horse’s sudden stoppage
after clearing the last jump—sudden illness, or break-
down of the steed, or a sudden loss of determination by
the rider. Why bracket these under the heading of
“Something else?”
The same journal is much more technical in its
football reports, thus—“ The shouts of ‘Well played,
Teddy,' were so frequent in the last half that even a
blind man must have known that the junky little Helling
was giving Geelong a bad time of it. In the opinion of
th ;»e newspaper devotees the world revolves upon Mel-
bourne football play. The present writer sometimes
attends a match, to pick up the latest fashions in foul
language, and he isn’t a blind man either. Yet the shouts
“ Well played I Billy,” and “ Good boy ! Snorky,” and so
forth, don’t teach him anything he wants to know, or
draw his attention to anything he wants to witness.
Enough to have formed a vague, painful impression that
a junky hero is doing junky deeds.
• • • «
Adelaide has now three Saturday night sporting
papers.
• a * •
The N.S.W. University footballers are having
a change from their hitherto successful career. Padding-
ton’s draw with them on Saturday comes on top of their
defeat by the Newcastle Centennials.
• • • •
Parramatta’s win against Randwick Jwaa also a
great blow to the Randwick’s “ barrackers,” and the
result of the two games is bound to give football a fillip
in Sydney.
• • • •
Next Saturday Paddington and, Parramatta
meet on the Agricultural Ground.
• * • •
Sydney Tattersall’s committee has had before it
during last week a little billiard betting dispute involving
a matter of a thousand pounds, which it decided
against defendant, a prominent Sydney man. Also, a
question of turf commission, the foundation whereof was
that a rather close-fisted magnate, after making a big
win on bets placed for him by an acquaintance, wanted to
give the go-between a tenner in full settlement instead
of 5 per cent., the usual allowance on winning commis-
sions.
• * * •
Mount Morganaire Hall must feel a bit sorry
now he did not give Florrie’s backers a run in Tattersall’s
Winter Stakes. Not that the running in the A.J.C-
Stakes shows that the mare had the ghost of a show of
winning; but, brazen it out as they may, the thickest-
skinned of the wealthy “clever owners” do not care
about running counter to the crowd for nothing.
« « • •
Orookwell (N.S.W.) cricketers are much exer-
cised over a recent decision of a local umpire. Smith and
Jones were batting. Smith struck a ball, Jonec started
for a run, and whilst off his crease the ball knocked Jones’
wicket down. The umpire gave Jones out. Jones was
not out. Had the ball touched one of the fieldsmen in its,
flight Jones would have been out, but travelling as it did,
direct from Smith’s bat on to Jones' wicket, the decision
of the umpire was wrong.
Who would have thought 31b. could make such
a difference ? In Tattersalls’ Steeplechase, with 10st. up,
Ontario could not raise a gallop to keep up with his field,
the race being run in 7-16 J. In the A. J.C. Steeple, on the
following Saturday, with 31b. less on his back, he won in
7min. 13seo.
* * * *
Three deaths already reported from football in
Vic. this season. Apropos, in the match between Port
Melb. and St. Kilda, last week, the umpire was mobbed
by harrackers and knocked insensible for half-an-hour.
• • • •
The Essendon F.G., the Melb. Premier for
three years running, now has every man’s hand against
it. Crowds of barrackers follow the team each Saturday
in the hope of seeing it taken down, only to be disap-
pointed.
• * * ♦
The most prominent Southern rowing family
are the Horsburghs of the Yarra Yarra club. They are in
all shapes and sizes, from Ted, 12st., to George, sst. 61b.,
who coxed the last Vic. Interprovinoial crew. Charles
and Ted both row in their club’s senior-eight, and won
the Champion Race in it three times in succession, and
the former, with Charles, represented the club in the
Interprovincial race. Five other members are scattered
in the front ranks of junior and maiden oarsmen ; and, in
fact, the family has a standing challenge out to row any
other eight brothers in Australia. A meeting between
four of them and four Beauchamps, of Tamar R.C.,
Launceston, very nearly came off a couple of years back,
but the final arrangements fell through.
• * * ♦
“I should like to meet Jackson, just for science,
but 1 think youth will tell.”— Corbett.
* * * »
Peter Jackson declined to meet Corbett in
Florida. Considering the excited feeling between the
two races, and the recent wholesale lynching of negroes,
Peter is right. His victory would cost him his life or
provoke a second civil-war. The battle should be on
neutral ground.
• * • *
The starting-machine succeeds so well in Victoria
that the question is—When Flemington ?
* ♦ * *
Nobleman, who showed himself such a good colt
in the Flying Stakes, is not engaged in the V.K.C. Derby.
Neither are the fillies Patroness and Acmena. The latter
is only 14.1, but takes after her dam for goodness. Noble-
man cost 150 guineas as a yearling.
* » ♦ •
E. M. Clark’s Bill to abolish “those objection-
able persons known as bookmakers ” was last week finally
talked out of N.S.W. Assembly. Let the Government
establish official and reliable totalisators for the outside
public, and then let the bookies and small totes take their
chances of pillaging under the altered conditions. The
Government share of the profits could be credited to the
charitable votes, while the outside bookies and totes
w r ould speedily diminish in numbers. “What!” cries
the purist, “ officially legalise the sin of gambling?” Yes.
Is not drunkenness already officially legalised ?
• * • *
Two young Carbines, a colt and a filly, are in
the Maribyrnong Plate.
• • • •
500 to 1 is being offered against Portsea’s Cup
chance. Yet, if public form goes for anything, he should
be well supported even with top weight.
• ♦ * •
Pilot Boy’s win in the Winter Stakes (A. J.C.)
is another proof that a bit of additional weight does not
stop a good horse. With 9st. 31b. on his back, result of
his double win the week before, he gave 51bs. and a beat-
ing to the game little Oxide.
• * * •
J. Megson, of Sydney, was the hero of the cash
prize meeting of the Newcastle Branch of the League of
N.S. Wales Wheelmen, held at Newcastle last Saturday.
In the five-mile championship of N.S.W. he fairly dis-
tanced his field, finishing any number of lengths ahead
of Lewis, in 13min. 45 2-ssec. ; and in the Newcastle
wheel race, a two-mile open handicap, starting from
scratch he won, after a great finish with Stackleberor (215
yards), by a few feet only in smin. 8 3-lOsec.
The wages of sin—“ That tired feeling.”
Take Marshall’s Tonic Nervine.
There isagreatrowbetween the Queensland
Railway Commissioners. It has been kept dark
but may reach a climax before Parliament meets.
Transcript from the notice-board of Sydney
University : “ Notice, students are requested to
supply their names and addresses to the Bedell.”
George Upward has been already referred
to in thesecolumnsas a celebrity and a “personage.”
The rowing world knew him first in 1875, when he
captained the Oorio Bay Club, Geelong. From
1880 to ’B3, and again in ’BB he was stroke of the
Victorian Eight. The laurels he won in Inter-
provincial matches are green to-day. Since ’B3,
however, the name of George Upward has been
particularly identified with the position of “coach.”
He is the man who trains his country’s representa-
tives in the way they should row, and results bear
witness to his enthusiasm, tact and skill in the
honorary service of the sport he loves, and gives
a healthy tone to. Between Upward, the boat-
ing celebrity, and G. Upward, Esq., as seen
in the haw ! picture (on page 8), there
is a distinction without any human differ-
ence. Mr. Upward is Master-at-Arms to
the Victorian Assembly; previously he was
Associate to Justice Williams, an Associate
being one who sits under the judicial throne and
draws pictures on his blotting pad. Before then
he filled the billet of private secretary to Duncan
Gillies, and even in that position he was generally
admired. His personality has put him in the way
of an easy career. To say that no better Parlia-
ment official carried a mace were a very negative
compliment to pay to this dashing, white Sergeant,
so The Bulletin will rather say that no better
man than George Upward ever ploughed the
murky Yarra. Perhaps it was somebody with a
knowledge of Mr. Upward’s real worth who stole
the mace, a while ago. Yet, since a Sergeant-
at-Arms might be actually required at any minute
during the session, the appointment of this ideal
personage—genial, brave, muscular —is doubtless
a blessing for Victoria in disguise. It is scarcely
conceivable, in the first place, that a turbulent
member could resist the force of the Sergeant’s
happy smile, but if the misguided politician were
to court a “chucking out,” then the subject of
this notice would see that he went.
Flaring heading in Sydney D.T. : “ Re-
turn oe Me. Robert Reid, OUR DESTINY
IS TO SUPPLY CHEAP MEAT.” Great
Jehovah, what a destiny!
Can it be really true that amongst the
lumber lately sold to a member of Sydney School
of Arts committee for two or three pounds, there
was a file of the old Empire newspaper—a collec-
tion now almost priceless ?
The Melb. butchers’ procession, held in
demonstration of the victory gained by the men of
meat-axes and cleavers in wresting from their
masters a weekly half-holiday, has now become an
annual affair. This year ex-butcher Patterson
smiled a painful sort of sympathy from the Old
Treasury balcony upon the present votaries of his
past vocation. Wilkins, the butcher member for
Oollingwood, made one in the procession, and was
man enough to turn out in “ blues.”


Special Advertlsamente
FINNBY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments oI choice NEW GOODS are flowing Into
Our Departments weekly.
TTITB BUY FOB. CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
' ’ maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS I
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Daces, Ladiei Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing drapery. Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro-plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited*
We issue a little book on “Shopping by Post," which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
nd will be as well served as if in town to select.
yt
Finney, Xalea & Oo„
Brisbane, Maryborough, Queensland,
And 64 Basingham. Street, London, E.O.
THE “ORLANDO WALTZ”
—BY—
MAUD FITZ-STUBBS.
“ A worthy successor to this clever writer’s POTOIiAR
• HEATHER WALTZ.* Vid« Pretl.
Both Waltzes selling in Thousands 1 Send for them.
ALL MUBIC-SBLLBRB.
THU SHARE LIST WILL SHORTLY CLOSE. ,
The Melbourne Property Building Society,
BRISBANE.
(INCORPORATED ACCORDING TO ACT OP PARLIAMENT.)
GRAND DISTRIBUTION OF
£40,000 worth of Victorian Property
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS.
Shakes
JBI Each.
PROPOSED ISSUE OF
40,000 SHARES 4=0,000
Shares
JBI Each
No Further Liability.
No Further Liability.
t H srnWK
any Deduction for Commission.
First Prize - ■ .£22,500.
Lead and Shot Works, with Tower, and the valuable Machinery.
Second Prise, Handsome Villa and Grounds ... ... ••• ••• X 3500
Third
Fourth
Fifth
Sixth
2500
2000
1000
1500
Handsome Villa and Grounds . M m •••
Picturesque Villa ... •« •••
Villa Residence - •••
Farm at Lilydale ... ... •••
And 594 other Prizes, ranging from £4OO to £5.
A CASH PURCHASER haa been found 4 for the Purchase of the Allotments of Land, Nos. 17
to 600, at prices which can be seen at the office of the Society.
|3gr Address all Applications for Shares or Prospectuses (and enclose Pour Stamps) to
w C. MACDERMOTT, Secretary Melbourne Property Building Society,
CENTRAL BUILDINGS, EDWARD STREET. BRISBANE.
Or through the Agents,
LOMER ANDREWS & CO., 87 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Or, PIERCE & CO., 126 Pitt Street, Sydney.
For further particulars see previous advertisements, or apply for Prospectus.
APPLICATION FORM.
[Out This Out.]
To the SECRETARY of
Tho MELBOURNE PROPERTY BUILDING SOCIETY, BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
40,000 SHARES or £1 EACH. NO FURTHER LIABILITY.
.. .SHARES in the above Society in terms of attached
PLEASE ALLOT ME.
. also Twot Stamped Envelopes for
Circular. I enclose for payment £t. *
your acknowledgement of above, and advice for result of ballot.
Dated this *** of -
Name in full
Address in lull
Occupation,
,1894.
f Specify here if 'payments by P. 0.0, or what. Please do not enclose stamps in payment of shares.
isr r_p o O preferred. If cheque sent, exchange must be added. ... ...... ,
*• , Wto «.mp. <o. O« U “" ,l,nd ' i 0 n<> ‘ *““ h * hm “
envelopes. Amount of stamps may be added to P. 0.0, or cheques, etc.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids,
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe oases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer , of the University College ,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—VoI. VH.
“ Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Pro. Wm. O.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.” —Prof. Senator.
On SOROFULOSIS.—VoI. XVI.
‘‘What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.”—Prof.
Biroh-Hiksohfkld.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc-
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.,
writes: —
It is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
WANTED, Complete Files of Thb Bullbtin
of 1884 and 1887. Manager, Bubumn
Office, Sydney.
At Poverty Point.
Salvini and Rossi are said to be the richest men in
Florence. Majeroni would hare been in the same boat
had he stuck to the Italian stage.
“ In Madame Melba we have the prodigal riches of one
of the most beautiful voices that ever rang from a human
throat.”—Harper’s Wbuklt.
Seymour Dicker, a Brisbane musician, seems fated to
play the National Anthem at the wrong moment. Almost
his latest is the playing in to a fashionable garden-party
the Governor— no, the ex-Qovernor —of a Queen-street
3s. lid. corset-emporium.
Julie Albu, in marrying Col. Q. W. Maofarlane, of
Hawaii, appears to have made an excellent match. The
Colonel is described as a good fellow and rich —in sugar
interests.
Edward Sass goes to England in August, and Henrietta
Watson in September. Both have proved welcome excep-
tions to the usual imported oronkster. Sass has refused a
benefit “ for private reasons,” and the lady is working
bravely in spite of a chest that needs the presence of a
doctor in the theatre.
Manager Lu&re, who happens to be Urso’s husband, wa®
accosted by a critical Yank, during the interval in a
concert, way out West. “ Say, stranger, do you know
anything of Camilla?” The French gentleman confessed
to an acquaintance with the lady. “Then perhaps you
can tell me whether she plays by note as well as by ear,
said the free and independent citizen. He assumed that
Urso’s long solo, without a piece of music before her,
was an impromptu performance by ear.
Sass advertised on his own account his farewell appear-
ance before a Victorian audience, at Melb. Princess s, last
Friday. He was also understood to have been the
honoured guest at a “good old English’’beefsteak supper
provided by “a few friends and admirers.” There is
rather too much good old Hinglishness about the gentle-
manly Sass, and this making itself felt in his wristbands,
has prevented him from becoming a special favourite,
although he was always well liked in Melbourne. You
can’t be enthusiastic over Sass. He is excellent in his
way, but it is a cold, narrow style of acting which has the
effect of shrinking fat parts to fit bis comparatively thin
figure.
In order to convince sceptics, Henrietta Watson, H i®
said, lately sent to England for a copy of her birth certifi-
cate, which document, it is alleged, proves that her 21st
birthday has yet to come.
Madame Lucy Chambers, who had never been In good
health since her benefit last year, died on Thursday after-
noon. The excitement caused by her re-appearance com-
pletely unnerved her, and on Thursday morning, after,
struggling to give a lesson, she collapsed and died without
rallying.
The last remains of Ooppin’s Melb. Olympic, Iron Pott
were lately extinguished. No scrap of play-bill was found,
but there was one queer old relic—an invitation playbill,
issued by the religious world, describing the villainies of
the drama, at the “ Theatre Rob All, under the Patronage
of his Satanic Majesty.”
In re presentations behind the scenes. An opera season
in Brisbane ended with the “ Princess of Trebizpnde.
After the performance the acting-manager was summoned
to receive the presentation of a purse of money from the
troupe. He made a glowing speech of thanks, and then
found the money was only the property-notes, used by
Cabriolo.
Mrs. Besant begins her Theosophising in Adelaide at
the extreme end of August.
Ida Osborne travelled to Melbourne from Adelaide to
sing at a concert held by an obscure cricket-club. She
paid her own expenses and gave her services free.
The “firm” is negotiating with clever Henrietta
Watson for a renewal of her engagement which terminates
shortly. Bland Holt is also angling.
“ Why," asks a correspondent, “is the name of the
Montague-Turner company’s contralto generally printed
Cecily or Cioily Staunton— Thu Bum.btin printer made It
‘ Cecily * last week— instead of Cicely ? Cicely a
old established name on and off the boards and should be
as familiar to the eye as Eliza.” Quite true—but the lady
deliberately spells her own name “Cecily. Cicely, by
the way, is only an old-established misspelling.
Miss Jennie Maynard, the monologuist, made her first
stage appearance as an amateur , a few years ago at the
Albert Hall, Clifton Hill, Vic., and .afterward* joined
tragedian Miln’s Co. t
Guenett’s onslaught upon Lee recalls Qlammona s
pounding of the caustic Moul upon Oollins-street
“block,” anent certain musical criticisms—a luxury
which cost the flautist £l2, and made him as famous as
Lucy Chambers when she slapped the legislator s face in
a ’bus.
It will be remembered that in " Fedora,” first scene,
Madame Bernhardt clasps fondly the corpse of her hus-
band, Wladimir, who never appears alive in the play. In
the recent Paris revival there has been a rush of dis-
tinguished people to act that corpse, which is different
•very night. Even a Russian princess took it once.
Lucy Chambers was only 53. Many people are sur-
prised to find that Police Superintendent Chambers is her
brother. When Kitty Hayes said she ought to study for
the boards, her family scouted the idea. As the first
Australian singer in Italy she was rather over-puffed, but
performed as Lucia Ohambesi, being of a thoroughly
Italian appearance. According to the obituary she would
only be 29 when she debuted in Australia, but she had the
misfortune to be embonpointy, and her Mafflo Orsini was
ridiculous. So she soon abandoned the boards and
became the Melbourne, if not the Melba, Marohesi. The
puzzles of her life were how she missed Melba and changed
her money into vanishing fairy silver.
Mrs. James Brown Potter—she is Mrs. Cora Urquhart
Potter on the bills now—has acquired a new play, entitled
“Charlotte Gorday,” in which she will have the title-r Ole
and Kvrlc Bellew will be Marat.
Nearly 80 yean ago the late Luoy Chambers had an
encounter In Melb. with a certain M.P. She got
into a crowded 'bus, and necessarily took up a
lot of room. The M.P., it would appear, made a rude
remark, and Lucy slapped his face. He was ungallant
enough to give her into custody, and she walked a-quar-
ter of a mile before a policeman to the station-house,
leaning on the arm of a male friend. She was bailed out
at once, and the next morning was fined Is.—no costs.
Years after, when M'lntyre, now Lands Minister, had a
wordy duel with that member in the Assembly, Mao.
completely drowned the other’s phillipio with a running
fire of “ Luoy I Luoy 1 Lucy 1”
The Maid of Orleans is growing very fat.
Santley’s son, Mike, has deserted the bar for comic
opera. He has joined Gilbert and Sullivan’s Savoy co.
B. S. Smythe and son have sailed for Auckland to
meet their hell-merchant, De Witt Talmage, who Is
arriving in a chariot of fire, and for whose lectures all the
largest halls and theatres in Maoriland have been secured.
Pauline Joran, who made a success here as a violinistio
prodigy, is a promising prima donna in Gus Harris’ Eng-
lish Opera Co. Her first appearance in London was as
Beppe in “L’Amico Fritz” when Mascagni conducted.
The maestro was so delighted that Pauline was invited to
Naples, where she appeared last April in the same
character. She is now playing Siebel at Convent Garden.
Corbett says that, after meeting Jackson, he will take
altogether to the stage. Peter ought to do Othello to his
lago.
A dramatic critic from England, writing an enthusiastic
notice of an actress, in Australia, managed to insinuate,
in one sentence, the names of two of her alleged
English protectors.
Rawei, the Maori Evangelist, and bis wife, Taimoa, do
well round Victoria, but have dropped the evangelism
and give a dissolving-view entertainment of M.L. with
characteristic illustrations.
The last time Lucy Chambers appeared in public (barring
her benefit last year) was in ‘74, when at Melb. Athenaeum
she sang at a benefit concert to Kyrle Bellew, who had
just left Alfred Hospital.
Mr. Harry Plimmer, the well-known actor, of Her
Majesty’s, Sydney, is engaged to be married last Wednes-
day to Miss Josephine Thynne. As Thb Bulletin goes
to press on Tuesday night and is only issued on Thursday,
its tenses are apt to get mixed up, but the above
expresses the situation pretty well. Miss Thynne is a
nice actress, and is also a pretty little lady with a poetic
face and a great wealth of dark hair, who should be cal-
culated to bring bliss to any man’s household. She is
one of the numerous daughters of Mr. J. A. Thynne, the
veteran actor.
The following application, from a stage-struck servant
girl, was once received by George Leitch: “Me an’ ray
frieu’ the ’ousemaid would like to go in the balet. I’m
twenty-one next birthday; Mary’s nyneteen. I’m the
best Agger ; Mary’s got lovely legs. ’Ef you call roun|
the back gate Sunday night, we’el git rid thepleeceman.”
Leitch asserts that he didn’t go, but the statement lacks
corroboration.
The Brough and Boucicault Co. starts next for New-
castle and Brisbane, doing six nights at the former town
and three weeks at the latter. Mr. William Wallace is
business-manager.
Walter Howe leaves for New York, via England, next
Monday per s.s. Austral. Friends who want to call on
the affable Walter with a testimonial will please accept
this intimation.
Dear Bulletin,— What is the use of talking ? The
meanest man is certainly here in Wyalong. Perry, of
Perry’s Circus, announced that he would give a perform-
ance last Monday evening, the receipts to go to the
hospital fund. As there was only a poor attendance the
performance was postponed, and the money refunded at
the door. A young fellow who had crawled under the
circus-tent took two shillings from the doorkeeper and
bought a ticket for a rival performance.—F.B.
Luoy Chambers was the wife of Dondi, the great operatic
basso, who came out from Italy in the same ship under
engagement to Lyster. She married him in Melbourne.
Wallace Brownlow, who takes Ryley’s place and has an
equally fine physique, has had a varied career before
finally taking to the stage. He was first in the merchant
service, and In the course of his travels went to South
Africa where, amongst other occupations, he became a
clerk in a country store.
Ada Orossley is happy in the possession of an un-
known admirer, who frequently reminds the young con-
tralto of his existence by dainty gifts. When in
Melbourne he frequently wrote asking her to sing this or
that song, and he always marked the occasion by the pre-
sentation of flowers. On the voyage to England at each
port of call she received books and papers from this mvs-
terious admirer, who is now domiciled in Glasgow.
Board and residence advertised in Melb.
10s. a week, and meals—three courses for 4d.
Cabled that a detachment of “Coxey’s
Army ” has been drowned in Colorado by the
bursting of a water-cloud. In America even the
elements fight on the side of the top dog.
Potatoes are carried from Tasmania to
Sydney at as low as ss. per ton. From Goulburn,
N.S.W., to Sydney the rail-rate for less than
6 tons is 13s. 2d. a ton ; 6-ton lots are railed at
9s. 6d.
The Age and Argus were unprepared for
Dr, Peatson’s death—the Age called his last work
“The Future of the Race” instead of “ Australian
National Life and Character while the Argus
said that the book “ created some interest,” the
fact being that it was the sensation of its month.
M‘llwraith’s return to Brisbane was the
mpst inglorious affair conceivable. The obsequious
Queensland Scottish pipers turned up, but Dr.
Marks insisted there should be no noise; MTI-
- antipathy to the skirl and screech of the
pipers is well known. It was as pitiable as in
other ways it was significant to see the big man
carried on the shoulders of John Forrest (Q.N.
Bank inspector of pastoral properties) and Rail-
way Commissioner Gray. The day after MTI-
- return he blanked the telephone and it
was out off. Then mysterious rumours gained
currency as to his condition, and not entirely
groundless hints of “ dropsy ’ were heard.
MTlwraith’s hard life has told on him, and he is
already old before his time.
Mr. T. A. Browne, publisher, of London,
Glasgow and New York, forwards the 1894 edition
of his famous press directory. This valuable work
contains information concerning the newspapers
of the whole British empire, and is probably the
most comprehensive guide of its kind ever pub-
lished. Also, it furnishes an elaborate list of the
journals, magazines and reviews of the world at
large, from Iceland to Guatemala, and from
Norway to the Cape of Good Hope. For adver-
tisers of all kinds it is an invaluable companion.
It is well-printed, and adorned with several maps
and a large number of beautiful illustrations.
The Fernmounb (N.S.W.) Courier pub-
lishes the following letter signed Arthur Joynes
I have been on tramp for about 10 months, during
which time I hare only earned about £l2, and yet I have
managed to exist without begging or stealing from any
person. I have, however, been bailed up by |the police
and searched on four occasions; the last time 1 had to
suffer the indignity was at Woolgoolga. It appears that
a personage in that woe-begone township lost his gold-
mounted spectacles, and put the law in motion, as only a
“personage" can. Down came the constable and tracker,
and searched my person and camp, from my broken boots
to my battered hat, from a piece of soap to my dead
mother’s last letter. I have no fault to find with him;
he called me “Mister” and “Sir,” and his manner was
in marked contrast to that of the ordinary Irish bobby.
Now for the “Personage.” I called on him and asked
for an explanation. He brutally told me that his spec-
tacles had certainly been stolen, and that I was the only
swagman in the town. It seems to me, Mr. Editor, that
if carrying a swag is equivalent to a broad arrow, the
sooner I nide my grey head—badge of shame—within
prison walls, the better it will be for my wounded self-
respect. lam a man of no consequence; I have no vote
and no home ; but 1 trust you will publish my complaint.
Hoolan’s resignation, though handed to
Speaker Cowley in the middle of May, was dated
early in March. The Queensland Labour-leaders
thus hold it in their possession for about two
months. Why, nobody outside the Council can
say.
Judge Holroyd (Yic.) has withdrawn from
the case of Yenman v. the Bank of Victoria,
because he is a shareholder in the bank, which
puts the parties to the suit to some considerable
unnecessary expense. His Honor had his bank
interest forced on him by reconstruction, and
retires from the cause because he believes that his
judgment would be illegal. Which opinion, if
good in law, shows that the trading and speculat-
ting Judge cannot do his duty. It is time to
embody in the statutes the principle that the
Judge should lay strictly to his book.
About the most distinctly Irish current
item is cabled :
LONDON, Monday.—During a wake which was being
held at Nenagh, 23 miles north-east of Limerick, in
County Tipperary, Ireland, a dispute arose among the
mourners, who fought with scythes. The Terrel was
over halt-an-acre of land. Three persons were killed.
The Irish style of mourning is distinctly original.
Think of the picture—Pat. Rooney and Mike
O’Dowd and several dozen other broken-hearted
relatives belting each other with soythes over
half-an-acre of ground, and hacking great pieces
of meat off each other in the presence of the Un-
impassiohed corpse. If the above 1 divarsion
doesn’t break the record, then the record shindy
must have been a great foight entoirely.
Dear Bulletin, — As Parkes seems neve r
to tiye of denouncing the present Government fo r
annihilating the old Electoral Act before the new
one was in working order, and thus temporarily
disfranchising the people, it is time for some one
to point out that Parkes did the very same thing
himself. In his abortive Electoral Bill of 1890,
clause 2 enacts that “ the Electoral Act of 1880
shall be repealed on commencement of this Act
that is to say, from the moment it received the
Governor’s assent. Now, under the provisions of
this Bill the rolls were to be compiled by self-regis-
tration, and could not have been compiled under
from 6 to 9 months, during which time there would
have been no electoral rolls available. It seems to
me that whenever Parkes starts out to denounce
anyone for anything it is pretty safe to assume
that he has at some time done that very same
thing himself.—Yours, Arthur Griffith.
A new vice has been invented. When a
girl hastily emerges from the shadow of the
drawing-room curtains, and looks guiltily at the
wreaths of aromatic smoke curling round the
cornice, it is safe to bet that she has been indulg-
ing in the eucalyptus cigarette, which specially
commends itself to womenfolk as rather a pleasant
vice, giving one all the sensations
of an old smoker without the initial pangs.
The eucalyptus cigarette is made by the
Abradio Proprietary Co., of 91 Pitt-street,
Sydney, named after the Mexican Dr.
Abradio, who first introduced the health-
giving eucalypt to Central America. The
eucalyptus - smoking habit is catching on so
very violently that it is quite a wonder nobody
ever thought of it before. The new departure
recalls a passage from a recent letter from the
New Australia settlement in Paraguay ;
I chanced to have a small bottle of eucalyptus with me.
I used it against the mosquitoes, but the scent of it so
powerfully reminded some of the perfume of the woods of
Mount Lofty that I think Mr. Lane will have henceforth
to prohibit its entrance into the colony. He will have to
do what Napoleon did when he prohibited the playing of
the “ Ranz de Vaches” in certain Swiss regiments
because of the desertions it caused by the memories
aroused by that home-suggestive tune. There is no such
smell in the woods here as in Australia.
Post a packet of eucalyptus cigarettes to your far-
distant friend. It will make him think he is
boiling the billy in his nose.—Advt.


SKINS
Kangaroo.
AND
Opossum. Kabbit.
ALL OTHER SKINS.
SKINS
EXTBI<rSIVJ3 PBEPAE ATIOUS FOR THE OOMIUO- SEASOIT
M'BURNEY, WALLIS & CO.
N. M'BURNEY.
E. S.I.WALIJS.
R. C. FRANKS.
S. J. HEAD.
16 to 29 years with the late Firm
of Mort & Co., and Golds-
brough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Stores Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices—Macquarie Street, Sydney.
House in the Trade for PERSONAL ATTENTION to Consignments and QUICK RETURNS. MEMBERS OF THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALES. WRITE FOR
OUR BOOKS ON THE GET-UP OF SKINS, etc.
Butcliers’ Produce a Speciality.
Slieepskins
Restored to Health
BY THE TTSE OF
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Mrs. M. A. GUMMING,
of Tarraville, Victoria, Australia, says:
“ About a year ago, I had a severe attack
of Influenza, which left me very weak, with-
out energy, appetite, or interest in life.
Obtaining little or no relief from doctors, or
from the many remedies recommended to
me, I finally tried Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and.
from that time, I began to gain health and
strength. I continued the treatment until
fully recovered, and now have very great
pleasure in telling my friends of the merits
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla, and the happy re-
sults of its use. I consider it the best blood-
purifier known.” *
Ayer’s S, e y Sarsaparilla
Arlmiffpd ni. flip Wni»lrl’c Vn.i't*
Admitted at the World’s Fair
Hade by Dr. J. C.Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A,
Of all the BEST MAKES.
CUSHIONS from £S.
Pneumatics from £ll.
EASIEST TERMS. BEST HOUSE for REPAIRS.
Introductory Price given where not represented.
f
/
ICYCLES
Edge & Edge,
24H PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
GENTS’ STRAWS
-)x(—
Single and Double Brim,
From 3s. 6d.
v:;-
rV4-
hr-
GEMX.’S XERAI.
PRICE, Bs. 6d. and 10s, 6d.
With Puggaree, 8/- extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
NO MORE GREY HAIR BY USING
MAGIQUB AY ASH.
All Colours from Light Brown to Black, 5/6.
A. MICHAU,
Hairdresser and Wigmaker, 78 The Strand, SYDNEY.
fTIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
Golem an e & Sons’ Eucalypfce Pills stir ono up.
Colemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
111 Try It.
The Result;
The Only Certain Moustache Producer.
CAPILLARIKE!
Posted (under cover)
to any part o( Austra-
lasia or New Zealand,
price, 10/6
Sole Agents:
Craig & Altken, 680-682 George-st, Sydney.
A. W. STEPHEN, L.S.,
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER.
Surveys and Estimates on Irrigation Works a Speciality
MULGOA, N.S.W.
D. K IiEID,
Analytical Chemist and Assayer,
GYMPIE.
[A CARD.]
ALFRED DODDS,
"-DENTIST-^
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
(opposite “ Courier ” Buildings).
Special Attention paid to Painless Operating.
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK.
A PERFECT FOOD.
Instantly prepared by
dissolving in water.
Contains no starch.
Requires no cooking.
No added milk.
Absolutely invaluable in Warm
Climates, as it keeps indefinitely, and
is always
Sweet, Pare & Nutritions.
Made from the purest of fresh
Cows’ Milk, combined with Wheat
and Barley. It is an ideal food for
INFANTS and INVALIDS.
As a nourisher and strength-giver,
it stands unequalled. Thousai ds
have given grateful testimony to its
virtues as a rapid maker of
Flesh, Bone and Brain.
“Very palatable, and free from adul-
terants.” —British Medical Journal.
“The composition of Malted Milk re-
sembles that of human milk.”— Lancet.
Wholesale of—
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney & Brisbane.
AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd., Sydney.
Sold by all Dealers.
Endorsed by all Physicians.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
Uw AVVVCfIH
VELVETEEN.
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
AND
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘LOUIS’ Velveteen
is essentially a ladies'
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
NOTE WELL, —Bach yard of genuine
“ LOUIS ” Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped
with a guarantee of wear. Ladies should reject all
substitutes.
sdf
NATIONAL CASH RBQISTKR.
SMITH PREMISE TYPEWRITER.
National Cash Registers, Smiths Premier
Typewriters and Typewriter supplies.
FISHER and LINGHAM,
3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney, N.B.W.
BENDIGO COGNAC DISTILLERY BRANDY.
/TIKE finest Brandy the world produces. The only pure
_ GRAPE BRANDY in Australia, distilled solely frrm
wine, as certified by the Victorian Government Excise
Department.
Each cask bearing a certificate to that effect signed by
the Excise Officer in charge of distillery.
Sole Agents for Bulk and Bottled:
PERKINS & CO., Limited, BRISBANE.
IS INVALUABLE! for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Ib. and 2s. 6d.
M BEETHAM&SON. Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
AiU>
FELTON, GRIMWADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BROS., Sydney.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
T will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
I nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state.”
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IT WILL CURE!
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98, O’Connell St„ N. Adelaide, S. Australia
11. G. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
f-WC
S£
Hair Will Go Grey.
GOOCH’S
ELECTRIC WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECTRIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only being necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’ and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street, Sydney (opposite Hunter-st.).
Importer of Human Hair,
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
9r
cs
N
fl Descriptive Treatise,
which every Weak, Nervous and
Debilitated Man should read. Sent
Sealed, 4 Stamps.
No Stomach Drugging.
Thousands have proved the efficacy
of Urethral Treatment Consulta-
tion and diagnosis free. Confidence
absolute. Cures guaranteed. VARICOCELE CURED
DR. GEORGE WALSH.
KT 131 Collins Street, Melbourne.
sd
HAMMOND TYPEWRITER.
NEW ANVIL and SHUTTLE
MODEL, unrivalled for Speed,
Alignment, Impression, Portability
and Interchangeable Type, takes
any width of paper. Send for
specimen of our beautiful work
before you buy any machine.
The MERRITT TYPEWRITER.
Used by Ministers, Doctors, Teachers, etc. Price, £4 4s,
AMBERG Letter Files and Requisites always in Stock. ’
Sole Australasian Agents: REID AND WILSON.
7 Victoria Arcade, SYDNEY.
LADIES!!!
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR. SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 10s. and 20s, per box,
guaranteed O.K.
CIGARS!
SPENCER & CO., MADRAS.
The Largest Cigar Manufacturers in India .
As a Guarantee of the EXCELLENCE of their CIGARS, SPENCER & CO. have—in addition to the Awards gained by their
Manufactures at MADRAS 1891, KIMBERLEY 1892, and MADRAS 1893 -been awarded
TOBACCO and Best LUNKAH TOBACCO at the ANNUAL EXHIBITION of the AGRI-
THREE PRIZE MEDALS
for Best CHEROOTS, Best DINDIOUL
HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY, held at
MADRAS, on the 24th FEBRUARY, 1894. Any of SPENCER’S TORPEDO CIGAR BRANDS can be obtained from the Sole Agents for N.S. Wales :
XXSIT33X3. TODMAN & CO., Sydney.
Deserted.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is the homestead—the still lagoon
Kisses the foot of the garden fence
As it shimmers under a silver moon
In a midnight silence cold and tense—
Vines run wild on the old verandah
Holding their arms to us standing by.
Garden paths where we used to wander
Carry the bush-grass rank and high.
Here and there has a blossom stayed
Out of the wreck of the passing years,
But these will wither, for flowers must fade
Whose only water is sea-salt tears.
There are ghosts in the garden wildernesses
And gliding wraiths at the water-side,
Murmur of voices and rustle of dresses
Shadow-life that has never died.
The stockyard is empty and dim and drear ; ,
Here and there is a gap in the rails,
But I can see as we stand anear
Moving steeds when the daylight fails—
I can see as it were in dreaming, dreaming
Merry riders that mount and meet,
Sun on their saddles gleaming, gleaming,
Red dust wrapping their horses’ feet.
The world is silent under the stars,
And yet there comes to my ear alone
The tiny clink of the snaffle-bars
As the eager heads are upward thrown,
And the sound of the muffled hoof-beat after
Strikes like a hammer on heart and brain,
And the faint, far echo of drifting laughter
Wakens the strength of a sleeping pain.
Come, come away from the lonely home,
Softly, softly as mourners tread ;
The world is wide, there is space to roam
Without awaking the sleeping dead —
Till the last of the scattered flowers shall wither,
The last of the stockyard rails decay,
Till the old walls crumble and fall together
The ghosts will move in the moonlight grey.
N.S.W.
GLENROWAN.
Everything comes to him who waits and
works the oracle.
Editor Bulletin,— l’ve found the cham-
pion mean man ! He borrows my Bulletin, and
scissors it to send the pars, to English comic—
Heaven forgive them—papers, in exchange for
clocks, knives, and the glory of seeing his name
printed at the bottom of stolen pars.— Wai.
Copy of rouseabout’s application for work :
To The Manger, Blanko Station. Deer Sir,—l now take
the plcshure in writing you these few lines in asking for a
job in your sheerin shead. 1 am a loakle man and a big
famly. I am a good cook and got too theep dogs. I
have no more to say at present. Plees let me know and I
will come for sirtin. 1 hope your famly are well.—Yours
obedieat, .
The tearing-down of the U.S. flag from
above the residence of the States consul in Ontario
on Queen’s Birthday by a “ Jingo” push is appre-
ciated by The Argus as an act of “loyalfervour.”
We observe that a local drunk, who was taken up
for singing the National Anathema in Bourke-
street, was also suffering from “loyal fervour.”
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “ Cannalin ” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
Imitation snake-skin notepaper is the
latest craze. Anonymous letter-writers should
use no other.


i
m.
'■siil
HERR RASSMUSSEN, PH.D.
A Few Sketches of His Interesting Life and
Work.
Herr Rassmussen, who is known throughout
the world as “The Celebrated Danish Her-
balist,” was born in the little kingdom of Den-
mark, shortly after its last disastrous war with
Germany. His parents being wealthy, and
belonging to the most influential class, he
received a first-class education, and displayed
exceptional talent in the science of botany and
botanical chemistry, and very soon surpassed
everyone of his fellow scholars in those sub-
jects, and eventually made the science of botany
his life-study.
Finding his native country too small, and its
flora too limited to extend his botanical re-
searches, he left for Australia, and landed here
in the beginning of 1879. His first object was
to learn the English language and become
familiar with the customs and habits of his
adopted country, as well as with its botanical
history and medicinal flora. Herr Rassmussen
had quite his share of the troubles and difficul-
ties which usually befall a newcomer in Aus-
tralia ; but he soon overcame every difficulty,
and after five years’ travelling through all the
colonies, investigating every known Australian
medicinal plant, and discovering many new
ones, he eventually settled down permanently
in Sydney in 1883, and then commenced a
most noble mission—that of turning his most
wonderful botanical discoveries to the benefit
and relief of suffering humanity. Herr Rass-
mussen succeeded in this gigantic undertaking
far beyond all expectations, and his name very
soon became a household word, not only in
every Australian camp, village and city, but
also throughout Europe, Africa and America.
Space will not permit to mention the
numerous cures effected by his now world-
famed Alealine Remedies, suffice it to say
that thousands of original testimonials may be
inspected by anyone at his Head Depot, 547
George Street, Sydney, many of which may
also be seen in his celebrated work, “ The
Natural Doctor,”
There is no doubt whatever that Herr Rass-
mussen deserves all the success and praise which
he has met with, because he is a most scientific,
conscientious and genuine herbalist —his last
ten years record being so wonderful that his
remedies must have cured more human suffering
in that period than is usually effected by a
hundred average doctors in a similar number of
years. He does not hold any consultation
similar to a doctor,; his whole business is
purely a Proprietary Herbal Remedy Business.
He simply prepares a genuine herbal remedy
specially for the nerves, and another for the blood,
and so on, which can always be relied upon,
jfe prints on the box containing the remedy its
price and all advice as to doses and diet and
other particulars, and advertises same, which
is. the fairest way possible to conduct a business
of this kind. Any information or particulars
desired are given or sent absolutely free of
charge. Pamphlets are sent post free to any
person desiring one, containing all particulars
and many useful and valuable hints on health.
Herr Rassmussen has very large branches
of his extensive business in Melbourne,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth, Wellington (N.Z.),
and throughout the world. He is an
honorary member of several scientific socie-
ties, a gold medalist, diplomee and Hon.
Corr. Mem. of the Academic Parisienne des
luventeurs, France ; last year he received the
Honorary University degree of Doctor of
Philosophy ; in 1887, he was presented with a
magnificent gold medal by several of his cured
patrons in Sydney, and also awarded a silver
medal in Denmark, 1888, a bronze medal,
Melbourne, 1893; and in 1891 he issued his
“ Natural Doctor,” a herbal medical work of a
high standard for which he received great
praise from the press, and which is now trans-
lated into many languages.
ALFALINE VITALITY PILLS
Are a Registered and Guaranteed Cure for the
Nerves, Spine and Brain#
, Loss of Memory, Despondency, Irritability, Specks
before the Eyes, Confused Mind and General Oonstitu-
tional Weakness.
A Powerful and Genuine Herbal Remedy.
Special Powerful Course, 43,6 (posted); Ordinary Course,
23; 6 ; Boxes, 12/-and 6/-
YALUABLE PAMPHLET SENT FREE.
Cured over 100,000 Sufferers. VST" Testimonials.
Herr Rasamusaen,
547 George Street, SYDNEY.
In the last 300 years Britain has spent
.£1,359,000,000 in war.
Dear Bulletin,: — I notice that a corres-
pondent states that Australian snakes (venomous)
leave several punctures on the part bitten, pre-
sumably all from poison teeth. This statement is
erroneous. Nature provides a small receptacle,
with certainly several, as a rule, three, poison
teeth, behind a,i\A below each poison tooth in use on
both jaws, but —the reason why? Simply— to
take the place of the ones in use when the latter
are broken off. Unless this occurs they are not
connected with the venom gland at all. Certainly
I have noticed cases of abnormal development
where two poison teeth may occur on one side
only. Let your correspondent dissect carefully
several heads, say, of the black or the brown
snake and examine with a hand-lens, and he will
soon satisfy himself on this point.—Yours, faith-
fully, Henry Lethbridge.
Colemane & Sons’ Yio. Ointment is marvellous.
Dear Bulletin, —The noisy Mr, M‘Cooey
writes two-thirds of a column, in your issue of
May 19, re death-adders, which is chiefly devoted
to cracking up H. J. M'Cooey’s alleged scientific
attainments and damning everybody else’s. H.
J. M'Cooey may think he is a scientist, but a
man who gravely states that the so-called “sting”
of the death-adder (Acanthophis antartica) is
“ the last joint of the spine uncovered,” and that
any snake whatever has more than two poison-
fangs, has got something the matter with his
science. If he will make a microscopic section of
a “sting,” he will find that its structure is not
that of bone, but that it has the same structure as
scale—for the sting, like the nails of the fingers
I and the horns of a cow, is part of the skin. As
to poison-fangs, the reason there are never more
than two is that there are only two poison-glands
in any snake, as H. J. M‘Gooey may prove for
himself by a little dissection. What this noisy
man mistakes for other fangs are ordinary teeth.
The number of punctures may be more than two
if the snake has bitten so severely as to bring
these smaller holding-teeth into contact with the
object bitten. Krefft certainly did a great deal
for science in connectiori' with Australian snakes,
i and deserves much honour therefor. But must
Dr. Halford, and Professor M‘Goy, and young
Dr. Martin, of Sydney University, and several
J other people, have no credit ?—Yours truly,
; Steele Grey.
All the rage in Paris, Send thirteen
' stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
Australian Mutual Pkoyident'^Sooihty.
Th§ Oldest Mutual Life Asiuranoa Society established A XiW V WUM L UUU4JJ
lu Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
Director*!—The Hon. Sir J. P. ABBOTT, M.IX, Chairman ; JAMES B. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;J. T.
WALKER, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS. Esq., J.V.; ROBT, J. KING, Esq-!
JOSEPH ABBOTT, Esq., M.L.A. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., F.F.A., h.S.S.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Twelve Millions sterling
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1893 (after mailing unusually large reserves) amounted to over £443,790*
yielding Reversionary Bonuses of about £910,000,
Head Office: 07 Hitt St re est, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
Melbournian : I have a servant-girl who
doesn’t know what Melbourne is the capital of,
and she is the best servant I ever had.
Colemane & Sons’ Euoalypte Ex. is the strongest.
Dear Bulletin, —“Flong” writes you on
camel-records in Australia and cites a 412-mile go
in 51 hours. I have a better. In ’87 or ’88 a
camel did a sprint from Beltana to Port Augusta
and back, something over 300 miles, in 34f hours.
That camel went for the Port Augusta doctor and
got him. I should think that the acclimatised
camel is a better all-round animal than the
original African. The Australian animal has a
cleaner skin for one thing, and he can put into
work the strength the dirty African camel wastes
in biting the bed insects on his flanks. I one day
saw a newly-arrived and an acclimatised camel
together, and the old hand was as far ahead of the
new-chum as the white is of the Afghan. And
that’s another point worth noticing. In two cases
known to me a camel had shown traces of his
fiendish temper to Afghan drivers, but under a
white man he was as tractable as a sheep. The
successful white driver used to attribute the
brute’s dislike of the Afghan to a very delicate
s ense of smell which revolted against the aroma of
coloured persons.—Randolph the Reckless.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
fsd
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR
.iNFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
£
w*
m
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
HAS NO EQUAL
For the Kapid. Cure of
Colds, Coughs
INFLUENZA,
AND
SORE THROAT.
It will relieve the most
distressing cough, soothe the
inflamed membrane, loosen the
phlegm, and induce refreshing
sleep. For the cure of Croup,
Whooping-Cough, and all the
Eulmonary troubles to which
le young are so liable, there
is no other remedy so effective as
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
HIGHEST AWARDS AT THE CHICAGO WORLD’S FAIR , 1893.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
jsgp"Beware of cheap imitations. The name—Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral—is prominent on the wrapper, and is blown in the glass of each bottle.
IS
mt
CLOTHED WITH AIR.
CELLULAR AERTEX CLOTH is composed of small cells, in
which the air is enclosed and warmed by the heat of the body—a perfect
non-conducting layer is thus formed next the skin. Owing to the
cellular construction, this cloth is much lighter and better ventilated
than ordinary fabrics, and is easier to wash, and is a positive safe*
guard against chills:
Ladies’ Cellular Combinations,
Trimmed with Real TORCHON LACE, made in
COTTON, LISLE THREAD, SILK and COTTON, NATURAL
WOOL and MERINO, and SILK and MERINO.
Prices from 10/6 to 24/-
CORSETS, NIGHT- DRESSES, CHEMISES, BODICES,
PETTICOATS, DRAWERS, STOCKINGS, etc.
PRICE LISTS, PAMPHLETS, and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing 1 Depot,
305 and 307 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter Street).
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Sheath Knife and Steel
f
(Length over all, 10 inches).
No. 1. ORIENTAL DESIGN .. .. 12/6 each
No. 2. Plainer Finish .. ~ .. 7/6 each
Posted Free throughout the Colonies.
Illustrations and Prices of Cutlery sent Post Free.
•w. Jno. Better, Cutler, 3 Hunter-at.,
Sydney
Herr Rassmussen,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist’s
Wonderful Discoveries*
AWARDED.
TWO COLD
WJ
sd
K>
pfl
lilU' /i\l \\V
iMUMSS^
R#|
\
ILL
N
A
CURED 100 000 FOR THE BLOOD k NERVES.
Herr RASSMUSSEN,
HEAD LABORATORY:
547 GEOEGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Ib is well-known that Herr Rassmussen, the
Celebrated Danish Herbalist, has devoted most of
his lifetime to the study of preparing excellent
remedies from medical herbs, and the thousands
of Permanent Cures effected by his Alfaline
Remedies, especially Blood and Nerve Affec-
tions, Rheumatism, Piles, and
Debility and Nervousness
has made the name of Herr Rassmussen familiar
and welcome in every Australian household, and
the general verdict of the Australian public and
press is, that “Herr Rassmussen has, for the last
ten years, served us well and faithfully, and cured
more sufferers than all others put together,” and,
considering that he has received over
100,000 Testimonials,
the originals of which may be inspected at his
Head Depot, as well as bis Parisian Academy
Diploma and Gold Medals, no sufferer could do
better than to call upon, or send to Herr Rass-
mussen immediately for his free
“ Natural Doctor,”
a medical work which gives the complete mode
of self-cure for the most obstinate Blood and
Nervous diseases, and which is sent anywhere
free and unobserved, packed in plain cover.
Nervous Complaints.
Herr Rassmussen has been exceedingly successful
in discovering a real Cure for all Nervous Affec-
tions resulting from Early Follies, Debility, and
known by the following symptoms Specks
before the eyes, giddiness, want of vigour, fullness
after meals, pains in the back, blushing, headache,
without ambition, foul breath, exhaustion, poor
memory, easily excited, irritable, always tired in
the morning, confused brain, and weak nerves and
spine. Such sufferers should immediately send
for Herr Rassmussen’s world-renewned Herbal
Nerve Cure, known as the neverfailing
Allaliac Vitality Pills,
as they are a guaranteed and permanent cure, and
have been the means of restoring thousands to
Health, Strength, and Vigour.
Those About to Marry,
who suffer from any of the above symptoms,
should immediately take a course of Herr Rass-
mussen’s Alfaline Vitality Pills, so as to enable
them to marry honourably. Should they suffer
from any taint in the blood, or have suffered from
any bad
Skin or Blood Disease.
manifesting themselves inSores, Blotches, Pimples,
Discharges, Strictures, &c., then ib would be
necessary to take a course of his
Alfaline Lock Pills,
which absolutely purifies the blood, cleanses the
skin, stops all discharges, and removes all spots
from the skin. Varicocele Powder, 6/- posted.
The Vitality Pills or the Lock Pills are sold as
follows Special Powerful Course, 43/6; Ordinary
Course, 23/6; Smaller Boxes, 12/- and 6/-; posted
unobserved and duty free. Lock Globulus, Box 6/-.
Thin .People,
wishing to get fat, should send for the Alfaline
Flesh Producing Powder. Packet, 6/- posted.
Rheumatism
cured for ever by taking his Alfaline Rheumatic
Pills. Boxes, 3/-, 6/- and 12/-; Courses, 23/6.
Liver and Kidney Affections,
cured completely by taking his Alfaline Liver and
Kidney Pills. Boxes, 1/6, posted.
Piles
eradicated, both bleeding and blind, external and
internal, by taking either his Alfaline Internal
or External Pile Powders. Packets, 3/- and 6/-.
Send for Pamphlet. Pile Ointment, 1/6 and 2/6.
Female Complaints
cured by his Alfaline Universal Pills. Special
Course, 43/6; Ordinary Course, 23/6; Smaller
Boxes, 6/- & 12/-. Complexion Powder, 6/- posted.
Fat People,
desiring to become thin (as corpulency is nob only
very unhealthy, bub also gives a much older
appearance to persons), should s»nd for a 6/-
packeb of the Alfaline Fat Redu~ Powder.
Alfaline Hair Restorer and Beautifier
restores the Hair, eradicates Dandruff, and pre-
vents the Hair falling off. Packets, posted 6/-.
All Herb RASSMUSSEN’S REMEDIES are
GUARANTEED PURELY HERBAL,
and can only be obtained from his own Offices and
Branches, as mentioned below.
Correspondence held Strictly Confidential, and
Remedies and Pamphlet sent unobserved in plain cover.
Any advice desired sen r . free. These Celebrated and Regis-
tered Herbal Rem< dies have Cured over 100,000 Sufferers.
Make Cheques or Money Orders payable to Haas Itass-
uiussca. Register all letters containing money, Sydney
P. 0., Box 208 —Telephone, 408.
Herr Rasanatisßen,,
Ciubb 1 Head Office,
547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Intercolonial Branches:
Victoria— lso Boukke Street. Melbourne;
Queensland— l6o Queen Street, Brisbane:
S. Australia—ls 4 Bundle Street, Adelaide;
N. Zealand-91 Lambton Quay, Wellington;
W. Australia—Central Buildings, cobneb
Hay and William Streets, Perth.


San\u^U3
Pufali^aMnrvs
DUCHESS OF
YORK WALTZ
«♦»
Jlucj. WFolun Q/rers sorjj,
I WAS DREAMING
* ,
TWO SHILLINGS EACH.
< ♦ >
W.H.PAIiNExCn.,I?
CirilPDc
AND
THE BALLET GIRL: Her Theatrical and
Domestic History. Giving an account of her first
steps in life, the morning rehearsal, the evening’* per-
formance, after the theatre is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyncracies, ballet morals, how
some of them manage to wear real sealskin jackets
and ride in broughams on a salary of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautoh girls of India, dramatic virtuoso, with
sketches of actors, singers, musicians, circus people, *O.
Illustrated with 22 engravings. Now Ready, post free
1/8. To be had only of MADAMK PANZA, Box WO,
0.P.0., Sydney.
SUNLIGHT SOAP
MISSING WORD COMPETITION. !
A.3NT AMUSEMENT TOR POLK^
A
iTTRACTINd
NOTICE'
JRIOHTEN3
fVERYTHINQ
CREATES
COMFORT
D
DIRT
UtMOVCO
EJ^k
tflooumoEa
®uiw$wr
GIVES
HEIGHTENS
If%.
INDICATES
jorrutty
KNOWINWf
LASSES
fAffy
MERRY
"fcbBOOV
mitt
P/^v
PUfiCHASEO
Q %
qimutw
nest
SURPRISING!.*
> TBEBUS
WWIYIRSAVU
VOTED
2
WOMENS
w
-wirgi
Y A
ZEALOUSLY
THE DEAF AND DUMB ALPHABET
An Evening’s Amusement.
200 FRIZES of Watches and Books, VALUE £lO4.
Young People’s Missing Word Competition
DIRECTIONS.-Find the Missing Word under each
letter of the Alphabet, beginning with E (letters A, B, C, D
filled in as examples). The prizes will be given to those who
find the most words corresponding to one filled in by Lever
Bros., Ltd., sealed on March Ist, and to be opened in the
presence of witnesses on September 30th.
Cut off the top line of twelve Sunlight Soap wrappers—
that portion containing the heading “Sunlight Soap.” Send
these and the list of names completed, on or before Septem-
ber 30th, to Lever Bros,, Ltd, 232 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Results will be advertised in “ Sydney Morning
Herald ” and “ Daily Telegraph
First Frizes ... Six Beautiful Hunter Pearl Watches,
Value JE4 4s. each..
Ditto ... Six Waltham Watches, value JS4 4s.
each.
Second Frizes... Six Ladies Silver Watches (Girls).
Ditto ... Six Wanderer Watches (Boys)
Third Frizes ... 76 Books, value ss. each
Fourth Prizes... 100 Books, value 3s. 6d. each.
Sunlight
Competitions.
LIST OF PRIZES.
m
°'L
T A WRECK.
Joy among New Guinea Natives.
THEY GLADLY RECOGNISE AN OLD
FRIEND.
A leading journalist who has travelled exten-
sively and observed humanity closely, says that as
a conqueror of pain St. Jacobs oil has no equal in
the wide, wide world, and as a civilising agent it
is far superior to recently invented guns or tor-
pedoes. This journalist knows what he talks
about. The accompanying illustration depicts a
scene at a wreck off the coast of New Guinea. A
box of St. Jacobs oil has been washed ashore, and
the natives gleefully welcome this marvellous
household remedy as an old friend. Thanks to
the missionaries, the great and wonderful virtues
of St. Jacobs oil are now known to the gentle
savage. The master of the missionary schooner
Ellangowan, and the captain of the Governor
Cairns have written of it in the most enthusiastic
terms; and the genial Captain Liljablad supports
his testimony on the subject with a reference to
the popular Tamate (the Rev. James Chalmers) ;
“From Greenland’s icy mountains to Afric’s
coral strands” this wonderful specific is recognised
and valued as being without a peer for pains,
bruises, rheumatism, neuralgia, sciatica, lumbago,
mumps, backache, faceache, headache, toothache,
sore throat, burns, bronchitis, sprains, scalds,
gout, rheumatic gout, bites of poisonous insects,
outs, swellings, chafings, eruptions, inflamma-
tions, chapped hands, frosted feet and ears, corns,
bunions, abrasions, and kindred ailments. St.
Jacobs oil is undoubtedly the best external
remedy ever submitted to the public, being the
searching sovereign cure of pain.
St. Jacobs Oil is sold throughout Australasia.
REFUSE ALL SUBSTITUTES and IMITATIONS.
PRICE, 2s. 6d. per BOTTLE.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
EVERY EVENING (at 8 o’clock) EVERY EVENING
The Greatest Sporting Drama written,
“The Flying Scud.”
far" INTERPRETED BY A POWERFUL OAST.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Mnsgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Boucicault.
Last Two Nights of the Brough-Bouoioaplt Season.
Thursday, June 14, and Friday, June 15,
“ T lx e jRk. xxx a z o n. a.”
Prices as Usual. Box Office at Nicholson’s.
gCHOOL OF ARTS.
“A Hit, a Hit, a Palpable Hit!"
Miss Jezmie IVtaynard,
in her interesting Sketches of
MEN, MUSIC, AND MANNERS.
Miss JENNIE MAYNARD assisted by Miss Naylor, Mr.
Harry Fitzmaurice, Miss Clare Navette.
Matinee on Saturday. Prices—3s, 2s, and One Shilling.
Mr. J. G. RIES, Manager for Miss Maynard.
Mr. RAS de SOLI, Business Manager.
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work 1
Now ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To bo had only of
M<*m. PANZA, Box 913
0.P.0., Sydney.
■\rOTIOE. — Advertisements for Current Week
1 v cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
fsd
f
'WOOL
Pt^opiJCE
&
Bh°Kers
Station Agents,
ds
vsYt)f/EY^/AELB O URNE fclopoH.
OTIOB UNDER REAL PROPERTY ACT.
APPLICATIONS having been made to bring the lands hereunder described under the provisions
of the Real Property Act, Certificates of Indefeasible Title will issue, unless Caveats be lodged in
Form B of the said Act, on or before the date named opposite each case respectively.
Property.
Name of Applicant.
Residence.
Date up to and
inclusive of
which Caveats
may be lodged.
Henry Houghton
Burton Bradley
No. 9245. Macdonaldtown, 3 roods 23 perches,
in Burren-street, adjoining premises of H.
Copeland, D. Mighell, F. B. Woolryoh and
others.
No. 9317. Sydney, 18| at the junc- James Thomas Til-
tion of Liverpool and Kent streets, adjoin- lock
ing the properties of Miss Hollinshed and
other land of applicant.
No. 9327. Sydney, 26 perches, at the junction
of King and York streets, adjoining the 1
premises of Robt. Gray, Son and Co., and
Mrs. Farrell.
Sydney
Sydney
David Solomon, Ab-North Shore
raham Solomon,
Elizabeth Solomon,
Hannah Solomon
and Charles Solo-
mon
Glen Innes
3 Aug., 1894.
3 Aug,, 1894.
3 Aug., 1894.
3 Ang., 1894.
No. 9330. Glen Innes, 1 rood 5 perches, in James Healey
Grey-street, adjoining the premises of Mr.l
Schmidt—is part of allotment 12 of section
15 granted to James Develin, the elder.
No. 9334. Inverell, 104 acres 3 roods, com- C John Ross ...Balaclava, near
prising parts of portions Nos. 79 and 80, I Glen Innes ... I o -iqq^
granted to Chisholm Ross, in the parish of j William Armstrong Inverell ' K# ’
Inverell. | IChisholm Ross ... Newcastle
Diagrams delineating these lands may be inspected at the Land Titles Office, in Elizabeth-street,
Sydney.
Dated at Sydney this 25th day of May, 1894, at the Registrar-General’s Department.
CHARLES PINHEY, Registrar-General.
CROMART!
a s<
CROMARTY
Whisky
Cicuuisßiitnius
OUMNIONOOM MS
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa <& Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRA LIA.
REUTER’S LITTLE PILLS
FOR THE LIVER.
GUARANTEED to owesiok
headache and every disease
of the liver, stomach and
bowels. A safe cathartic. Do
not afterwards constipate.
The smallest and easiest to take. 40 in a viaL
f
sdf
Barrys trigopherous
fortheHAIR.
An elegant dressing, exquisitely
perfumed, removes all impurities
from the scalp, prevents baldness
and gray hair, and causes thchair
to grow thick, soft and beautiful,
Cratlon.— None genuine without
trada-mark of Buobf k Co., H. T., affixed to each bottle.
When Deakln started to impeach the
Patterson Government for the retrenching of Prof*
Pearson, Premier Patterson interjected, “ Let the
dead alone j“ and The Abocs takes his part on
the same “de mortuti eta., line. As Deakin wal
speaking for the deceased democrat at the time,
and against the party that “sacked” him, the
sentiment recalls the desire expressed by the late
F. B. Deeming, on bis arrest, to “let bygones bo
bygones."
Attorney-General Heydon’s last speech in
N.S.W. Legislative Council, on the Municipal
Gas Act Amendment Bill, enables people to size
Mr. Heydon up. He protested in that speech
against giving to municipalities the power to do
their own gas and electric-lierhting, on the grounds
that aldermen might be influenced by the em-
ployes of the municipality, and that it was
dangerous for corporate bodies to compete with
private enterprise.
Premier Patterson’s now fairly-confirmed
throwing-up of (at least active) Orangeism has
caused consternation amongst Boyne fire-eaters.
His opening of a recent R.O. bazaar began the
trouble. Richardson, the other leading Orange-
man of the Vic. Cabinet, keep his sentiments sub
rosa. Temperance Vale, also a violent Orange
chicken, is now, strange to say, Patterson s
fiercest denouncer. Perhaps the latter’s “ renunci-
ation ’’ has something to do with this.
Two years ago a N.S.W. man with parlia-
mentary aspirations, firmly believing that Reid
and Co. would consummate their eternal boast of
driving Dibbs to the country, sent exactly half a
dilapidated apple each to the pupils of the prin-
cipal school in his prospective electorate. For
two weary years he has been awaiting the chance
for those apples to bear him votes. His name is
announced now in the Foreign-trade interest, and
the scholars are each to get another bit of apple.
Minister Copeland, with ponderous earnest-
ness, advised N.S.W. Legislative Assembly last
week to submit to the Council on the Mining on
Private Lands Bill, “ as there’s no good in fight-
ing, and no man but an idiot would start a fierht
when he’s likely to get the worst of it.” Imme-
diately after, John Haynes opened his mouth
mildly, as usual, whereupon the same Minister:
“Come outside! Say that outside!” Does
Minister Copeland think Samson a softer football
than the Council ?
“It is no exaggeration to say that forgery
and the theft of a sheep in that detestable and
barbarous land are punished in the same way as
the most awful crimes, as parricide or incest. I
myself, led by a sad chance, saw a man hanged for
stealing a feheep, and after that I lost all pleasure
in roast mutton; the fat reminded me of the poor
culprit’s white cap. And these people talk con-
stantly of Christianity, and never miss Church on
Sunday, and flood the whole world with Bibles.”
—Heine, on England, 1827.
Cardinal Moran’s Randwick lecture makes
dynamite and the bomb the consequence of purely
secular systems of education. Those who employ
these weapons are, however, mostly middle-aged
or thereabouts, and fully 80 per cent, of Europe’s
present adults received a religious, as distinguished
from a secular, education. Moreover, the dyna-
miters and bomb-throwers of to-day are mere
boisterous fireworks compared to the Gallic hosts
of 1794, all of whom had been religiously educated,
and many of whom had worn orders in the church.
The Bulletin hears that the banquet
given to the parliamentary party, consisting of
Byrnes, Leahy, Matheson, Wragge, and W.
Stevens, at Thargomindah, on 25th ult., cost —
besides the guinea each from subscribers (42 in
number) —>£100, to be paid by the local Divisional
Board. Granting the guinea only paid for the
donor’s dinner, Byrnes and Co. gorged a
£2O feed each. The Board clerk, who had chief
management, says the money was well spent, as
the town is now sure of a railway.
PRIVATE INFORMATION FOR THE
LADIES.
Any lady should be pleased to receive a copy of
“ Absorbed Thoughts” for her writing-desk. This
elegant blotting-pad, which is intended exclusively
for the use of the ladies, was designed by Major
Z. C. Rennie, who is the General Manager in Aus-
tralia of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of
New York, the wealthiest life insurance company
in the world, and the company which is building
its new offices at the corner of Martin-place and
Pitt-street, Sydney. Ladies sending their address
to Major Rennie, Box 493, G.P.0., Sydney, writ-
ing the name of his Company correctly, and giving
the amount of the Company’s advertised assets
on December 31, 1893, shall receive a copy of
“ Absorbed Thoughts” free.


Rest fop the Wem toil Soles by trying
E Xji E I S’ S
(Registered* SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladles, Gentlemen and Children*
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Calslogui
Post Fra
BEW-A.wl
of
JEALOUS
UNH E
GISTERED
IMITATORS
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of (read by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The proprietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price,
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
No matter how tar in the interior you reside, ELLIS’S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tread,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS’S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY-tbey are a “going con-
cern ” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw ’.or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Gent’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (tor office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s 6d ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s 6d ; Primes!, French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s 6d, Tops for ditto, 12s 6d ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Biding
Boots, 46s 6d (worth 13 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s 6d ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s 6d; Half ditto,
23s 6d; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
6d ; ditto Oxford Shoes, lls 6d ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., 16s 6d. Instock-
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d : Nice Giaoe Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s 6d.
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS,
i am pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me ; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.’’
“Your boots are the best I have ever worn, both for
comfort and durability.
“ FRED. T. BERMAN, Public School, Coonamble.”
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and beautifully finished.
“A. M’MILLAN, Warri, Coolamon, N.S.W.”
“There can be no two opinions about Ellis’s Boots,
they are the best we have ever had.
“GEORGE GUEST, senr., Boggabri, N.S.W.”
5
SPECIAL COUPONS
Cut this Coupon out, for*
ward with your measure-
ments and remittance, and
the goods wilt be mailed
free.
ONC COUPON wifi
secure any
number of pair*
as desired.
/£Ltli
* COUPON
/BALMORAL
pfoW** u * e
p osr
r *EE
Jl^ycovivn
». * , '»rrn «*■
■' f*u;
PO5 ’ MUre .^*
fAl*
t bp
fjS'm
C%*7-rO'“'
/fan
°'es
O*
TQ.t-O
V E
Kin
SUff
(5
*U/S
LAO)e s
c °W*OK
"IQ*
BAIIHOfU
KIO
lcq
F, **CA Lf
POST FREe.
tfEA5*
6/6
£IOO
£IOO
Special Notice 1 .Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
One Hundred rounds!
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. t 3; sth, do. £2; 40prizes, value £1 each;
10 do. at 15s. each; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Add exchange on Intercolonial Postal
Notes.
T. 18. ZBIiIILIS
548 GEORGE STREET
(opp. Town Hall),
SYDNEY,
And at 67 HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.B.W.
Business Announcements.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 GEOBGE - STREET
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. Hub ert ISTewmau
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
Bodalla Cheese.
GJXTJTIOIsr.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA
Bears Ilie Registered Brand ot the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEAUWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
54
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. O- IEHiIDUaiIDG-lE] & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
"THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
ANTIQUE Oil. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <st AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 & 683 George Street, Sydney.
—THE-
Wentworth. Hotel
L
4
a*
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Medical.
Healthy women and happy
CHILDREN.
The great Ei glish Astrologist, Mme. DE RAYMOND,
reads your character without a question or mistake, with
as much ease as if she had known you all her life. Re-
main not in darkness and ignorance, but seek the light
of knowledge, and learn what the future holds forth for
you. Like a meteor flashing across the darkest sky, this
brilliant Astrologist Visits Australia for the First Time to
impart the power, and the hitherto unknown knowledge,
which will dispel the heavy gloom and bitter woe from
thousands of blighted hearts.
Every mother should know the innate nature of her
child, the planet under which it was born, the un-
developed temper, the unformed habits, the particular
trade or calling it is best adapted for, to what sickness,
dictated by the heavenly bodies, it is heir, according
to its nature.
Mme. DE RAYMOND
has been pronounced in Europe and America as the
greatest living wonder of the present age.
If you are sick or in trouble, if you are involved or
unhappy she will make Life Worth Living.
V 303 CROWN STREET, SURRY-HILLS V
(opposite Public School). Hours—lo a.m. to 8 p.m.
Parlors Strictly Private. Fee, 3/6; Written, Bj-.
If UNABLE to CALL, send DATE of BIRTH.
Business Announcements.
sd
Established —
HALF-A-OENTURYI
(Smith & Mannell,
SHIRT MAKERS.
HOSIERS & MERCERS,
298 George Street,
SYDNEY.
Shirts to Measure or Pattern.
From 50/- Half-Doz.
A 1 WHITE SHIRTS
(Ready-made).
Unequalled for Value from
30/- the Half-Doz.
InstructionsforSelf-Measure-
ment posted free on applica-
tion.
** A Trial Solicited **
LADIES’ NEW FEINGE
(with Invisible Parting).
PRESENT FASHION. 21/-, 30/-, 42/-.
A. Michau, Wigmaker, 78 The Strand (Ist floor), Sydney
I R. EL A.3XrD’S
» ROSEBUD ’*
CREAMERY#-
Agents: GARRAD & BOOTH,
230 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
Jw
5NII
7^
3/z OUNCE]
ESF" Fit every head perfectly the first time they are tried on,
and weighing only 3 to oz. Are a luxury to wear. The
Registered Trade Mark, as above, is stamped on the tip of
every hat, without which none are genuine.
Gr. DEI. Smith & Soxxs,
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Sole Agents for Australia.
f
John Lawler and Sons,
Wire Mattress &, Bedding Manufacturers,
UPHOLSTERERS and CABINETMAKERS,
Importers of
BEDSTEADS—Iron, Brass and Pearl-mounted
English FURNITURE
Austrian CHAIRS—PIain and Fancy Designs
American OH AlRS—Plain & Embossed Designs
Carpets, Linoleums and Floor Cloths
Hearth Rugs, Mats and Matting
Java Kapok, Curled Hair, Fibre and Flax
BAMBOO BLINDS —White, Green and Skin
White Cane Chairs, Lounges, Tables and Settees
TAPESTRIES, Plushes, Hair-seating& Cretonnes
Spring Blind Rollers, Hollands, Cords & Fringes
Cornice Poles, Lace and Tapestry Curtains
OVERMANTELS —Oak, Walnut and Mahogany
TOILET GLASSES and COMMODES
TOILET SETS in various Colours and Designs
MANGLES
STOVES
JAPANNED TINNED TRUNKS
Warehouse:
608 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Bulk Stores and Steam Factories:
Nos. 3,4, 6, 8 and 10 UNION LANE,
Telephone, No. 66.] [Established 1860.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere.
4 B0 X»
M
BUTTER - SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LOREN’S SWEET)
Lancet.
St. John’s Works, London, W.C.
BTueF FROM COUQu
*Vinten minutes.-”
rraaBEEE
Aik SAM
QF HOREHOUN P.
"" A, SAPS AND SPEEDY KKMEDY FOB
COUGH. COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.
u Xnva.lua.blo for Bad Coughs and Colds.
“ Mrs. Eason, Sleaford.
1 ' Sold by all Chemists In bottles at Is. l}d., and 2s. 9d.
rjULES OF THE
PRICE Is. ...
CONVICT SYSTEM-
by Post Is. 3d.
Musical Instruments.
XJO WARD’S for Musical Instruments of every descrip-
xx tion, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woo'lahra.
l | OWARD’S Anglo Concertinas by Lachenal, Jones, &0.,
I L cash or terms, to suit all. Queen-st., Woollahra.
prOWARD’S Cornets, brass, nickel, and silver plated,
xx cash or easiest terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
LTOWARD’S Pianos, iron-made specially for colonies;
xx cash or easy terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
U OWARD’S Organettes, all kinds and prices, for cashor
xx on easiest terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
LT OWARD’S Violins, Bows, and Cases, complete, from
xx 12s 6d, cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD'S Acoordeons, 1000 to select from, all kinds
u and prices. Queen-st., Woollahra.
IT OWARD’S Banjos, from 2s 6d to 12 guineas, all makes,
xx cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
IJ OWARD’S Mouth Organ (j ton), from 6d to 1 guinea,
II a great variety. Queen-st., Woollahra.
O OWARD'S Brass and Nickel Whistles. Thousands of
xx them in all keys, from 6d. Queen-st., Woollahra.
prOWARD’S Nigger Wigs, Bones, Tambourines, Black,
xx &c., great variety. Queen-st., Woollahra.
prOWARD’S American Organs for cash or on terms.
xx Large stock now landing. Queen st., Woollahra.
O OWARD’S Concertinas, 20-key, from 3s. lid. to 215.,
xx best German make. Queen-'st., Woollahra.
0 OWARD’S English Concertinas, from 2 to 30 guineas,
xx cash or easy terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
XI OWARD’S Double Bass, 3 or 4 string, machine head,
1 L cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD Supplies Country Residents with Goods on
- L - L easy terms, lists free. Queen-st., Woollahra.
ii OWARD’S Guitars, Spanish, American, French, and
LL German ; cash or terras. Queen-st., Woollahra.
TJOWARD'S Flutes and Piccolos, in endless variety,
xx from 6d. to 25g5.; cash or terms. Queen-st., W’lhra.
pj OWARD’S Saxhorns or E flat Tenors, in brass and
xx silver ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
II OWARD’S Baritones brass and silver-plated ; cash or
xx terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
pj OWARD’S Slide and Valve Trombones, brass and
Ll silver ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
Ll OWARD’S Euphoniums, in brass and silver; cash or
xx easy terms. Queen-st., Woollahra,
TTOWARD’S Circular and Straight Basses, brass or
xx placed ; cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
■pi OWARD’S for Brass Drums and Fittings; cash or
xx terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
Ll OWARD’S for Bombardon’s and double BB Biss’s;
xx cash or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
JpOWARD’S supply Complete Brass Bands on very easy
xx terms to suit everybody. Queen-st., Woollahra.
pi OWARD'S supply Complete String Bands for cash or
xx on terms. Queen-st,, Woollahra.
prOWARD’S send the Instrument on payment of first
xx instalment. Queen-st., Woollahra.
pi OWARD’S Safety Bicycles, rubber tyres; cash or
xx terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
pi OWARD'S Gold and Silver Watches, Rings, &c., cash
xx or terms. Queen-st., Woollahra.
pi OWARD’S supply lists and full particulars on appli-
xx cation. Queen-st., Woollahra.
HOWARD & CO~
Merchants >t Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
B3T Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organa, Music,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
IS" Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
Hotel.
m.
W
iiJH
“(pe Sydney tgoffee <gaiace” (Hotel,
Sir John Yoonq’s Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia.
J. A QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Pep wpplt
Without Board ... 153
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week. Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £i Is
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually dis tu rbi n g resid e n ts
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
with the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
OK A. COX & CO.,
AGENTS for the SALE of
Hotels, Country Stores
And GENERAL BUSINESSES.
Furnished Houses in City and Suburbs to Let.
Post Office Chambers, 114 Pitt Street, Sydney.
We can furnish you
with particulars of
every Hotel or Gene-
ral Store in N.S.W.
£20,000 English
Capital to Lend
on Country Proper-
ties.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more about
prevention in ten minutes than all the years you’ve
lived. Write. Prof. HERMANN, French Specialist, 41
Collins Place East, Melbourne.


GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, See.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co.,
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane ; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
Darlinghurst Gaol.
No. IL.—PUNTERS TO JUSTICE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
It is a common observation among certain
classes that “ no man’s education is complete until
he has been in gaol.” Well, for aspiring philo-
sophers, a term in gaol is what a board-school
master would call an “extra,” to be charged for
accordingly. It is one of the “ accomplishments.”
* • «
“ No. 5 Yard,” said a warder to me, after
I had apparently been standing at a doorway for
half-a-century, on the morning after my night’s
rest in “ the peter.”
“ Through that door ; first yard on the left.”
I went “through that door,” and found myself
in the segment of a circle bounded (in the direc-
tion in which I would like to have gone) by three
strong iron gates, giving a man a notion of being
a rat in a trap. From these gates, spreading out
like a fan, were Nos. 5,6, 7 yards. No. 5 gate
seemed open to all-comers, and I entered.
Thirty or forty men aimlessly indolent —lolling
on forms, leaning over tables, walling it in the
morning sun, squatting on the asphalt floor, walk-
ing up and down. Few had coats; many were
smoking cigarettes. Mostly young men, some
mere lads; perhaps half-a-dozen were 40. Lar-
rikins all.
Up to me came an extraordinary apparition.
Long, marvellous coat, faded to a mottled-green
thread bareness, a striped prison shirt that was too
proud to go inside his indescribable pants, which
were furrowed and ridged and scoopy and baggy
with a charming fitlessness ; a hat so greasy that
it might have been boiled down for dripping, and
under it brambles of unkempt hair spreading,
shooting, sticking, plaiting, crisscrossing, until
one might fancy that his head was buried in a
splintered-np wire dishcover. A bloated, bronze-
bro w 11 m-g reen - black countenance, tenanted by
a puddeny nose and careless, piercing eyes!
I knew him at once, and so do you. The typical
Domain-dosser—bummer-cum-take’em-down.
The apparition swung himself alongside me with
a charming camaraderie, as one ready to do the
honours as host, in his own deadbeat, predacious
style.
“ Wot yer yere for, matey ?”
“Can’t pay my fine.”
“ ’Ow long ?”
[ informed him.
“ ’Ave yer got any weed?”
“No ; the warders took everything from me.”
“Ho! you’re a flat. Fust time you’re hup, I
suppose?” he said, with a chuckle, as he swung his
body pendulously, stamping first on one leg and
then on the other, eyeing me curiously and keenly
as if I were a Circassian slave and he a purchasing
Sultan.
“ Of course.”
“ P’r’aps you’ve got some takings ?”
“Eh?”
“ Rakings—dust—let’s try yer pipe-pockets.”
With tiie Sultan’s active and masterly assistance
we fossicked out pockets and linings and got fluff,
and devilsdust, and tobacco-scraps enough to fill
two pipes, and his Excellency graciously presented
me with a cutty, saying—“ You can gimme a
quarter for it when you gets yourn in.”
I learned that “a quarter ” meant a quarter of
a fig of “ Barrett’s twist ” tobacco. I was be-
ginning my gaol education.
The fossicking operations had been noted by
keen eyes, and soon several gentlemen separately
offered to assist me in further explorations, but
I only thanked them for their proffered services
and asked them if they thought a gentleman of
the Sultan’s experience and dexterity would be
likely to miss any alluvial crevices. To their
credit, they magnanimously agreed that he
wouldn’t. This gives the lie to the saying that
artists are always too envious to recognise each
other’s merits.
* * *
On the Sultan’s advice, I was just about
asking the wardsrnan—a prisoner, not to be con-
founded with warder —a little, shrivelled son of
Erin, as to whether he could get me some tucker,
when there broke upon the quiet a clarion yell—
“ Hominy up ! ”
In a crack, every man in the yard flashed
out his sabre —in this case his leaden spoon, and
at the wooden-tubs of hominy they went bolting
down the hot maizemeal to see which would be
first past the post and scraping the tubs to the
very last smear. The Sultan performed gulping
wonders and was evidently a prodigy in the field.
I was ravenous, but too bashful to ask even for
a spoon; they were too busy to notice me. At
least nob one of them invited me to join him at
the festive board. In 10 minutes it was all over ;
there was not a splodge, not even an oversplash
left, and the tubs were carried off and routine
resumed her peaceful sway.
The Sultan told me that No. 5 yard was the
worst-provisioned in the gaol; its occupants are
all short-sentenced men and on the lowest scale of
diet. Longer-sentenced men get higher food, and
luxuries are not unknown.
“ If you can get weed,” said the Sultan, “you
can easily traffic it for tea, sugar, or anything
there’s going. If I’m kep’ near yer, I’ll put yer
up to it.”
This, with the air of a monarch on his own
ground. Further, he explained to me that all the
very short-sentenced men received in towards the
end of the week were kept in No. 5 and their own
clothes (except shirts) until Monday, when they
would be uniformed and assorted. This was
Sunday.
“The hotel, yer see, is overcrowded just now.
The winter’s our fashionable season.”
* # *
I have heard varied whirlwinds of blas-
phemy, but never till now did I understand all
the intricate resources of the science. It was nob
volcanic, but persistent. It was all over the place
like continually-smoking censers of devil’s incense.
A waving fog, lit with shooting fires. It was as if
one stood in one of the pores of a huge pumice-
stone of profanity.
New arrivals came at intervals, and each was
hailed by some or all. These supplied the fashion-
able intelligence concerning social movements out-
side.
“ Where’s Tommy the Goat ?”
“Doing a stretch up the river.”
“ And Skinny Jim ?”
“ Got a day at the Court.”
No questions are asked publicly as to the crime;
only as to the sentence. This is the etiquette of
the profession. It is all very club-like, and
reminds me of some swell clubs, barring the want
of liquor. Everybody in good spirits ; everybody
laughing and cursing and trying some new fancy
effects in blasphemy ; everybody pals
I begin to feel small because I am only a sizar,
as it were—not even an undergraduate.
* * »
Ddring my short stay at this Club, I
learned many new things. I was able, even in my
shoit lime, to welcome back quite a score who
had gone out and returned, '[’here’s no mystery
in the why. It is a noble motive that prompts
these Clubbers. It is the sentiment of fidelity to
friends in distress. X wants to know something
very particularly which cannot be committed to
writing. He confides in Y who is leaving to-day.
The day after to-morrow Y succeeds in earning
another short sentence, and X “ knows all about
it.”
This Intelligence Department is highly organised
and deals with the most complex affairs. It may
be merely the affectionate anxiety of a “bloke”
for his “ tart;” it may relate to the “ lifting ” of a
“ plant,” or the disposal of a “ swag ;” it may, in
short, concern any one at all of the momentous
affairs of the gentlemen who are constantly in a
state of opposition to the Law— their natural
enemy, whether they deserve it or not.
* * m
“Hard labour” is about the easiest em
ployment that ever mortal man got his board and
lodging for—sweeping floors; washing same ;
washing clothes ; straw-plaiting ; or pretending to
work in the shops. But the want of freedom dis-
counts the liberal wages sadly. Yet the Clubbers
don’t mind that, any more than a healthy child
minds dirt. And the Clubbers know how to use
the Club for all it’s worth.
There is a plain debtors’ yard—a “ keep ” yard,
where you “keep” yourself. A yarn concerning
it.
Two men had been fined 15s. each, levy and
distress, or 24 hours. They didn’t pay; nobody
levied, because they changed their address sud-
denly and sold off all their seizable goods; and
they rioted in freedom for six months. A warrant
was issued, but they kept themselves perfectly
posted up in facts. At last their whereabouts
became known. Did they give the “copman”a
chance ? I should smile.
They lay low till Saturday ; came into the city
and within 100 yards of the gaol, about 6 p.ra.,
and started to fill themselves up with beer—l 3
pints apiece, they said ; but I am no judge of a
man’s cubical capacity for liquids.
At 11 o’clock, when the pubs, closed, they pre-
sented themselves at the gaol to expiate the
sentence which the Law had passed upon them.
Of course, they had to be taken in. They had
their baths and were placed in the same cell. At 9
o’clock next morning, in came a previously-ordered
breakfast! They eluded the rules as to attending
church ; sat down to a very elaborate dinner (sent
in) at one o’clock ; and smoked and yarned until
four o’clock, and were liberated at half-past four.
They had “done ” only 17i hours out of 24, but
they had to be let go. There are only two dis-
charges daily—one at 6 a.m., one at 4.30 p.rn.
The authorities could nob keep them until 6 a.m.
on Monday, for that would have made their
sentences up to 31 hours —an illegal confinement
of seven hours, of which these smarties would have
been only too quick to take advantage. Oh, they
“ knew the ropes.”
* * «
It was very touching to see an old blind
man being led around by a nigger—so tenderly,
so carefully, so affectionately. Every prisoner
felt queer over that blind man. He had lost his
dog, they said. He never wanted for “weed.”
The men (put that in italics this time) jostled each
other to shove it in his hand. Had there been
any money in the Club, they’d have made a col-
lection to buy the poor old chap a fresh dog. But
I’ve no doubt the Intelligence Department did
attend to it, per medium of their pals outside.
A man came in, having only one good leg and
about two-thirds of a timber substitute. This is
his story, told in his own way :
“I cleans boots an’ runs errands, but times has
been Very bad for a long while. My prop wears
shorter and shorter till I begins to get a nasty pain
in my side. I 'ad ’ad a little bit of stuff put by in
the Bank, an’, blow me ! if it ain’t one er the
fust ter putt up its shutters ! ‘ Here’s ago ?’. says
I. Well, Bill comes along an’ we has a pitch
about the badness of the times an’ all that, an’ I
tells him ’ow I stood, an’ all about it. ‘ Veil,’
says Ferrety, ‘if I vos you I’d get run in for
loiterin’ an’, p’raps, by the time you comes out
your bank’ll be alright, an’ you could storm it
over like?’ Well, bli me ! I was a-standing think-
ing about what Ferrety had said an’ not much
likin’ his advice, but considerin’ like, when up
comes a copper an’ says, ‘Move on!’ ‘Go to
!’ says I, quick-like, on the spur of the
moment. ‘Oh, is that it?’ says he; ‘l’ll just
show you that you must respect the lor,’ says he—
‘you must come along with me.’ I was rather
took sudden like, but I had to go. I spins a yarn
to the beak about my losses an’ all that—the lock-
up had knocked all the spunk out of me—but it
ain’t no good—‘2os. or three days,’ says the beak.
On my way up here—mind you, I never was, here
afore—a pretty smart cove says to me, ‘ Why, yer
want a noo prop! Ain’t yer goin’ter get one?’
He puts me up to it, an’, first mornin’, I asks to
see the Governor and the senior takes down my
application for ‘a noo stump.’ The Governor,
he’s a fust-rate cove an’ a real gentleman.
‘Granted,’ says he, with a smile; an’ down I goes
to the blacksmith’s shop," an’ here I am with the
best prop ever I had !”
• • •
There have been very few attempts to get
out of Darlinghurst Gaol; though many, and
highly successful ones, to get in. I believe that
only one man ever did escape from it, and Ac must
have had a stomach like an ostrich’s, for he some-
how or other managed to secrete himself in the
rubbish-cart, and so he was trotted out for a mile
or so and shot out upon congenial soil. Since
then, the sentry always passes his bayonet through
and tickles each load.
OOOO.
Asked by an officious friend on his death-
bed if he had made peace with God, Heine replied :
“Do not trouble yourself, God will pardon me;
it is His business.”
Hordern Bros.’, Pitt-street (only), respect-
fully invites the attention of politicians to the
following;—Patronise local industry, and save
money by doing so. We will make you a sac suit
to measure, of all wool tweed, the tweeds are
manufactured in New South Wales, from wool
grown in New South Wales, and the suit made to
your measure in New South Wales for 355. the
suit. (Yes, thirty-five shillings.) The imported
article, ready-made, cannot be sold at the price.
If you can’t get round to us, write for patterns of
our all-wool New South Wales tweeds, and we
will forward same by return post, with self-mea-
surement form enclosed. All-wool tweed sac suit,
to measure, for 355. Hordern Bros., Pitt-street
only), Sydney.


“ Men I Have Smiled WltL”
STAY at Brutoa’B,
'HHnamofi
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL" is a
Waterside Paradise.
&
MOSS YALE.
OODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
QUIRINDI.
O’HALLORAN’S TERMINUS HOTEL
Is Tip - Top.
ARM ID ALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
aVErs. P. "Wade’s
TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL.
The Traveller's HOME in New England.
WEST MAITLAND,
you can’t beat Fry’s Grand Central Hotel
for position.
• SOMETHING NEW.
THE CLUB HOTEL ,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. GodsalL
u hen You Visit Gympie,
don’t forget
J. J, E. Stewart’s
MINING EXCHANGE HOTEL.
GUNNED AH.
CURLEY’S “ROYAL”
Is The Australia of the North-West.
T. CURLEY, Proprietor, and Patentee of
Volcanic Soda Machines.
MUSWELLBROOK.
Hullo, here we are, let’s stay at JIM GREEN’S
Hotel.
NEWCASTLE.
Why men don’t marry? Because they find a
LUXURIOUS HOME
at
Connolly’s Grand Hotel.
Publications.
< 6 npALES op the CONVICT SYSTEM.
T
PRICE: ONE SHILLING.
Posted to any Australasian Address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. 00. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
44 Tales of the Early Days.”
By PRICE WARUNG.
Bound in Boards, 2/i; Cloth, 2/10, post paid.
“ BULLETIN " OFFICE, SYDNEY.
MILK., BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition--No. 15.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon —which
coupon is to be cu£ out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 30th
June, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
"The Bulletin’s” Missing Word Competition Coupon*— No* 15
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward C°P ' J «
One Shilling, or stamps to the value of 13d., to Manager,
Office, Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, dune ,
The jurymen in the Montgomery-Williams case having found the P ri *™ e ™
latter were sentenced to death, according to l.< >tany _ Bay law. i Monttromery and
petitioned for the men’s reprieve, on the ground that they did not , - fc i t h e ir belief,
Williams meant murder at all. The jury s verdict was not in accord Botany Bay
but it was in keeping with their oath, which was to find a verdict ac j
law, the brutal and law which drags a man into the jury-box and,
such cases as the present no alternative between hanging and acquitting, rea y P
him to commit either murder or perjury.
Name “
Address _
Missing Word
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competito s.
No revlies will he admitted except contained, on this coupon .
N.B. — Every precaution
conduct the competition in a
bas been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
nanner worthy ot the reputation ot the paper.
PARKE & LACY CO. Ltd
SYDNEY,
Mining and Hydraulic Engineers and Machinery Merchants.
INGEESOLL EOCK DRILLS and AIR COMPRESSORS, KNOWLES PUMPS,
GATES and DODGE ROCKB RE AKERS,
HUNTINGDON MILLS, STAMPER BATTERIES,
CHALLENGE ORE FEEDERS, FREE MANNERS, COOKE AMALGAMATORS.
ENGINE FITTINGS, MILL SUPPLIES, Etc., Etc.
Reduced.
Challenge Ore Feeders, £35.
Prices.
True Vanner Belts, £25.
“A GOLDEN SHANTY.
Second Edition.] Price: One Shilling. [All Newsagents.
JJ
Bulletin” Series, 3NTo. 3,
“The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAITENO.
With Prefatory Note by Bolf Boldrewood.
Opinions of the Press:
« ffi he volume takes its name from one of the sketches, * The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a par. The
author who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in these faraway
ports. ’ A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who are fond of
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading.”—S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893.
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc, and the secret of this is that
he has bv many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed by scarcely any other writer.
He too possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given us some of
hds best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”— Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893.
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation, striking pictures of
narts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild places
whfm human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men. ‘ The Last of Six ’is a terrible
Lale of cannibalism treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might he gross and hideous, hut which Mr. Favenc makes of
thrUlinv interest ‘ The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved from the
Ruauicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and there approaches Poe. This
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written. A Cup of Cold Water is, perhaps, the
brat tale in a collection that should he widely read, and which forms a worthy addition tojpurely Australian literature. -Daily Telegraph,
July 16,1893.
“‘The Last of Six •’ and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney; The Bulletin Newspaper Co ) This is a collection of short but
•rrnnhlc sketches by Mr Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories here are good,
Md we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the third of The
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences.”— Australian Star, July 15,1893.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMFORTING
COCOA
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT —
JAMES STEDMAN
18 THE
SO_l©
OF THE
CELEBRATED
“LION"
J s
trade mao*
BRAND
Confectionery . ;
Warehouse; CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
rjULES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, 0.P.0>
W. MAM MATT
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silirer and Electro-plated Q-eeds
—AND—
Cs"o'T"XjiE33E : t."3cr of every description.
SHEFFIELD.
Telephone 9M<
& SONS,
SHOW ROOMS!
Empire Chambers,
93 York Street, SYDNEY.
“ Th.e BIoclc,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE.
The IMPERIAL HOTEL,
■VST-X-Itf” 'STA.J&.I* SQUARE, SY33KTBY
(Established over Thirty Tears).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. 6d. per Day, Walter Sidney, Manager.
Scale or Aavertlsing
—IN—
“THE BULLETIN.”
Single Column ...
Quarterly Contracts
Half Yearly „
One Year „
Paragraph Advertisements
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed
... 6s. per inch per insertion, nett.
10 per cent, discount.
20 „ „
... 25 ~ ~ ~
10s. per inch per insertion, nett,
for cash in advance.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, where -
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may be unable
to procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person who would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD and ICE COMPANY (Limited)
FOR
BUTTER
Xzx One Pound or Half-pound Pats.
The CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Australasia. Brand—“ GOLDEN STAR.”
The Awards at the recent Roval Agricultural Show (21st March) were for:
BUTTER (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.) — First Friz© for ONE CASE, not less than 50lb. weight, for Export.
N.S. W. Iresh hood and Ice Co., Ltd. — First Friz© for CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption.
Tlbuo 3PIE3XZIE] fox Cx©3a3Q.ox3r ZBTjLttox
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “ The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products was the excellent quality of this butter."
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
Lead Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. H. PATESON, Manager.
in
m
f Or
FURNITURE
• *TV.
mm
m
.
A- *
W
another view at wyaloimg.
GEOSYENOR HOTEL,
SYD3XTEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s + Sd. per Day.
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OF THE SEPARATE TARIFF.
SINGLE LOOM, 4s. - - DOUBLE ROOM, Bs.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
' ■ • ■n il) OQO <«r-rrr. 11
‘ Tales of the Early Days’
(By PRICE WARUNG).
«
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d., post paid.
):(
“ Bulletin 99 Office, Sydney.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’:
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
O’
Price; Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
o
From all Newsagents.
