

YORK »
«ALTZ S
WALTZ
2/-
LI
CADBURY’S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST,
4
4?
Parsons’ Flaked Oatmeal
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY, NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
g
S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
&
o
o
rack;aJocK>
\
*3^
o
o
o
o
v
u
It. A. Hervcy, Agent, as Jllt-ht., Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
SADDLERS
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersev,
Lord Carington, etc.,
385 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, HARNESS,
TRAVELLING 'and HAND BAGS, ETC.
A Single Article Sold at Wholesale Price.
Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
ip" Railway Station or Port.
“Tlxe
Oxford Hotel, King Street, Sydney.
n. THORPE ... I ~~ .» Pbopbietoe.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
u THE-i
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE CO.
(LIMITED)
FOR
MILK ...
CREAM ...
ICE
BITTER
FISH
CAME
PUIETRY
PASTRY, *Sc. ..
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star’’ Creamery, Eegd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony: —
IYTILK, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
H. IMTESOX.
Sydney, Ist Ju1y,1893. Manager.
7}oU/iQM
—" l —— - 111 .1..-. . I
4 v .Jjf . CZI® JSE O
Soles jSk-sexxtis iso. aSTes-w !3oiaLt;lx Wales for Messl
ig. Clayton and. Slnit tie wor tli.
-THE-
‘iTV, 1 ' —THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
»•’ In the World.
THE BUILDERS
61$! . OK THE
First Iron Plough in the World.
We (lave a reputation for Plough-
making all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
of the younger and less experienced
firms.
7jrnTrWiSofr~sr ECKACE plough
:y rri
Howard Digging Plough.
The most perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had in descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—OF—
Agricultural Implements
aud JU(ill\l!in.
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call aud inspect our new and
recently lax-gely-extended SHOW-
ROOMS.
J. Ss C 3. Howard, 280
& 2SOi Pitt Street,
'
Sydney.
-
The Bulletin
Vol 14— No. 737. J
| Saturday, March 31, 1894.
Eegistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


Medical
—FOR—
Winter Coughs and Bronchia
BONNINGTON’S
(Registered) IRISH MOSS
will oxtiolie:
Any kind of a Cough or Cold (recent or chronic),
Influenza, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Tickling of the Throat, Bronchitis,
Incipient Consumption, and all other similar
complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers.
It clears the Throat, removes all huskiness and
causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale: 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
• Universally admired. Other Odours
wr ll^ 011 “ ie s ? nse > but Atkinson’s
4 White Rose ”is ever fresh and sweet.
ATKINSON’S
EAU DE COLOGNE
Renowned for a couple of centuries,
this Perfume has given rise to a legion
of Worthless Imitations. Use only
Atkinson’s English —the finest.
Of all Dealers.
& E. ATKINSON,
24, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION Only genuine with shield
shape blue and yellow label and usual
Trade Mark—a “White Rose”—
and address in full.
A
Deafness Completely Cured! Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing eases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
ful ever brought before the public. Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST, Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
*
PATENT
PILLS.
a
&
&
re
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &c. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
lufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these
Pills, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable
as a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. It taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
For a weak stomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
De found to work wonders upon the most important
organs in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ac-
tion with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society ; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world.
Beechani’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
*nd Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
stand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and «ill speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Beecham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beecham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. l£d. (containing 56 pills), and at
Es.9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
iverywhere.
K.B.— Full directions are given with each box.
tST A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY'S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtuesof thes ® grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. £•»?"' Pur-
chasers should look to the - Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 523 Oxford street, London, they are
eourious
/ if
s
D
10
%
fe?o
.JT
worn DNT I LIKE TO BE IN IT
MANUFACTURED BY THE
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO.,
Clevei ancl Street, S'scTl33XrEl'Sr.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
aar APPLY FOR
Sr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED FREE BY
Dr. 3S3L PERRY,
145 Elizabeth-St. , SYDNEY.
Dr.RIDOE’S
FOOD
FOE INFANTS AFD INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Pxesse,
M.R.C.S., F. 0.5., &c. We Johnstone
Ph.D,, F.C.S., &c., Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
M A .TV I 3 O O 13.
HEALTH. STRENGTH AND VIGOR RBSTOREt
In Four Weeks by the use of
£)* RI CORO'S
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Records Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements oj the. human frame.
In cases of 12s. or four quantities in one for Oils. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia —Perry A 'Co., 73 Gertrude
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOXIRjSE.
Agentsfor N. S. Wales-W. H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney.
J'*/»
ows
H
EMBROCATION
si
J.EVERXWHEREd l; \P^
m
Medical,
<gj
g
IP so,
DON’T MISS THIS.
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in prosing that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is uni
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the, appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure ||
completely anti lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back ami Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumatism, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal-Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout. In-
digestion, Asthma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrhea,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, arid contains
special appliances for both' sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USE-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to be the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Eiectricity'as applied by the appliance-above
referred to. Our confidence in this . appliance is so
complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application. 9
The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l.
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp. j
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtnky. • f
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 617, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember— I The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost. A
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life,'
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be sens
Free, Sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is, 3d.
“ THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at SYDNEY, N.S.W.)
The Untque Weekly—Australia’s Nonparell
Illustrated Newspaper.
“The Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
Is the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
The Bulletin favours—
A Republican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
Complete Secularisation and Freedom of State
Education.
Reform of the Criminal Code and Prison
System.
A United Australia and Protection against
the World.
Australia for the Australians.—The cheap
Chinaman, the cheap nigger, and the
cheap European pauper to be absolutely
excluded.
A Suite Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
State monopoly.
The election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
rather Government by Contradiction.
Anew Parliamentary System—one House to
be elected by constituencies as at present;
the other to be chosen by the whole
country voting as one Constituency.
A Universal System of Compulsory Life
Insurance.
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
ship of Land.
The Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “nobility. ’
The public eye rejects as uninteresting more
than half of what appears in the newspapers of
the day. It is only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
of general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and has become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
by the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
and follow its lines. The result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
From the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. They are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
with the latest appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
form—printed with new type of improved legi-
bility on the finest paper, and adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
tralian journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition frpra its inception.
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth,
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery which now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people over whom it is exercised, The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red coverbis equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most
popular city publication and the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact —
easily ascertainable from any postal official —that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial com,muni _
aliens to be addressed to J. F. ARCHIBALD.


Medical.
3
112 PHILLIP ST, SYDNEY.
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical
Board of New South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine Sc Therapeutics,
SPECIALIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
tology, Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “Lectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “Extra-uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English Government), Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS & SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions : —Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Liver, Indigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hidden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered ? Dr. J. Vin6s will, on receipt of £1 !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
(l avours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Yiu6s with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy for the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS.
I am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis -
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
I Charge KT othing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. for Advice and Treatment; he
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Hours of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.ra. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings : Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JJSCKIEIaL VIKTES,
112 Phillip Street. Sydney.
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN WRTTTNft
TXTo Cur e, 3NT o Pay.
FT M l l UK
SUSPENS ORy
lil'o
ft
H’HIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
1 cure all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
all WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
you. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for our ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address
German Electric Appliance Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
BKFORB 1
TAIvI.NG.
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
DEBILITY.
In all stages, Despondency, I
Ua-shfulaess, &c., &c , how-
ever caused, never returns. I-
AFTER
21 DAYS.
THOUSANDS have proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent cure is NERVITA, the
21 days’cute, forwarded by mail in plain package to
rnvaddress. Price, 21 SHILLINGS. VVhypaymore?
NERVITA REMEDY AGENCY, Box 399, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.W.
beef IRON and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking Powder.
ABSOLUTELY I‘UKE.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medical.
Df. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING BOOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies* as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
YOXJKTG UMCZESUXT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches ;
giddiness ; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart •; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, &c., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WOKE,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE FOUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
debility,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and you can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send 6d. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESrAIIt,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed Toy Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Gases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed —
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors from Market-street},
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Hotel.
“ (F,he (Sydney dCoffee palace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young's Crescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, S.S.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds,
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
30s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
per week.
Board and Residence.
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
DESCRIPTIVE.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlook! ntr Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected
jvith the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
Medical.
LEPEOSY.
Scrofula, Eczema, Erysipelas, Rheumatism, Itch, Gout,
Ulcers, Sciatica, Cancers, Blotches, Lumbago, Scurvy,
Piles, Gravel, Stone in Bladder, Indigestion, Kidney' and
Liver Complaints, Debility, Fits, Foul Sores, Pimples,
Freckles, Ringworms, Scales, Barbers’ Rash, Chilblains,
Chapped Hands, Scald Head, Grog Blossoms, Mange in
Horses and Dogs, and all other
Blood and Skin Diseases
Guaranteed to be speedily' eradicated, and permanently
cured by Dr. KOCH’S infallible remedy. It expels all
impurities and foul matter from the blood, bones, and
flesh; it cleanses, heals and beautifies the skin, and
restores the hair quickly and luxuriantly. The influx of
Asiatics has alarmingly spread LEPROSY over Australia.
No eruption should be neglected. Leprosy may lurk
behind simple-looking cutaneous affections. Dr. KOCH’S
treatment has perfectly restored numerous sufferers.
Dr. KOCH’S remarkable discovery is acknowledged to be
a sure cure for all blood and skin diseases. Dr. KOCH’S
skin-cleansing solution is the best disinfectant in the
world. Dr. KOCH’S wonderful blood purifier, and his
marvellous skin-cleansing solution, are only obtainable
DIRECT from us. Secure unobservable packages, with
full directions, 10/6, 21/-, 42/-, sent anywhere in N.S.W.,
and to any Australian or N.Z. port, carriage free, on receipt
of P.O. Orders. Communications strictly confidential.
Orange Butter 00.,
Market Buildings, Beorge-st., Sydney.
Sole Australian Agents.
X> adies.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 2/6. Our
Auranian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
2/9; equal to real Gold.
Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Shippings
JQNGL AND
VIA
by the
AMERICA
Australian & American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE).
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this Hne are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
ĝ
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points cn route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, .£52 10s. and £57 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE ; £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guide books
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
16 Bridge Street, Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES.
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN, SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
ğ
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI-
TIUS. and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON : £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers’ luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
ELECTRIC PILLS.-For General Debility,
Weakness, Lassitude, &o. (Dr. Laseurs,
M.D., Paris, one of the Greatest Specialists in
the world.) Electric Pills are the most speedy
and most powerful remedy in the world. One
box will be sufficient, and in even the weakest, the
oldest, and most shattered, work a miracle, while
perfectly harmless, leaving no bad after effects.
Guaranteed Never to Fail, Worth their weight in
gold. Price, 10s. 6d., post free, from the sole
agent, W. PARSONS, Chemist, 68 Bourke-street
east, Melbourne.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restore regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sure and safe. Large box, posted, ss.
ORIENTAL VIGOUR PILLS for MEN. Large Box, ss.
Write W. W. Garfield, 325 West Collins-st., Melbourne.
X
-29-
YORK STREET
WYNYARD SQUARE, SYDNEY.
I*,o. Box 820.
Assisted by Dr. EMSLIE, M.D.. L.F.P.S., L.S.A., L.M., etc.,
Legally Qualified and Registered by the Medical Board of N.S.W. and N.Z.
DEBILITY.
■NTflrvous weak overworked, ambitionless men and women, with aching heads, weak stomachs and
leaden footsteps, who are billions, spiritless, exhausted, debilitated, pale, easily tired, have bad tasting
mouths on rising, inability for exertion, foul breath, furred or yellow tongues, whose sleep is un-
refreshimr or broken by dreams, who brood over their troubles real or imaginary, and to whom the
world looks black and dreary, will find in our treatment a boon, a nerve food, nerve tonic and nerve
alterative that cannot be found elsewhere, and which will rapidly and pleasantly restore them to
HEALTH, STRENGTH & VIGOR.
All who suffer from brain and spine affections, fits, paralysis, sleeplessness (an early symptom of
naralvsis) varicocele, consumption, bronchitis, asthma, liver and heart derangements, gout, rheumatism,
sciatica indigestion, poor blood, eruptions on the face, kidney and bladder troubles, womb
and all chronic diseases of men and women, no matter from whatever causes arising, should CON-
and aU SULT Dr. SPEER, as, in consequence of
HARD TIMES,
HE
HAS REDUCED HIS FEES EXACTLY On.e-DE3Ca.lf.
A3T Those CONTEMPLATING MARRIAGE, or who suspect taint in their blood, or weakness
Rbould write to Dr. SPEER for Advice and Treatment, He will cure all local and constitutional
complaints, and thus enable them to marry honourably.
Consultations Free,
Curable Cases Guaranteed.
PILLS.
AMERICAN “VIGOR” PILLS, for Debility,
Loat Vitality, Weakness, etc., 55., or 21s. for
five boxes. Post free.
“FEMALE” PILLS, for Irregularities and
Obstructions from whatever cause, 10s. and
20s.


Miscellaneous.
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers.
TNJO matterif you live in town, country, or another
. colony, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
friend, and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will make you from it a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches, which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door, for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
thing in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
(£3 35.). We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand, there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
picture, which we guarantee will charm you.
Now, every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he be the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary way of business. Query—Then why do it? Answer
—We want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s. 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
we will present you with a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself on the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A GUARANTEE.
It is well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australesia, and by every man in Sydney,
that we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ by far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we will send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION.—As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give your Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
is safe then. Note the AddressTHE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE CROWN STUDIOS,
Corner George S Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
LIGHT.
STRONG.
CHEAP.
SUNBEAM”
Price, with Cushion Tyres ... £l4 o o
~ with Pneumatic Tyres ... 1? 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated; strong hammock saddle, spanner,
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free) from
EDGrE & EDGE,
248 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Perfect HealtfT
May be secured by all who follow the
example of Mrs. Lizzie W. De Veau,
362 15th St., Brooklyn, N. Y,, U-S.A.
‘‘Every Spring, for years, I have had
intolerable headaches, and total loss of en-
ergy, so that the season which should be
welcomed by me was a dread, for, as the
warm, pleasant days arrived, they brought
«
m
©
h
&
%
to me lassitude and pain. My druggist had
known me from childhood, and advised me
to take, early in the Spring, Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla. I commenced using it and have not
had, since then, the first symptom of head-
ache; my appetite is splendid, and I per-
form my daily duties with a cheerfulness
and energy that surprises myself.” *
Ayer’s om y Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair.
Made by Dr. J.C. Ayer & Co.,Lowell,Mass.,U.S.A.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY,
314 GKEOIRGKE - STEEET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
J. DE3C u.D ert &"wm, a n
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
I!>T£.n !
<<om
■\Jrfor
TWncv/.^ort.wmd
WatewurY.
i
Business Announcements.
NESTLE’S FOOD
FOR
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
F rame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use.
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the best of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia o
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—YoI. VII.
‘‘Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.”—Pro. Wm. O.
Leubk.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Yol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.”—Prof. Senator.
On SCROFULOSIS.—YoI. XVI.
“What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected ? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.” —Prof.
Birch-Hirschfkld,
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand” EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc.
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto&Co.,
writes:—
I lis lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
I have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
This is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations,and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
!JI Perfect Food.
ġ
HORLICK’S
MALTED
MILK
ģ
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS
For TRAVELLERS
I TUT ALTED MILK is made from the
I*l richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
TUTALTED MILK is not to be cooked,
1"1 no milk is to be added ; it is quickly
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
TUT ALTED MILK is the best food for In 1
1»1 fants. “ The composition of Malted '
\ Milk resembles that of human milk.’ 1 1
\ — Lancet, April 4,1891.
\ TWALTED MILK, as a food for In-1
> 1”1 valids, surpasses all other light diets.
1 Being most nutritious and easily
1 assimilated, it is constantly pres-
-1 cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very
palatable, and free from adulterants. ’
—British Medical Journal, April 18, 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in any climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:—
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Malted Milk Co., 39, Snow Hill, London, EC.
Bodalla Cheese.
CAUTIOU.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA,
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA.
Hears the Registered Brand of the Company.
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
rjIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE—Is. ; Per POST, Is. 3d.
Business Announcement.
SQUATTER’S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, Os. Gel.
S-S Size.
R. & G. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 George St., Sydney.
Post your Razor to be Ground and Set —enclose 1/3.
Kesl for the Wearied Soles by trying
L L X S’S
(Registered) SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For Ladies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
SWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAP»
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
7
'>SJ
UUm
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CO,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round the heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities—a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The propiietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical bool making is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the
LOWEST POSSIBLE PRICES FOR CASH,
Post Free to any Post-town in Australia. CATALOGUES
POST FREE.
No matter how far hack in the interior you may reside,
we post the boots DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR. ELLIS'S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on speciallv-
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample ti ad
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELL S’B
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY—they are a “going con-
cern ” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new boots
do. Send for catalogue, post free. The following
are among our leading items: Gent.’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s 6d ;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s ;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d ; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s 6d ; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s 6d ; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s 6d, Tops for ditto, 12s 6d ; Primest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s 6d (worth £3 1'Os); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s 6d ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s 6d ; Half ditto,
23s 6d; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12s
6d ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s 6d ; Ladies’ and Children’s
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S., 16s 6d. In stock—
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d ; Nice Glace Oxford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s 6d ;
Glace, Button, 11s 6d.
SPECIAL COUPON BOOT.
For a FEW WEEKS ONLY.
A Guinea’s Worth
FOE—
13s. 6d.
Cut this Coupon nut, forward
together with your Measure-
ments and Remittance of 13s.
6d., when you will have
mailed to you (post free)
a pair of those French
Calf Balmorals,
cloth or kid leg,
narrow or
wide
toes.
mis
&./coupon
V GuiNCfi
BALMORAL
TO
E |3|
6 J
SAME STYLE IN ELASTIC SIDES, IF PREFERRED
When sending, mention this paper
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“lam pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of hoofs
you sent me ; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“The two pairs of boots which we had from you have
been constantly worn for months. You appear to use
prime leather. The wear has been phenomenal.
“GEORGE EARNGEY, Roads Office, Deniliquin.” '
“I am highly pleased with your boots, and you have
fitted me to a T.
“H. R. COTTAR, Tarella, Wilcannia.”
“The boots (both pairs) fit splendidly, and give general
satisfaction.
“GEO. GUEST, Jun., The Rock, Boggabri.”
“ The boots are giving every satisfaction; will forward
you all my orders in future. We are unable to produce
such a boot in Queensland.
“ E. BERRY, Electric Telegraphs, Cooktown, Q.”
“ The boots you made me are an excellent fit. As you
know, my right leg is shorter than the left. I can now
(thanks to your cleverness) walk with comfort and secu-
rity'. I recommend you to all my friends and acquain-
tances. MARTIN BATES, Mounted Constable,
“ Qilgunnia, Nymagee.”
“ I can strongly recommend your workmanship and fit
as superior to anything I have ever had.
“THOMAS PEARCE, Solicitor, Hillston, N.S.W.”
“ The boots came to hand, are well made and fit well.
I send herewith order for four more pairs.
. “Miss F. A. ROWLING, Court House, Balranald, N.S. W.”
Special Notice 1 Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitling the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£lOO One Hundred Pounds! £lOO
Ist Prize, 20 Sovereigns ; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. t’3: sth, do. £2; 40prizes, value £1 each;
10 do. at 15s. each ; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.).
Remember !—ALL PARCELS POST FREE
T El. E3L.3L.153,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Selous says that the correct pronunciation
is Lo Beng-ula, and that the Matabele should be
1 "" ' 'ndebele. It doesn’t matter much
now, however.
kj.m x'i iujuisco has 300,000 people ; Boston
iias half-a-million. In 1891, Boston had three
murders ; ’Frisco had 31. ’Frisco, for its size, is
the most murderous city on earth.
A new civilising agent has turned up in
the shape of the Salvator machine-gun, an Austrian
invention, which is claimed to be as simple and
effective as the Maxim, is only half the weight,
and costs 50 per cent. less. Apparently, the time
will soon come when every Anarchist can afford
to buy his own machine-gun, and in some moment
of aggravation they will turn a thousand of them
on London or Paris, and mop up the population
promiscuously. Dynamite isn’t even a patch on
the mechanical destroyer which blazes away by
itself so long as the owner has the money to buy
cartridges.
Dear Bulletin, —A few words of comment
on “ X.L’s.” par. re the temperament and teaching
of Christ : Your correspondent assumes that He
was an aristocrat—taking the word in its best
sense (“Faith, for the worst is filthy,” says Ape-
mantus; “and would not hold taking, I doubt
me.”)—that He denounced only the bourgeoisie,
and that He was not a democrat. First let us
carefully verify our terminology, so that shifting
definitions may not lead to confusion of issues :
What is an aristocrat ? What is the distinguishing
quality of this Brahmin caste? Superior ability,
education or principle are not postulated, yet there
is something. That something is a nebulous
aloofness, a sort of divine right to do dirty work
by proxy, and eat bread in the sweat of some one
rise’s brow—a quality identifiable in the present
day only by its evil odour. Aristocrat, being an
old word, has attained a green old age, particularly
where the hair is coming off in flakes. It dates
from Burke’s “ Age of Chivalry,” when Christ-like
English Tories made it safer to kill a man than a
hare —when the classes had to be taken at their
own estimate —when the parson and the squire
persuaded our forefathers, per medium of the
stocks and the beadle’s whip, that the word
denoted something high. This impression of high-
ness isstill retained, but isnowseized, you will notice,
by one of the physical faculties. Owing to
enlightenment, it is not a name to conjure with—
in fact, it is impossible to touch it without a pair
of tongs and a respirator, or contemplate it with-
out an ounce of civet to sweeten the imagination ;
and the time is not far distant when it will be
carried out on a spade and buried in quicklime, at
midnight, in some secluded place. So much for
the aristocrat. What aloofness can anyone
find in Christ’s favourite title, Son op Man?
Why, the Nazarene artisan, meek and lowly in
heart— who came not to be ministered unto, but
to minister —who washed his followers’ feet —who
called them not servants, but friends—struck at
the very root of caste when He established a new
aristocracy of usefulness, in which he that was
greatest should be servant of all. Whereas, the
best aristocrat, in his best form, feels for the poor
and illiterate exactly as Father Martin felt for the
brute creation. The bourgeois, or Fat Man, needs
no definition ; we all know him —most of us to
our sorrow. He is a slave to the lust of the eyes,
as the aristocrat is to the pride of life—degener-
acies equally offensive to democracy, and, according
to the strange allegory of the Temptation, equally
repudiated by Christ. The Sermon on the Mount
is permeated by the most perfect spirit of demo-
cracy ever breathed on earth, whilst the last awful
denunciation of Jerusalem impartially embraces
aristocrat and bourgeois, and no other. In the
parable of the rich man and Lazarus, Oriental
hyperbole is exhausted in favour of the vagrant,
whilst in the parable of the wayfarer on the
Jericho road, the comparison between the Samari-
tan —the Chinaman of Palestine—and the priest
and Levite is to the infinite discredit of the two
aristocrats. For evident reasons, the aristocrat
and the bourgeois are never placed in contrast;
but each repeatedly suffers damaging comparison
with the lowly. “X. L.” will pardon me for
noticing that, though in the first place he draws
such a sharp distinction between the Fat Man and
the person whose offence is rank and smells to
heaven, yet toward the end of his short par. the
two characters become entangled and merged.
This confusion is not surprising; indeed, it is
difficult to be avoided, seeing that the resources of
the bourgeois are required to support the waste of
the aristocrat. Falstaff—himself an aristocrat,
and, in a too liberal sense, a Fat Man—had occa-
sion to wish that his means were greater and his
waist slenderer. Did Christ “often dine with rich
Pharisees and the like?” He dined with a
Pharisee named Simon —and, almost as a matter
of course, gently reproved his host for rudeness to
Himself and exclusiveness toward others. He
dined with the bourgeois, Zaccheus—and took
occasion to commend this objectionable person.
He dined at the house of Matthew with “a great
company of publicans and sinners.” He also
dined with the family at Bethany—and this com-
pletes the record. The founder of a religion which
aimed at making things new by the obliteration of
meretricious distinctions could not count aristocrat,
bourgeois or pauper, cbmulon or unclean. All
were potential material for the perfect democracy
He purposed. Again, the law of liberty commands
no one to sell all that he has and give to the poor.
This is purely discretionary. But the man who
feebly fences with the question has already made
the great refusal, and has every reason to go away
sorrowful; for no more is to be expected from him
who fears poverty than from the respecter of per-
sons —and heaven knows that is little enough. It
is just here that Christ applies the uncomfortable
metaphor of the camel and the needle’s eye.
“X. L.’s” reference to Joseph of Arimathea
must be inadvertent. Surely he has noticed that
when Christ’s career was finished—when the or-
ganisation He had lived and died to inaugurate
was established by his duly-commissioned apostles
—J. of A. became of necessity either an apostate or
a communist.-
TOM COLLINS.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
17 of this issue.


Colemane& Sons’ Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest
Colemane & Sons’ Special Eucal. Oil is A one.
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
Oolemane & Sons’ Vic. Ointment is raarvellou a
Musical Instruments.
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away!! (only 3O s 000)
BE IN TIME.
Send Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
In return a 4s. Song, Waltz or Piano Piece,
VKEEI
HOWARD & CO. have a List of ,£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Itemenibcr this I HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY -
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Elutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
O-un.3 & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES ,
MANGLES. SEWING MACHINES.
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
ea. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK 1
At 2d. and 3d. each— Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH OItGAXS
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
»d. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.
Merchants it Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W,
tS- Write for Lists, and beware of worthless
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organs, Music
Violins, Strings, mutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
A2T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers. "®3
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for \IOLIX
-li alld piANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Liable,
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Lucrezia Borgia, Wi I bain
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera, I T>'o\a
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. Cd. each— ol all Mus
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON &
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MKLUOLRNE.
Co.,
Itching Skin Humors
Torturing, Disfiguring Eczemas
And every species of itching, burning, bleeding, scaly, crusted, pimply,
and blotchy skin and scalp diseases are relieved in the majority
of cases by a single application, and speedily, permanently and
Is
/
economically cured by the Cuticura
Remedies when the best physicians,
hospitals, and all other remedies fail.
No language can exaggerate the suf-
fering of those afflicted with these dis-
eases, especially of little babies, whose
tender skins are literally on fire.
CUTICURA
Remedies are the greatest skin
cures, blood purifiers, and humor reme-
dies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and agreeable to the most sensi-
tive, and may be used on the youngest
infant and most delicate invalid with
gratifying and unfailing success.
Cuticura, the great skin cure, instantly allays
the most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, heals raw and irri-
tated surfaces, cleanses the scalp of crusts and scales, and restores the hair. Cuticura
Soap, the only medicated toilet soap, is indispensable in cleansing diseased surfaces.
Cuticura Resolvent, the new blood and skin purifier and greatest of humor reme-
dies, cleanses the blood of all impurities, and thus removes the cause. Hence, the
Cuticura Remedies cure every humor of the skin, scalp, and blood, with loss of hair.
JB®=“How to Cure Diseases of the Skin and Blood, ”64 pages, 300 Diseases, 50 Illus-
trations, 100 Testimonials, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world. Price, Cuticura, 50c.; Cuticura ooap,
25c.; Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug & Chemical Corp’n, Boston, U. 0. A.
Pimply Skin
red, rough hands, painful finger ends and shapeless nails
are prevented and cured by OutiCUTS. So&p, in~
comparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps-
The only medicated toilet soap and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging o£
the pores, the cause of pimp'—-, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin, and simple humors of infants.
TEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. G- ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
Woman’s Salvation.
Tie Rise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all tire years y ou’ve lived. Write. Prof. HER-
MANN, French Specialist, 45 C ollins Place East, MELB.
QUEENSLAND SADDLERY .
A LL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
EAF« SS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Comfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials sealed, 2 stamps.
A. M. NAST, 49 ELIZABETH ST., MELB.
The Most Delicious Sauce in the World.
g
jjspaliig
Silly Delicious
WITH
CHOPS,
STEAKS,
FISH, &c.
MAKES COLD MEAT A LUXURY.
BLENDS ADMIRABLY WITH ALL GRAVIES.
WITH SOUP CHARMING.
Soldi Everywhere.
Wholesale: TILLOCK & CO., KENT AND LIVERPOOL STREETS, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietors: GOODALL, BACKHOUSE & CO., LEEDS, ENGLAND.
Prospectus.
MONSTER
FREEHOLD PBIPEBTI
Distribution..
£59,401 Worth of Freehold Property.
AUSTRALIAN BUILDING SOCIETY.
Incorporated by Act of Parliament.
Proposed Issue ;
59,401 Shares of £1 Each.
NO LIABILITY.
Committee of Management, Queensland:
0. W. MIDSON, Esq., M.L.A.
D. T. ANNE Alt. Esq., M.L.A.
M. B. GANNON, Esq., J.P.
Committee in N.S.W.:
F. CLARKE, Esq., M.P., Macleay.
S. BOND, Esq., J.P., Ex-Mayor of Kempsey.
ROBT. HAYES, Esq., Kempsey.
Bankers:
The Commercial Bank of Sydney.
Solicitors:
Messrs. THYNNE & McCARTNEY.
118 PHIZES as under:
Ist Prize, 1606 acres, valued at £11,643;
2nd prize, £6724; 3rd prize, £6000; 4th prize, £6813 i
sth prize, £3OOO ; 6th prize, £2720; 8 prizes from £2560
to £1650 ; 13 prizes from £BB5 to £5O, 23 prizes of £45
each ; 49 prizes of £26 10s. each ; 19 prizes of £2O each.
List Closes 31st March»
All moneys received are banked to credit of the Com-
mittee without deduction.
Intending Shareholders are invited to make the_ fullest
enquiry as to the value of Properties. Application for
SHARES must be made to the Secretary, BARRON
L. BARNETT, 204 Queen Street, BRISBANE; or
“Secretary,” care of C. SMITH, No. 24 Imperial Arcade,
SYDNEY; or “Secretary,” care of J. RICHARDSON,
W. Kempsey, N.S.W., from whom all particulars may be
obtained. Enclose two addressed envelopes with un-
attached stamps ; add exchange if cheque sent. Register
letters.
Business Announcements.
LADIES’
HATS
MADE
Ik
ORDER.
f ANY WIDTH
A
BRIM.
G-EKTT.’S TERAI.
With Puggaree, 8/- extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
GHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best Materials. Perfect Fitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION.
••the lounge hair-dressing chair.
The most comfortable ever offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a nice, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used by
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We alwats have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber’s poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net,
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
ANTMHJE oil.. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG «5c AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 682 George Street, Sydney.
N OTICE. —Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
One Hamlet runs a pawnbroker’s shop in
Brisbane. “My prophetic soul, my uncle !”
A Maoriland paper’s obituary on a suicided
remittance man :—“ He was in receipt of money
from Home at various times and enjoyed himself
thoroughly every time the cheque arrived.”
A' London .magistrate lately sentenced a
man to six weeks imprisonment for biting a num-
ber qf pieces out of his illegitimate daughter, aged
about six years. Six weeks for cannibalism on a
live relative seems cheap.
Exchange : —Mrs. Honeymoon : “Do you
love me ?'* Old Party (confidentially, from other
seat, to bridegroom): “That makes 47 times she’s
askedyou. I get out here, but I’ll leave the score
with this gentleman by the window.” Which
recalls the commercial traveller in the top berth of
a sleeping-car listening to the newly-married
couple underneath. She : “ Kiss me again,
Charlie, and then I’ll go to sleep.” Traveller :
“Yes, kiss her again, Charlie, and then we’ll all
go to sleep.”
Dear Bulletin, —Re Queensland Kanakas*
In ’6B I had charge of 25 Kanakas on Hon. Louis
Hope’s sugar plantation at Cleveland, about 28
miles from Brisbane, opposite Stradbroke Island,
I believe these were the first Kanakas introduced.
When I arrived very extensive machinery had
been erected ; the fields were worked by Kanakas
under a boss, the crushing, refining and distilling
was, done by whites paid by piece work, including
bagging the sugar. Hope received a grant of
land frpm the Government for successfully culti-
vating sugar-cane. By-the-by, he was the man
who fought the last duel on English soil, and a
good type of the fine, old English gentleman, all
of the olden time. —Yours, Reginald Meek,
Bourke, 28/2/’94.
Re the story of Sandow tearing in halves
two packs of cards at once. All the showiest
feats of “strong men,” remarks a Bulletin cor-
respondent, are feats requiring a knowledge of
physics. That is the meaning of “knack.” Per-
haps the hardest feat for any strong man to per-
form, simply because it can’t be done by brute-
strength, is this. The strong man lies on a level
floor flat on his back, with his arms also stretched
flat on the floor above his head. A second man
lays himself flat across the strong man’s hands.
Together they form a great capital T. The feat
is for the strong man to lift up the other, and,
without dropping him, lay him down just beyond
his feet so as to reverse the former position—thus,
j,. A man of ordinary strength can do it, if he
knows a little physics, but not even Sandow could
do it by sheer brute-strength.


>5!
Petty’s Family Hotels Sydney*
WYHYARD SQUARE;
ft UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Bedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Ladies' Sc Gentlemen's Dining Sc Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’Hdte as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges.
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
mm
OF
Merceß v
msam
PRIDDY’S
HATS
at once
PRO Cl AIM
TUB
MAN.
THEY give a creditable appearance, which is
BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
World-renowned!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses: —
438 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s.,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
IMHi
OME
TREADLE
AND
N NATIONAL HAND
Sewing Machines
BEST 0 " EARTH.
CASH or TIME PAYMENT.
Ask your nearest Agent,
or write direct to us
for Illustrated Cat-
alogue with full
particulars.
H
♦
&
Ha
0
<b
&
or <$
Needles and
Duplicate Parts
for All Sewing
Machines sent by Post
mm
SELF THREADING SHUTTLE
„ * FOR THE
NEW HOME and NEW NATIONAL
SIMPLICITY ITSELF!
Baker’s Patent Boundary J&ider’s Knife
g
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 13/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal Agri-
cultural Society.
wr. Jno. Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-at., Sydney
H. P. GREGORY & 00.,
Limited,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steam Engines, Boilers, G-aa Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS’ TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
BAILEY’S
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modem Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 Apart-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres , Exhi-
bitions, Museums, Parks, Colonial
Institute , <shc., are easy 0/ access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience, %
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
‘ plum ’
Pi
THE
‘Plum’
GENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor ijs something superior to any others offered to the public.
Tt is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can' highly recommend this brand to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to its merits. We guarantee each Razor for Tu<o Years.
■y ■ I Single Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. 6d. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s.
Price I Single Razor, in ivory handle, 155.; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful case, 30s.
Registered and sent Post Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania , Is. extra
Sole
Agents :
CRAIG & AITKEN, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
FROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
i ' ■
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
6 6 mALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.”
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Public Companies.
Five Mis las at Lowest Hates,
g
Head Offices:
-95-
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL,
J 3150.000
(O^ 1
<y
Directors:
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
{Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.C.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
y SPECIAL FEATURES.
r It is an AUSTRALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
rp ~pq- -p~i
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF —
NEW SOUTH WALES, Limited.
INCORPORATED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.
capital:
Subscribed, .£1,000,000 : Paid-up, £25,000.
Board of Directors:
The Hon. F. T. Humphery, M.L.C., Chairman.
Hollo A. Cape, Esq., Vice-Chairman.
W. O. Goddard, Esq. Josiah Mullens, Esq.
Lesley George Herring, Esq.
THIS Company acts as Executor, Adminis-
trator, Trustee, Attorney, or Agent in the
Management or Realisation of Estates or Invest-
ment of Funds, and is prepared to take over
existing Trusts.
Solicitors for Trusts transferred continue to act
for the Trust.
A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD,
Manager.
Telephone No. 1207. Offices—lmperial Cham-
bers, 16 O’Connell-streeb.
4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
4s. in the <£ 4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
DISCOUNT
For Cash.
STATIONERS’ HALL GO.
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d,
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good quality, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFFICE APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographic Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3Jd., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, More. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
385 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
g
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,'
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, 2V.S. WALES.
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £S 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking.
-THE
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches :
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital .. £900,000
Reserve Liability 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
_____ G. A. WILSON. Manager.
rpHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited).
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. *300,000
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 315,000
RESERVE FUND »3,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Bank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid up ~ £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET.
A. BRYANT, Manager,
Bank of New South Wales .
Established 1817.
Head Office-GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Authorised Capital £3,000,000
Paid-up Capital, as on the 15th December, 1893 1,625,380
Reserved Fund, as on the 15th December, 1893 1,103,845
Directors:
Thomas Buckland, Esq., President.
James R. Hill, Esq.
J. T. Walker, Esq.
James Milson, Esq.
Thomas Cadell, Esq.
Robert O. Close, Esq.
Auditors:
F. W. Uthkr, Esq. James S. Harrison, Esq.
London Office— Old Broad Street,
With Branches in all the Australian Colonies and New
Zealand ; and Agencies in Tasmania, India and the East,
the United States, Hamburg and the United Kingdom.
The Bank allows interest on fixed deposits ; collects for
its customers dividends of public companies, and interest
on debentures; and invests money on their behalf in public
securities in the Colonies or Great Britain; undertakes
the agency of other banks; issues drafts, circular notes
and letters of credit, dnd conducts all customary banking
business.
The Bank also issues Circular Notes in sums of £lO or
£2O, negotiable on the Continents of Europe and America,
or in India and the East.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
Medical.
Teeth.— a complete set, one
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, painlessly fixed
hy ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other Arms.
FIVE YEARS’ WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
DR, HACKETT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep theii 4 chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
pose free on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING-ST. (the only address), two
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
w
*
IS
ABSOLUTELY
PURE.
CURES COLDS,
COUGHS,
INFLUENZA, &i
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
WHOLESALE BY
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF 4 CO., Sydney
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney
FILLOCK 4 CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney
MASSEY & CO.,
MANUFACTURERS, V
746 George Street, Sydney.
FACTORY. YOUNG, N.S.W.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Go.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are the Originators of the famous SCOTCH and WEST OF ENGLAND TWEED SUITS
TO MEASURE .at 45/- TROUSERS, 12/6.
BOUND CORKSCREW SUITS, 50- .. .. TROUSERS, l«/«
The FINEST QUALITY in SERGES from 50/- .. TROUSERS. 15/-
fW" Country Customers please WRITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SELF-MEASUREMENT FORMS.
LONDON <C MELBOURNE TAILORING GO., SI Erskine Street.
S. M. BAUMASHE, Manager.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by post as a Newspaper.
Vol ll_a 0.737,
SATURDAY, MARCH 81. 1894,
Price, 6d.
“ fCsHiT "
THE PRODIGAL.
OLD AUSTRALIA (to New ditto) : “Well, young’un, you have had enough of ‘true mateship, and have come back to the old camp. Come in, you'll find some
cold veal in the pantry, and when you’ve pulled yourself together a bit you had better take a pick and shovel and dish and make up for lost timer


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Australia for the Australians.''
Proprietors ;
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... £1 0 0
Half-yearly 0126
Quarterly... 0 6 G
NOTICE.
By sending direct to Thk Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling—with postage added where required,
which you may pay by Post Office Order, One Pound
Note, or stamps of any Australian province—you can
have The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered by mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with whom we do not wish
to interfere.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director
Literary Communications to be addressed J. P.
Archibald.
The Editor will carefully read and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence” column all contributions submitted—
ivhether in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say SOOO words, are specially acceptable ),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
communications will be regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
But we desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
Australasian Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, E.C.
Also in the Transvaal The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also : - ii. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetovm, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage by the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interpi'ovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will be £l, with 3s. 3d,
added for postage.
No papers ivill be sent unless the subscription he pre-
paid. There will be no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
w w*w
J' C/T% //
*’ / *
SATURDAY, MARCH 31, 1894.
The “ Anglo-Saxon Peace.”
At almost every public function where the
American and the Britisher or the Australian
meet and feed amicably together, some
orator or other disinters the golden legend
of a good time coming, when a great Anglo-
Saxon confederation will keep peace
throughout the globe, from China to Peru
and from Franz Josef Land to the
waters of Magellan. No Anglo-American
gorge would be complete without the repeti-
tion of this ancient story. Therefore, when
the direful chestnut transpired for the
several billionth time at a recent ceremonial
at Sydney, over the foundation-stone of the
New York Mutual Insurance Co.’s new
offices, it was only what might have been
reasonably expected. On that occasion a
mellow and fraternal gathering drank the
toast of “ Our American Kindred,” and in
response the voluble Consul Bell we
had almost written Bull successor of
poor soaring Gilubrov Wells Griffin,
proceeded to tell all over again the thread-
bare story of the “ Anglo-Saxon Peace.” In
the time to come, according to this legend,
the British empire and the United States
are to be federated, and thus will be
formed a solid nation of 110,000,000
white men, all speaking the English
language ; and this nation—the largest,
strongest, freest, most enlightened and most
solid on earth—will issue its fiat that there
is to be no more war upon the surface of this
vexed planet. The Anglo-Saxon confedera-
tion will then overshadow the globe, just as
Rome did in the days of Augustus, and it
will suppress strife with a strong hand, and
bring about the millennium generally.
• • •
The Bulletin is tired—very tired —of
this oft-told tale of the Anglo-Saxon peace,
and it proposes now to examine the situa-
tion soberly. (Hitherto it has only been
examined at public dinners and with the
accompaniment of drink.) In the first place,
the proposed confederation, if it ever comes
off, will not be Anglo-Saxon at all in any
sense worth speaking of. The Anglo-Saxon,
if there is such a being, will be only an item
in the category. The chief parties to the
league will be Great Britain aud Ireland, the
United States, Canada and Australia. Of
the former, Ireland, Wales, most of Scotland,
and the extreme west of England are Celtic,
and the population of the remaining fragment
is only partly Anglo-Saxon though the
supposition that it is even partly Anglo-
Saxon is somewhat disturbed by the historical
theory that the conquerors of Britain were
really men of Swedish origin, and that no
Saxons ever reached her shores at all. The
white population of the United States is pro-
bably one-half, or almost one-half, of the
same dubious and mongrel Anglo-Saxon
race, while the balance is Celtic, Slavonic,
Magyar, Croat, Latin, and of many other
nationalities. The inhabitants of Canada
are largely of French descent, and the
balance more or less Saxon, and those of
Australia are of many different origins.
These races mostly use the English language,
which is about as much Latin as alleged
Saxon, aud instead of manifesting a desire to
federate and impose peace upon the world
they have instead a hungry yearning to cut
each other’s throats at any convenient oppor-
tunity. The Irishman aad the Welshman
both hate England with a great, solid,
enduring hatred. The Scot is starting a
Home Rule movement, and would rather
separate than federate any further. The
Englishman has no love for any one of the
three. Also he has an old grudge against
the American, and the latter reciprocates
the sentiment cordially. The United States
itself is not united at heart ; Canada is
divided into two factions—the faction which
hates England and the faction which cordially
loathes the United States ; and Australia is
not especially loyal to any fox-eign state or
any foreign ideal. Therefore there are three
distinct and separate difficulties in the way
of the Anglo-Saxon Federation of Peace :
(1) It couldn’t, by any possibility, be Anglo-
Saxon ; (2) It couldn’t federate at all, for its
heterogeneous elements hate each other
much too energetically ; and (3) even if it
started its impossible career it couldn’t en-
force peace in any case.
Viewed through a mellow atmosphere of
provisions and drink there is, no doubt,
something beautiful in the picture of an im-
possible nation, 110,000,000 strong, issuing
its fiat that there is to be no more w r ar or
trouble or any kind of disturbance from now
till the latter end of Time. But, apart from
the drink and the provisions, the vision is
mere foolishness. The nation which com-
mands universal peace can only enforce its
commands by crushing, with military force,
every state or combination of states, which
begins war. Not only this, but it must
crush it so effectually that it can afterwards
compel it to disarm as the only possible
guarantee against a perpetual repetition of
the trouble. To do this, it must keep up a
larger army and navy than those of any
combination which is likely to be brought
against it, which, on a rough estimate, means
that the Commonwealth of Peace will be a
vast camp with almost every able-bodied man
perpetually under arras, and that the mil-
lennium will be the most bloodstained epoch
in history. And when it has fought with
and defeated all the great powers of the
world in succession, and thus made all the
rest of the earth its enemy, it must keep up
such a military and naval establishment as
will qualify it, at any moment, to fight all the
balance of the human race combined. It
must do this, not merely to keep the
universal peace, but to save itself from con-
quest and extinction. Its position will be
practically that of Napoleon I. in a seriously
aggravated form. Napoleon set out, not to
secure the peace of the world, but merely to
secure the peace of Europe, by the process of
disarming every nation which made war—
the same process which the mythical Anglo-
Saxon Federation will have to pursue. And
he ended as most practical apostles of univer-
sal peace do end.
# • »
The proposed millennium is a brilliant ex-
ample of the festive bumptiousness of that
person who calls himself Anglo-Saxon for
want of any better information concerning
his own origin. The picture of the com-
bined English-speaking races, 110,000,000
strong, putting down war with a strong
hand, is interesting as an example of spread-
eagleism, but nothing more. The whole
110,000,000, scattered loosely through three
continents and over a thousand islands,
would be barely equal to the one solid mass
of the Russian nation. All the available
force which it could collect in one spot at
reasonably short notice would hardly make a
dent in the solid front of the Triple
Alliance. That Alliance is now busy stand-
ing off two closely massed nations something
like 140,000,000 strong, and the prospects of
its being scared into submission by the fiat
of a much smaller power, which straggled
loosely over half the earth and had no
visible centre, are exceedingly limited. The
English-speaking races, in fact, suffer from
the common disease of being much less im-
portant than they imagine, and if ever an
Anglo-Saxon confederation, being drunk or
possessed of an evil spirit, starts out to
enforce universal peace, the experiment is
likely to end in the utter crumpling up of
the confederation and all its works.
« « •
Moreover, apart from the fact that the so-
called Anglo-Saxon peoples are not Anglo-
Saxon, that the alleged English-speaking
races to a great extent don’t speak English,
and that the proposed league of peace
couldn’t keep the peace oven if it tried,
there remains the painful fact that it doesn’t
want to try in any case. At the beginning
of the present century, England spent some
£600,000,000 to suppress the only universal
peacemaker that Europe has produced since
the days of the (Lesars, and it is still so
inflated with pride over the performance
that its appearance in the same character
would be unspeakably grotesque. Of all
the scattered sections of the alleged
English-speaking races the only one which
lies within the region of perpetual w'ar
alarms is Britain itself ; to the others it is a
matter of comparatively small consequence
whether the world is at peace or not.
Therefore, the prospect of spending a billion
or so in pursuit of an impossible ideal,
which would be of very little interest even
if it could be attained, is not attractive.
Further, the “English-speaking” races
wouldn’t federate, even apart from all their
ancient hatreds, and even supposing that uni-
versal peace was to be acquired gratis. If they
did federate, the centre of political power
must go with the centre of population, and
before the Englishman would consent to be
governed from Washington by the nominee of
an American majority, he would ally himself
with the Russian and the unspeakable Turk,
and send out a new Armada with orders to
burn New York and hang the President from
the roof of his own White House. And
apart even from these considerations, the
assertion that it is the Anglo-Saxon’s mission
to help on the era of all-round brotherhood
doesn't seem to rest on any solid evidence.
There is no visible proof, in fact, that he has
any “mission” at all, or, at least, that he
has it more badly than anybody else. Also,
there is a great lack of definite explanation
as to what a mission consists of, and no one
seems to have ascertained with certainty that
there is any such thing at all. Probably
enough there isn’t. Nations, as a rule, seem
to drift from no well-defined starting-point to
no very definite conclusion. A serious con-
sideration of history rather suggests that the
most of them never had any mission what-
ever, but were merely a series of accidents,
and even if the Anglo-Saxon is built on the
same plan as the rest he has no special
reason to complain.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Squatters and Shearers.
The N.S. W. Pastoralists’ Union is evidently
spoiling for a fight. It has given public notice
that its members “ will make no engagements
for the coming season under the shearing agree-
ment adopted in Sydney, August 7th and Bth,
1891.” This agreement brought to a close a
long and disastrous warfare between pastoralists
and shearers. There were two parties to it,
the Pastoralists’ Union and the Shearers’ Union.
The pastoralists have now', without reference to
the shearers, without stating any grievances or
asking any redress, without giving any oppor-
tunity for conciliation or compromise, put a
deliberate end to the joint agreement, and sub-
stituted another to suit themselves. If trouble
ensues, whose will the blame be ? What
would be said if the shearers had thrown
over the agreement without consulting the
pastoralists? Would not the capitalist dailies
have raved of their breach of courtesy, of
their breach of faith, of their disregard for
the community, of their efforts to create new
strife? There is no breach of faith. True ;
neither party to the agreement undertook to
keep it in force for ever. But the least that
either can expect from the other is some notice
of intentions, some endeavour to make change
acceptable if insisted on. Employer and work-
man, landlord and tenant, maintain their agree-
ment and relation until either sees fit to annul
them ; but the law' rightly holds that the party
who wishes a change must give sufficient notice
of his intentions. It cannot be said that the
pastoralists’ action is justified by the decision
of the shearers’ conference, because it was con-
templated, if not decided, long before the
shearers’ conference took place; and in any event
the shearers’ decision not to accept references,
and to make engagements direct, in no way con-
flicts with the 1891 agreement. The plain truth
is that there are in Australia many unemployed,
and the coming winter is looked forward to as
a time of great hardship for workmen. The
Pastoralists’ Union apparently means to take
advantage of these circumstances to break down
the Shearers’ Union and starve the men out of
independence into submission to their masters’
terms. The plan is cowardly and tyrannous,
and will re-act to the ruin of the squatters
themselves. The workers have now full Par-
liamentary representation in the Assembly, at
all events, and Parliament is not likely to for-
get, in dealing with the pastoralists, this last
claim which they have established to be re-
garded as enemies to the interests of Australian
manhood.
Jury ‘‘Fixing.”
A professional jury -briber is alleged to be
flourishing in Melbourne. His name is on men’s
tongues, and he is said to mix “ jury-squaring”
with magistrate-nobbling. He is mostly for the
defence, of course, but in civil cases the plain-
tiff may engage his valuable services. He has
acquiredareputation for making things “right,”
and it is remarked that the stamp of man who
seems least accessible to “ reason ” is gradually
disappearing from the Melbourne jury-system.
Possibly honesty is disappearing from the land
altogether. Jury-bribing is an old institution
in more countries than one, but Melbourne
must surely be the one aud only lax-ge city
which accepts the idea of corruption in the
law courts without some sort of protest. Belief
in one’s fellow citizen died slowdy of “ revela-
tions ” and was buried, aud not five per cent, of
the population wept at the funeral. Self-
respect departed from Jones when he found
hat Brown and Robinson were publicly com-
mended for their roguery, and when Jones
grew tired of evincing disgust the sentiment of
honour passed into a vulgar ’ commercial jest.
The learned profession of the law has done not
a little to bring about the demoralisation of
Melbourne. Barristers clothed in the majesty
of wig and gown have been permitted to estab-
lish the theory that the criminal who goes un-
prosecuted is an excuse for his particular form
of crime. Persons of reputed good character
have asked his Honor the Judge to take note
of the fact that “ they all did it,” and
were, therefore, all right, and the Judge, in a
general way, has stared vacantly into space
instead of annihilating the hideous argument on
the spot. Moreover, Melbourne is so full of
legal firms and their managing clerks—you can-
not heave a brick without hitting a managing-
clerk—that honest opinion even in private lite
is overruled by the authoritative doctrines of
those who find more profit in confounding jus-
tice than by enforcing it, and wdio are the
natural enemies of fair dealing by reason of
their calling. In older countries lawyers are a
class by themselves. Here they mix much in
society, and society is infected by them. Too
much knowledge of lawyers produces a general
contempt for the juror, and the juror who
pockets his convictions consoles himself with
the reflection that he has quite as much prin-
ciple as other people who are working the case
for all they can get out of it.
♦
Some More of the Hampton Plains
Shiudykit.
The leprosy of Foreign Capital is steadily eat-
ing away the inmost soul of West Australia.
That great province is mostly run by British
syndicates, and with a view to the “ opening
up of the country ” that good old phrase
which covers so many swindies —slabs of
territory, the size of a decent European princi-
pality, have been sold for a few pounds to
speculators who do not open them up, but
simply leave them in their natural state and
wait for a chance to sell them back again to the
idiotic Australian at 10,000 per cent, profit.
The Hampton Plains syndicate is one of the
most glaring of these many frauds upon
posterity. This bloated concern, which has its
head-quarters in England, somehow negotiated
the right of buying 216,000 acres of W.A.
land, with minerals thrown, in for £27,000.
It was allowed a number of years in
which to select its land so that it might take
advantage of anything which turned up, and it
only paid upon selection, so that the province
didn’t even get the miserable £27,000 at once,
but had to wait about six years for the money.
The syndicate did no improvements what-
ever, and spent no money, in the country;
it merely waited until there came the first
rumours of the prospective riches of Cool-
gardie, and then it selected most of the held,
only missing Bayley’s Reward claim by a mile,
or rather less. The Government could now, in
all probability, have got several times as much
for 640 acres at one end of the Hampton Plains
estate as the awful syndicate pays for ti e
entire 216,000. Also, the syndicate is exempt
from all taxes for 12 years, and, considerh g
the vast possibilities of the region, it
thus, in all probability, gets its money
back twice over in exemptions, in which
case the province will have paid £27,000
for the privilege of losing 216,000 acres
of land, and, possibly, a second Ballarat thrown
in. The latest developments of this hideously
brazen job are especially interesting. A
London company, with a capital of £lOO,OOO,
proposes to lease 600 acres of the syndicate’s
land for mining purposes, and will pay to the
syndicate one-third of the nett profits for the
right of doing so. If the company meets with
anything like decent fortune, the syndicate
may thus easily get, from one-three-hundredth
part of its property, a profit of 400 per-
cent. per annum on its whole outlay.
Then it will probably sell similar conces-
sions to other companies on equally good
terms. Next, towns will spring up on the
syndicate’s land, and the syndicate will be the
sole ground landlord, and will scoop in many
more thousands per sheut per annum. Further,
if gold is discovered outside its boundaries it
has the lease, with option of purchase, of
another million acres at the same rate, and
thus may extend its operations almost in-
definitely. And all these thousands or tens of
thousands per shent will go to England as the
price which Australia has to pay, and to keep
on paying for ever and ever, for the use of that
original miserable £27,000 of foreign capital,
which never did anything whatever to “ open
up the country.”
News from ‘‘New Australia.”
The latest news from “ New Australia ” comes
in the shape of a letter from C. H. Mannino,
one of the seceded settlers. The following are
a few extracts :
We were scarcely three weeks on the ocean when Lane
began to show himself in his true character—that of an
autocrat. For some reason, which he refused to make
known, he issued an order that all single girls were to go
below after sundown. You will readily understand the
arbitrary nature of this order when I tell you that, with
one exception, all the girls on the boat were under the
protection of parents or guardians. . . . We dis-
covered that instead of the land being only 15 miles from
Villa Rica it was at least 30, and nowhere near the Tihi-
cuari River, of which so much was made in our pro.
spector’s report. There was no timber which would split,
and so we were compelled to build mud huts and thatch
them with grass. Grass for this purpose was not easily
obtained, and so, although three months at the settlement,
some few families did not attain to the luxury of even a
mud hut. All this time the breach between th-se who
were content to live under absolute despotism and those
who claimed the right of having a say in the management
of their own affairs was growing wider every day. We
were split into two sections, known respectively as the
“Royalists” and the “Rebels.” The “Rebels”
were in the majority, and at the second last
meeting held_ at the settlement a vote of no-
confidence in the chair was carried Lane
proceeded Assuncion and registered the associa-
tion as a joint stock company on totally different, lines
from those We agreed to in Australia. He did this without
consulting us ; in fact, it .was purely by accident we
learned that he had done so. His absolute power was
now legalised, and it became patent to us that he had
succeeded in “dishing the Whigs.” . . . On Fiiday
evening, of the 15th inst., a troop of cavalry and special
constables swarmed into the settlement and proceeded
forthwith- to gxecute an order given by Lane to eject
three men whom he considered to-be ringleaders. It was
the moat brutal exhibition power I have ever witnessed.
One of the victims, Mr. A. T. Westwood, a man well-
knowu in Adelaide, had for a fortnight or more been sat


feeing from dysentery. : On Saturday morning he was
forced from hie bed, and given half-an-hour to pack up
his effects. Many of the women called upon us to resist
the troopers. But I feel sure we adopted the wiser plan,
as nothing would have pleased some of Lane’s satellites
better than the sight of the police firing upon us. The
job was evidently distasteful to the captain, but he was
compelled to obey the orders of the Czar. For days pre-
vious some of our brutal mates persisted in using
the most filthy language to our wives, brandished
revolvers, and threatened to shed our blood
“New Australia” was started ostensibly to show the
world an object lesson in how to lead happier and better
Ihes. It has commenced by turning a large number of
its members adrift in a land where they cannot speak the
language of the people—adrift, and almost penniless. It
has yet another lesson to show the world—how to eviot
the native population. On the land claimed by the
association more than 300 families are living. They have
all got orange-groves, small plots which they cultivate,
and a few cattle and sheep. They are honest, peaceable
peasantry, and in many respects superior to those who
are about to despoil them of their homes. I roust confess
that, almost to a man, the members of the association
have raised their voices against driving these poor people
out. Not so the officers. Arrangements have been made
with the Government by which, after a certain date, the
natives will be cleared out, and “New Australia " will
have shown to the world object lesson No. 2
An acre of land on the Hunter or on any of
the eastern rivers is worth more than three
of the very best in Paraguay. Paraguay can beat the
world in the production of oranges, but other fruits do
not thrive. A man with a little capital might do well
raising cattle, as large blocks of land may be purchased
at Is. per acre. If a man gets hard up here he is doomed.
If he succeeds in getting a job he must work for from Is.
to Is. fid. per day, out of wiiich he must find his food.
Yet there is not a man or woman amongst us who regrets
their having broken away from the despotism of William
Lane. The crowning indignity heaped upon us by that
gentleman was his issue of an order that our boxes and
other luggage should bi searched before being put upon
the drays, lest we should take away association property.
No less a personage than the deputy chairman was cut
out for this dirty job. And he did it well. Women were
compelled to open up their boxes and exhibit their baby-
linen and underclothing to his vulgar gaze. . . . It is
all moonshine to say that all the requirements of civilised
men can be produced in Paraguay. So that, whatever
dreamers may say to the contrary, New Australians must
find a market for the things that can be produced in the
country. And the finding of this market will be one of
their greatest problems.
What a change from the picture of three short
mouths ago —The enthusiastic crowds at Assun-
cion, the orange-groves, the moonlight on the
river with guitar accompaniments, the Para-
guayan officers who bowed to the ground and
called the New Australian girls “senorita,”
the serenades, and all the rest of the poetry.
But the worst change is in Lane himself— Lane
who now writes to point out that the troubles
all arise through “ materialism ” and the lack
of “ belief in God.” This lamentable snuffle is
suggestive of Stead, the dirty saint of the
Review of Reviews, and, besides, it is al-
together out of place. Lane didn’t snuffle before
he started, and his doing so now is a clear
violation of the spirit of the agreement.
The Necessity of Anarchy.
Vaillant, the anarchist, justified his name,
valiant to the last, going to death as a man may
go to sleep, and crying with his last breath,
“Death to the bourgeois society, and long live
anarchy!” “Let my body,” he directed, “be
given to the doctors as soon as possible, that
they may be able to study in the interests of
science the semi-vital phenomena which disap-
pear after the disintegration of atoms.” “No
hatred,” he said, “ no malice animated me when
I threw the bomb into the Chamber of Deputies.
I struck not, at individuals, but at Society,
which is hostile to humanity; and I acted but
as the surgeons do who hesitate not to sacrifice
a limb to save a life.” This was not the calcu-
lated bombast of despair ; it was a reflection of
the man’s character perfectly consistent with
all his other actions and expressions. What
terrors has death for such as Vaillant ? The
fate of Ravachol deterred him no more than
the fate of Clement deterred Ravaillac;
the fate of Jaureguy, Gerard; the fate of
Booth, Guiteau. Men of Yaillant’s type
have always existed, and the pressure of modern
conditions, increasing nervous degeneracy, has
proportionately strengthened the type and
added to its exemplars. Society must readjust
its methods in the light of science. Its stability
is dependent on the existence of a normal
majority—average men and women, neither
virtuous nor vicious, drawn by commonplace
pleasures, deterred by commonplace pains,
living and dying without varying greatly from
the current standard of humanity. The normal
man rules. He makes laws to suit his class,
and in the main they are obeyed, because they
are suited to most of those who are called upon
to obey them. On the whole, he is satisfied
with his life ; and the idea of death is abhorrent
to him. So he places death at the head of the
penalties which he imposes for breach of his
laws. But he forgets that both above and below
his preponderant class there is a class of
abnormal men and women, partly born so,
partly recruited from the normal ranks by
stress of individual struggle or influence of
individual environment. Upon this class laws
have little or no hold. Laws are only effective
m proportion to their fitness for the society in
which they exist. Most people are restrained
from vice and crime, not by law, but by per-
sonal character, by social influences, by a
deliberate calculation that, apart from law, the
game isn’t worth the candle. Law is chiefly a
secondary influence, strengthening and con-
firming existing tendencies. It is only because
a majority are essentially non-criminal that
laws are of value. If criminals were a
majority, the standard of virtue would be
altered, laws would inevitably support the
cnminal, and the failure to commit crime
would be an offence against law and right,
bociety will never abolish crime until it realises
that the chief offenders against its laws are the
very persons upon whom laws have no effect—
until the normal man realises that the criteria
y which he rules his life can never be those of
ie abnormal man. Punishment is the very
least of the influences which play upon crime.
° u v way to cure crime is to prevent it,
ana the only means of preventing it is to
Decrease, as far as possible, all the precedent
influences which go to make a criminal, and
increase, as far as possible, all the precedent
influences which go to destroy the criminal in
ie germ. Whether Vaillant is punished by
imprisonment, or by death, or by torture, makes
nitie or no difference to the class of men from
winch he springs. Being what he was, he was
• n n f .^ 0 do what he did; and his comrades
• , J°w hmi in the path of destiny as surely
a night follows day. The only way to destroy
anarchy is to destroy the conditions which
create it.
White and SHi ell, the Broken Hill policemen
who appear to have shot John Considine,
March 18, have been committed for trial for
m uislaughter. Barrier Miner reprints this
Bulletin paragraph, which didn’t take long to
be mournfully verified
P ULLETI! ? I s ready to bet, re the recent arming of
the Sydney police with pistols, that a policeman will com-
mit suicide with his revolver, or shoot a fellow-constable
or an innocent citizen, or be shot with his own weapon by
some criminal who has snatcbedTt, before any bona-fide
burglar or murderer has bitten the dust per medium of
the newly-served-out weapons.
And, last week in Sydney, a man did succeed in
snatching a policeman’s pistol but was fortu-
nately at once laid out by the officer with a fist-
blow. Public panic and the hysterical action
of the authorities have laid in Australia the
foundation of the reign of the revolver. The
revolver feeds the gallows and the gallows feeds
the revolver. Within two years in Australia
people will probably be shooting each other all
over the place. If they aren’t, it won’t be the
fault of the authorities.
H. H. Lusk, barrister, struck off New South
Wales law-roll last week by the Supreme Court,
for malversation of trust-funds, was formerly a
prominent provincial politician in Maoriland.
In that country he was latterly unfortunate,
and when in his old age he came to New South
Wales, his desperate necessities compelled him
to incur the deadly hostility of the local bar by
seeing clients without the intervention of an
attorney. But there can be no excuse for the
lawyer who rooks his customers, and as the
Pull Court, presided over by Chief Justice
Harley, deals out equal measure to all
“ cronks ” haled before it, Mr. Lusk may be
taken to have earned his terrible sentence.
When The Bulletin says that N.S. Wales
Pull Court deals out equal measure to all legal
offenders arraigned, it, of course, doesn’t mean
to say that the Court takes steps to see that all
the “cronks” are arraigned. According to
public opinion, the rich and aggressive barrister
who, after accepting a big fee, throws over his
client simply because somebody has handed him
a bigger bribe—the lawyer calls it a “ fee is
quite as much a robber as a poor, weak, broken-
down old counsel like Lusk, who scratches out
a living in all sorts of unorthodox and devious
ways. The barristers as a corporation exult in
the wiping-out of the broken Lusk, but The
Bulletin deeply regrets that the old man is
not accompanied to Limbo by a number of the
cheeky horse-haired Highwaymen who so glibly
talk about “ the honour of the Bar.”
One of the hideous jokes of the last Mercantile
Bank case was the non-appearance of Gyles
Turner as a witness for either side. The whole
business pivoted upon that £lOO,OOO “loan”
from the Commercial, yet,manager Turner was
this time omitted from the cast of the little
play. Instead of calling Turner as a witness,
Matthew Hayies called his relative, Fuller, a
more or less private secretary, who narrated a
conversation that took place between himself
and Matthew regarding the terms on which
the “satisfactory increase in deposits” had
been borrowed, and this conversation—it might
as well have been an account of what the chair-
man said to a stranger in Collins-street—did
duty for important evidence. Survey this extra-
ordinary matter from the defence standpoint.
The Mercantile Bank thought it had obtained
£lOO,OOO from Gyles Turner’s bank for a year,
certain. Evidently it thought wrongly. Turner
is not called to account for the wrongness of the
Mercantile thinking, which would have been a
very shaky apology for the error, but a casual
individual named Fuller comes along with a
cheerful declaration that he was the first per-
son to inform the Mercantile chairman of the
real arrangement made between Turner and the
busting bank. Fuller threw not a glimmer
of legal light upon the boiled-down case.
Muntz’s cook might have told the jury how
Muntz said, “Bless my soul! You astonish
me,” when she informed him that she had
learned from the milkman’s uncle the truth
about the £lOO,OOO “loan.” And the cook’s
evidence would have been quite as much to the
point.
«.
Trial by jury has received another jar, of a
novel kind, in Marvellous Melbourne. In con-
nection with a libel-action brought against the
Evening Standard Newspaper Co., the fore-
man of the jury called at the Standard to
purchase a copy of the back number containing
the alleged libel. A charge of sixpence was
made tor the paper. The applicant objected to
paying sixpence, interviewed the acting-
manager, and being told that he couldn’t get
the paper at a lower price, stalked out of the
office, saying : “I am one of the jury on the
case, and will bear it in mind.” Naturally, the
Standard applied for, and obtained, the
discharge of the tribunal presided over
by this irate person. The Judge acquitted
him of any wrong motive in interviewing
the defendants’ representative on a trum-
pery matter of sixpence, but ordered a new
jury all the same. Here was a very clear
instance of a man’s mental unfitness to be a
juror. He lacked the sense of propriety which
should have kept him out of the Standard
office, not to mention the manager’s room,
under such delicate circumstances. He had
seemingly such an absurd notion of his dignity
and importance as foreman of the jury that any
trivial incident might have made his angry
passions rise against one side or other, in the
case which he was expected to consider with calm
impartiality. If a J udge or magistrate made a
similar ass of himself he would be declared in-
competent to hold his important position. Yet
no considerations of this kind have thus far
been allowed to touch the old, respectable jury
system.
At the banquet to mark the erection of the
Mutual of New York’s big Sydney building,
nobody bothered to mention that thejMaoriland
Government Life Insurance Department is
steadily pressing competitors out of existence,
because its premiums are low, its bonuses are
high, and its security is absolute. Yet to
this complexion must Australia also come.
Even our best companies take more or
i less speculative liabilities, while Heaven
and their directors only know what the
others are doing, since no adequate statement
of their position is ever made. In the two
or three cases where full returns are given,
none but an expert can judge of their value,
and the unexpected never happens so frequently
as it happens to the expert. The man in the
street is compelled to take everything on trust,
and rely on the chapter of accidents. Hitherto
Australian insurance offices have shared in
general Australian prosperity, as did Austra-
lian banks. Yet, a day came when most of the
banks fell, and there is no certain guarantee
that in their time of trial the insurance com-
panies will prove absolutely stable. With
Government insurance there is such a guarantee,
for when you get State security you insure your
insurance. And as security to the assured is
the chief thing needful, this consideration must
outweigh all others. Its preponderance enables
Government to almost dispense with touts,
agents and all the paraphernalia which swell
the expenses of the ordinary office. There is
machinery ready to hand in the existing Civil
Service, The Maoriland Government Life
Insurance Department has been established
since 1870 ; it has two millions of accumulated
funds, and an annual income of £342,000 ;
there are 28,000 policy-holders, who divide
the profits as bonuses every five years.
The average rate of interest earned is
£5 Bs. lid, per cent., although the department
can only advance one-half of its funds on mort-
gage, and then only up to one-half the value of
the property ; the remainder being invested in
the securities of Government or of local authori-
ties. The scheme has only to be stated to
secure support, while Maoriland’s experience
proves it both practicable and profitable. The
widespread loss and distress accruing from the
failure of a powerful insurance company is
terrible to contemplate. Yet, under existing
conditions, no man can say that, despite the
honesty and carefulness with which our best
offices have apparently been conducted, a
failure, or a series of failures, is utterly im-
possible.
A CORRESPONDENT :
Tha N.S. Wales Disorderly Conduct Suppression Bill,
w.tli its proposed clause to practically make Judges of
ordinary mortal policemen, is to be revived. In this
drastic measure it is provided that small boys may be
seized by large policemen, and charged with disorderly
conduct, it being only necessary for proof of disorderliness
that the policeman shall think it so. Th 3 responsibility
of thinking is a terrible one to impose upon an ordinary
constable. But the consequences to the police are
nothing to those likely to happen to the small boy.
Marbles, tops, kites, the federation of tin-pots to
dogs’ tails, exploiting orchards of unripe fruit, all
that boys look forward to, may become crimes under
this Act, and may, in the opinion of the intellectual police-
man, be disorderly and fioggable offences. But having
entrusted these large powers to the police, why not go
further? N.S. Wales has now armed them to the teeth,
so that they may be protected from the promiscuous
burglar, whom they are to capitally punish on the spot.
Along with the revolver for the burglar why not serve out
a cat-o’-nine-tails to each policeman, so that under the
provisions of the new Act the offender of smaller growth
can be flogged instanter ? If he is too big to flog, let
him be shot, and let the post-mortem charge be altered to
burglary. This will save a lot of red tape and expense.
If a portable gallows could also be served out (one that
would fold up and serve as a stretcher for accidents or
shooting cases, or a bed on which the police could have a
nocturnal nap) the hangman, another expensive civil
servant, might also l)e dispensed with, his salary saved,
and summary and complete justice done. Things would
then run smoothly until a Legislative Councillor or a
Minister of the Crown was hung by mistake, or shot bv
accident, or their children flogged in error by a new and
zealous officer. In any of these cases New South Wales
might return to the old and effete methods of trial by
jury before a Judge. Otherwise, the policeman of the
future will be expected to have large heads, instead of, as
at present, large feet.
The Victorian Government, under the guidance
of Shambles Patterson, is busy “ settling the
people on the land.” According to the assur-
ances of the discordant meat-man who runs it,
its one great ambition is to “ settle the people
on the land.” The way it accomplishes this end
is to auction land in little six-acre blocks, so
that the farmer has to buy about ten of them to
make a farm which is large enough to live upon.
Then it gives him ten separate receipts for his
money, with a 20s. stamp on each, the agricul-
turist having to pay for the £lO worth of
stamps. Also, it charges him £lO 10s. for
ten separate parchment deeds at a guinea each.
One recent purchaser objected to this extortion
and explained that all he wanted was one
receipt and one deed for the whole farm, but he
was sternly informed that the above-mentioned
swindle was “ the uniform custom of the depart-
ment,” and couldn’t be altered. Then he applied
to the Government for redress, and the Govern-
ment inquired into the matter, and presently
wrote to him, in a large, round hand, stating
that the aforesaid robbery was strictly “in
accordance with the regulations,” and as the
regulations are fixed and cast-iron and abso-
lutely immovable, there is nothing more to be
said. Meanwhile, the Government’s yearning
to settle the people on the land continues un-
abated, and Patterson has eaten no less than
eighteen banquets on the subject within the last
six weeks in different parts of the province, as
solid evidence of his sincerity.
♦
N.S.W. Government should act decisively on
the opinion expressed by its pet official, Joseph
Greer, to the effect that all labour registry
offices should be licensed and placed under
Government supervision. Mr. Greer alludes
only mildly to the iniquities practised by many
vicious spiders w'ho call themselves labour-
agents. These levy fees on both employers
and applicants for billets. Many labour-agents
will not even impart the slightest scrap of
detailed information to a work-seeker until the
fee—usually ss.—is paid down. When it is
paid, sometimes after the pawning of
clothing to raise the fee, applicant, as
often as not, finds that he is only one out
of a score sent after the one solitary
billet. Some labour-agents copy out “wanted”
advertisements from the dailies, and despatch
their clients to published addresses, the clients
finding that the agent had no authority what-
ever to act on behalf of the advertiser. When
a sure and pretty fair billet is really entrusted
to the hands of one of this class of agents, he,
after naming the salary and describing the
supposed duties, but keeping dark the address,
demands a bonus amounting to a week’s, a fort-
night’s, or even a month’s wages. And he
won’t take the applicant’s promise to send down
the amount; he demands spot cash. Th«
labour-agent certainly wants roping in; or,
better still, the Government should establish
State Labour-agencies throughout the land,
charging only moderate fees, and being willing
to garnishee the successful applicant’s wages if
he cannot pay in advance.
3>kar Bulletin, —Bishop Laniqan affirms that
“ the teaching of the Public Schools is intrinsic
cally dangerous to faith and morals.” Then
why doesn’t the R.C. Church forbid R.C.
parents to allow their children to enter the
service of the Public Instruction Department ?
If it is an evil for R.C. children to be taught in
godless public schools, then it must be an
infinitely greater evil for R.C. children to
become teachers in said schools. Yet there are
vast numbers of R.C. teachers scattered all
over Australasia; and in country townships
the majority of them are perfect treasures to
their pastors. In return for their usefulness in
fund-raising they are often rewarded by hear-
ing their priests and bishops abuse in un-
measured terms the system under which they
gain an honourable living. By the way, it is
greatly to the credit of the Public Instruction
Departments that their R.C. teachers get a fair
field and no favour.—T.Y.K.
Answers to Correspondents.
Ifo notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on MS.
“ Oobadong ” : Sorry the tale contained no dis-
membered cadaver....“ R. Ford” (Maoriland): We can’t
tell from your letter whether you are a humorist or a
Presbyterian clergyman. Which are you? “V.'*:lt
is quite possible that the first N.S.W. Cabinet under the
non-party system would consist of Dibbs, Parkes, Neild,
Crick, Haynes and Andy Kelly. What if it did ? The
Cabinet would have a lot less power than it has now
‘ Centennial ” (Broken Hill): It is his son. This dismal
conundrum comes along once a month regularly.
“ Polype ” : We want a story without a corpse in it lor a
change.... “E. 8.” ; Australia will never get prohibition.
The great and growing wine-industry forbids. . “M.G.R *':
Yes! Certainly! Quite sol Of course!,.. “W. Lewis”:
Tnanks. ..“D.W.J.” (Melb.): (1) The prfce of cement
was over 13s. before the duty was imposed, unless trade
price-lists are lying. (2) The boom was as dead in 1892 as
ic was in 1893, so that doesn’t account for the fall. Your
whole theory is simply the bald assertion of a person with
an illegible signature, and no address save a postmark.
** ~ ’ (Brisbane): Judging by the extreme
breadth and smellfulness of your tale, the guano-trade
should be about your line.... “ Maori”: Thanks.... “The
Wombat" : One verse suffices
Tne whistling winds from the Western wilds
Wailed woeful in Woolloomooloo,
And the dossers deserted their dreary Domain
In search of some service to do.
....“J. Bruce”: We don’t know' what your letter was
about. We always tear up a letter now r the instant we
come to the words “your valuable journal.”.. .“ A.G.W."
(Neutral Bay); The “tall, bronzed young man” who
stops the runaway horse is older and drearier than
Genesis—“J.A.P.": Tub Bulletin really doesn’t care
a straw whether the value of Australian securities in
London is £lOB or not “ F.E.Q.”: Thanks “BE "•
“Romance” notup....“T.F.N.” : Recitation “ Kissiiig-
Cup’s Race,” by Rae Brown, in 4th series of “ Australian
A 1 Reciter,” through any bookseller.... “ J.G.": Antique.
... “H.G.T.”: Point too tiny... “Bokakka”: Old and
feeble ; you know best whether it’s libellous as well .
“Asylum": Vague, objectless wail.... “Anti-Coercion"’;
Not newer strong enough....“ A.M.Z.": A mellow-
dramatic, heavy-father type of yarn, ten years behind the
times—“L.L."; What are anthropophagi? Why, law-
yers, bookmakers, brokers, financiers, and so on
“A. 8.0.” : The man who spells roar “ rore,’’ and
fatal “fatial,” had better see a missionary at once
“ E.J.”: You throw no new light on the old, old Mrs.
Potiphar....“Curlew”: “Last £” weak; “Dempsey”
may d0....“Ra11y”: Wouldn’t raise the imitation of the
copy of the picture of the shadow of the ghost of a smile....
“0.D.E.F.”; (Where are A and B?) You make us tired.
What s the use of arguing’ that the camel’s drawbacks
outweigh his advantages? If they did, the camel
wouldn't be used. “ A camel isn’t as good as a horse
when yoked to a waggon.” No; neither are vou. But
presumably you and the camel are better than’the horse
when not yoked to a waggon. At any rate, the camel la-
under the recognised conditions “Theß."; “Thither”
weak; may dish up “Gone Where.” “E.K.”: Doubt-
ful “R.G.A.M.": Tame and bumpy “H.H.L”;
Willow—billow—still oh !—why no “pillow?"
“ Nemo ” : He cannot, legally ; the chances are he will,
by influence. But you mustn’t tresspass “A.H.D”*
Not pith enough.... “Alan Woodstock”: Rather clever,
but unsuitable.E.A.V. ” : Smart; too slight....
“Spens”; Poetic feeling; crude workmanship..
“G.H.W.”: Too thin “T.H.R.”: Thanks....!
“ Gorgon—-Basket. Basket—Gorgon”: “Happy to meet
you, 5ir.'....“M.M.": Your poem suicided as soon as
read, and is buried at four cross-roads with a slake
through its stomach....” Hardface”: Smells too old to
use as poetry ; keep it to throw at an election-candidate.
....“R.L.H.”: Get briefer, directer style and better
points—“X.”: No; exit.... “Kino ” ; Unclean; take
it back and scrub it.... “Demos" : Style too crude
“Flesh": Held pending....“ E. Aled ” ; Some wit, but
too long and rambling; drawing weak “F.W.E.”:
Fair point; poor style ... “Jumper ” : (1) Better ask the
Prof, himself. (2) United Kingdom in 1891 despatched 53
letters and post-cards per head of population ; Australia,
48 (Coghlan). In 1888, all mail matter, U. States, 110
per head; Australia, 82; U. Kingdom, 60 (Mulhall)
““ay Kay": Glad to hear from you.. “Semicolon
B.”: It just passes. Try again.... “H.R.W.”; Sug-
gestive—and that’s about all “ W.H.0." (B.): The
optimists are coming along ...“Sam Slick (F.); Good
typhoid comes from Footscray but not good poetry...
“W. Hokeu”: Thanks. “Only just from England."
Hum !,...“ Old Jewfish ” ; She lived on Bullock Island
and backed out when they were buying the ring. That’s
all we got off a sheet of foolscap... “ Lacuna " (Toorak):
Gordon and Gotch, Melbourne. Will consider suggestion.
“S.S.”: We really don’t know “why so active,
zealous and capable an officer as Commandant Hutton
was, at so early an age, shelved by being placed on half
pay ?”....“ O.B.” ; Do you mean to say the symptoms
of 1789 were anything like as bad as those of 1894?
“ Minerva" (Gloucestershire, Eng.): (1) The Upper House
would dissolve at the same time as the Lower; each
elector would have as many votes as there were candi-
dates, and could give only one vote to each candidate.
(2) A Federal union of the U.S.A. type. (3) Ministers to
be elected for three years by both Houses in joint session
without any power of dismissal, unless upon conviction
before a court of justice. The House would have the
power to reverse any Ministerial act without passing any
censure upon the Minister by whom it was performed.
There would be no “Government business” apart from
the finances. Every Minister and every private member
would bring in what bills he considered best, and they
would all stand on the same footing. (4) The Bulletin
dislikes the “dear old mother country,” because it baa
been a failure as a mother, though a great success as
a mother-in-law. The money aspect doesn’t come
into the question at all. Australia has just as
much reason to be grateful for the principal as
Britain has for the interest, and no more “U.":
A man wants to live long, but not to be "01d....*
“ I.I.O.” (N.Q.): Already printed—and quite untrue!”!
“Justice": Mount Rennie trial ended Nov. 27, 1886’
Stanley’s arrest and let-off some time subsequently.’
Haven’t got date—case scandalously suppressed by daily
papers... “C. G. Mac.”: An old story of that cunning
insinuator, the Local Preacher, who makes the rostrum a
stalking-horse for Parliament, or, failing that, goes into
snug auctioneering. M’Culloch’s Loyal Liberal party
fairly reeked of them, and they are beginning to own the
N.S.W. Labour-party.
Dear Bulletin, —Is leprosy contagious ?
Father Damien is a well-advertised proof affirma-
tive. Is it not possible that he was leprous when
he went, and, perhaps, went for that reason ?
Sundowner.


SMOKERS!
A GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU.
Buy your EASTER SUPPLIES of TOBACCOS and
CIGARS,
And your EASTER PRESENTS of PIPES and
POUCHES at
WOOLF GREAT GENUINE COST PRICE
DISTRIBUTION.
Expiration o' L'>as >- Everything must go.
Georye-st Sydney
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A Good azxd Cheap .Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
g
Manufactured bt
FROSSARD & CO.,
I’AVKItSE (Switzerland),
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost you less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
HbrMajesty’b "The Shamrock and the
Rose."
Criterion “ Hans the Boatman.”
Lyceum “Niobe."
Bijou “ The Strategist.”
Fillis's Circus, Opposite Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “ Paul Jones."
Theatre Royal •• Struck Oil."
Alexandra “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin."
Alhambra Variety Show.
Sydney Royal re-opened on Saturday with
a somewhat desolate comedy entitled, for no par-
ticular reason, “As Large as Life.” Nobody in
it is any larger or any more life-like than the
average, and if the piece had been designated any-
thing else, or if it hadn’t been designated anything
at all, it would be quite as appropriate. Its two
leading features are a red-headed Italian and a
man who appears.in pink tights at the Zoo. He
has no visible reason for appearing in tights at the
Zoo., but it is characteristic of the comedy that
nobody in it has any visible reason for anything.
There are sundry carefully-elaborated complica-
tions in the course of the three acts, but they are
unconvincing and not at all interesting. They
don’t arrive naturally, but are dragged in by the
hair, like an insensible drunk being brought
in by a policeman. The trouble all begins
through the resemblance of a very commonplace
young man to three separate portraits, and as he
doesn’t resemble the portraits, this damages
the illusion. A lady insists, for no earthly reason,
on saying that this dismal youth is her husband
and a notorious lion-tamer; a doddering old man
chooses, on no evidence whatever, to regard him
as his nephew in disguise; and a fatuous johnny
decides in what he thinks is his mind that the
same dreary person is a ballet-girl. And when
these things have all happened, the youth himself,
for no apparent cause, undresses in a lady’s
coal-cellar and goes off, in flesh-coloured tights, to
the Zoo. and stands in front of the bear, where
everybody accepts him as a matter of course, and
professes not to notice his tights. There he
announces, for no apparent cause, that he is a
thief and steals buns, and the comedy finishes.
# • *
The co. is very much like the comedy,
inasmuch as there is no visible reason for it
either. An exception is here made in favour of
Mias Polly Emery, who would be a bright oasis in
a three-act desert if it wasn’t that she has got
no part worth speaking of. A sketchy-looking
personage, described in the bill as Mr. Nelville,
plays the man in tights at the Zoo. with profound
seriousness and with the easy grace of a church-
warden, and most of the others wrestle with
their parts after the airy fashion of a person who
carries coals up a steep hill. A one-act comedietta
called ‘’Bluejackets’ 1 is a little better than its
predecessor, mainly because there is a little more
of Polly Emery in it, and rather less of the other
people.
** * *
Sydney Gaiety, so long abandoned to rats
and gophers, re-opened on Saturday as the Bijou,
under the management of Mr. W. J. Wilson,
formerly in partnership with the ill-fated Signor
Majeroni. Mr. Wilson is a scenic artist of a high
order, and his new act-drop is a vast improvement
on the somewhat mouldy publication which used
to occupy the front of the stage. The Bijou is
devoted to comedy, and opened with “ The
Strategist,” a good and riotous production which
has vanished for so many years that the new
generation has practically forgotten it. It
turns mainly on the wickedness of a ver-
satile young man who, for his own pur-
poses, disguises himself as his own father, and
afterwards as the father of his best girl, and
presently has quite a number of causes—including
a large bowl of senna—to wish that he hadn’t done
it. The show is run by a good co. which plays
very evenly throughout. Frank Hawthorn, Harry
Leston, and H. N. Douglas, and Misses Gladys
Leigh and Beatrice Lyster are the principal
features of the aggregation. The new venture
begins vvell, and the only unpromising feature
about it is the inborn melancholy of the Gaiety,
which, though it may be called the Bijou unto
seventy times seven, will keep on looking like the
same old Gaiety just the same.
** * *
“ Hans the Boatman ” continues his placid
and pathetic career at Sydney Criterion, and little
baby Arnold’s chirrupy, audible prattle when she
appears in the explosion scene might be a lesson to
a lot of mumbling grown-up actors. The juvenile
Jessie Mead corrals the approval of even the most
inveterate hater of the staring stage-child, which
generally makes a feeling person long to hustle it
into bed. Charles Arnold, as Hans, gives tongue
to fewer melodies than of yore, which is a grievomf
circumstance.
** * *
Mrs. Potter’s Australian tour is postponed
owing to misfit dates. Her big success in India
was as Charlotte Corday pinking Marat (Bellew)
as he takes his tub. The Potter-Bellew always
clung to the undressed drama, but the stage spec-
tacle of Bellew in a bath takes the hot-cross bun.
“ Hero and Leander ” went closest to the knuckle
before, and a Sydney d.c. was almost petrified
once when it really looked as if something had
gone wrong with Kyrle’s blue bathing-scarf.
* *- * *
Fillis’ Circus remains, as it was last week,
a commendable and popular entertainment. The
Bulletin, however, has begun to realise the im-
possibility of saying anything new about circuses
and hereby for ever gives up the attempt. The
lion never strikes upon any new reading of his
part, but simply drags his head and tail in the
dust in the same old way, and the other beasts
give a painstaking representation of their res-
pective characters but lack versatility.
** * *
Excepting for the fact that George Rignold
has taken the Irish part of the vanished Sweeney,
there is no change to note in the hunky melo-
drama at Her Majesty’s. G. Rignold in a broguey
character is a novelty ; also, in some sense, a
revelation. These statements aren't intended to
commit The Bulletin definitely, this paper not
having made up its mind about Mr, Rignold’s
brogue, and being still open to conviction. The
great feature of the “ Shamrock and Rose ” is Mr.
Harcourt’s Irish bailiff-man. Harcourt is the
most realistic and brutally-repulsive, but withal
humorous, Irish villain seen on the stage for years.
** * *
The Brough and Boucicault Co, returned
to Sydney on Saturday, and even the big Lyceum
was hardly capacious enough to hold the crowd
which gathered to have another look at “The
Amazons.’’ Pinero’s comedy looked as bright as
on its first appearance, save in one particular—the
substitution, as the mother of the three Amazons,
of Miss Romer for Miss Edith Blande. Miss Romer
doesn’t look large or muscular or horsey enough,
or sufficiently bounceable to fill the character.
Miss Bessie Major, however, is an improvement
on the previous sergeant, which makes up.
Otherwise the comedy is the same as of yore.
Boucicault’s Frenchman and Cecil Ward’s high-
born idiot are still the two most finished per-
formances of their kind that The Bulletin re-
members.
** * *
“Paul Jones,” for all present and early
future production, is an opera handicapped by
memories of the original Australian cast. The
revival of a popular piece with a greatly changed
company invites severe criticism, for the reason
that first principals, if well placed, become identi-
fied in the minds of audiences with the characters
they assume. First principals are best principals
until they be superseded by others much more
convincing. There is no denying that the com-
pany picked for “Paul Jones ”(by Nellie Stewart),
in the first instance, were judiciously selected.
Marian Burton, with her fine presence and, at that
time, rich voice, gave a touch of poetical interest
to the hero. Snazelle, an unctuous comedian and
singer, was an amusing contrast to Leitch, whose
crushed “ Insective ” appearance provided full
scope for the de haul en has manner of the longer
man. Aggie Kelton, although scarcely equal
to Chopinette’s music, had a bouncing
coquettish way with her which contributed more
to the general success than Violet Yarley’s one
successful song. In other important parts Satur-
day’s revival at Melbourne Princess’s showed two
slight improvements and a couple of distinct
changes for the worse.
# * *
J ohn Gourlay was the bounding Trocadero
of old, quite as nimble and acceptably grotesque
as before. He doesn’t act the Spanish potentate
or speak his lines with any regard for the circum-
stances they relate to, but his vigorous clowning
seems to justify itself, and he makes the last act a
mad joke. Miss Nellie Stewart having lost her
top notes through overwork, Miss Young took her
place as Yvonne, and scored considerably. In
fact, Miss Young was very good up to passion-
point, where she always stops dead. Physically
wooden no longer, she is spiritually hard, and her
separations from Paul were borne with unneces-
sary fortitude. Ryley was a picturesque Jones—a
gallant baritone —anardentwooer —a thing of manly
beauty. Yet a handsome contralto lady, capable
of wearing the breeches with easy grace, is an
even more fascinating personality than Ryley in
all his glory. Moreover, the baritone’s voice is
rather heavy for the music, and his ballads were
not warmly received on Saturday. Tapley did
well in the unthankful villain capacity, also the
uncle who dozes over his Aegus was safe in the
hands of Howard Vernon, and the chorus and
dancers came fairly up to tradition. The inevit-
able disappointments were Lauri and Courtneidge,
as Bouillabaisse and the Insect. Art is unable to
make the one comedian several inches taller than
the other. Lauri didn’t suggest any constitu-
tional scorn for his follower, whilst Courtneidge,
not being bullied, seemed conscious of having no
real purpose in life. Probably they will work out
an effective scheme of relationship as the nights go
on, and arrive at the point of their dialogue by a
new route. When they operated on level terms,
as in the “ Mariners Bold ” duet, they rose to the
summit of the opportunity. “Paul Jones” is
down for a two weeks’ run, and should have
plucked up spirit all round by the time this
sermon is printed.
** * *
At the Alexandra they carried “ The
Shaughraun ” over Saturday with flying colours.
Easter Monday, however, was to bring “Uncle
Tom’s Cabin ” and a long catalogue of special
attractions suitable to the moss-grown narrative of
that coloured martyr. Many negroes, both real
and blackened for the occasion, were starred on
the bill. Altogether Uncle Thomas promised to
have his sorrows alleviated by more variety than
usual, so he ought to die cheerful.
** * *
“Struck Oil” turned money away from
Melbourne Royal on Saturday. Likewise “the
performance afforded every satisfaction to a
crowded house” in accordance with time-honoured
custom. “Struck Oil” is a drama that ostensibly
turns upon certain papers hidden under the
hearthstone, but it really turns a good deal upon
the popularity of Maggie Moore, the other portion
of its revolution being conducted by a fat re-
minder of Rip Van Winkle. Oily Deacon Skinner
—who in this instance discloses his hypocrisy to
the orchestra with excessive candour —is mainly
the man who greases the machinery for Lizzie
Stofel and her fader. Of Maggie Moore’s oft-
told impersonation one may say that it is
better than when last seen at the Royal, in-
asmuch as she looks less matronly, an im-
portant matter even in the case of an artist
whose art remains as young as ever. Perhaps
there is a slight sense of “popular prices ” about
Miss Moore’s gaiety. She may lay the fun on a
little thicker than our old nobility would like to
have it. All the same, Maggie Moore goes
straight to the heart when required, and the glory
of her mouth organ is unabated. John Forde’s
nasal version of the Dutchman has few convincing
features, his second wife is scarcely the sort of
young woman to accept him for a husband, and
the voice of Augustus Glover is like unto a melo-
dious lion lifting the roof off the wilderness.
Deacon Skinner, despite the fault aforementioned,
reflects credit upon J. P. West. The scenery also
reflects credit upon somebody, and “The Chinese
Question ” rounds off a huge financial success.
At Poverty Point.
Grossmith says that all the ten years at the Savoy he
only received one billet doux, and the postscript was,
"Next Sunday is my Sunday out.”
“Charley’s Aunt” has been an enormous success in
Stockholm, a city which comes within the radius of
Ihsenism. The reaction against Ibsen drama was inevit-
able. Norway and Sweden would, at the present time,
fall easy victims to even Teddy Lonnen and a Gaiety
burlesque co.
Rumoured that Melbourne’s swell amateur operatic
club is about to go the usual way of such things. Causes
various ! Apropos, the benefit given, some months ago,
to the handsome leading man (whom cable says has been
secured by Augustin Daly), panned out only a four-and-
sixpence for the promising youth. There was a big house,
but it nearly all went in expenses.
She moves through the noise and glitter of the
Gaiety burlesque with the ingenuous self-possession of
Spring, to all appearance unconscious of her beauty, and
heedless of applause, a living Arcadian innooenoy passing
with unstained serenity through the Saturnalia of a
masquerade.”—Poetical London critic on Cissy Loftus,
the girl-mimic who turned last season's heads.
The embraces of a certain baritone on the stage are, it
is observed, getting modified when his lady love is pre-
sent in front.
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin,” at the old Melb. Princess, had
the longest Melb. run on record, except one. “Uncle
Tom ” ran 80 nights, “Tambour Major ” 100.
The Australian actor cannot afford to live with his
wife. We have in mind various happy theatrical mar-
riages, quite recent, thus broken up, after the delusive
mirage of livelihood.
The debt on Talmage’s church is £30,000. He has had
no screw for three years. Trustees wanted to charge 10
cents for admission, whereat he jibbed.
The takings at Melb. Theatre Royal oR St. Patrick’s
night sufficed for the whole next week’s^ex’s.
Dan. Barry advertises for 50 coloured men for his forth-
coming “ Uncle Tom ” season at Melb. Alexandra.
You are threatened, says The Bulletin’s London cor?
respondent, with a visit from another of the “hasbeens’
—old Sims Reeves, to whom overtures have been made for
a concert tour in Australia. Poor old chap, it is not his
fault that Nature has asserted herself, and that he no
longer has a voice ; but his admirable method and his
charming mode of singing even the simplest songs makes
it a treat to hear him, especially after listening to those
whose vocal attempts consist principally of sound and
fury.
The forthcoming London performance of “ As You Like
It,” the characters being entirely played by ladies, is
likely, says The Bulletin’s correspondent, to be a
financial if not an artistic success, as the stalls are selling
readily at a guinea each. Of course, curiosity will be the
main factor in filling the house. Fancy the feelings of
the manager who has to deal with 10 or 12 ladies, each of
whom thinks she should have been cast for Rosalind or
Orlando 1
Miss Sheridan, who lately got a verdict from Penley for
a commission for introducing Hartmont as a financier to
Penley re “Charlie’s Aunt,” has just recoveied £750
from the little Hebrew for commission on his share of the
plunder, estimated at £5OO a week! And all for an
advance of about £3OOl
Miss Helen Rowe, daughter of Dr. Rowe, of Melbourne,
drew a large audience at the Imperial Institute, the
other day, but she found herself unable to sin# owing to
a severe cold. Miss Rowe, who is the possessor of a
splendid contralto, was a pupil of Marches!, and is now
studying under Randegger. She has been on tour with a
concert co. hitherto run by the late Madame Patey.
There is one Downes singing in London, just now, who
announces himself as “ the coloured Australian tenor.”
Charles Harding tackled him, the other night, after
having dined well, with “Who the are you to call
yourself an Australian tenor? You are neither an Aus-
tralian nor a tenor.” “Keep your hair on, old man,"
replied the coloured party, “ I have as good a right as
some people to call myself an Australian. Why I was out
there nearly three weeks.”
To advertise his show a provincial English manager sends
up a rocket every night and admits the person who finds
the stick. We have nothing like this here. In Australia
you don’t usually find the stick till you get inside.
On dit that Charles Ryley owes his appearance as Paul
Jones partly to the fact that Elsie Cameron’s preponderant
flesh could not be effectively enclosed in the garb neces-
sary for the young roysterer.
Late American letters tell of Evangeline Rice’s wonder-
ful monetary success in the States, where Fanny Liddiard
and other Australians, as show-girls of his co., share in
the success which attends on his suddenly-amassed wealth.
How few women write plays, and how few are dramatic
critics. There is a faint record, somewhere, of a woman
composing an opera. Here we have a strange indication
of female limitations.
Liliuokalani, ex-Queen of Hawaii, is to lecture America
in her royal robes—the new wax-works. Here you are.
We will not suggest any other queen in exile, but it is the
biggest Smythe sensation ever thought of. Elliston at
Drury Lane, impersonated George IV. in the real corona-
tion robes. Now, Geo. IV. is coming round himself, as it
were—though we don’t fancy he will do it as well.
The introduction of a baby to one of the leading
theatrical co.’s will, at an early date, it is said, lead to
dissolution proceedings in which said infant is sure to
provide the main plea for severance.
Rosina Vokes—the Firm wanted to import her for a
season, but negotiations fell through—will never make an
Australian tour, because she is dead. Her age is given as
36-a few years under the mark—and she was. in any
case, decidedly the youngest of the Vokes Family. When
they first played “Belles of the Kitchen,” and Rosina
appeared as the slavey who chipped in with an illumin-
ated saucepan representing the “pale moon”—“Pale
moon, arise !” said Fred Vokes, and up went the sauce-
pan—she couldn’t have been more than 15. How the
Family did sing and dance and throw themselves about in
those days ! Only one of them, Victoria, is left to tell
the tale ; the other four—Fred, Jessie, Fawdon and jolly
little Rosina—have gone under, or over. The gods loved
them and they died young.
The authors of “ Izeyl,” Sara Bernhardt’s latest tragedy
must have been reading up all about the Victorian macei
case. The central interest of the play turns upon the
theft of the sacred fire from a temple by Izeyl, a lady of
easy virtue.
Old Mrs. Keeley has just visited the Lyceum panto-
mime, “Cinderella.” Seventy years ago, she was the
Cinderella at that theatre.
Pretty Florence Saville, writes The Bulletin’s London
correspondent, is a rival of Sir Boyle Roche’s bird. A
musical critic recently told me that she had sung a
few evenings before at a city glee club concert. I
believed him, and duly mentioned the fact. The
next day I read in the papers that she had, the same
night, made a great hit in grand opera at Monte Carlo or
Nice, I forget which. It’s all right, though, about Melba
being engaged for the Handel festival at the Crystal
Palace, and it is also true that her flat in Paris has been
denuded of effects by her caretakers, and also that she
has been reconciled to Marohesi—that is to say, if she ever
fell out with her teacher, as was reported.
Talmage, R. S. Smythe’s hell-fire parson, has been
getting £3OOO a year as pastor of Brooklyn Tabernacle for
years past.
In the many London criticisms of the “ Old Jew,’’
now as dead as Moses, not a word was said of a charming
song, “Twenty Years Ago,” specially composed by Sir
Arthur Sullivan, and still more charmingly sung, in the
Wln (fB, by Mrs. Avon Saxon, acting for Mrs. Theodore
Wright, who is not gifted with a singing voice. The
name of the composer was not given in the programme—
hence probably the silence. Had Arthur's name been
published, “ray word” what gush there would have beent
Such is criticism in England.
A certain juvenile, who is trying to be a leading juvenile,,
was once a hair-dresser in Auckland. As a consequence,
he now owns the most beautiful hair-parting on the
Australian stage.
Miss Heller, the clairvoyant, declares—while in a trance
—that “Jack the Ripper” is a woman. Which is
interesting, no doubt, but then which woman is she?
Cl evalier’s latest coster song has a wild refrain:
“ Wool’s the use of anythink—why, nothink.” Yes, and
wot’s the use of nothink, if it comes to that? This ques-
tion, when you consider it hard, covers practically every-
thing
A London paper, speaking of the premiere of “The
Transgressor” at the Court, said that “ the Australian
colony in London was well represented on the occasion, 1
presume out of compliment to Olga Nethersole.” Our
correspondent was there, but he failed to descry any Aus-
tralians except Patchett-Martin, Mrs. Campbell-Praed,
and Haddon Chambers. Others were probably in the bar
the usual Australian rendezvous. ’
Grade Plaisted is to shortly marry a U.S. ex-Congress-
man named Frank Fowler.
When John Rogers (Mr. Minnie Palmer) was in Aus-
tralia as manager for the fluffy little soubrette, he bore
the reputation of having more gall than all the rest of the
world put together. Jimmy M‘Mahon was advance-agent,
and on one occasion he was on some distance ahead filling
up the local editors with the most awful assertions con-
cerning Miss Pairner which his vast imagination could
supply. Suddenly he remembered having once heard a
strictly true story about a shot that entered the window
of a railway carriage in which Minnie was sitting, and
seeing material in it for more advt. he wired John for
particulars. The reply came back promptly : “Pull par-
ticulars by post. If can’t wait, explain Minnie only
actress visited by Queen, Prince and Princess Wales and
all nobility. Minnie regular visitor at palace which caused
riots in Ireland, last August, rioters firing on train.”
John was never an artistic liar, but for Oriental gorgeous-
ness of fiction he had few equals.
A well-known actress, and a very medium actress at
that, was going up the lift, the other day, with several
other people, at a big Sydney hotel, to her rooms on an
upper storey, when she discovered that one of the bar-
maids was among the group. Thereupon she sent for the
manager and intimated that she wasn’t accustomed to go
up lifts along with barmaids, and unless these girls used
the stairs in future she must leave the hotel. Conse-
quently, the tired Hebes now toil up four flights of stairs
to their rooms just under the roof, and think kindly of
that very medium actress at every step.
Organist Best, lately in Sydney, has resigned his post
as organist at Liverpool St. George’s Hall. He has heart-
disease badly and is 68.
W. J. Lincoln writes from London to say that “The
Bush King ” isn’t ghastly, and w’asn’t cursed, and didn’t
deserve to be cursed ; and quotes a number of alleged
press notices which convey very moderate eulogy of its
merits. The average London critic, with a dim belief
that Queensland is the capital of Melbourne, and the
kangaroo a most ferocious kind of cannibal, cannot be
blamed for failing to realise the unique horrors of the
average Australian melodrama.
The Prince of Wales dropped into the performing
animals show at Covent Garden Theatre recently, and as
the wrestling lion had done its turn, His Highness
requested them to bring out the beast again for another
tussle with the keeper. This was done. Which reminds
us that Dibbs ought to be listening.
A ventriloquist, disguised as a woman, is appearing at
London ’alls under the name of Lydia Dreams. We shall
have “ Sally Sleeps ” presently.
The Wild-Cat Column.
R. G. Benson, the Melb. Permanent Building
Society pioneer—Munro being second in the arena—hat
just died, broken-hearted. He, Munro, Hunt, Mirams,
and the other Permanencies, had Melbourne chalked out
as a perfect Eden. Mar* Miller, and Small, champions ol
the Terminating Societies, shook their heads, and came
out right. Hare and tortoise.
* » * *
“ To grant a moratorium to one section of the
community is unjust," wrote Mr. Hellicar, Bank of Aus-
tralasia, in reply to N.S.W. Premier Dibbi’s queries re
Wall’s Mortgages Suspension Bill. That such a moratorium
was granted is exactly the charge made against the bank-
ing legislation of some months ago by many of the best
men of both sides of the House.
* * ♦ •
Sydney D.T. : “ The usual oratory antagonistic
to banks, because they are banks, was distributed in
bushels from below the gangway.” Substitute another
and parallel statement; “ The usual oratory antagonistic to
reconstructing defaulters, because they are reconstructing
defaulters,” &c. Well, and why not?
* * * *
One of “Lands” Copeland’s arguments against
the Mortgages Suspension Bill, “ counted out ” of N.S.W.
Assembly last week, was that ‘‘the banks must get in
their money or burst." Yet M'Millan, M.P., complained
that the Bill would represent N.S.W. to be ten limes
worse off than it really is! And M'Millan holds that the
banks (which, according to Copeland, “ must get in their
money or burst ”) are the country’s financial backbone.
♦ • * *
A Melb. suburban paper, the Prahran Tele-
graph, went into joyful hysterics over the Mercantile
Bank acquittal. Half-a-column of cross-headings included
such items as ‘‘Sir Matthew Henry Davies—Retains his
Best Asset—An Unblemished Reputation—Mr. Frederic
Millidge—Can still Look the World in the Face-End of a
Gigantic Farce." What particular cause did this particu-
lar little rag have for its exuberance of big type ?
• * • *
Pat Man made secret enquiries as to the possi-
bility of working up a festival, to conclude with a grand
display of fireworks, in honour of Matthew Davies’s
acquittal. But Fat Man found it advisable to grin and
preserve silence. It is even said that he brought pressure
to bear upon himself for his own sake.
» ♦ ♦ •
A Sydney advertiser in the daily press an-
nounces that, until the Bank Issue Bill is actually law,
he declines to cash the notes of a specified bank.
* * » *
One Melbourne bank advanced .£40,000 on pro-
perty now valued at £8000.
* * * *
Dear Bulletin,—All very well for their Parlia-
mentary pals to agitate for the release of the jugged
legislators of bank and building society notoriety, but
one has to live in a working-man suburb like Balmain to
see the hideous ruin brought,'about by these institutions
and their crooked-minded promoters. In my house are
three children penniless. Yet their father left them a
comfortable sum invested before his death in So-and-So’s
bank because So-and-so was a prominent man in church
and lodge circles. Over the way a woman Ins sold her
little home, sent her eldest boy to sea, and gone to ser-
vice herself, because of another legislator's connection
with these banks. Only that these rascals lent their
names for a consideration, the swindles would have been
comparatively harmless. To release imprisoned lawmakers
at the request of lawmakers, some of w'hom have not yet
been properly found out, would be as reasonable as to re-
prieve Bill Sikes on the petition of Toby Crackett.—V.
• * ♦ ♦
R. H. D. White, M.L.C. (of N.S.W.) draws
attention to the fact that already the “private banks” of
Sydney are looking up again, and beginning to gather in
more deposits. Mr. White wants Govt, to make it
criminal for any co. to (jp so unless it has not less than
£100,000 of paid-up capita]. The idea is good-but then
the Dibbs Govt, is so buyy’ protecting the banks against
the people that it has ho time to protect the people against
the alleged “banks.”
* * » *
One Sarah Dudley, “.went broke” recently
through losing all her money (£12.000), and eveiy-
thing else except her poor, bedridden husband, in
the Mercantile Bank and like institutions. The Age
described this as “ A Peculiar Insolvency,” but where the
Eeculiarity comes in that paper didn’t explain. The
anks in which the unhappy woman lost her life’s savings
were peculiar enough certainly, but there was noM ing
remarkable about the downfall of Mrs. Dudley, herself.
When once any honest old woman put her faith in
Matthew D .vies and Co.’s banks ii would have been suffi-
ciently peculiar if she didn’t go down.


CASH BONUS
DISTRIBUTION
Of Profits to Po'icy-holders every Month as follows:
IST CASH BONUS, £4OOO
2nd „ „ 2000
40 CASH BONUSES at £25
50 » ~ „ 10
200 „ „ „ 5
200 „ „ at £2 10
Under the Co.’s system of ballot it is possible for the
holder of a policy for £25 to receive six (6) separate cash
bonuses of the total value of £4092 10s., and for the
holder of a policy of £lOO to receive twenty-three (23)
separate cash bonuses cf the total value of £7870.
N.B.}
A Policy for £25 can be obtained for
premium.
A Policy for £lOO can be obtained for i
premium.
2/8
10/-
Press and Policy-holders present at all ballots.
Address Personally or by Letter—G. R. WEBB,
Th.e Accident Coupon
Insurance Co. of ]XT.Y,
12 O’Connell Street. Sydney.
A London writer says that Investors’ Review
Wilson is refused admission to the Bank of England and
all the leading city institutions. In Feb. Contemporary
Norwood Young quotes page after page of facts and
figures directly contradicting Wilson and concluding that
Australia is, in proportion to population, the wealthiest
and most prosperous country on earth,
* * * *
A Melb. bank the other day issued notices of
dismissal to 15 country managers.
* * * •
The Bulletin makes the Corpulent Person a
present of the most shining example of thrift yet dis-
covered in the shape of a bank clerk at Port
Douglas (N.Q.) who lives on 3s. 4d. a week, and publicly
brags about it. This lusus pecuniae boards himself in an
old humpy and feeds on bananas and rice, with the result
that he is able to rise up at hospital committee meetings
and denounce the extravagance of patients who cost the
community 7s. and Bs. a week. We won’t be ruined by
Chinese cheap labour while such heroes flourish. The
bank should put the interesting specimen in a glass-
case and send him round to encourage its customers.
They, poor wretches, have to do from necessity what he
does from choice.
* * * *
What has become of the Menindie and Broken
Hill railway scheme ? The Menindie irrigation scheme,
too, appears to have slumped into silence. By these
things do we learn that State rights should not be
granted without heavy penalties for non-completion.
Tub Bulletin can guess the next move,
* ♦ * ♦
The A.M.P. office in Collins-street, Melb., is
upon the exact spot where John Batman erected his first
house. The A.M.P.S. has had a large copper panel affixed
to the front wall recording the fact.
♦ » * *
Sydney Stock Exchange holds several sittings
daily, and the announcement, “ No sales were recorded at
Sydney Stock Exchange yesterday,” is almost as regular
as clockwork. Some 60 sraileless stockbrokers walk up
and down Pitt-street with books which are seldom opened,
and between ’Change sit wearily in their offices awaiting
clients who never come. In Melbourne, in the midst of
this, the greatest known financial slump, that gorgeous
pile, the Stock Exchange, is, at any rate, put to some use.
Scores of tenanted offices in one part of it, the big cham-
ber where the brokers congregate and do business in
another, hundreds of jobbers who pay for the privilege
rendezvous in the vestibule, and the club, which consists
of over 2000 members, keeps the basement bars and res-
taurant lively. Over 400 members lunch there daily, and
the lunch is admittedly the best obtainable in Melbourne
for the money. Melbourne is still the financial centre.
♦ » * »
The first result of MTlwraith’s visit to England
is the formation of a syndicate for the construction of two
out of the multitude of land-grant railways, with which
Queensland is to be gridironed by-and-bye. The only varia-
tion from the original scheme which the syndicate insists
upon, is that it is to have all the land on both sides of the
line at the rate of 3500 acres for every mile constructed,
the State giving up its claim to retain alternate blocks.
The reason for this condition is that the State might sell
its alternate blocks at 10s. or £1 an acre, and then the
syndicate would have to do likewise, or else retain its land
until Govt, areas were disposed of. Under the proposed
arrangement, however, the British capitalists will have no
competition, and will charge the miserable Australian
settler just as much as they can screw out of him, without
blocking settlement altogether.
* * « *
Melbourne Mutual Store held its half-yearly
meeting of shareholders the other day. It was a pleasant,
refreshing meeting, one-half football “scrum” and one-
half cats’ convention. There was no div. and a loss of
about £l7OO. When the chairman had made these state-
ments a fellow-director casually called him a liar, or
words to that effect. A minute later the chairman was
called a liar again, and presently was alluded to as
an old fool. Then the same director described the chair-
man once more as being, to all intents and purposes, a liar,
and someone else arose and called everybody a liar pro-
miscuously. Just about this time the chairman grew
suddenly excited and offered to bash a director over the
head with the water-bottle, whereupon the meeting rose
upon its excited hind legs and yelled “ You’re a liar 1”
and “ Shut up !” and “ Chuck ’im out 1” for the space of
five minutes. When order was restored somebody in the
body of the hall raised a point of order about a tortoise-shell
kitten, and while he was doing it the board started a fear-
some row on the platform, and two directors called each
other liars eight times over, and shook their fists at each
other. They were dragged asunder with difficulty, and
aftersixvot.es of censure had been moved and lost the
meeting broke up, while one director was calling
for somebody to bring him half a brick that he might
bounce the same off the skull of a colleague. The aver-
age Melbourne shareholder is soured by misfortune these
times, and the harmony of the good old days, when 10
per cent, dividends were declared and the proceedings
wound up with fizz, has altogether departed.
The Federal Coffee Palace (Melb.) called a
meeting of anguished teetotallers last week. Loss for the
half-year, £ll6B and some odd coppers ; this, added to
previous losses, makes £3BOO to the bad. Also the board
has lost all hope of paying off, out of profits, the £10,781
still remaining of preliminary exes. ; that amount being
carried to general losses, makes £14,585 in all. Only a
grog-license can save the desolate white elephant.
Ginger-pop spells insolvency.
* * ♦ ♦
The Melb. Y.M.C.A. building is about to be
seized by the mortgagees, and unless the saints pay up
they will be cast out into the street. The Y.M.C.A. is
another victim of the boom. Some years ago it sold its
building in Russell-street for £20,000, raised £lO,OOO by
subscription and £25,000 on mortgage, and spent the
whole £55,000 upon a garish tabernacle in Bourke-street.
Now it is £2OOO in arrear with the interest, and the
tabernacle will probably hardly fetch enough to cover the
mortgage. The Christian young men have gambled
away their old premises and all their ready cash, and
have absolutely nothing left.
* * * *
Melbournian: “We develope into Neapolitan
Lazzaroni—nobody thinks of paying anybody.”
♦ * * ♦
“ Whether Victoria has her lottery or not, it is
not likely to make the slightest appreciable difference in
the barometric rise or fall of her national morality.”—
The Age. Exactly. Having swallowed a camel, what
matters a gnat ?
* * * *
Boring for coal at the Bluff (Melb.) is conducted
by a spiritualist under instructions from a “medium.”
The spirit’s revelations as to ground strata were suffi-
ciently practical to find a colour of truth at the first
boring, but of late the medium, or his ghostly advisers,
seem to be making mistakes. The enthusiasm displayed
by the Age over this wild coal chase has a somewhat
uncanny appearance.
• » * »
S.A. Govt, recently received .£15,000 odd from
local_ banks under the Unclaimed Moneys Act, which
provides that balances unclaimed in banks for over three
years shall go to revenue.
* * » *
History— i.e., post-strike history—repeats itself.
Junction directors, finding that the Port Adelaide smelter
hands accepted the proposed 10 per cent wage reduction
without trouble, extended it to Broken Hill, the alterna-
tive being mine-closure. Other mines will follow suit.
The second reduction since the strike.
* » « «
Block 10 lode has been found in Campbell’s
shaft ’ 50ft. below the 1015 ft. level —several hundred
feet lower than the manager expected. As at 815 ft.
and 1015 ft., where it was struck in crosscuts, it is abso-
lutely worthless.
* ♦ * ♦
Sydney and Adelaide offices of Central S.M.
Co. have been closed; registered office, which must be in
N.S.W., has been transferred to the mine. Further office
and management economies loom in the distance.
* * * «
South directors, unaffected by the silver fall, are
still enchanted with results of sulphide treatment by the
jigging plant. Meanwhile they have.parted with general
manager and metallurgist, and declared a6d. call—whereat
shares are steadily on the down grade. The sulphide con-
centrates are being hawked to Europe.
* * * ♦
The silver-slump has closed down nearly all the
Zeehan and Dnndas mines ; the last to go under was the
Comet. A few tributors remain to work out patches o f
good-grade ore.
* * • •
Wyalong is already overmanned. The condition
Imnn”' wa3 . ne ver better shown than by the fact of over
7000 men rushing away to a new quartz-field where the
reefs, (hough numerous, are small, and the shoots short,
though, so far, very fair in gold. Already there are
signs of lower averages in the crushings, and unless some
ailuvuy ground is found, the chances are the “ get-back ”
will soon set in.
* ♦ • ♦
Forty-seven applications have been made for
publicans licenses on the new Wyalong (N.S.W.) rush.
The cry of gold’s a human lever,
That raises dual evils—
The min ing and the miner fever,
The worker and the weevils.
Again is told the story old,
The bait and the designer ;
The miner crushes out the gold,
The pubs, crush out the miner.
* » ♦ »
Even distressed Zeehan and Dnndas have
organised W. A. syndicates and sent prospectors away to
Coolgardie and Murchison. What an army of syndicate
re -?i''? Ben *' a^veB muBt have gathered there 1 By-and-by it
will be an easy matter to work a big mine there with ex-
perts only.
* * * *
Things are said to be looking a little better at
the Spa, another of the Shoalhaven sluicing oo.’s. John
Wallace, David Syme, and others know they will stand
improvement. Over £40,000 has been lavished on this
concern, and so far the hope of ever seeing it again is
remote. Ground quite good enough for gravitation, but
not rich enough to stand the great cost of lifting millions
of gallons daily.
* ♦ * ♦
The “Eclipse” patent gold-saving machine,
manufactured by R. T. Ball and Co., of Goulburn, N.S.W.,
is the latest thing of its kind, and has impressed the
public at show-trials. The proprietors claim that it can
put through 20 to 25 loads a day with a minimum of
water, that it saves all free gold without quicksilver, that
it works by hand, steam, or horse-power, and that it can
be made to deal with any variety of wash. It is 6ft. 6in.
long and 2ft. 6in. wide, weighs scwt., and can lie trotted
about in an ordinary spring-cart with ease, also the price
is only £35. The proprietors challenge the “Jerger,” or
any machine, to a public test—which, if it comes off, will
leave things very much as they were. Show tests answer
no practical purpose. What the country wants is to have
the “Eclipse” and the “Jerger” and all their rivals
carted out to some poor but honest alluvial field, and
there put through a few days’ steady work by practical
miners. The result will be a lot more interesting than 10
years of exhibition at county' shows and the like.
• • * *
Carcoar gold claims are looking well, and Kind
and party, at Flyer’s Creek, have some exceptionally
rich stone. Milchell’s Creek crushed 249 tons for 198 oz.
This mine should pay handsomely if worked on a big
scale. Mount Gahan, at Pambula, 255 tons for 92 oz. At
Canowindra the Lo ulon reef has struck good gold at
281 ft., and the shareholders’ smiles go right across the
horizon.
* * * *
Shoalhaven Consolidated sluiced 10,000 yds. for
about 30 ozs.—poor, but payable with a gravitation water-
supply. Manager Froggart still holds that a very slight
percentage of gold is lost. If he is right then the ground
is much poorer than was believed.
* ♦ * *
The yields of Low’s Log Paddock freehold,
Mudgee, N.S.W., must be a grotesque disappointment to
those who believed the newspaper reports about it, “If
they only managed to get down and keep the water out,”
&c. They got down. Latest—“ Washed up 10 fathoms—
-3 ozs. 1 dwt.”
* * * *
At Hillgrove, Sunlight crushed 575 tons, 2240 z.;
Baker’s Creek, 430 tons, 821 oz.; Eleanora, 253 tons,
770 z., and 7 tons concentrates. Bad weather has kept
things back.
* * * *
Golden Diorite : “Tributors are on splendid
gold. Cannot say if likely to continue.” You never can
with any Pambula mine. Rich as Croesus to-day ; poor as
Lazarus to-morrow.
Of course, all MTlwraith’s attempted land-grab
railways have to be submitted to Q. Parliament.
The most inviting field for such jobs (jobs they cer-
tainly will be under the Q. Act) is the big N.Q. section
from the Towers to Normanton and Herberton to Clon-
curry. This is the richest mineral country in Australia—
not even excepting Coolgardie. There are scores of
proved shows worth, in the aggregate, hundreds of
thousands, for which the owners have refused good offers
in the hope that the railway will touch them some day.
If syndicates get hold of this country it will be the
biggest loot on record. And if N.Q. miners let them get
hold of it (on M'Hwraith’s terms) they will be the biggest
fools on record. Only Separation can end the present
risk, and the miners are gradually getting sense enough
to see it. Yet even now the Charters Towers Register,
the mining organ of the biggest Australian mining field,
opposes Separation from jealousy of Townsville. Nose-
cutting, face-spiting!
* * * »
Now that an undoubtedly payable gold-reef has
been discovered in Sud-Est, British New Guinea may
become perforce a white-man’s country, instead of being
locked up in the interests of a few quasi-imperial billet-
holders and the trading missionary who, under the
lamb’s-skin of gospel-patter, hides the wolf-shape of the
commercial buccaneer.
• » * *
Gympie Phoenix washed up March 21 for HOOoz.;
div., 16d.
* * * *
Gov. Macgregor reports a good coal seam in W.
New Guinea, 40 miles from the mouth of Poorari river,
on the coast of the Papuan gulf; deep-water right up to
the place. A specimen being analysed at Brisbane.
* * * »
Recent Towers crushings—Brilliant Central,
159 tons, 2930 z.; Brilliant and St. George, 468 tons, 3190 z.;
Victoria and Queen. 268 tons, 400 oz. ; Mills United, 1850
tons, 2006 oz.—div. 6d.. or £7500.
* * * *
Latest Croydon (Q.) tribute div.: Lady Isabella
2 and 3 South, 70 tons stone (six weeks’ raising) paid
£603 to tributors and £164 to shareholders.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
The second half of ’94 should see a 3000-ton
(monthly output) cyanide works in full swing at Croydon
(Q.) Quartz Co.’s mill. Practical tests have shown big
profits in the co.’s 60,000 tons of tailings.
♦ ♦ * *
Litigation among shareholders in the Croydon
(Q.) Content United has ruined an otherwise good pro-
perty, capable of paying fair divs. At latest, the mine
was let on tribute, but the tributors (most of them share-
holders) had drifted into fresh disagreements.
♦ * * *
Croydon (Q.) deep claims likely to be at work
again shortly. Douglas G.M. Co., True Blue Extended
block, Golden Gate block, No. 3 North Golden Gate block,
La Belle, Iguana Amalgamated block, Iguana Extended
block, all practically idle at present.
♦ * * *
Awhile ago “Joe ” Parkes, Inspector of Mines,
reported enthusiastically on a new gold find at Mount
Pleasant (S.A.). A rush ensued, but the diggers could
not find more than a few specks, and nearly lynched Mr
Parkes, who is an old Bendigo digger himself. Never-
theless, he stuck to his first opinion, but the field was
deserted until lately, when a syndicate found rich gold
in ironstone, and in a month turned out £15,000. They
are now making over £4OO a week.
* 0 * *
During the Plattaburg (N.S.W.) mining strike,
the local council (mostly miners on strike) decided that
the Co-operative Coal Co.’s tram-lines were dangerous,
and that, having been laid without legal sanction, they
should at once be uprooted. These lines cross several
streets, and were they permanently removed the mine
would be isolated and made worthless. Next day the
lines were torn up and the embankments levelled by the
council’s labourers; and now Plattsburg Council is in-
volved in a big law-suit with mine-owner Laidley, who
claims that by the Council’s year-long acquiescence in the
existence of the lines, it is practically out of court.
* * * *
A correspondent writing to The Bulletin from
Coolgardie before the rain :— Dear Bulletin,— Coolgardie
is not a poor man’s country. It cost me £6O from Ist
Sept., ’93, to Ist Feb., ’94, to batch—yet I "don’t
booze.” When the “ wet weather ” really sets in, it gives
three months supply to prospect with. Men camp hero
not for what can be fossicked, but to be on hand in case of
a rush, though an odd one gets a fluke now and then. I
really believe everything carries gold here—clays, slates,
washes, quartz, ironstone, hematite. One needs to use
division and subtraction in dealing with reports from this
field. Yet a man viewing it with a glass eye would per-
ceive it good enough for investment. When a miner buys
the Westralian G. P. Act, he gets Is. worlh of false
representation and contradictious, as the officials impro-
vise law without worrying the legislature.
Lord Percy Douglas has returned to Coolgardie.
He and party brought a patent dry-blower made in Eng-
land—a useless thing, in my judgment, after seeing it at
work. It is a typical J. Bull machine: one man feeds, the
other grinds, and the gold drops into a money-box sort of
affair with lock attached. They evidently have their own
opinion of Australians.
The only things to be had gratis at Coolgardie
are salvation and mice. These later are prolific. The old
’uns turn young ’uns out so fast that they can’t find time
to bore holes and they make extempore nests in bread, &c.
A great number suicide in the water-buckets - as luxurious
an ending almost as the ancient royal double murder in
the Malrasey-butt.
The latest novelty is a wheel with a frame on
which is packed Bcwt. It is propelled by four men, two
in front and two behind. We have donkey-teams with
waggons, and packs, camel teams, horse teams, bullock
teams, human teams; all we now want is teems of rain.
They have uncovered a couple of decent gold-
bearing reefs which cross the dray-road from Coolgardie
to Bayley’s.
’Tis a bad omen—those jackaroo miners. Their
sympathies are all with the blacklegs, and we know what
that means.
Should the rush anticipated occur, there may be
a repetition of the terrible Kimberley disaster, but
far more severe. You should advise the cookies and
teamsters to stick to their properties, in N.S.W., Vic., or
elsewhere, for ’tis a passing phrase here that we can go
to where they come from.
We have six candidates for Yilgarn electorate,
and judging by the questions put to some of them who
have addressed us they will know we want no luke-warm
representative.
A man on his way to Siberia, hearing how
things were, stopped near Coolgardie, took possession of
a camp (the former owner having gone on)and fossicked
for miles around. Seeing some colours got just above his
tent he started near his abode and raked in about 30oz. —
15oz. of which were raised from beneath his bunk. The
other day an Irish new-chum enquired of an old hand as
to the most likely place to try, and was directed to a spot
where heavy gold had been found. On his way home he
was asked if he had got anything, “Just a bit of a
speck,” replied Mick. It proved to be a 950 z. speck.
There are about 10 genuine leases “ known ” up
to date out of some hundreds, but there are lodes that
bog the intellects of experts, and I am of opinion that
some of them will turn out real swingers.
There is nothing up to now to justify a big rush,
Hannan’s and Coolgardie are the leading features to date,
and these two places turned out, when at their best, 75
per cent, of stiffs. Of the others, Black Flag was but a
patch of surfacing of 150 oz.; Broad Arrow, one good gully
followed on to surface, thence to reef which shed same ;
White Feather, one good gully with fair surfacing from
reefs ; I O U, a very small patch with good leader ; 90-
Mile, fair gold scattered with good reefs ; Siberia, a little
gold, hard to get on ; Yindi, said to be a one-gully find.
Now, considering the distance between these finds, the
time one has to try them, “ three months out of twelve
months,” and the spaces between being a network of
prospectors’ tracks, it is not on the whole promising for
diggers or would-be diggers. You have had the “ toff’s ”
view ; this is the tramp’s view.—Fossicker.
* * * »
In one week over 1400 gold-fevered passengers
left Melbourne for Westralia, and 3000 others are already
hooked in advance to follow.
* * * *
The granting of 12 days’ exemption at Cool-
gardie to enable leaseholders to get men would seem to
indicate that wages-men were scarce. Nine out of ten
miners who go to Coolgardie will prefer prospecting for
themselves to working for others even at £4 a week.
* ♦ * *
The alleged striking of the reef in Bayley’s in
the 200 ft. cross-cut, and the declaration that the stone is
as rich there as elsewhere, caused the shares to jump
from 18s. to 275.; then they fluttered back to 20s. The
tendency before announcement was decidedly backward ;
had it not come for another week, the stock would pro-
bably have gone back to 15s.
* » » *
There was some consternation in Melb. last
week when it was rumoured that E. J. Dunn, late of Vic.
Mines Department, had condemned several Murchison
mines. Now said that Gibbs, Bright and Co. have declined
to take over the Emerald mine, Yalgno, owing to Mr.
Dunn’s adverse report. Dunn is a capable man, and the
writer wishes him luck as an examiner, because learned
geologists have been most unfortunate as experts. More
than one good geologist condemned Mount Morgan, and
several praised Taranganba ; Bayley’s was unfavourably
reported on by a geologist. It is rarely t'-at geologists
succeed in doing what Dr. Peters undoubtedly did at
Mount Lyell—seeing beyond the point of the miner’s pick.
* * * *
A Coolgardie digger complains that the inside
arrangem nts of the horse are altogether on a wrong
plan. The friend of man drinks from 10 to 12 gal. water
daily ; a small “ shout ” means 55., a “ long-sleever ” half-
a-sov.
* » * *
A new-chum, named Arthur Baker—it is always
the new-chum that finds the nugget—has got a 140-oz.
piece at Kurnalpie.
* * * «
The United Coolgardie directors and share-
holders are at a loss to know why an attempt has been
made to jump one of their leases, Ritanita, on the ground
of non-compliance with labour conditions. Ample funds
have been from time to time forwarded, and advantage
was not taken of the general exemption granted during
the dry weather. Whether they retain or lose the lease,
jumping is a good sign of value. Most of the big mines
of Australia have at one time or other been jumped, but
it is hard to name one where jumpers have come into
possession. Bibby, who holds the transfer of the lease on
behalf of the syndicate, has gone to Perth to see what’s
up, thence to Coolgardie to take over other properties
secured by the syndicate.
* * * *
The W. A. Day Dawn G.M. Co. association has
issued its prospectus. Capital, £220,000, in 110,000 £2
shares, of which vendors take all but 10,000, which have,
it is declared, been applied for several times over. The
£20,000 is to be used in increasing the milling plant and
in opening up what appears to be a big mine ; anyhow,
the capital is quite big enough for a start. It is owned
and bossed by the Broken Hill crowd.
♦ * * «
The story goes that only 6000 shares in Bayley’s
South were sold at the float; and getting rid even of that
number was a tough job. One evening they were, say,
175.; next day, after the big reef was struck, they were
selling at a fiver —and the syndicate had in its bag all
the balance between 6000 and the total number! A
clear case of men making money against their will.
* ♦ » *
Extract from private letter from Westralia:
“ The new rush is a good one. , who got the first
gold there last Dec., tells me now that he had the 400 oz.
in the water-tank when he was selling us water at Broad
Arrow. He states, emphatically, that they haven’t got
on to that ground yet. He starts back in a fortnight.
Ginger Clark", of Sydney, is here, by the way. He is a
hopeful-looking vision. His beard would crush lOOoz. to
the ton.”
* * « ♦
The cry of the “ unemployed ” is likely to be
heard, for the first time, during the coming winter, in the
North Island of Maoriland, owing to the severs decline In
the price of kauri-gum.
♦ • * *
Some young shareholders in the Tasmania g.m.
co -> Beaoonsfleld, Tas., strove to oust mine-manager Davies,
who has held the position for 16 years, on the plea that
the mine is getting too much for his powers ; also, that he
once failed to strike the reef (an eccentric one) at the
exact point calculated on. The shareholders in question
arenot practical men and it is gratifying to note that
chairman Hart refused to concur with them. The mine
has not lately paid divs. Him, &o.
* * * *
A parcel of opal which some White Cliffs
(N.S.W.) tributors refused £32 for, a few days ago, has
since realised £ll5, and another parcel for which £l7 w r as
refused brought £75. Through the want of buying-
competition hitherto, the diggers have suffered terribly.
• * * *
A number of correspondents ask The Bulletin
what is the truth about the John Jerger gold-saver.
The exact truth can only be ascertained by use
under actual working conditions. “Show’’-tests are
utterly unreliable. Some fossicker who has long been
working poor but steady ground by other means could
tell one all about the John Jerger in a couple of days.
* * * *
The Melbourne Freetraders, whilom so com-
pact, have sadly jarred. Murray Smith, Langton, H. R.
Reid, Stevenson, and the rest, are at sixes and sevens in
enmity, through financial disputes. Banks, Manchester
Lane Warehouses, Mutual Stores, all provide fuel.
* » * *
The Melbourne Fat party are scheming
again for a railway to the northern suburbs, where the
decrease in population is greatest. Anything to stem the
flow of unemployed townsmen towards the soil which
waits tor labour. Melbourne has already got too many
suburbs, and too much railway, but another million of
money (“raised locally on debentures”) is wanted, to be
expended on the reproductive work of connecting these
played-out districts with the almighty city. Fortunately
there is little likelihood of the job coming off.
♦ * * *
New Costerfield Metals Co., Vic., expects to
chlorinate for 14s. a ton.
* » » *
The finding of a reef at Lovely Gully, S.A., 12ft.
wide, assaying 1 to 9oz. per ton, has been confirmed by
the Inspector of Mines. The assay-margin is too wide.
Assaying a free-gold reef should be made a capital offence,
* * * *
T. A. Richard, an Amer. mining man who
lately travelled Australia and now writes in the Engineer-
ing and Mining Journal, describes the percussion-table
used throughout Bendigo, as a concentrator of very im-
perfect type. Strange that amongst the great batteries
of Bendigo (one 105-heads) none other is used. With
skilful manipulation—and every concentrator needs
attention—Halley’s percussion-table will do as clean work
as any concentrator, and in first and working cost it is far
at'-ad of many.
(“Wild Cat ” continued on page 21.)
Melb. witness; “ I’m employed at the
hospital, sewing up bodies.”
“ The men I am afraid of are the men who
believe everything, subscribe to everything, and
vote for everything.”— Bishop Shipley.
The oldest Australian church is St. Luke’s,
Liverpool, N.S.W., dating from 1819. Its earliest
registers bear date 1811, and the first entries are
signed by Samuel Marsden.
A young American doctor claims per-
manganate of potash to be an infallible specific for
poisoning by opium and its preparations. He
first swallowed 3gr. morphine—lgr. is a fatal dose
—and then 4gr. permanganate in water ; no ill-
effects resulted. If solid fact, it is a great dis-
covery.
Labouchere : “ Mr. Rhodes coolly talks
of annexing whole kingdoms for himself and his
confederates. The merest shadow of Impeiial
sanction-a mere trumpery quibble of a sanction
lent by Sir Henry Loch—is sufficient of English
justice to convert piracy and murder into a
patriotic war !”
Ex-millionaire philanthropist Charrington,
interviewed at Sydney, has given the fruit of his
mature experience on the Australian labour ques-
tion. He thinks the Sydney wharf-labourer can
“make good wages.” Much he knows about it.
Is an average of under 30s. weekly, of which, say,
11s. goes to the landlord, called good wages ?
N.S.W. Labour electoral leagues are using
heavy powder over the “municipal platform”:—
One-householder-one-vote, with six months’ resi-
dence proviso ; popular annual election of mayors;
Saturday elections, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., poll to be
declared same day; rates to be recoverable from
owners only ; compulsory registration with local,
councils of property-ownership, vendors to furnishr-
before sale, proof of title to municipal solicitor,
plan of subdivision to be approved by councils,
etc. ; munioipalisation of lighting, water-works,
etc.; municipal works by day-labour; reserves
vested in councils, and plebiscite to precede en-
croachments thereon or alterations therein ; plebi-
scites to precede council loans; free public libraries
and reading-rooms, etc.
The Bulletin rises bo ask, for the second
time, whether the various Australian Govern-
ments are going to put up the supall amount
required to bring back the seceded “ New Aus-
tralians ” who are now hopelessly stranded, with
their wives and families, in Paraguay. A few
months ago these Governments were joyfully
unanimous in their willingness to spend many
thousands, without Parliamentary authorisation,
to entertain a bored prince and his bride.
Queensland cheerfully pays a big salary to
Hume Black to act as a sorb of immi-
gration lecturer, cheap labour “ad.” and land-
grant railway - boomer in England. Victoria
has lately “blewed” a lob of money in
paying the expenses of Premier Patterson’s lec-
turing tour throughout the country and Robert
Reid’s hazy “ mission ” to Europe. N.S.W., not
so long ago, fooled away immense sums in making
roads through some politicians’ private estates. A
mere fraction of the cost of the cheapest of these
fads would do all that is required. If this country
leaves Britain to pay the expenses of rescuing
and sending back its distressed citizens, or if it
abandons them in Paraguay, it will deserve to be
the scoff of every civilised nation. And whatever
is to be done should be done quickly, if it is to be
of any real service.


Oolemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice.
Edinburgh
The OldßlervdL
WMsKy
H°Rse
Cellar
ott0 tt
W'K
Ilm
rm
M
m
mm
m
>2
llltllLW»
ll|lljlllljHjlil!%
III'"'
L'yiiiiiiiij l !
v;
?l|
ibni
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st,, Sydney.
'iQk
77H)
J^oiadcLcJiv
Personal Items.
David Blair has written nine lives of Capt.
Cook.
A Queensland editor : “ Hoolan and Glad-
stone have resigned.”
The book to be written by a Queensland
M. describing his travels, will be called “The
Drake’s Progress.”
Premier Kingston has gone to Westralia
over a big “ timber ” case, representing a wealthy
syndicate, and to prevent litigation.
The late John Macfarlane, M.L.A., was
father of the current Queensland Licensing Act—•
the most drastic anti-publican law in Australia.
Anglican-Primate Smith, who, with his
three daughters, left for England per Orizaba,
last week, denies that he is about to get married
again.
Miss Shaw, of the Times, has a stamp-
oolleotion hobby, which applies to Govt, frank
■tamps. While in Australia she secured complete
sets of the local issues.
Canon Chase, the Melbourne Anglican
clergyman who has, perhaps, been longest in local
harness, is a charming old gentleman—the very
model of Irving’s Vicar, in “Olivia.”
Lowe, a brainy member of the Age staff,
which he is now leaving, wrote up most of the
anti-Speight articles. He is a brother to the
editor of St, James’ Gazette, and his sister
female-edits the Queen.
The veteran surgeon Fisher, of Melbourne,
died last week. A couple of years ago he figured
as defendant in a sensational abortion-case, but
managed to pull through. Local artists lose a
good friend in Dr. Fisher.
There are now in England, living in clover,
over 30 ex-“ colonial ” Anglican bishops. Your
Episcopal dignitary, unable to bring the squire
along with him, cannot appreciate the free, un-
sectarian air of Australia.
Gov. Duff says that during his residence in
N. Wales he has been asked to weigh a baby,
to throw a boomerang, and to grant an immediate
divorce. And being a particularly ignorant
Governor he didn’t know how to do any one of
them.
Varney Parkes purposes to earn his politi*
cal spurs if elected to next N.S.W. Parliament.
Hitherto he has given the best of his mind to
money-making, admitting that the spectacle of
his father deterred him from depending upon
politics.
A reformed South Australian drunkard
talks of presenting his saviour, Miss Jessie Acker-
raann, with JJIOOO, in order “to secure her a
home in her old age.” But maidens of
mann type never have an old age, except in their
teething childhood.
In a Swanston-street (Melb.) window is
displayed a framed series of portraits of Australian
democrats, labelled “J. Smith,” “J. Brown,”
and so on—with one exception. The central
portrait is “R. J. Seddon, Esq.” “Democrat
Esquire !” ye gods !
The residence in Melbourne, some time
back, of the former lover of the late Prince
Imperial of France probably accounts for the
recent presence of a cup “ presented to the Prince
Imperial by the ladies of Chiselhurst ” in the
window of a local pawnbrokery.
The Sydney never-touch-its “congratulate
General Neal Dow upon attaining the 90th anni-
versary of his birth, and upon being spared by our
Heavenly Father to witness,” &c. ; also, by
inference, they congratulate the Almighty on
having so spared Dow. Further, by more in-
sidious inference, the grog-seller who should attain
his 90th year will have been spared by Beelzebub.
When McCosh Clark was Mayor
of Auckland (M.L.)he received a depu-
tation urging the repeal of the Contagious
Diseases Act. These he called a “ pack of
old women.” Asked why he had so
insulted them, he explained that they
vwere past bearing.
When supposed to be for ever out
of N.S.W. politics, A. G. Taylor was
one day asked by Willis, M.P., to
“come and see friend George” (Dibbs),
Dibbs was absent, so Nick took his
chair at the Colonial Secretary’s office,
and inquires, “ When shall I sit here?”
“Ah,” replied Taylor, “some time
aftsr it goes to the second-hand shop
—maybe.”
King Leopold, of Belgium (who
was mentioned in the Stead case), dis-
appeared the other day. Later on, his
Majesty was found in Switzerland no
doubt in select company. This latest
royal vagary recalls the story of a for-
mer drinky N.S.W. Minister of Lands.
When a certain Cabinet was formed
there was included in it a bearded in-
dividual of shady morals who, however,
didn't drink much. “Hullo!” exult-
antly exclaimed the bearded one to a
brother politician, as soon as the list
came’ out, “I am in the Govt., after
all!’-*' - “Yes,” was the reply, “they
couldn’t well do without you. Blank
is also in it, you see. When in office
before, he was always getting lost, and
they never could find him when he was
wanted, but he’ll never get lost now,
for you know every (Saxon word) in
town.”
John Howard Payne, who wrote “ Home,
Sweet Home !” never had a home, and George
Macdonald, the author of “ Annals of a Quiet
Neighbourhood,” is the father of 11 children.
And Henry Parkes impresses on Forrestralia the
necessity of purity in public life.
There are three Vic. Cabinet Ministers
who can deliver a sermon as well as a speech.
Patterson has been disporting himself at several
Melb. evangelistical churches; Baker preached
lately in the Cousin Jack holy circles around
Long Gully ; and Richardson has not been idle.
The Maori King, Tawbiao, sent a message
to Premier Seddon that he would be glad to meet
him at Kihikihi; to which Seddon answered tha b
he would be glad to meet the king at another
place—Hamilton. Neither potentate would give
way, so they did not meet. The white man might
gracefully have conceded the point. A bigger man
would have done so.
JACKY JACKY, the Dora-Dora Black.
If rumour speaks truly much influence i s
being used to secure knighthoods for two retiring
S.A. Civil servants : Samuel Deering, Assistant
Agent-General, and G. W. Goyder, Surveyor-
General. Each will also receive some thousands
of pounds as compensation for the loss of his
position.
“Tom” Slattery, as N.S.W. Minister for
Justice, has absolute power to release prisoners or
keep them in gaol. The Governor will, as a matter
of form, sign any recommendation the present
Minister for Justice forwards. In his two last
terms of power Parkes reserved this right for him-
self or for the Cabinet. He distinctly withdrew
it from his Minister for Justice.
New York Evening Sun deliciously places
Dame Margaret Windeyer, “ the wife of the
Senior Colonial Justice of New Zealand,” as the
leader of the Woman’s Suffrage movement in
Maoriland, and says of her daughter that, when
she “got hold of a vowel, she gave it three or
four twists before letting it go.” However, she
couldn’t have given it as many twists as the Sun
gave the real facts.
Outgoing Vic. Railways - Commissioner
Murray has publicly shown his soreness at
parting with his post. His wails savour of
Mr. COLQUHOUN, the new N.S.W. Crown Solicitor.
want of courage, as his regime, it is claimed,
was noted for the number of surreptitious dis-
missals of men with Speightian sympathies.
Kibble, Francis, and Murray appear to have
been most antagonistic to their predecessors,
and the discharged railway men, who look upon
themselves as having been sacrificed for their love
of the old master, are chuckling over the vengeance
that has overtaken one of their alleged destroyers.
When the late Dean Backhaus (R.C.) was
stationed in Adelaide during a lengthened drought,
the other denominations were praying for rain and
asked the doctor to join. But his German rever-
ence knew too much : the barometer was too high
just then. He watched for a fall in the glass, and
when it came he publicly prayed, getting the rain
and the kudos, too. •
Matthew Davies, after his
acquittal, received nearly a van-
load of congratulations from
Governors, Judges and other
bigwigs, from whose mind a
great weight was lifted when
their brother aristocrat escaped.
The jubilee of the estab-
lishment of the biggest S.A.
milling firm will be celebrated
May 1. Strange to say, the
founder of the business, John
Dunn, is the only survivor of
the four partners who ran the
concern in its younger days, and
he is 92 years old. This month,
at the Mount Barker Show, ho
w.on first prize for sheafed hay
with part of the crop cut from
a paddock over which he drove
the second Ridley reaper ever
constructed, more than half-a-
century ago.
Queen Victoria, although
indifferent to the age of her
bonnets, and careless about the
hang of her dowdy dresses, is
a martyr to high-heeled boots.
No elderly lady in the wide
world wears her heels higher
than Vic. Regina. On State
occasions, when she has to stand
upon a hidden hassock, with a
view to impressing her loyal
subjects, the Queen may sport
easy slippers, as also when she
is riding through the streets
perched upon a mountain of
cushions, but for the sake of
consistency she must add an
inch of leather to her ordinary
walking or standing stature.
The poor old lady was born
with abnormally brief under-
standings, and she does her best
to live up to the fictitious figure
which the English t. lustrated
press has conferred upon her.
Robert Reid, the Southern imperialistic
drummer, shortly after being appointed Minister
of Defence, was driving pasta detachment of local
militia and as lie drew near it happened that the
order to change arms was given. The soft-goods
magnate, perceiving the evolution, took it fora
salute in his honour, arose in his carriage, and
solemnly lifted his belltoppor, much to the amuse-
ment of the Tommy Atkinses who, unaware of
Reid’s identity, put it down to the action of an
affluent looney.
Annie Besant, who comes
in August to boom Theosophy,
has a handsome face, though
nearly always sad in expression.
She invariably dresses in loose
tea-gowns, never wears corsets,
and can, without notes, talk un-
ceasingly for hours about spooks.
She is always more or less sure
of her facts, and has been known
to digest a cab-full of books for
a single lecture. Her hair has
the knack of changing colour.
At breakfast-time it is often
black, bub an hour or two of
proof and letter - reading will
make it a snowy-white.
The retirement of the
gilded Pastor Talmage, the
Most Travelled’s latest lion (“as
was to be ”), from the pastorate
of Brooklyn Church is, perhaps,
due to the fact that his violent
style of preaching has for long
rather bored his flock. The late
fire in the Tabernacle, it is
averred, was due to the burning
character of his eloquence. Thus
(from his sermon on the Yel-
lowstone region): “ The cliffs
present the upholstering of the
Lord God Almighty . . Torrents
of light tumbling on floors of
darkness, auroras crouching
among the rocks, sunrise and
sunset married in a cathedral
of basalt, with a ring of rain-
bows.” Then, “ Jehovah seems
to have passed Himself in the
grand canon.”
The King of the Belgians
has been addicted to secret
sprees of the sort just cabled
about, for the last thirty-five
years. He’ll die incognito, more
likely than not.
Hamilton Clarke, speechifying in London
on Victorian music as “one of the survivors,”
relates his meeting with the Mayor of C
The latter, an individual in shirt-sleeves, held his
hand over a dirty bar and handed Ham. a tumbler
of the “vilest whisky he had ever tasted.” Most
improbable, this. No Australian Mayor would
have handed him a tumbler of whisky. He would
have passed the bottle. We don’t measure out
people’s liquor in this beastly country.
Premier Dibbs (N.S.W.) : “I have never
been tight in my life.”
Says Crick: “ I’ve been tight, boys, full many a time,
And, many a time, do I hope to be more so.”
Says Dibbs: “ I have never been tight; it’s a crime
I avoid, and there’s nothing on earth I deplore so.
If it came to a bet as to which was most able,
In fair-fashioned duel of drinking at sight,
To drink his opponent clean under the table,
I’d bet on the fellow who ‘never was tight.’ ”
Ifc might have been told of Dismal Jemmy
Garvan, M.P. (N.S.W.), of “sacred and solemn
duty” celebrity. “ A Kentucky Congressman has
a sad way of speaking when he wishes to be impres-
sive, which sadness always is intensified in the last
part of his speech. Tom Reed came into the
House the other day while Breckinridge was
winding up a speech, and listened for a moment.
Then he turned to General Cogswell and said :
‘ Can you tell me the name of the deceased ? ’”
There is a symmetrical similarity of curve
about the portraits of N.S.W. racing-men pub-
lished by Sydney Telegraph. “Mon Dieu!
quelles protuberances 1” as Max O’Rell said of the
deep-bosomed Dianas of Britain. But the protu-
berances are all in a healthy spot. In fact, Syd-
ney’s prominent racing-men seem to realise the
physical ideal which Dr. Anna Potts marked out
for her egg-shaped woman—broad in the middle
and tapering to the extremities. And why not?
Parkes not long ago declared that he would
never again go before an Australian jury to ask
for justice, his implication being that prejudice
against him would blind some of the members to
the facts of his case. On its being pointed out to
him that one-man-one-vote made Parliamentary
elections trials by jury, hu referred to the
“majority” element in this latter matter, and
indicated that similar verdicts in legal cases
would be an improvement. But, then, majority
verdicts are taken in civil legal cases.
No unvaccinated person is allowed to vote
in Norway.
The Melbourne papers now invariably
allude to him as the common hangman. Lord
bless the system that makes the hangman
common!
The Bulletin is assured, and is requested
to state, that it is quite untrue that Mr. R, A.
Price, a Parliamentary candidate for the Glou-
cester (N.S.W.) electorate, ever moved a vote of
confidence in himself at any meeting of electors.
A striking feature of N.S.W. Agricultural
show was the big clock erected by Stewart Dawson
and Co. in the top part of the main pavilion over-
looking the whole of the grounds. The very large,
clear dial could be easily seen from any part, a big
improvement on previous years.
Linotype type-setting machines, if gener-
ally adopted, will, in Sydney alone, render work-
less several hundreds of compositors. At present,
type-setting costs 13d. per 1000; the machine is
expected to do the work for under 3d. The differ-
ence, barring interest on the cost of machines, and
depreciation and repairs, goes into the pockets of
the newspaper-proprietor, to whose income thou-
sands annually are thus added at a swoop. It is fully
expected by the trade (in fact, it has seemingly
been hinted by the importers) that, pending other
arrangements, one at least of the evening papers
will be set at the office of its morning contem-
porary : “ The machines are not to be idle in the
daytime.” Seventy compositors employed at
Sydney D.T. office are all to have an equal
chance of learning to use the machine,
under the tuition of an imported expert.
COOLCfIWJE
LAVATORY
a Lick and
yva. $ A ■ ■ i/,
Tvaci? \Ko-nds Jyk
Hand* on/y //y
LIKELY ENOUGH.
Those who show most proficiency will be
retained, up to the nujnber of (including foremen,
,&c.) about 25 in all; the rest will have to go—
Heaven only knows where, for there are already
hundreds of “comps.” outof work in Australia. It
is understood that the acceptance of work is to
involve the signing by each operator of a practical
renunciation of trades-unionism. If the machine
has come to stay, then the trade of compositor
is dead, for, in the ordinary course of things,
the machine will soon be worked by
women at fourpence an hour. At present, it is
understood that the Sydney operators are to get
Is. 6d. per hour for a minimum of 7000 “ems,”
with a seventh extra for any excess. In America,
it would appear, the operators get half-a-dollar an
hour.


j LIKE THE MORNING STAR.
QYDffEY is getting uncomfortable. Its population
is pushing each other shoulder to shoulder like
sardines in a box. Those who pay rent are sighing for
PreshgFields and Pastures New, and they have found it at
1 CARLTON-
-8 MILES from SYDNEY. TRAIN AGE, 6d. DAILY.
LA HITE. 11LOUKS THIRTY POUNDS EACH
On the Wonderful Terms of 14'- per Month.
City water. Gas. Asphalt paths to Station. Magnificent
Public School opposite. Suspension granted in case of
illness or lack of employment. Liberal discount for
Cash. Local people who gave pounds per foot in the
Boom times will tell you it is a gift. Grand corners for
business. Roads being formed. In advertising this
Estate the Public only get real, solid truths.
Plans from E. Cl. V. B onghton, 301 Pitt-st., Sydney,
9 to 5 daily, and open Monday nights till 9 p.m. On
ground every Saturday afternoon 3 to 4.30 p.m.
ğ
INSTANTANEOUS PHOTOGRAPHY!
<:)
This Hand Camera,
With BALL and TUBE ATTACHMENT,
355.
Samples of Work done by this Instrument, and Illu-
strated Catalogues, post free on application.
BAKER & ROUSE,
373 George Street, Sydney (opposite Sydney Arcade).
260 Collins Street, Melbourne (next to Mullen’s).
46 Queen Street Brisbane.
69 Bundle Street Adelaide.
DISEASE DEFIED!
HEALTH INSURED!
CLEMENTS TONIC
HOLDS THE RECORD.
More lives saved by Clements Tonic than by
all other medicines combined.
A GENUINE ARTICLE
COMMANDS SUCCESS.
CLEMENTS TONIC
IS GENUINE.
CLEMENTS TONIC
IS SUCCESSFUL
Mrs. M. Blakley, Wilson-street, West Wallsend,
N.S.W., who writes on February 14, 1893
About two years ago I was very much troubled
with dyspepsia, pains in the back, and continual
headaches. I was never free from severe fits of
retchiner, everything of which I partook seemed
to turn into water. At last I became so bad that
I was advised by the doctor.who was attending.cn-
me to go into the hospital. Having a young
family it was impossible for me to do so. I believe
I tried nearly every remedy, but received no relief
until my attention was drawn to the great cures
performed by Clements Tonic. I began to mend
before I had finished one bottle. I continued
taking it for some time, and I am happy to say it
thoroughly cured me. It was not a temporary
cure, but a permanent one. You are at liberty to
make what use you like of the above statement, —
Yours gratefully, Mrs. M. Blakley, Wilson-street,
West Wallsend, N.S.W.
POLITICAL POINTS
M.P. —Mostly Promises.
Victorian Minister of Offence—Robert
Reid.
How mum is Sydney D.T. on the land-tax
question !
Sexagenarian : “ The British Civil Service
retiring age is 70.”
“ H.P.” stands for Henry Parkes. Also
for Hair and Promises.
Despite rigid economy S.A. Govt, expects
a deficit of at least £30,000.
Wanted —A “begat” record in connection
with the rapid promotions of the N.S.W. Civil
Service.
Di|)ba singles out G. D. Clark and J. C.
Neild'as the supreme bores of N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly.
Already over 900 candidates have an-
nounqed themselves for the 125 N.S.W. parlia-
mentiry seats. \
There is apparently no chance of a com-
promise between S.A. progressive land-taxers and
Labohr-party re L.O. elections.
Not impossible that Robert Reid will be
appointed head of the Vic. railways on his return.
He has been sent (o find a traffic-manager.
Melbourne Argus devotes a column-long
sub-leader to the great old men of the world, and
never once mentions Parkes. It is petty jealousy
like this that retards Australian Federation.
Civil - servants are heavily pensioned,
because, often occupying a certain position, they
cannot step down. How could Cabinets, Parlia-
ments, municipal councils, be run on such a
principle ?
Wesleyan Parson Maddern proposes that
his church should “set apart a man to enter
N.S.W. Parliament and look after its morals.”
And who would look after the morals of that
man who is “ set apart ’ ?
The Poonindie mission station, Port Lin-
coln district, S.A., reserved for the use of the
blacks half-a-century ago,; is now being cut up into
working men’s blocks for their hardly less poverty-
stricken white brethren.
Had N.S.W. Gov. Duff not been in bed
when Premier Dibbs went to Government House
on the night of the crisis, it is probable a new
Government would have come into power. Next
day Dibbs advised a prorogation.
The N.S.W. political
chaos. A split id the Labour-
party ; a split in theFreetrade
party; a split in the_ Pro-
tectionist party ; a split in the
Country party ; a split in the
Farmers’ party ; a split in the
Temperance pkrty (prohibi-
tionists v. local-bptionista); a
split in the Yellow Pup.
Study of a Queensland
labour settlement under the
Co-operative Communities
Act: “This place is 50 miles
from, a railway; has no per-
manent water, and soil is of a
very ordinary quality. Why
it was thrown open Heaven
only knows. Any settlement
here would much enhance the
valuqof squatter Tyson’s neigh-
bouring property.”
A is afoot to
induce the British Government
to extend the scope of Ordin-
ance jjll, by which at present
Papuans may engage bn fish-
ing-vessels only, as far South
as Gojbktown. This, of course,
with 'd view to the ultimate in-
troduction of New Guineans
into ? Queensland, canefields.
The r New Hebridean is, of
course, nearly extinct, but he-
has proved infinitely cheaper
than jguano.
The cable : “ Leading
financiers in London are con-
vinced that Australian rail-
ways'offer the best investment
for British capital.” Which -
means that they will pay
bigger interest to the British
capitalist than any other in-
vestment. And as the _ Aus-
tralians will supply this in-
terest, it means again that
they 'will pay more to the
British capitalist for the use
of his money than anybody
else -is fool enough to do.
There are two sides to every
question, and this is the other
side of the present question.
A large railway contractor said, the other
day, that he would give .£l5 a head for the unem-
ployed in Australian capitals and feed them for a
year if the law would let him flog them when they
r fuspd to work, or worked badly.
Thos. MTI wraith, opposing Griffith’s Naval
Defence Tribute Bill: “ Imperialism in Australia
is mere sentimental bombast.” MTlwraith in
England (March, ’94): “Republicanism in Aus-
tralia is nothing but pure sentimentalism.”
The Cabbage Garden definitely resigns
supremacy. Hayter has long done his best to put
a good face on things, but he is getting old now,
and admits that N.S. W.’s population is 1,223,370,
and Victoria’s only 1,174,022. So he has to make
way for a younger man.
Sam Hordern and Alderman Meeks, both
of Sydney, are spoken of as among the likely
Dibbsian nominees to N.S.W. Legislative Council!
If these are samples of Dibbs' I iemocrats, imagina-
tion cannot conceive what the Earmarker’s
acknowledged Tories would be like.
Matthew Davies is one of the principal
reasons why the Victorian Government doesn’t
call Parliament together. The “ politics of the
Mercantile Bank case” were suppressed in the
Law Court, but the dread of their coming up
again in the ’Ouse is always before Patterson’s
eyes.
The half-dozen Democrats left in Melb.
are staggered by the news that ex-Railway Com-
missioners Kibble, Francis and Murray are re-
spectively to be pensioned on £7OO, £6OO and
£6OO per annum. With the other hand, Patt.
retrenches the sick pay of the ill-paid school-
teachers.
Where were the signatures of the 100 or
so N.S. Wales Ms.L. A., who now petition for the
gaoled bank-directors, when the Broken Hill
miners and other strikers were imprisoned ? Most
of these then said that it was injudicious, if not
reprehensible, to interfere with the course of jus-
tice, and that it would be altogether wrong for
members of Parliament to cabal for such a
purpose.
The Age, in justification of the federal
movement:—
To preserve the continent for the white man is the
general desire ; but there is an obvious temptation to the
capitalist to call coloured labour to his aid in the sub-
tropical colonies.
Black’s not quite white since the Argus became a
penny.
Gladstone’s farewell address to his consti-
tuents warns Democracy that it is entering upon
a period of great moral danger, and urges that
precedence be given to the interests of the whole
instead of part of the community. That’s pre-
cisely what Democracy is doing. British Govern-
ment hitherto has been Government for the
classes only ; now it is to be Government for the
masses.
A well-informed Maoriland correspondent
to The Bulletin
Stout’s entry into Maoriland politics is widely suspected
as treachery to the democratic wave now carrying all be-
fore it. He is the hope of the re-actionaries—of this
there is no doubt, and he cordially detests Seddon.
The Tories are championing Stout, and he shows no dis-
like to their doing so. You will find my words confirmed
by time and events.
The Pope, it is cabled, enjoins Polish
R.C.’stoobey the Czar, “the personal source of
their present liberties.” We live in a topsy-turvy
age! Jezebel has been whitewashed, Messalina
purified, and now we learn from infallible autho
NOT TO HIS LIKING.
SUICIDAL PERSON: “The worst of the Yarra is it’s so dirty.”
rity that Russia is “ at the root of Polish liberty.”
Latter-day theology is evidently tending to the
Chinese belief that God is good and the devil not
at all a bad sort.
It was reported that the Postal Conference
had agreed to raise the interprovincial newspaper
postage to Id. for the first 40z., and for each
additional 2ozs. The Age makes Premier Patter-
son thrill with horror at the bare idea. “As a
matter of fact,” remarked Mr. Patterson, “ the
intercolonial postage on the Age newspaper would
be doubled. Altogether it is an absurd proposal,
and will not be tolerated by the Government.”
Superintendent Greer, of N.S.W. Govern-
ment Labour Bureau, urges the adoption of the
Maoriland public-works policy of letting contracts
to gangs of unemployed at schedule prices. If
this is done, Government should beware of com-
mitting the mistake of selecting the men. The
co-operatives must combine naturally, appoint
their own overseers and gangers, and frame rules
i
H- :
~S\
vf
; 'tfisawa
■ #sVU ;
’j
under which undesirable members can be dis-
charged.
The Bulletin invites attention to the
detailed report in N.S.W. Hansard of the
Assembly debate re the shocking Reseigh-Martin
prosecution law-costs scandal, disclosing an almost
unprecedentedly shameful legal imposition on the
Treasury. Barrister Reid, Opposition leader,
posed as really indignant at the legal grab ; but
let anyone follow and read between the lines of
his speech and say whether any lawyer can be
relied on as turncock in the flushing of the legal
gewer.
Wagga (N.S.W.) branch of the Amalga-
mated Workers’ Union has appointed a Central
Works Committee, whose duty appears to be to
tender (co-operatively) for public works and other
contracts. Wagga branch has agreed to advance
50 per cent, of the contract-price on all contracts
undertaken, receiving as security meanwhile the
contract agreements, vouchers, etc. This idea, if
developed wisely, is capable of achieving grand
industrial results.
The Vic. Government’s conscience ! It
hanged Mrs. Knorr for sending innocent babes to
Paradise ere they could be sin-stained in this
wicked world. It has commuted the death-
sentence, passed upon a man who violated a little
girl, to 10 years’ imprisonment, with three flog-
gings of 25 lashes each. The brain-convolutions
that can devise such subtle distinctions in the
penalties prescribed for variations in crime should
furnish an interesting study to psychologists.
A N.S.W. statesman, giyen to making
protestation that nowhere in the world is there
greater freedom than in Australia, admitted
lately on cross-examination that when he used the
word “ freedom ” he meant the power confided to
the governing party—“ freedom,” as he said, “to
do what we Ministers like.” The fight for liberty,
according to him, is a fight to enable the represen-
tatives of the Crown to govern the country “ on
our own broad sense of right and wrong.”
“One of my subjects” —was a phrase that
dropped quite naturally from Gov. Duff’s tongue,
at Sydney Animal Show, last week. “ One of my
subjects, asked me to grant her an immediate
divorce.” So that all N.S.W. citizens, in Gov.
Duff’s opinion, are Gov. Duff’s subjects. Let this
be remembered as the inward naturalness of a
Governor’s opinion concerning himself, his posi-
tion, and his relations towards Australians, when-
ever his nonentity and mere figureheadedness is
again broached. “ One of my subjects ! ”
Afc Dunedin, Wellington, Christchurch,
and several other Maoriland towns, the number of
public-houses is to be reduced one-fourth. Dunedin
was just 18 votes short of absolute prohibition, but
the victory of drought and cold tea will doubtless
be achieved next year, and meanwhile even 25
per cent, is something. Port Chalmers also just
missed absolute prohibition. Oamaru and Bal-
clutha actually got there. There is no other town
on this earth that is quite so desolate as Balclutha,
and now, when thirst is added to its other
miseries, it ought to bo an excellent place to
die in.
The S.M, Herald’s
suggestion “to complete the
independence of the N.S.W.
Railway Commissioners by
withholding the estimates of
that branch from the criticism
of Parliament,” is taken by
certain political leaders on
both sidesasahappy thought.
The suggested change will
however, make the depart-
ment somuch a Star Chamber
bureau that whatever good
may result from it would be
far outweighed by the poli-
tical harm. There would be
very little difference between
selling the railways to a
private company and remov-
ing them thus completely
from public criticism.
Queensland Govt, de-
sires to throw open for settle-
ment the alienated Darling
Downs lands (which, old-
time squatters asserted,
would never grow a cab-
bage). But money to buy
back the land is lacking.
Therefore, it is proposed to
exchange Central District
lands for the D.D. country,
in the ratio of about 7a. of
the former to one of the
latter. By which ingenious
device Southern farmers will
be settled on the land at
Northern expense, and the
revenue accruing from such
settlement stolen from the
North and credited to the
South.
“ Figgers can’t lie.”
Farmer witness before Vic.
Tariff Commission ; “ The
farmers had pakj =£70,000
duty per annum bn twine.”
Chairman Bosisto ; “ The
duty collected last year was
.£413 7s. 7d.” Witness :
“ Then I have been mis.
informed.” This is Maxhirschian !
Clement Wragge has taken to naming the
storms which come along after the letters of the
Greek alphabet, and that of last week was ac-
cordingly christened Epsilon. Thissounds learned,
no doubt, but the man who is out in Wragge’s
storm would quite as soon Wet Wragge stuck to
plain English and named it “ Disturbance Hex.”
Mr. Holman writes :
Dear Bulletin, —Your par. about my‘‘reported utter-
ances ”is un-BuLLETiN-esque in two ways. It’s not up to
date and it’s not fair. It’s not up to date because six days
before it appeared I gave the explanation clamoured tor
at the end ; and gave it in the same paper as the
“utterances” were originally published in; and it’s not
fair because it is a repetition of a lie that has been thus
already nailed down. I can only regret that my
explanation should have escaped- The Bulletin’s all-
seeing eye, and meekly repeat it here.
Ist.—l have to explain why I didn’t sign the printed
pledge-form of the Central Committee. I didn’t do it
simply because I was selected at Leichhardt two weeks
before the printed form was issued, or even suggested.
But I did sign a pledge which in every particular agreed
with the form afterwards issued (which form was only
meant as a model, any way). Is that satisfactory?
2nd.—l cannot explain what I meant by saying “that
the pledge was impracticable, but that 1 woujd work on it
all the same," because I never did say it. This is a “re-
ported ” utterance. I used that phrase about a p/oposal
to extend an Eight Hours Day to all occupations, and
the intelligent reporter, or his editors, grafted it on to my
remarks on the pledge.
3rd.-—I have to explain that you are manufacturing
confusion on the pledge business. The November Confer-
ence laid down the essentials of a pledge but no form of
words. Any form containing such essentials is constitu-
tional. In answer to numerous requests the Central Com-
mittee drew up a form satisfactorily covering these
essentials. But every candidate has been left free if he
please to draw up a more grammatical or more poetic
form of his own, provided that it is right on the essen-
tial points. The one or two that were rejected were so,
not because their form was'different, but because they
were wrong on essential points.
4th.—l have to' explain that Mr. G. D. Clark not only
refused to sign the “solidarity pledge,” but also, which
was the immediate cause of what you call his “ downfall,”
refused to pledge himself to stand-down if not selected.
This was the real trouble in his case, though the solidarity
pledge would have been also demanded had Mr. Clark
given this one.
As to my “bigotry,” my “inconsistency,” and my
“ piratical ” manners, those are matters of’ opinion, upon
which my own information being more complete and
reliable than the fellow’s that supplied the paragraph, my
opinion is likely to be as good as his. Thanking you for
the opportunity of reply.—Yob rs, W, A. Holman.
IF GLADSTONE DIES.
If Gladstone dies?
How long will this forgetting world remember ?
Until the next ensuing Days of Ember ?
Not so. The storm’s forgotten with its thunder ;
Dead demi-gods don’t last a nine-days’ wonder,
The dingoes scramble for the vacant show,
The world doth wager on the dingoes—so,
If Gladstone dies.
If Gladstone dies ?
Where is the chasm in the cosmos ? Where
The vacuum ensphered within the air?
Would space, suppose you, miss its brightest sun ?
Or would the orbs, unheeding, onward run?
Stab water and withdraw ; now, find the gap
Your dagger made. Just so will be the hap
If Gladstone dies.
DIPSO.


/^ z= =
4
Y, Y z
/ - A\H 5T^U^
tk
ww
f/jf $ I
ġ
WQM
r Chieesc
ģ
SC9iSfe\W'^
g
SSix"
r ' JlI^S&'c-" ‘- - - :7~ -V
C,
ĝ
ğ
M !■ J|
ġ
KNty iT^y
MISSIONARY REID AND HIS GOD.
LONDON, March 20. Mr. Robert Reid, the Victorian Minister of Defence, has had an interview with Mr. H. Campbell-Bannerman, the Secretary of State
for War, at which the principal subject of discussion was Australian Defence.”Cable.


3/sfy S , y/r^' r//es
fc>
7‘VP% °S'
c o/\rh or °f **/'' ; ‘ yy j
7 sa*\ H acC
6a6y "-3>vfr
/oret JRffyr
/’e/n?/- ffofcapU
spv7 ™'V ay-
, T? 7ft 'T’o/kt. records of ye
y u /ur/ for "f ten VC „
read f M ft ft
feCx /r A
yjy .y°. A' a/a/v?/y?gaf/'A
■^ r %C7oy a > r£ fij/'?# /& sT/j
07 &. /? r> \
post-^
NSSsWK K«k*
X. cWg4 a ■ W a rf*-
r // - bnclCiL
'Cosfcv* (no ■ deHrow-hy*
7S ~H
¥r X- wt.**/< a y *?y
/yilc/ £ey c/ <y J iSVa// *
THINGS IN GENERAL.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
’U'ORTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
V Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years, back, and fortunes are waiting for those who buv
nowin PERTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
£lO W, £1 Deposit; 10/- Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CITY DOTS,
From £4O each. Very Cheap. Easy Terms.
ALBANY ACRE BLOCKS,
Grand position. From £l.» each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect. No forfeiture if ill or out of
work. Send for plans and Government map, showing ti n-
position of land.
THE INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Perth and Sydney, 1885),
309 Pitt-st., SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
g
Wonderful Discovery !
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
BYE LOTION.
mills Lotion cures Swelling and Sandy Blight,
L Inflamed Byes and Lids, Dimness of Sight.
Very beneficial to those who have Weak Eyes, as it
strengthens the sight. By post, 3s, per Bottle.
KST" Manufactured Solelyby H. A. ROSE, Elieuilst,
531 GEORGE osTREET, SYDNEY.
Dont
let
any one
deceive
you;
Tbtrt
cap
bt
M ■
SODS ti lufe
for
e ■
©ir
h\ 0
WolfesSdmpps
Society
SoiiJ-yearn from Sydney evening paper :
V"Ol|N(fy Gejit, dark, wants young lady as corni
x jAmon ; must state appointment. Full parti-
culars, School, Red fern P.O.
Is this,; a' by-blow of the dreaded regulation that
married female school-teachers cannot hold State
?. Is pedagogic concubinage to be
an Auitbahjm jtjh-de-si&cle vogue? The Bulletin
wants to know.
# * «
All through the heavy rains of last week a
man and .four .children slept huddled up in a hand-
cart, with an old blanket, at Windsor, in
sunny N.\S. Wales. The poor devil was a
widower out of work, and wheeled his family
round the country in the hand-cart, begging for
subsistence And the cable states that Agent-
General Samuel contemplates a special trip to
Italy to buy (for £11,000) a statue of Governor
Phillip, the first N.S.W. gaoler—an obscure naval
officer) by-the-way, of whose personal attributes
absolutely nothing is known. This monstrous job
is a legacy of the Parkes Government.
* * *
A New Guinea missionary lately told his
Sydney audience that he called one of his converts
a pig and a dog for taking two wives. It was the
only way, he said, to bring bis sin home to the
benighted heathen —but all the same, it appeared,
the darkey hung on to the extra girl. Which
recalls the story of the Maori chief whom the mis-
sionary tried to wean from polygamy. “Is not
the Bible true ?” enquired the chief. “Yes,” said
the missionary. “ And was not Solomon the
wisest man who ever lived ?’’ “ Yes.” “Well
then Solomon had 600 wives. Kapai Solomon !”
■ * * *
After refusing a board of enquiry to ex-
Constable Hewlett, who was dismissed for making
serious charges against his superior officers, the
S. A. authorities have been compelled by public
clamour to alter their decision. They let them-
selves down lightly, however, by the pretence that
Commissioner Peterswald, who will be seriously
compromised if the accusations are proved true,
has asked for a board. The chances of fair play
are very premising, seei»g that the subordinate
was thrown out “ on his ear ” for daring to open
his mouth.
* * *
Jobbery, writes a correspondent, fairly
ramps in the Westralian police department, A
sergeant, Houlighan, who has seen 14 years service
—mostly in the tropical N.W.—lately applied for
a change on the ground of ill-health. It was
readily granted ; an intimation reaching him that
he would be henceforth stationed at Perth where
he would rank as corporal. The sergeant sent to
replace him had been exactly 14 days in the force,
but be happens to be a brother to Gov. Robinson’s
private secretary.
* # #
A recent Christchurch (Maoriland) fashion-
able marriage was conducted on the “rational dress
system;” in other words the bride and brides-
maids all wore knickerbockers, vests, and coats.
But they didn’t go in for the plain, serious-looking
male article, as is evidenced by the following
gorgeous description
Mrs. Wilkinson wore stone-blue bengaline coat and
knickers, cream gold embroidered vest, a wreath of
natural flowers, and bridal veil (ye godsl knicker-
bockers, orange-blossoms and bridal veil !—it sounds
like stewed rhubarb and mashed potatoes on one
plate!), draped prettily, but'not covering the face as
usual. Miss Walker wore a suit of lemon merveilleux
satin, the close-fitting tunic being trimmed with rich lace
and edged with a niching of itself; the general effect
somewhat suggestive of a Russian skating dress. Mrs.
Burn wore a suit similar to the bride’s, hut of gold-
brown cashmere, the vest trimmed with broad silk em-
broidery, and the edges of the coat finished with gold cord ;,
to my taste the most effective postume of the whole. Miss
Parry’s suit was of a navy blue cloth, the vest trimmed-
with gold tinsel gimp, and the coat edged with gold cord.
Miss Meredith’s suit was of a crimson corded stuff, and
the coat finished with silver cord and the vest with broad
cream silk braid. The gentlemen of the party, with two
exceptions, wore knicker dress also.
Pity there isn’t a little more information about
these two male “exceptions..” Did they wear
skirts and tall hats, or what?
,-i • • •
Women having at last got into baggy
breeches for wedding ceremonies, will the next
development be a bitter clawed-forked female,
arrayed-in vestments over trousers, to read the
service ? Alas, poor man !
Happy thought! “Wedding trousseau” is
easily convertible into “ wfedding trousers.” -
# * *
Dear Bulletin, —I have a grievance. I
live in a suburb of filthy Melbourne, where typhoid
is carted around in disgusting pans, where cows
lap dp infection for their milk from open drains,
where houses are permitted to be built on foetid
foundations of filled-in swamp, and where each
municipal dignitary, from the Mayor of Melb.
downward, is an accessory before the fact to a
shamefbl death-rate. Of late lam harassed by an
elderly policeman, who calls once a week or so, to
know whether the baby has been vaccinated. He
is seemingly a pompons believer in smallpox-
scares, and a man without any useful purpose in
life. He has my sympathy. The grievance afore-
said is not against this misplaced myrmidon, but
against the authorities who command me to have
sores produced upon an infant in a poisonous atmos-
phere. Vaccination as a counteraction to smallpox
may have served a good purpose in Jenner’s time.
Jenner is dead, and the most cogent arguments in
favour of his discovery are dead also, yet vaccina-
tion, under wholesome conditions, may be desirable
even to-day. But is it not monstrous that the
Law, which denies us reasonable protection
against typhoid, diphtheria, and other aggressive
evils, should affect to be so concerned about an
effete disease that is conspicuous by its absence?
We are individually compelled to take dangerous
precautions against non-existing Small-pox by the
very people who are responsible for existing
terrors. “Get your baby vaccinated or go to
prison,” say the authorities. “Reduce the
dangers of vaccination by doing your duty, you
official fever-mongers,” I reply. Meanwhile, that
monotonous “ bobby " is hammering at the front
door.—Yours, E.F.
* » *
Forty applicants for a Melb. lodge doctor-
ship.
» # *
Two fair Toorakiennes drive in Mel-
bourne’s only private hansom.
mm*
Significant “ad.” from Sydney Evening
News :
TZ"IND Lady to Adopt Respectable Baby from birth ;
expected middle April. Mrs. May, G.P.O.
This “ad.” opens up “awide field for conjecture.”
What is “a respectable baby ? ” Also, can any
baby be respectable? A baby is an unfinished
being without manners, who confidentially
dribbles at the mouth when spoken to, and who
dabs his bread and jam on the pants of total
strangers. Also, he looks up chimneys, and
he sits down in pools of water and com-
plains bitterly when lifted out, and he dis-
respectfully throws crusts at his parents. If an
infant can do all these things and yet be respect-
able, then what on earth does he do when he isn’t
respectable ?
# # •
Melbourne Argus, 17fch March, ’94
T ADY, alone, with very comfortable HOUSE, would
like to housekeep for gentleman. Superior,
Cameron’s, 666 Chapel-street, South Yarra.
* * *
Mr. Panton, P.M., Melb., to a small boy
efficiently arrested for being a vagrant:—
The only way to cure such a case as yours is to apply
the cat. Boys who are allowed to behave as you have
done are on the straight road to become criminals; indeed
you are criminals already, and a source of expense to the
country. We will give you three months in gaol.
Mr. Panton would cure boys of their criminal
inclinations by giving them the accepted brand
and mark of the vilest criminal. He probably
would also try to cure short-sightedness in youths
by poking out their eyes. When the writer went
o school, his teacher, when he convicted a boy of
Untruth fulness, used to stand him before the class,
labelled: “This boy is a liar.” After that it was
found the boy always acted up to his reputation.
Now that master, grown old, points with pride
to the fact that three of his pupils are lawyers,
two tried to be, and one is in Parliament.
The right-thinking people who love to point a
moral, with a cat or a soaped rope, will regret to
hear that Victoria has been deprived of a grand
example. W. Johnson is not to be flogged. He
was sentenced to 25 lashes for gross indecency, but
being found, at the last moment, to be a hopeless
paralytic, he escapes. An explanation is offered
as to the reason for this exception in favour of the
paralytic by a system that has cheerfully hanged
or mangled scores of diseased criminals.
Gov, Norman wished the other day to
inspect the house of a Mount Morgan magnate at
■n t „ 8 , b .
Rockhampton (Q.)-one of the finest private resi-
dences in the province. The owner is absent in
England, but his son-in-law, with the Mayor and
two aldermen, went up to prepare the way. They
found the caretaker in the garden, and he stolidly
refused to open the house “for fifty blarsted
Governors-no, not for the Queen of Ilingland if
The Sydney 22-footer IREX.
she went down on her bended knees and begged
and prayed to he let in.” His orders were to
allow no one over the place. The indignant depu-
tation went for the owner’s lawyer, who returned
with some more aldermen, and threatened the
caretaker with discharge. He had locked the
lodge-gates, and retorted that he would only take
his discharge from the man who put him there.
Then he went back to his plants, and as the
Governor couldn’t think of climbing the wall, he
had to stay outside. That is the sort of man to
leave in charge of your property. Ho is like
a 371 b. bull-pup named Satan, formerly owned
by a Sydney man, who took off his overcoat one
day in a billiard-room and left Satan to watch it.
Satan sat down on it and declined to budge until
his master came back two days afterwards.
# # #
Curious that the majority of divorce female
r espondents who have managed to entangle, or to
become entangled with, a co-respondent, are
homely of countenance, and, in some cases, posi-
tively repellant. Also, they are inharmoniously
attired and, as “presented at court,” offend the
artistic eye. Small, wiry, male co-respondents
seem to hanker after broad, largely - limbed
females, with outenrved lips exhibiting much red.
The short, dumpy male co respondent affects the
large but angular respondent, who is a scare to
the ordinary man. The well-built, up-standing,
pride-of-manhood co-respondent showers his glories
upon the shortened and dumpy wife, whoso frame-
work suggests down bolsters. The old, enfeebled
co-respondent seems content with anything that
shakes a petticoat.
The prompt
arrest of the de-
faulting Hobart
Coffee Palace
official is. in
direct contrast
to the shameful
connivance I of
. “Somebody” at
the escape of
the thieving
Hobart attorney
who was t not
above robbing a
barmaid of her
hard-earned-sav-
ings.
* •
A Sydney
magistrate has
sent a tramp to
gaol for a fort-
night for steal-
ing a water-
melon. And an
old Tasmanian
washerwoman
has been gaoled
for stealing two
peaches. Crime
isincreasingfast
in Australasia.
A Melb. chemist has been sentenced to the
gallows for having caused the death of a pregnant
woman by malpractice. To be logical, the law
should cast its net around the medical and mid-
wifery professions generally ; also, it should deal
punitively with all those vendors of emmenagogic
and ecbolical preparations, &c., who flourish
openly on the infirmities of the human sisterhood.
# ■# *
The idea that what is known as the French
method of detecting criminals was never employed
in Australia is not absolutely correct. Fifteen
years ago the evidence against a burglar in Sydney
consisted of the impression made by his thumb on
a piece of soft putty on a pane of glass.
• * #
lb is a healthy sign when N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Public Instruction returns a communica-
tion addressed to it by a teacher who signed a
double-barrelled name 1 with the ourt intimation
that plain (say)-J. R. Smith was engaged by the
Department, not “J. Robinson-Smith.” The
State’s Educational Department should be demo-
cratic and hbn-snbbbish. By the way, there was
lately quite a battle of letters betv een the Depart-
ment-.and an imported lady principal, since re-
signed/ of Hurlstone -Teachers’ Training School,
who always ran her pen through the word
“school” on the official note-paper, and inserted
in its stead the more aristocratic - sounding
“college.” Hence the trouble. However, the
school is doomed to be popularly, if not officially,
known as a “college” to the end of its days, for
the trainees prefer it so.
* * *
How many Sydney police, from the rank
of sergeant up, are not-Freemasons ?
THE ONE CHARM WANTING
tfy’tf'irl I
CtujldnT
I did not know how sweet she was until she shook her
head,
Observing that her heart, was still “ To Let;"
I wept for my defeat, because—as doubtless you have
fj / read—
' f Man hankers after things he cannot get.
/ • I had not guess’t how sweet she was.
How nice enough to eat she was,
Until she answered ‘‘ No,” the young coquette !
Anon I won a willing maid, she blushed a healthy red.
\ Her palpitating heart was all my own.
But 01 to clutch the “ killing ” jade—the one who shook
\ her head,
\ Whose kiss my baffled lipr. have never known
\ \ The wdbing and the'.willing maid, ’’
It-A The cooing and the billing maid, vfV
quite uninteresting she has grown !
My promised bride is beautiful (tile other wench was plain,
Nor half so bright and clever as Nanette),
Her sentiments arc dutiful, she gives no creature pain—
Now, Laura played the devil when upset.
V My promised bride so beautiful.
Intelligent and dutiful,
' Will never be the girl I couldn’t get
"W
If Laura came and bothered me to take her after all,
I don’t suppose she’d find me very glad
The hugs with which she smothered me would soon begin
to pall —
Her figure’s boldest outlines being pad ' =>
Ah ! if she came and bothered me,
And femininely smothered me—
She doesn’t; that's what makes a fellow mad.
Melbourne.
EDMUND FISHER
A LATTER-DAY EPIC.
Perhaps the banking catastrophes of the 19frh century
may form the subject of an epic poem in the 20th.—
Brisbane paper.
The bankers came down like a wolf on the fold
And swore that their coffers were bursting witli
gold ;
And their balance-sheets shone with a varnish of
lies,
Like the glamorous gleam of a pair of black eyes.
And the knowing ones carted their money-bags in,
Arid the Verdant ones came With their fists full of
tin ; |
And the bankers they bade ’them be cal mi and
content, ’' \ ■>. |
And count on a divvy of twenty per cent, v !
So they counted on divvy’s and'castles in Spain
While the land was aflood With the finest cham-
pagne,
While the whisky like rain in a rivulet ran
From Beersheba’s bounds to the borders of Dan.
But the public awoke from its slumber at last,
And burst on the banks like a southerly blast;
Caucasian, Kanaka, and Chinaman John,
They went for their dollars—their dollars were
gone.
And the widows and orphans are loud in their
wail,
And the public is calling for justice and gaol;
But the might of the hanker , altho ’ he be down,
Is more than a match for the might of the Crown.
His raiment is glossy and sleek as of yore,
And bland is his smile and as broad as the door;
And he chuckles and chuckles when no one is nigh
And winks at the Judge as he passes him by.
So drink if you will to the bandits of old,
To burly Bill Sikes and Barabbas the bold;
But fill up your glass to the brim when I say
“ Here’s a health to their masters —the knights of
to-day!”
Q-
P.L.


TO THE LADIES.
It is generally admitted that you, ladies, have on
your shoulders the responsibility of the household,
and the care of providing for the welfare, at home,
of your husbands and the children.
You no doubt act up to the best of your abilities,
and yet there is one pertinent question which we
should like to ask you.
Do you give your children a drink
OUT OF THE TAP
when they are thirsty ?
If you do, you are running a fearful risk, especially
in the country, of bringing unwelcome visitors into
your home.
TYPHOID AND HYDATIDS
Are very prevalent just now in Sydney, and half the
cases are brought on by drinking unflllered water.
Now, in making up your mind to purchase a filter
at once, there is just one thing to beware of—and
that is the old-fashioned Sponge or Carbon Filters;
and one thing to remember—that since the water in
Sydney is deficient in lime, the best filter to buy is
A LIMESTONE FILTER.
Let nothing induce you to buy any other kind. If
you do, you will be sorry.
TOBIN &, DAVIDSON’S “RAPID”
LIMESTONE FILTER is the best in the world.
It obtained
FIRST PRIZE
at the late Chicago Exposition, and costs, in the
small size, only 10s. fid.
Only lOs. 6d.
For 10s. fid. you can fulfil a grave duty, and dis-
charge a serious responsibility.
Order through your local storekeeper, or, if in
town, call at our Show-rooms, 393 George-street,
opposite Royal Hotel. .
A line from you will bring our illustrated circular,
telling you all about it. [Mention this paper, we
want to test its value.]
HOLDS WORTH, MACPHERSON & CO.,
393 George Street, Sydney.
Send ONE and 3 PENCE in STAMPS
(OF ANY COLONY)
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books ;
Profitable Poultry Book
The Self-Educator Book
Comic Recitations Book
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train—Running, etc.
The Popular Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Handy Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry Book
Manual o£ Book-keeping
Also, the following Australian Yarns, Detective Stories, etc.
Geoffrey Hanily n (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (VV. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang)
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (.Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. 0. Doyle)
The Sign of the Four „
Light that Failed (R. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennard)
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adder)
Elbow Room (M. Adeler)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards „ ~
Play or Pay „ „
WARD, LOCK &
BOWDEN, Ltd. (and all Booksellers), Melbourne,
ARE YOU AFFLICTED
with
DYSPEPSIA,
CONSTIPATION,
KIDNEY TROUBLES,
BACKACHE,
ACHING LIMBS, or
LIVER COMPLAINT?
If so, safe remedies are within your reach at
a nominal cost. CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS have never yet failed to
cure the worst cases. General debility, nervous-
ness, weakness, and general complaints of the
digestive and nervous systems are promptly cured
by these reliable remedies. They are prepared by
scientific processes, and are not merely mechanical
mixtures madeonly to ‘‘gull the public.” The re-
nown CLEMENTS TONIC and FLETCHER’S
PILLS have won in Australasia is proof of the
fact that they stand pre-eminent for their special
classes of diseases. No remedies ever sold gave
such entire satisfaction to their patrons, and
evidence is forthcoming from every city, town and
village to prove their virtues. No doubt can now
exist as to their value, but purchasers must be
careful to get the geniune articles as many
unscrupulous traders will attempt to palm of a
substitute if possible, for the sake of extra profit.
THE TRUTH! THE WHOLE
TRUTH!
NOTHING BUT THE TRUTH!
Warner’s Safe Cube
Has been before the public for the past 14 years,
and has achieved a success never equalled in the
history of medicine, not only in the United States
and Australia, but also in Great Britian, Canada,
Germany and France. It is therefore no new and
untried remedy, but has stood the test of time,
and has cured thousands of men and women given
up to die.
If you ask “Why has this great remedy outrun
all other competitors in the field of medicine in
all parts of the world ? ” we reply. Because it is a
purely vegetable compound, containing no harmful
drugs or opiates—it acts exactly as represented,
and permanently cures all kidney, liver, urinary
and nervous disorders.
The kidneys are the only blood-purifying organs
of the human system. Every drop of blood in
the body is passing through the kidneys, night
and day, year in and year out. Good health is
therefore impossible if the kidneys, the sewers of
the system, become clogged up and diseased.
Put the kidneys in perfect health with Warner’s
Safe Cure and the blood will be pure, the appe-
tite will return, the nerves will be restored, and
the elasticity of health will return.
There are things, however, that Warner’s Safe
Cure does not do. It does not temporarily lull the
nerves only to ruin the nervous system in the end.
It does not create an appetite for narcotics, de-
manding more and more soothing potions, until
you are in the toils of the monster and a mental
and physical wreck.
If you suffer from backache, nervous troubles,
stomach difficulties, or any form of kidney, liver,
or urinary disease, Warner’s Safe Cure will cure
you. There is no doubt about this. The mede-
cine rests its reputation on its record.
In purchasing accept no substitute. The pic-
ture of a Safe is on all genuine packages.
“GAILY THE
TROUBADOUR.”
The troubadour has long since passed into history,
but his sweet guitar still lives in fact as well as in
memory.
We have just received about a Dozen of the famous
pANDANGO
Guitars.
They are remarkable for the purity and richness
of their tones, for their strength and for their low
price. A good one for 50s.—better ones up to HI 75.,
and every one guaranteed.
SPLENDID STOCK OF MUSIC
for
GUITAR OR MANDOLIN.
Call and Inspect our Magnificent Stock of
PIANOS AND GROANS 1
The finest choice in the city, and the best for the
money. Most Liberal Terras—CASH or CREDIT.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Melb. advt.:—
TOLLY Dogs.—Lecture by Mr. O. E. Jones, Melb.
** Temperance Hall, Tuisday evening, 8 o’clock;
free.
Wanted, now, a lecture on “gay dogs,” by some
Social Purity Society magnate. Also a few re-
marks about “saddogs.”
# # *
A Melb. man who, two years ago, was
worth .£50,000 in cash, now sleeps regularly in
Fitzroy Gardens—when he isn’t moved on by the
police. He is only one of a multitude—the great
multitude of decayed, red-nosed men, with
greenish tail-coats, and broken boots, and their
hair sticking up through broken hats, who ask you
in a voice of fog and gin if you “ don’t think
there is going to be another boom ? ” There will
be another boom, no doubt, but not for them.
Very few men g. t two chances in the land-boom
industry. When the next frenzy comes along
younger men will run the swindle, and the old
boomers will elbow each other in the soup-kitchen,
and swap lies about the allotments they sold and
the banks they ran in the garish dayaof ’B7-
• * ■
Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the modern
world is the di gree in which men have mastered the
secret of keeping their working power to an extreme old
age. . . . The Pope is in his 84th year. The Queen
keeps her working power and keenness of intellect un-
broken at 75 years cf age. The English Commander-In-
Chief, the Duke of Cambridge, is 75. —Melb. Argus.
Newcastle (N.S.W.) is very Republican,
and, save in newspaper reports, anything ap-
proaching enthusiasm among the vast majority of
its people over a vice-regal visit is ever conspicuous
by its absence. It was curiosity and nothing
more that brought a crowd to the local railway-
station on the occasion of Gov. Duff’s recent
arrival. The people, largely composed of unem-
ployed miners with time hanging heavily on their
hands, went to see Gov, Duff, just as they would
roll up to see the circus lions arrive; and not to
welcome him, as the papers put it.
None of the papers reported the enthusiasm
attendant upon Carington’s first visit to the coal
city. He alighted from the train; the crowd was
there, but it had only come to see, and raised
never a cheer. Then a railway-porter, a bit of a
wag, stepped forward and addressed the silent
crowd : “Now then, you lazy , give the poor
Governor a cheer ! What else do you think
you’re made for?” And then there was enthusiasm,
heaps of it, with the genuine ring about it, and
yet none of the papers noticed the incident. lut
the porter was promptly dismissed.
m w 9
Ip the course of a recent Sydney divorce-
case, Judge Windeyer practically started to sool
the co-respondent on to the private detective—at
least, it sounded very much like that. In this in-
stance the detective burst in a window and put his
head through the gap in search of evidence.
“Such a proceeding,” said Mr. Windeyer, “ was
illegal, and a person doing that might run a very
good risk of being dealt with as a burglar—tha
was, being shot by the inmate of the house.” As
the inmate, on such occasions, is generally the co-
respondent this opens up a new view of the case.
• « •
A curiously humorous Sydney newspape r
incident of last week was the fact that an M.P.,
lately mixed with a divorce scandal, signed his
name boldly to a series of articles, among which
was this quotation from Tertullian re the vogue of
common property-holding among the old-time
collectivists :—“ All things are joint property with
us except wives.”
A Maorilandress, one of the
newly-henfranchised, now visiting Syd-
ney, was asked how she had approached
the voting question at last general
election. “Well, you know, there
were two candidates,” replied the
lady, “M. and N. George was sup-
porting N., but Mrs. So-and-so told
me that he quarrelled with his wife and
stayed out late o’ nights. So I told
George I was going to vote for M.
So George said ‘ Well, we quarrel some-
times and sometimes I do stay out
rather late, but I suppose if I were
standing you’d not vote against me ? *
So of course I had to agree—George
always could reason so well—and I
voted for his man. But poor Susan
—that’s my servant —I thought that
as she wasn’t a married woman she
needn’t vote for George’s candidate, so
I got her to vote for M., and you
should just have heard George when I
told him at tea-time ! ”
* * *
A handballer has been fined
for Sunday play in Melbourne—Mel-
bourne, the loathsome sink of financial
corruption, where colossal daylight robberies go
unpunished, and the knuckly fingers of sainted
swindlers squeeze the throat of the Law.
* * *
It is time the word “ approached ” was
knocked out of the national vocabulary. No
M.L.A., no alderman, no policeman, no official
anybody, ever
tion about any
natural manner,
cases shows that
proached ” by the informant,
preached,” says he.
acquires informa-
thmg in the
Evidence in all
he . was “ap-
i. “I was ap-
The retrenching Minister Baker (Vic.)
lately ukased that all married women in the Edu-
cation Department must go. Indignation
and hysterics followed. Then the order
was changed, and it was made known that
all female teachers with large families,
invalided husbands, drunken husbands,
and husbands who were absent in un-
known parts might remain. Now it
transpires that the husband of every
second matron in the Department is
either a frantic dipsomaniac with
chronic snakes in his hair, or a hopeless
loafer, or afflicted with something in-
curable, or else visiting Central
America or the Argentine Re-
public. The maiden ladies throw
up their billets for husbands;
the married ladies throw up
their husbands for billets.
Evidently men don’t improve
on acquaintance—any more
than do women.
A Kiama(N. S. W. ) store-
keeper advertised for a clerk
at 50s. a week, and gob
218 applications. One ,
writer jeeringly offered
to come for .£lOOO a
year, with suite of
apartments and
15s. per day ex-
penses. Civil ser-
vant ? Of course ; nobody else can
afford such pranks nowadays.
“Why don’t the men go to church?
Because the She-Gimlet climbs into the pulpit
and crows from that roost. Witness Palm-Sun-
day’s doings in Wollongong (N.S.W.) Wesleyan
church.
• * #
Melbourne is what Hobart used to be in
point of marriageable girls.
Rue Australia seems easier to reach than
to quit. Its Lane is a cul-de-sac.
* m *
A married lady writes to a Melbourne
paper to complain that, owing to the hurry and
general high pressure of modern life, she seldom
sees her husband, and is almost deprived of the
pleasures of his society. There are, she says, 168
hours in a week. Of these he spends 54 at busi-
ness, 15 in “evenings out,” 56 in sleep, and the
remaining 43 in her society. The 56 hours sleep are
seemingly not spent in her society. Evidently
this lady is really writing to the papers about the
evils of the single-bed system, concerning which
Chief Justice Madden so learnedly discoursed the
other day, but doesn’t like to say so.
They are about to abolish the old cemetery
at Williamstown, quite an ancient institution,
where interments took place over 40 years ago.
It was within the boundary of this historical spot
that John Price was battered to death by the
convicts.
• # *
A Sydney witness last week set down his
vocation as “pastoral student.” What’s the
matter with “ jackeroo?”
# # •
k At Barcaldine (Q.) a local citizeness was
accused of having stolen certain spokes,
the property of a wheelwright. Found
guilty and fined 10s. or one week. But
the cells in the local limbo were already
occupied by male offenders and prisoner
was penniless. Whereupon the local
police promptly subscribed the 10s. and
sent the lady home rejoicing. Find the
moral.
* • *
The members of a Sydney news-
paper staff are such very good friends
that they lend around to one another
the new books which they handle. This
amity has, however, disadvantages ; for
sometimes the same author will be
quoted or alluded to in nine different
parts of the same issue, and it has
happened more than once that the commendation
he receives in one column will be discounted by
reprobation in another.
* * •
The Adelaide police band is under orders
to go and play to the lunatics once a month.
# • *
A wealthy Sydney sporting man of trade
who has been entertaining the Bong-tong lately,
says he is afraid he must give it up. You can’t
lend money to everybody.
AN OPTICAL ILLUSION.
The development of the male conscience
keeps step with the march of woman-franchise.
Todd, a Maoriland civil servant, has just suicided
leaving behind him a card on which was written
that he was doing the deed “ because of a lovely
woman to whom he had broken his promises, and
to whom he now made a thousand apologies.”
The Maoriland Salvation Army has estab-
lished an Index Expurgatorins, and lights public
bonfires where Besant’s novels are burnt in com-
pany with “ Bluecap the Bushranger ” and “ The
Green Dingo of the Western Plains.” Even
“Robert Elsmere” and “Barabbas” are de-
nounced, and the only undamned exceptions so
far are “Pilgrim’s Progress ” and “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin.” The old Puritan religion-run-mad again.
Why not burn a few witches to keep things
humming ?
# » •
The children of Israel were never so much
in evidence as they are at the present time in
Melb. The daughters crowd the Block and fill
the dress-circle of the theatres, and the sons seem
to be the only remaining “club men” in the
Southern capital.
On 31sfc Dec. ’93, there were 3377 public-
houses in N.S.W., or three for every thousand
persons.
For Fitchett : “ There was a man once—
a satirist. In the natural course of time his friends
slew him, and he died. And the people came and
stood about his corpse. ‘Retreated the whole
round world as his football,’ they said indignantly,
‘and he kicked it.’ The dead man opened one
eye. ‘But always towards the goal,’ he said.”—
Maarten Maartkns.
“It is not who does a thing, but whether it
is done well, that is the important matter for
an intelligent community to consider.” Thus
Pilcher, Q.C., at a Sydney social gathering. Yet
the same Pilcher helped to consolidate the rules
under which a Parramatta attorney’s clerk was
fined a big sum, with a gaol-alternative, for
doing work, admittedly well, but for not being the
legal “ who.”
THE ROYAL SECRET.
They do not linger long below
Who live but lazy lives.
The slothful navvies come and go—
The active “toff” survives.
And stoutly as the ivy green
Maintains a crumbling tower,
So doth the never-resting Vic.
Preserve her working power.
The common soldier passes hence
(Killed, maybe, by a shell),
But Gampbridge, thanks to Providence!
Is always doing well.
The gutter loafer, pale and mean,
Dies off unlike a flower—
His Sov’reign Lady, bright and keen,
Preserves her working power.
The city boss, amassing wealth,
Outstays his threadbare clerks.
No “ hunemployed ” has half the health
Of good old ’Enry Parkes.
Longevity is labour’s prize—
In point of fact, its dower.
Could England’s Queen do otherwise
Than keep her working power?
The drones who dig for coal, or gold,
And in the dampness grope,
When spoken of as “ very old ”
Are younger than the Pope.
Death is the wage for jobs we shirk ;
Before that thought we cower.
The Queen, by sticking close to work,
Preserves her working power.


WML.
MBUENEY, WALLIS & Co.
N. M‘RVRNEY\
K. S. WALLIS }
At HENSON I
Hi Ct FRANKS
S, J, MEAD
IB to 29 years with the late Kirm ot
MOLT & CO., and GOLDS’
IiHOUGH, MOKT & 00. (Ltd.),
WOOL «Sc PRODUCE SELLING BROKERS ONLY.
Litaeral Cash Advances if required.
gPEOIAL ATTENTION to SHEEPSKINS, MARSUPIAL SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, BARK, HORNS, BONES, HAIR, and any other Produce.
Each. Department managed. by a member of tbe
ACCOUNT SALES RENDERED AS PROMPTLY AS POSSIBLE. ALL EXPENSES COVERED BY A
Wool Warehouses: Margaret Street. Produce Stores: Circular Quay.
Street North, SYDNEY.
PIGS and CALVES a Special Department
Firm.
COMMISSION CHARGE ONLY.
Offices: Macquarie
TATTERSALL’S
FINAL
10,000
HANDICAP.
31st MARCH.
at 5 10,000
{
“ TATTKKBAW
Care of George Adams,
“The Telegraph ” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
Brisbane, Queensland.
Amusements.
FILLIS’S, FILLIS’S. FILLIS’S.
FILLIS’S.
Fillis’s Circus!
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
CIRCUS
MENAGERIE MENAGERIE MENAGERIE
MENAGERIE MENAGERIE MENAGERIE
EVERY
EVENING ■*» m- EVENING
MAMMOTH—{ TENTS }—MAMMOTH
erected opposite
Redfern Railway Station.
The Coming EASTER Attraction.
/ ONE SHILLING 1
1 ONE SHILLING f
Best Shilling Entertainment in Sydney
PERFORMING
WILD ANIMALS!
SPLENDID
OPENING PROGRAMME.
Embracing 20 Items.
THE REALISTIC AND EXCITING
STAG HUNT
STAG HUNT
V. j
Introducing 100 Ladies, Gentlemen and
Horses,
MATINEE MATINEE
Next Saturday Afternoon, at 3 o’clock,
When Children will be admitted to all
parts for
Sea.. 6d.
Popular Prices of Admission :
Dress Circle, 3/-; Stalls, 2/-; Gallery, 1/-
Special Reserve, 4/-
Children Half-price (Gallery excepted).
BIJOU THEATRE
(Late GAIETY).
Under the Management of W. J. WILSON.
ELECTRIC SUCCESS! ELECTRIC SUCCESS 1
OF
£“T 8 : I the strategist ( intis'.
The Funniest Comedy ever written, which will be
repeated every evening until Further Notice.
FRANK HAWTHORNE as ‘‘JACK RUTLEDGE
New Furniture kindly lent by MARK FOY.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE
Sole Lessee Mr. George Rignold.
ANOTHER GREAT SUCCESS.
EVERY EVENING 1 EVERY EVENING !
(by arrangement with W. J. Holloway, Esq.)
"THE SHAMROCK AND THE ROSE."
Interpreted by a Specially-selected Cast.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
{CRITERION THEATRE
Lessees .. Frank Thornton and Charles Arnold.
LAST TWO WEEKS! LAST TWO WEEKS 1
and FAREWELL PERFORMANCES of
The THOKNTON'AKHOID COMPANY.
To-Night (Thursday, March 22) To-Night
* Hans the Boatman.’
Box Plan at Nicholson’s.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgrove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Boucicault.
LAST TWO NIGHTS! LAST TWO NIGHTS I
“THE AMAZONS.”
Saturday, March 31, and for Six Nights Only,
“ NIOBE.”
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES—No. 6.
“Self-defence was the object aimed at when arming
the Sydney police with revolvers. If the weapon is other-
wise employed, constables will become particularly
citizens, and cause more alarm to the public than to the
burglar and garrotter.”
CLOSES SATURDAY, APRIL 14.—Every Competitor
allowed two guesses for each 1/- sent by Postal or P.O.
Order, 1A if in stamps. Add exchange to Postal
notes other colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.)
divided amongst successful guessers.
The Missing Word is deposited, in a sealed envelope, with
Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known Albury Bookseller.
No. 6 Competition paid £3 14s. to each successful com-
petitor.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
For 15d. in stamps will be posted from
The Bulletin Office to any Australian address
“Tales of the Convict System," by “Price
Waning.”
—THE—
Wentworth Hotel
Lwfcti
m i
m
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
VITALIYAS.
The Great French Nerve Ss Brain Restorative.
A specific for Nervousness, Debility, Weakness, etc.
It quickly and permanently restores the enfeebled con-
dition, resulting from excesses, worry and overwork, and
can be relied upon as a genuine aphrodisiac, prepared
in the form of Pills. PRIDE, 3s. per Box, post free.
National Drug Co., Jtussell-st,, Melbourne.
□
*
aitiii
■5
i
M
mini
su
m
m
J;'U
i
Q3
"•33
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,” situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the otheri
the “ POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor .. .. CEO. >V. ELLIS.
RENOWNED PHYSICIANS, and even the
Public are so familiar with the merits of
GRIMAULT & CO.’S
MATICO
that the afflicted need not hesitate to use it,
and obtain a rapid cure of those troublesome
ailments peculiar to young men.
Grimault’s Matico does not cause stricture
GRIMAULT & CO., PARIS.
SOLD BY ALL DRUGGISTS.
Agents: Elliott Bros., and Australian Drug Co.
Thames Electrics Steam Launch C?
a 2x
p
ELECTRIC LAUNCH “GLOW-WORM,” 53ft. by 7ft. Sin.
Are prepared to Estimate and Furnish Draw-
ings and Specifications for Launches in Wood,
Steel, Delta Metal, or Composite, either with
Steam or Electric Power—Speed from 6 to 20 miles
per hour; also Tugs, and Stern Wheelers, which,
if required, will be prepared and constructed in
Sections.
Launches of specially Light Draught con-
structed for Shallow Waters.
Electric and Steam Pinnaces for Harbour or
Ferry purposes.
Builders of Electric Charging Stations, Float-
ing or Stationary; and makers of all required
fittings and equipments.
A selection of Electric Launches always ready
for prompt delivery, of which particulars will be
forwarded on application to
W. s. SARGEANT, m.i.m.e.,
Manager.
TWICKENHAM. ENGLAND.
Taw
TAYLOR BROS.,
248 Pitt Street, SYDNEY,
ORIGINAL and SOLE MANUFACTURERS
of the Celebrated
! Kg
AUSTRALIAN NEEDLE-WOOD PIPES.
PRICES (Silver-mounted and Vulcanite Stems) — 4/6 5/6 6/6 Amber Stems and Cases from 10/6 each.
State Shape when ordering.
NEEDLE- WOOD is vastly superior to anything yet discovered.
TAYLOR BROS, are prepared to return the money to any gentleman who, on trial of Needle-Wood Pipe, can con-
scientiously declare that it is not the Best, Sweetest, Coolest and Dryest Pipe he ever smoked. This is the opinion
of every purchaser so far. Pipes sent to any part of the world (post free) on receipt of Postal Order for the above prices.
Makers of Amber and Vulcanite Mouthpieces. Pipes Repaired.
20,000 Sliares ett £l.
n™ WOGGONOEA
BUILDING SOCIETY
HAS TO DISTRIBUTE AMONGST ITS MEMBERS
Three Grazing Farms (20,000 acres each).
All Fenced, and well improved. Situated near CUNNAMULLA, Q. Together with
20,000 well-bred Sheep—l to 4 years old.
Also, £3500 worth of Building Allotments, in 171 Prizes.
For any of which 90 per cent, is obtainable in CASH.
SEND SA FOR A SHARE to GEORGE STORY, SECRETARY,
Cunnamulla, Queensland.
an
DR. A. WILFORD HALL'S
GREAT HYGIENIC DISCOVERY
Fop the cure of nearly all diseases witnout the use
of Medicine.
The appliance complete, comprising one gallon bronzed
Fountain, six feet of good quality Rubber Tubing, Nickel-plated
Clip and Ivory Rectum Tube, with Free Book containing full
instructions, price 55.. posted 9d. extra,
Donald Kurtz. 264 Russell St.. Melbourne.
V
ft.'ivV
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The clever division had a disappointing time at
the opening day of the A.J.C. Autumn meeting.
Patroness, a six-to-four favourite, made every post a
winning one in the Two-year-old Handicap, after which
her people just escaped a coup with old Marvel in the
Autumn Stakes. He was quietly backed at 20 to 1, and
getting well away established a lead which was not
wrested from him until after the distance, when the
favourite, Light Artillery, took command and won by a
couple of lengths. Thespian, at 10 to 1, won the High
Weight Handicap ; and the St. Leger came on the hoard,
for which the public thought Carnage had only to come
out and win. They backed him down to sto 2on accord-
ingly. At the distance Carnage was leading, but the
hearts of backers sank when Sailor Prince passed him and
won by a couple of lengths. Mr. “Bill” Long’s Gerard
started first favourite for the Doncaster, but was unable
to run into a place, Mr. “Bill” Forrester’s Donizetti
winning without a dollar of stable money on him. So
much for the judgment of the two most.knowing “ Bills”
on the Australian Turf. One thought his horse, who
hadn’t a ghost of a show, could win, the other won with
a horse which he didn't think had a ghost of a show.
» » * ♦
Lady Trenton, reported “ cronk ” on Monday
morning, started for the Sydney Cup unsupported—by
the public—at 20 to 1, and when it came to racing, never
gave anything else a chance. The astute Mr. Mayo has
ever had a knack of springing these little surprises upon
the Sydney public.
* ♦ * »
At the Sydney Agricultural Show pony mares
13 and 14 hands were a poor lot, bar the winner of the 14
hands, Mr. Maze’s mare by Vermont Junr.
» * * *
In the pony stallion class, 13 hands, for some
reason which nooneelse could understand,the judges passed
over Mr. Brenan’s Sailor and awarded the prize to a washy
flat-sided creamy. Sailor, a rich bay, by the imported
Moorthorpe, is a little animal chock full of quality and
substance.
♦ * * *
Hales was debarred from riding at the A. J.O.
meeting, because of the rule “No licensed jockey shall
own or have any interest or share in any racehorse.” The
Y.R.O. are not so strict.
* • * »
The history of nobblings on the Yic. turf has to
be written. Handioapper Dakin, as trainer, used to sleep
in a nightcap of steel, and dagger-proof blankets, when
guarding Newminster. Filgate bottles up the choicest
sensation re Fishhook. Exile dropped dead after running
second to the Barb. Redfearn has his yarn, about the
attempt on Malvolio.
• * ♦ •
Lady Mary (Brudenell-Bruce) Sievier, wife cf
bookmaker Sievier, has registered racing colours.
Whether her husband, who runs a shop as commission-
agent, under the name of “ Mr. Punch,” will find the
funds one cannot say. Certainly, Lady Mary’s allowance,
which amounts to a few hundreds a year, will not run to
“ keepin’ Vsses.”
* • * *
Donald, stroke of the Wendouree R.C., has been
chosen stroke of the Victorian Interprovincial Eight,
much to the chagrin of a couple of metropolitans who
expected the billet. Certainly, the Wendouree possess
the pace, hut their form is far behind that of the Mel-
bourne clubs who competed for the champion race. ,
* * * *
In the Adelaide intercollegiate boat-race for the
Blackmore Challenge Shield, on 17th March, the St.
Peters boys were seven lengths ahead but stopped rowing
ere they had actually breasted the post, and the Alfreds
drifted past first. The umpire awarded the prize to the
latter, but they chivalrously declined to take it, and
handed it over to St. Peters. Only boys would do that
sort of thing.
* • • ♦
In about a month the footballer, with his plas-
tered hair, flat forehead, bad language, and tobacco-juice,
will again be in evidence at street corners. Football sec-
retaries are now providing imaginary billets at £2 10s. a
week for the various footballers who are “bummers” all
the summer, and “ caretakers’’(every football club has at
least 20 imaginary “ caretakers ”) all the winter. The
writer knows one player who last season got £lO4 for
“ repairing shed, &0.,” but he was a good player and was
offered £lO5 by a rival club to—take charge of its foot-
balls 1
* ♦ * *
Dear Bulletin, —“ W.,” in endeavouring to put
others straight, falls into error. Your contributor did
not refer to fights between big and little, but to fights
between stocky, muscular men and those of the lanky
(Fitzsimmons) type now so successful. In wrestling,
weight and strength tell still more. Then he compared
the average glove-fight and the average P.R. affair—not
exceptional cases like the Smith-M'Carthy. Mace was
not the only scientific fighter of his day. Otherwise, how
could Goss, no bigger, give him such tough battles, and
Brettle, much smaller, beat him ? Then there were
cleverer men with the gloves, but little thought of in
those days. To say that King equalised matters with
Mace is pure rubbish. In their second, as in their first,
meeting, Mace was winning easily, and became careless.
A big man, even to the last, has a terrible smashing left,
and, Mace being off his guard, King landed the ever-
memorable blow. But nothing could induce him to again
face Mace who persistently challenged him. Bendigo—a
little man ! Why he could fling a brick across the Trent
at Nottingham-a feat atw’hich Donald Dinnie would not
sneer. Heenan was strong on his feet, certainly, but did
he not go blind five minutes after the fight? The fact is,
that had the Yankee not tried the cruel and unusual
method of strangling a much smaller man on the ropes,
the result was almost a certainty for Sayers.—Con-
tributor.
* * • *
Ned Gee, one of the behind-the-scenes division
when pedestrianism w r as in its hey-day, and later on
amongst the ponies, died last week.
* * * •
Sprig-o’-Myrtle, who went to India at a cost of
1500 guineas, went down badly in his maiden effort on
Eastern turf.
» ♦ * •
A well-known Melb. sporting writer had a very
big win over Hova’s Newmarket victory.
* » *i * *
Sydneyites, the writer included, have long be-
lieved their province to be invincible in the matter of
boats and boat sailing, but the visit of the Irex, Portia
and Polona and their crews to Brisbane has dispelled
that idea. The winds were light, and the Sydneyites
carried by tar the bigger sail area, yet the provinces
came off with equal honors.
♦ * * *
Young John Roberts recently put up a new
r ecord, by making 297 off the red ball alone.
♦ » * *
The dissatisfaction arising from the Mace-Gibba
fight in Melbourne points to the necessity of having two


ToThe Deaf.— A Gentleman who cured himself
of Deafness and Noises in the Head after 14 years’
suffering, will gladly send full particulars of the
remedy post free. Address, Herbert Clifton,
Albany Buildings, 31) Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
Every patriotic Australian should smoke an Australian-
wood, Australian-made pipe. Taylor Bros., of 248 Pitt-
street, Sydney, whose advt. appears on page 4. ha\e made
a boom in Australian-wood pipes. Their leading line is
their already famous aromatic Needlewood pipe, which
possesses all the best qualities of briar and meerschaum
combined—coolness, sweetness, dryness, self-absorbency.
Needlewood, of which Taylor Bros, are always buyers, is ;
indigenous to Australia, and is a beautifully-grained wood.
It is difficult to season, and Taylor Bros, are working from
a stock which has been kept for years. Taylor Bros, will
make up pipes from wood sent by constituents, and will
(as per advt.) mail a single pipe by post to any part of the
world on receipt of remittance. Send a Taylor Needle-
wood to your friend in England as a typically Australian
present.
Public Notice.
The “ ECLIPSE ”
PATENT GOLD SEPARATOR
lEfc. T. B.A_XjXj & CO-,
Sole Manufacturers,
G- oxa.ltjia.rrx.
PUBLIC CHALLENGE.
fUHE above are prepared to meet the John Jerqer or
any other Gold Separator in a Public Trial to test
the superiority of either machine as a practical Gold
Saver.
We claim to be able to put through any class of wash 4
dirt without preparing it—no separating of stones re-
quired. We can put through One Load in W Minutes,
with less water than any other machine. We claim to
be able to save all the free gold. We have by far the
best all-round machine.
Before ordering elsewhere, call and inspect our
“ECLIPSE” GOLD SAVER, which can be seen at our
works, GOULBURN.
For Terms and Price, apply—
It. T, Ball & Co.,
Sole Makers, GOULBURN.
rjTHE
JOHN JERGER
Gold-saving Machine.
Orders for above received
by undersigned. “ The Poor
Man’s Friend,” to put through
400 buckets of dirt per day,
£l5 f.0.b., Sydney. Cash
to accompany each order.
JOHN JERGER, In-
ventor and Patentee,
Goulburn, New
S. Wales.
k
ROSEHILL CUP.
2000 at 2 6
MAY DAY CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BRISBANE CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 6
(ROSEHILL)
April 14,1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 1, 1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 24, 1894.
(RANDWICK)
May 26,1894.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
m
(i
The poor Barmaid having
a little bit of supper after
her hard day’s work !
Noiv ready, post free Is 6d,
THE
Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of
a Sydney Barmaid
To be had only of
PANZA, Box 913
G.P.0., Sydney.
Also, “THE BALLET GIRL,” Post Free, 1/6
Medical.
Mrs. ANNA BUPPEBT
ĝ
The World-renowned
Specialist’s SKIN
TONIC cures Freckles,
Moth Patches, Brown
Spots, Sallowness,
Tan, Blackheads, Ec-
zema, Acne, and
Wrinkles not caused
by facial expression.
It is beneficial also to
the most delicate com-
plexion, as it heightens
natural colour, pre-
vents sunburn, &&,
and keeps the skin
smooth, clear and fine.
Price per Bottle, 12 6,
or three (usually re-
quired), 32/6. Skin
Soap (once tried, al-
ways tried), 1/3 per
gke. Mrs. Anna Ruppert’s “Book of Beauty” forwarded
■on receipt of 4d. stamps. Wholesale depot—l 63 Strand,
SYDNEY. Retail Agents—Hatton and Laws, Tasmania ;
Thomason Bros., Brisbane; Wilkinson & Son, Dunedin,
N.Z. ; Beddome & Co., Chemists, 254 Bourke street, Mel-
bourne ; S. Harris, chemist, 78 King-street, Sydney.
CAUTION. Retailers of worthless imitations pur-
porting to be Mrs. RUPPERT’S goods, but not bearing
■the address of the Head Office, 89 Regent-street, London,
render themselves liable to prosecution.
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works.
Sydney, March 27,1894.
f I LENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
jL SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Government Gazette.
'TENDERS for the Works, &'c., specified I> d■ >w
will be received at this Department until,ll .> <■.!<• -k
«t.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11.
Bridge, Coorna Creek, Sharpe-stm t, Couuia
Alterations, &c., Bridge over the Hunter River at
Redhourneberry.
Construction of a Wharf and Approat h tiiereto,
at Seven Oaks, Macleay River.
Constm-rbi.. &«., of Paper Bins. Galleiies, &c.,
1 ands Offi , Sydney.
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
judges, os well as a referee, to decide affairs of this kind-
Any one man is likely to err—two others would check his
slips.
The Yankee course, or perhaps the Yankee
Watches, are very fast. Stromboli, with 7st. 101bs.,
recently won a six furlong dash in Imin. ISJsec. Gran-
brook’s Newmarket Handicap was cut out in Imin. lljsec.
* » * *
After sweeping the board in India, old High-
born is to be raced in England, Should he score there,
what will they think of the horse that gave him three
stone odd and a good beating over a two-mile course?
» * * *
It reads like the inscription on the tomb of a
long-extinct Pharaoh, that cablegram setting forth that
Bubear has been rowing again against some other tenth-
rate nonentity on the Thames. The forgotten ruin was
beaten by twenty lengths. How these old-time scullers
keep rising again long after their repute has fallen into
the sere and toothless leaf, to potter about abjectly on the
river, and make a feeble pretence of being still objects of
interest to a world which has forgotten that they ever
existed 1
* * * ♦
Dear Bulletin, —Let me say to your peace-
loving correspondent that the prize-fighter is not always
a cur upon the field of battle —witness Shaw', the Life-
guardsman, at Waterloo, who disposed of 13 Frenchmen —
[lt was only five a few years ago.—Ed. B.]—before he
went under. Also, that he can behave with bravery else-
where is proved by example in Conan Doyle’s article of
the other day on the subject. As to the dude with spats
on his feet being a better man at a forlorn hope than the
bruiser, I would say that probably the Chinese hawker is
superior to both. The average Chow whose knees knock
together at the sight of the ten-year-old “ lallikin ” with
a shanghai, will go on to the scaffold without turning a
hair; hut is this the sort of pluck we wish to develop?
How often has a man need to form one of forlorn hopes
compared with proximity to the innumerable accidents of
every-day life w'hioh call for presence of mind, suddenness
of action, and absence of fear ? The prize-ring also trains
a man to another sort of courage generally known as
“ heart,” the quality which enables him to be knocked
down fourteen times in the first two rounds and
then ultimately win the match. One of the writers
also asks, “ Where was there a greater prize-fight-
ing nation than Rome?" I unhesitatingly answer Greece 1
Greece, at the time of Pericles, was more athletic-mad
than any country before or since. The sports of the
Greeks were democratic, of the people, by the people, for
the people, while the gladiatorial displays of later Rome
were simply exhibitions paid for by the “ mugs ” of the
Eternal City for their own amusement, spectacular per-
formances to cater for blood-loving jeunesse doree, much
as the aristocracy of England to-day parts its £l5 a head
to see Jackson punch Slavin. The managemsnt may be
bad, the exponents may be blackguards, but with the
sport itself there can be no fault to find; and when the
wave of Socialism has swept over the lands washing it
thoroughly, the ring will be found again as clean as it
was on the plains of Olympus.—Yours faithfully, McG.
* ♦ * •
“Griffo” and Dixon are said to have been
matched. Griffo has probably deteriorated after years of
dissipation, but given the little fellow in his old form he
should win, as the Yankee boxers, when opposed to the
best Australians, have ever proved overrated men.
Leaving out Jem Mace, the first scientific boxer the world
produced, the writer considers the three most scienced
men at their respective weights to be Peter Jackson,
George Seale and “ Griffo.”
» ♦ * •
The real objection of a section of the sporting
public to the betting machine is the fact that the public
would always follow the stable money and so bring
about a reduction of the diva, on the likely horses. A
Melb. sportsman, to meet this, suggests a "blind totali-
lator.” The money and the name of the horse to be
backed, he proposes, should be received under cover by
the racing clubs. The totalisator should be closed the
day before the race, and the investments placed opposite
the names of the horses in accordance with the instruc-
tions of the backers. Sixty per cent., he suggests, should
go to the backers of the winner, 20 to the second and 10
to the third. The remaining 10 per cent, should be
divided between the racing club, controlling the meeting,
and public charities. This is worth a trial.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
As a publican will not employ a drunkard, so a
shady stable makes use of a “cronk ” jockey, and then
refuses him ordinary employment. Many a promising
lad has thus been ruined. The swindler values honesty
as Bung values sobriety, in his own interest.
♦ * * ♦
There is a rumour of a “ well-known actor ”
(Hinglisb) being ready to box Frank Slavin under Queens-
berry rules. Must be the warlike Lonnen.
» * ♦ •
Thus a bookmaker, returning from races at
Flemington—“ In Ingland, yersee, they back ’orses on
their form, and it’s better for backers and better for book-
makers, too, because you all know what yer doin’.
There’s a little pullin’, but not much. Since the Jockey
Club wiped Charley Wood, and some of them, out they’ve
’ad to be careful. In Ingland it ain’t a Lit like what it is
’ere. There the public know as much as the book-
makers when the bettln’ opens, and here, of course, they
only know what they can find out, and that’s wrong, as a
rule.” Then the speaker shook his head sadly, and said
he would have stopped in Ingland, only the winters was
bad for his chest.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Henniker Heaton is a man of varied parts
(writes The Bulletin’s London correspondent). His
latest appearance was as a speaker at a luncheon on the
occasion of the opening of the Nimrod Club, a new pro-
prietary institution for English gentlemen devoted to
field sports. “ How did Heaton get there ?” But was he
not some years ago a mighty follower of Sydney hounds ?
Was he not the special hunting correspondent of the
Nooze, and did he not perform prodigies of ground and
lofty tumbling with his celebrated horse, The Gift? Ill-
natured fellows like Fred Want and Jack Lamb used to
say that he never jumped a fence, but what of that? He
was always able to tell much more of a stiff run than those
jealous equestrian impostors ; and doth not his appear-
ance on horseback in Hyde Park daily give the lie to those
who say he can’t ride?
* ♦ * *
“Sporting intelligence, if complete, would be
little else than a catalogue of mean swindles.”
* * * *
Stout intends to take active steps for the aboli-
tion of the “tote” as soon as Maoriland Par lament meets.
In the interest of the bookmakers?
Radcliffe, a Maoriland jockey, weighs only
Sat 121ba. in his boots.
* * • •
J. E. Brewer began the racing season with 10
wins out of II mounts.
* * * •
An attempt to form a revolver-olub in Sydney
recently proved futile. Now that the police are armed
such an institution is badly needed.
* * * •
In accounting for the present prosperity of
Maoriland it would be unfair to overlook the “ tote.”
Through its agency the money spent on racing is returned
to the people instead of helping bookmakers to parade
their wealth and make the grand tour “’Ome.”
• * * *
Dunlop, of Melb. Cup fame, is entered for
Tumut (N.S.W.) races.
» * * *
So far, Mr. Sam. Hordern cannot have found
racing a very profitable pursuit. However, he has plenty
of money and the best of blood.
A BUSHY’S RACEHORSE.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
He had finished second
In a scrambling of hacks
And his owner then reckon’d
Him a god of racing-tracks:
“Jim Jock sez, and ’e oughter know’d,
’E's the best ’orse ever 'e rode.”
“ Why, they call that a start I
'E was three lengths be'ind—
Just as far as that cart—
But since that time—you mind—
When I gave ’em that larst beating—
They haven’t given me no show at a meeting.’*
“ Around at the back there
They was jostlin’ Mm rough,
But ’e came like a hare
Down the straight—‘Good enough,’
Sez Jim Jock, and 'e oughter know’d,
’E’s the best 'orse ever ’e rode.”
The winner has been up
Six months if it’s a day
And fit for a Melberne Cup—
‘ A grass-fed ’aok,’ they say ;
But Jim Jock sez, and ’e oughter know’d
If that’s grass-feeding he’d be blow’d.
“ I’ll run ’em a mile,
In a month, weight for age,
But it gives me a smile,
And it seems a bit strange
To think me as soft as I look ;
They want it now, to suit their book.’*
Thus in tones very loud
He extols his own gee
Both to me and the crowd
And, of course, I agree—
For “ Jim Jock sez, and 'e oughter know’d,
’E’s the best’orse ever he rode.” /
Queensland.
GARM
Sydney’s First Town Clerk.
A grand living figure in the life-history of N.S.
Wales is John Rae, now in his 82nd year. Silver-
haired and rosy-faced, brisk in movement and
almost boisterously merry in conversation, with a
strongly-marked countenance indicative of intellec-
tual power and natural kindliness, John Rae is an
illustration of the truth that healthy mental
activity promotes and expands vitality.
He was born at Aberdeen (Scotland), 9th Jan.,
1813, and educated at the Grammar School and
Marischal College. He studied law, and in ’32
graduated as M.A. at the Aberdeen University.
In ’37 he carried off a =B2O literary essay prize
given by the Edinburgh University, and tells a
story of how, when the competition was over, but
before the results were known, being all but
drowned in a boating-accident, his last conscious
thought was—“ Bother it! I shall never know
who won that prize!”
In December, ’39, Mr. Rae arrived in Sydney—
the same year that Alfred Stephen came over to
N.S.W. from Van Diemen’s Land. Rae’s first
Sydney billet was that of secretary and accountant
to the North British Australian Loan and Invest-
ment Co. In ’42, he wrote the letterpress for
Sydney Illustrated, and is still the possessor of
what is believed to be the only extant copy of that
work. In July, ’43, he was appointed Town Clerk
of Sydney—the first Town Clerk of the newly-
incorporated municipality. The document em-
bodying this appointment has been mounted and
framed, and is to be seen on a wall in the present
Town Hall. Mr. Rae has a water-colour sketch
of the miserable structure that did duty as the
Town Hall in ’43, on the site now occupied by the
Ereemasons’ Hotel, York-street. The Sydney
Corporation might effectively flank John Rae’s
official appointment with, on one side, a picture of
that gabled cowhouse, and, on the other, a repre-
sentation of the architectural splendours of the
present Town and Centenary halls.
In ’53, John Rae published a blank-verse render-
ing of “Isaiah,” with explanatory notes. Not
only this, but he bought a fount of type, from
which he set up all his own copy, printed it him-
self, and book-bound the issue with his own
hands (!). In Jan. 7, ’54, the Sydney Corporation
was abolished, and the city was placed under the
administration of three commissioners—Gilbert
Elliott (chairman), E. Darvall, and John Rae.
In April, ’57, the Corporation was resurrected and
the Commissioners were dispensed with. After a
leisure spell, Rae was appointed accountant and
secretary to the old Sydney Railway Co., just
then in negotiation with the Government for the
sale of its property to the State. The Government
Railways Act, 22 Vie., No. 9. came into force on
Ist Dec., ’5B, and found Capt. Martindale gazetted
as a sort of Pooh-Bah over railways, roads, and
telegraphs, under the high-falutin title of “Com-
missioner for Internal Communication.” John
Rae became Under-Secretary for Works, and on
Martindale’s resignation of his Pooh-Bahship,
•Rae was, in addition to his Under-Secretaryship,
appointed Railway Commissioner, without salary !
Eor 16 years he received no salary while filling a
position that had cost the country <£looo a year,
his other secretarial salary being £2OO short of
that amount. “ Works ” Sutherland recognised
this injustice by inducing a later Parliament to
vote, for his term of office, ’72-5, a sum of <£Boo to
John Rae, being at the rate of .£2OO a year for
four years. Again in ’B9 Minister Fletcher, the
“ Works ” of the abbreviated Dibbs Ministry
(January-to-Maroh) recommended Rae’s claim of
<£2400—12 years at <£2oo a year—and its approval
had got as far as the Executive, when Dibbs went
down and up popped Parkes, M’Millan, Bruce
Smith and Co., who repudiated the claim. The
excuse given was that Rae didn’t require the
money as he was “well enough off without it.”
Rae’s official reports give a complete history of
N.S.W. railways for 30years, ’46-76. Australian,
English, European, and American newspapers
united to pour undiluted praise on Rae as having
been the first to publish reports showing the
amount of work actually performed on each line each
year—a clear and lucid system that has since been
copied by almost every railway management in
the world. Various Governments bestowed
epistolary honours upon him, and, in a short time,
Rae had (broadly speaking) free railway passes
over the planet. He has a life-pass for N.S.W.,
of course, but, “barring trams,” doesn’t use it
more than three or four times a year. In 77, Rae
was relieved of his gratis railway office, but
retained the Works Underseoretaryship till’BB.
Goodchap followed Rae as railway chief.
Sydney Mechanics’ Institute owes its first spasm
of life to John Rae, who, soon after his arrival in
Sydney, galvanised it with lectures on the poet
Burns, In 75, he printed, bound, and published
“by hand” —“Gleanings from my Scrap-book,”
brightly reminiscent of old Cornstalk times. He
had married in ’45, Miss Elizabeth Thompson,
who died in 77. His living family numbers four.
Mr. Rae has a hobby for mechanics, and has in-
vented anepicycloidal'‘chuck,’’attached to a“Rose
engine ” or lathe, and giving eccentricity by a flange
movement. The charming and intricate geome-
trical designs that can be obtained by this, by
merely turning a handle, cannot be described, and
must "be seen to be credited. The English
Mechanic and World of Science has published
photos, of Rae’s “chuck” and of its sectional
parts; while the correspondence thus provoked
between Rae and Sir John Scott, a British
enthusiast in that class of work, is highly instruc-
tive and interesting.
Mr. Rae’s sketches of “Old Sydney” are the
only reliable extant pictures of what the N.S.W.
metropolis was in the “forties” and “fifties.”
Before photography was known and practised,
Mr. Rae had rigged up a camera obscura (he has
it all) and, by its aid, had made the sun, as it
were, map out “Old Sydney” in sections, while
he laboriously and faithfully filled in every detail.
His collection of old-time pictures is saturated
with interest. And he intends —this octogenarian
—to take sketches of the same areas as they are
now in ’94, as a contrasting collection, ihese
pictures show the present busy Oxford-street as
cattle-paddocks; many-housed Woolloomooloo as
a rural scene of windmills; the medico-filled
Macquari e-street as having only two houses and
the public library; the old Government Printing-
office as a row of dwarf hovels ; the present
Wynyard-square as the old Military Barracks ;
and the unfinished R.O. cathedral that was burned
down and replaced by a new structure on higher
ground on Rae’s recommendation to Archbishop
Folding. In one picture—“ York-street, looking
south ’’—the markets, police-office, and temporary
cathedral —the writer’s attention was directed to
two black objects in front of the police-office.
“Do you know what they are?” “No.” “ Two
men in the stocks ! It’s the only time I saw such
a punishment,” said Mr. Rae; “and then, you
see, I only saw it in the camera, which simply
pictured the whole surroundings faithfully. I
didn’t know myself what it meant till I enquired.
But there they are ! ”
John Rae’s personality is afire with camaraderie,
a fact which should excuse the guilt of this long
notice. In ’BB, after leaving the “Works,” Rae
became a member of the Civil Service Board con-
stituted under the Act of ’B4, His 5-year term
of office expired on the last day of last year, and
he is now turning his “chuck” with picturesque
results.
Experiments at Hergott Springs, S.A.,
clearly show that dates suitable for commercial
purposes can be grown in the Far North.
Dr. Renwick, the N.S.W. Commissioner,
is back from the great swamp city of Chicago :
“ I never met such cold in my life. Why, one day it
was 20 - below zero. That’s 52 below freezing-point.
During the winter there the ink is frozen solid, and looks
just like a lump of coal.” “Then how did you manage
to write your letters ? Did you use a pencil ?” “ Oh, it
used to take three of us to write a letter in the winter
time.” “Three of you?” “Yes; one would take the
ink-bottle and wrap it in a cloth, and put it on the stove
to melt the ink and keep it boiling.” “Boiling?" “Fact,
I assure you.” “ And what was the cloth for ?” “Oh, in
case it exploded. A second man would dip a pen in the
boiling ink, and then hand it to me at the table, and I
would scribble away as hard as ever I could till the ink
froze on the pen, and then they would hand me another
pen fresh from the hot ink. That was the way we had to
write our letters. We had always to melt our ink before
writing.” “Well, it must have been cold!” “Cold!
Why, my jaw was sometimes frozen so hard it was like a
piece of iron.”
His lower maxillary was frozen! Why didn’t
they send Jawbone Neild to Chicago?
THREE FORTUNATE WOMEN.
We will introduce you to the oldest one first. Her
name is Mrs. Jessie Russell, and she lives near the
city of New York, in America. She was born in;
London in 1787, and is therefore 105 years old.
She remembers many incidents of her childhood,
and still has traces of former beauty. Her eyes
are bright, and become animated when she talks.
She retains her mental faculties completely. She
descends two flights of stairs to every meal, and
returns without assistance. Up to three years
ago she was a regular attendant at the Greenwood
Baptist Church. Her sight is excellent, and she i
reads the newspapers every day, and takes great \
interest in the news from England. She has
never had any serious illness in her life, and her *
appetite and digestion are almost as good as they :
were fifty years ago.
The second woman says: “ Ever since I was a
child I have suffered from illness. Thirteen years
ago a tired, languid, and heavy feeling came over ;
me. The white of my eyes became tinged with
yellow, my skin was sallow, and my hands and
feet were cold and clammy. My mouth tasted
badly, especially in the morning, and I was often
sick, vomiting a sour, frothy fluid. I had a pain
in the chest and sides, heartburn, and flatulency.
For four years I suffered like this, and I shall bo
glad to recommend the medicine that finally cured
me.” (Signed) (Mrs.) Francks Emily Smith, 49a,
Woodhouse Street, Leeds, January 25th, 1892.
The third woman says: “ I have been delicate
all my life. For the past six years I have always
felt tired, languid, and weak. I had a poor
appetite, a bad taste in the mouth, and pain after
every morsel I ate. I was dizzy, and often felt as
if I was going to fall. I always felt sick, and
would retch and strain, but could bring nothing
up. There was a dull pain at my right side and l
a dreadful pain between the shoulders. I never
knew what it was to be well. After being on my
feet for a while my legs would swell very much;
No doctor was able to help me, nor any medicine.
that is, up to the time I took the one which gave
me my health back, I never felt so well in my life
as Ido now.” (Signed) (Mrs.) Sarah Sharman,
Glinton, near Market Deeping, February 19th,
1892.
Why do we put these three women in a group—
the one venerable woman in America and the
two others here in England ? They are perfect
strangers to one another and always will be. We
do it to show how long and happily a woman may
live if she only happens to escape the malady
that everywhere threatens her sex; and also to
show that those who have been burdened and
cursed with it may be cured and once more taste
the joys of health.
Mrs. Smith concludes her letter in these words ;
“After taking three bottles of Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup all pain and sickness left me, and
I knew no more of the ailment that had troubled
me so long, indigestion and dyspepsia. I know
others who have been benefited by the Syrup. All
sufferers should use it.
Mrs. Sharman adds that after she had doctored
and doctored and taken everything, almost with-
out getting any good from it, Mr. Webster, ai
grocer of Glinton, said, “ Why don’t you use
Mother Seigel’s Curative Syrup ? ” She acted on
his suggestion, and health wasn’t long in coming.
“I cannot speak too highly of Seigel’s Syrup,”
she says. We should agree with her in that
opinion, for a remedy that will in a few weeks put
an end to a case of chronic indigestion and dys-
pepsia is certainly worth a good word or two.
Now here you have these three Englishwomen
—one so fortunate as to have lived more than a
century without an illness ; the others (still more
fortunate) have known the sadness of suffering
and the pleasure of recovery.
Oh, my ! oh, my ! how hard it is to tell who is
best off in this queer world.
“ Stretch my grave as long as possible, so
I can have all the land I am entitled to.” — Burns.
According to late cables European Anar-
chist societies are insuring the lives of members
destined for dangerous service. A grim idea-
blowing Capital into hash and making its
executors cash up liberally for the transaction.
Mr.— or is it Miss ?—Montgomery, of
Maoriland, sends The Bulletin “Madame Beran-
ger,” a one-act drama, which, despite slight
novelty and occasional crudity, has both power
and promise. The writer’s verse appears in “ The
Tohunga,” a booklet illustrative of Maori cus-
toms ; and his metrical accompaniment to the
effective sketches by Mr. K. Watkins has caught
a glow from the noble poetry of a noble race.


The new mount albion silver
MINING AND SMELTING CO., LTD.
[ln Liquidation.)
Tenders are Invited
and will he received up to 12noon, SATURDAY,
7th AfRIL, for the purchase of the whole of this
Company's property situate at Moutalbion (N.Q.).
The property' offered is as follows :
Smelting Machinery.
1 60 ton capacity water-jacket furnace; 1 30-to n
ditto; 1 15-ton ditto; 1 tram-elevator ; platform
scales ; “ Hope” sfconebreaker, 15" x 7" ; 1 30-h.p.
Robey engine; 3 roasting furnaces; 3 baker’s
blowers; 1 Manchester pump; 1 Tangye do ; 1
Blake do (together throwing about 20,000 gals,
per hour) ; 3000 ft. assorted W.I. piping; tanks of
6000 gals, capacity; 2 Multitubular boilers,
14' x s'; and all appliances complete and in
thorough order.
Concentrating Machinery.
2 30ft. Linkenbach patent Buddies with 2 Spitz-
gastens, &c., 6 Jordan and Cummins patent
jiggers, 2 sets Cornish rolls, 3 elevators, 1 Blake
and Marsdens' stouebreaker, 7 revolving screens,
sampling tables, &c., &c.
General Machinery.
Spare shafting, piping, belting, firebars, fire-
doors, steel rails (about 3 miles), tracks, bullion
moulds, slag pots, slag trucks, 60ft. archimedean
screw conveyor, Buliivant’s wire tramway com-
plete for 1500 fathoms, spare pulleys, Briquette
machine, cupel furnaces and frames, 2 Avery’s
G ton weighbridges, 1 Ruston and Proctor’s 12h.p.
portable engine, Gin. centrifugal pump, 2gin.
rotary pump, 1 Bh.p. loco, boiler, donkey feed
pump, Bh.p. winding engine, lOh.p. winding
engine, lOh.p. multi tubular boiler, Blake feed
pump, and 20 tons charcoal and a quantity of
lime and iron and firewood.
Buildings.
Office and dwelling two storeys, 36' x 30':
Kitchen, toolhouse, cartshed, stables, store, and
weighbridge office. Dwelling and office furniture;
smelting shed, 210'x 110'; concentrating shed,
172 ft. x 60ft.; laboratory and shed, 93ft. x 50ft.
Bathrooms, blacksmith’s shops, &c. Engine,
mine, and blacksmiths’ sheds erected at all the
mines.
The movable tools are estimated at, at least,
£lOOO ; the stores at £lOOO.
There are 1500 tons of payable ore on the sur-
face, and 2000 tons of matte estimated to contain
40 oz. silver per ton.
The mines are exempt from work (or let on
tribute) until 26th April next, and all workings
are in thorough order.
The assaying and analytical plant is complete in
every requisite and material.
This is the most complete plant for smelting and
concentrating silver ores that has ever been placed
on the Australian markets. The machinery is all
good, and the purchaser may commence operations
without a week’s delay. Fullest enquiries as to
probable success are solicited.
An unfortunate entanglement with the banking
institutions during the late financial crisis, at
which time the capital of the Company had been
called up, forced this Company into liquidation,
the outcome of which is that the property must be
realised upon for the benefit of the creditors.
Further particulars of the whole, and stock-
sheets of the stores, &c., may be seen on applica-
tion to J. H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs. Alfred Shaw,
Limited, Townsville, and
JTolxix Cairns,
Liquidator, Grace Street,
HERBERTON, N.Q.
DUCHESS OF YORK WALTZ
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd., 333 George-st., Sydney, or MoCarron, Stewart, of 44 Pitt-st., Sydney.
“ A lively and tuneful composition, and as the time throughout is good, it will make a ballroom favourite of itself.”— Sydney Bulletin, March 10th.
By ALICE 0. KELLERMANN,
is now t!'e Ra«re of S.vdnoy,
plnvedat Goverimient House by
Nukus' Bund.
Price: Two Siill in»«i
Send Stamps.
O, King ! u
■BBi I |VF FOR FVFR I
Lb I « L> I it t* if Kb I l ■
®SPS
Was the salute tendered to King Solomon by his people.
Nevertheless Solomon the Wise died at a comparatively
early age, because he did not know how to care for that
most important organ of the human body, the liver, which
has justly been considered the great centre of life’s
machinery. In it is stored the nutriments absorbed
during digestion, which is gradually given out into the
blood to keep up the vigor of the human organism. When
the Liver ceases to do its work the head is heavy, thoughts
come slowly, the tongue is dirty, mouth tastes foul, appetite
is poor; sleep is disturbed, bile circulates in the blood,
causing a yellow tinge in the skin and eruptions, fits of
coughing, slimy expectorations, and pains in the right side.
If this condition is not checked, the consequences will be
serious to the sufferer. The best and never-failing remedy is
Fuss’s
Liver Restorative
Constipation Cure
It is a Certain Eeniedy for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion,
Impaired Appetite, Flatulency, Sour Eructations, and Bilious Headache. It relieves
and cures Piles and Constipation permanently by continued use.
LADIES
will find it an invaluable home remedy, it being an efficacious aperient
of pleasant aromatic taste, neither nauseating nor griping. In its results
against the over indulgence in food or liquor its elects are marvellous. A
few doses prevent sea-sickness.
The Unprecedented Success PUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND
CONSTIPATION CURE has met with Las induced the inventor to
offer the refund of the price, 2s. 6d., if tha madicine fails to cure or
relieve the ailments he recommends it for.
Sold Everywhere.
of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
grand Tottery
Conducted by GEO. ADAIuJ (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent.
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
Apply Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
ii : iHi • i :
‘ ‘•’llulu
“Clothed with Air.”
Cellular Uilenlotliisg fir Ladies
The Only Natural Clothing for the Human Body.
A Safeguard against Chills
Cellular Night-dresses, trimmed with Real Lace. Prices from
10s. to 30s.
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests, Drawers, Stockings,
etc., etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC by the YARD or PIECE.
Patterns, Pamphlet and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing Depot,
305 & 307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(Nearly opposite Hunter-street.)
Publications.
G-. R. & Co.’s
ITew Australian Publications.
Parsons’ (H. G.) Handbook to Western Australia and
its Gold.ields .. .. .. 1- ; posted, 1/2
De Lissa’s (Alfred Companies’ Work and Mining Law
in N.S.W. and Victoria .. 10,6; posted.il/-
Gibson, 0. H. (“Ironbark”), Iron bark Chips and Stock-
whip Cracks, beautifully illustrated, 5/-; posted, 5 3
The Antipodkan, new issue, 1894, illus., 1/-; posted, I S
(Monthly (Book Circular sree by £ost.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO.,
361-363 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WHA
CUPID
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl's Bathroom. ’’
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Itusli lor the
S|>ol
By ZOLA.
1,6 ; I)3’ post, 2, -
Zola’s Works, 16 each;
hy post, 2 - Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2-; by
post, 26. Secrets of
Nature revealed I Look
of Natur* 1 , Guide to
Marriage Life and Kela-
lions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L M.
Byrn, 3,6; by post, 4 - Private Compa ion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1 - ; by post, 1 2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to -become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7,.6. Mrs. Beiant's Law of Population, ]/-, post 12.
Aristotle, complete, 3 6, post 4/-. The Amours of Qu-tave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is. and as it should
be, by Annie Besant, 1/-, post 1,2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 16. How to Mesmerise, .Thought Heading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &c., price 16. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s S If, illus-
trated ; price 16. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, sj., 1 6.
The Silent Friend," by Dr. Lamartine, 1,6.
Card Tricks, by Dr. Carver, A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price I/-, posted 1/3,
The Male Generative Organs, a book for every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Rollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5 -,
post free. R,. BEAR. Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY,
CHEAP MUSIC.
“ PLAYFELLOWS.”
This popular S n •, by the composer o. “Afterthe Ball,’
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duels, &c., at 3d.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO„ LONDON.
AND
20-1 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
Tenders.
Newellton, North Queensland.
To Mine Owners, Smelters, Capi-
talists and others.
THE undersigned have received instructions
from the Directors of the SILVER
VALLEY SILVER MINING AND SMELT-
ING SYNDICATE to invite
Sealed Tenders
for the WHOLE OF THEIR PROPKRTY AT
NEWELLTON, consisting of 4 Mineral Leases
(comprising 20 acres); Machine Area ; Building
Sheds, Tools and Stores; also Machinery as
follows :
1 30-ton Water jacket furnace
1 No. 4£ Bakers’ Blower
1 6-H.P. Vertical Engine
14-H.P. Vertical Engine
1 Stone breaker 9x5
1 Multitubular Boiler 14' x3'6" with connections
complete
1 Small Blakes’ Pump; Tanks, &c.
Further particulars of the whole and Stock
sheets of Stores, estimated at .£l2O, may be seen
on application to J. H. Rogers, Esq., Messrs.
Alfred Shaw, Limited, Townsville; or to John
Cairns, Herberton.
Tenders will be received up to 12 noon, Satur-
day, 7th April. The highest or any tender not
necessarily accepted.
The machinery is all in perfect working order.
Attention is drawn to the fact that during the
last campaign of the furnace combined charges of
copper and silver ores resulted most successfully,
and large quantities of each are known to exist in
the syndicate’s properties and in the immediate
neighbourhood.
The inability of the Directors to call up further
capital to more fully develope the mines since the
late financial disasters is the sole reason for this
step being taken.
JOHN CAIRNS,
Auctioneer and Commission Agent,
Grace-st., Herberton, N.Q.
Business Announcements.
CROMART!
•OffLCSTOTHI OUV)
v.o
CROMTY
Whisky
Cbeehlees Brothers
QIISCOM IOHOON ADO
v.o.
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR
AUSTRA LIA.
Save our Bodies—then our Souls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
(To those clergymen to whom they may apply these
verses are dedicated .)
Hark ! the Sabbath-bells are ringing from the
churches’ lofty spires,
Into proud cathedrals bringing hearts that throb
with base desires,
Ere ye preach in polished diction of the future,
vast and dim.
Ere ye emphasise some fiction with a pious prayer
or hymn,
Listen to that thrilling summons that your brazen
bell still tolls,
“ Save ! oh save ! the people’s bodie ■, and ye then
may save their souls !”
Is it fiery zeal and fervent, that which gives such
haughty mien
To yon proud and stately servant of the lowly
Nazarene !
While he rides in cushioned carriage by those fast
high-steppers drawn
To some money-monger’s marriage, deck’d in lace
and sleeves of lawn ;
Does lie hear those mournful murmurs when he
lakes his tithes and tolls,
“ Give us food ! we die of hunger ! Save our
bodies, then our souls !”
What made man the slave we see him, but your
soul-destroying laws,
When true hearts have fought to free him, did ye
help the holy cause ?
No! ye sought to forge the fetters for earth’s
heroes true and brave,
Men whose names in gleaming letters blaze as
meteors round each grave,
Men who marched to death undaunted, Truth and
Right their only goals ;
In your love, so loudly vaunted, have ye tried to
save their souls ?
While ye pour out wealth like water, sending forth
your mission bands,
Pioneers of fire and slaughter in a hundred heathen
lands;
From your fever-stricken alleys, from your cities’
squalid slums,
Sweeping through fair sunlit valleys as a rising
tempest comes
With a rumbling sound like thunder when ’mong
mountain rocks it rolls —
Give us work! or food—we’re starving! Save
our bodies, then our souls ! ”
Will ye dare to meet the Master when before His
judgment seat
Placed with those who’ve journeyed faster, though
they walked with bleeding feet—
Cold and hungry, lired and naked, all who’ve
sinned and suffered here—
All who’ve died of thirst unslaked in Life’s
deserts, dread and drear,
When the great Recording Angel there his radiant
scroll unrolls,
D .ire ye say ; ‘‘We saved their bodies, then we
sought to save their souls ? ”
Maoriland.
TUARANGI


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
TITE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
’’ maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
or.iMiMM i;ms :
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing and
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, Fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, Furni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro plate, Men's Ready-made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
%SOr‘ LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
S< nd your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as well served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Co.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 64 Basinghall Street, London, E.C.
The Best Dressing
jjggg
mlmW
w£m»*"**‘^ cO'it
I j. e i,'ts|s'»s^k
AYER’S
HAIR
VIGOR
Prevents the hair from
becoming thin, faded,
gray, or
wiry, and
preserves
its rich-
ness, lux-
u r i ance,
and color
to an ad-
vanced
period of
life. It cures itching humors, and keeps
the scalp cool, moist, and healthy.
The base of Ayer’s Hair Vigor is a refined
and delicate fluid which does not soil or be-
come rancid by exposure to the air, and
which is as perfect a substitute for the oil
supplied by nature, in youth and health, as
modern chemistry can supply.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
PREPARED BY
Dr. J. C. AYER & GO., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Beware of cheap imitations.
The name —Ayer—is prominent on the
wrapper and is blown in the glass on
the bottom of each of our bottles.
FOOD
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LAGTO-GLYGOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERF
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED,
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To he obtained from all Druggists d Stores.
■Sold by Cotfeotioners and Stores Everywhere.
BUTTER - SCOTCH
CELEBRATED CH.LDREN’S SWEET)
■Bk C<r?Utt/<‘ork<c.y > isCfS. "
Lnii' < t
St. John’s Works, Loudon, W.C,
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s. t>cl.
f lA>
STOOT
(lenry HeatHS
v TRADE MAH*
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price 9s- 6ci.
A Splendid Hat for Boating, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Picnics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig(i shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet..
Gr. JSL. SMITH & SON",
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of his Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Free and Useful Pamphlet, s entitled
“A Thousand Reasons ,J
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S ‘
Alf aline Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNESS, LOSS OF MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY, MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITABILITY, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/-and 12/-, posted.
IHZTJICTIDIR-IBID TJEIOTJSA.I>riD_ TESTIMONIALS I
Blood Diseases Cured!
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered. Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES, PIMPLES,
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“Herr Rassmussen’s well-known Herbal Remedies have
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials w ill prove.”—Sydney Bulletin,
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.”—N.Z. Times, Wellington,
“ Herr Rassmusssn is a clever botanist.”—Daily Tele
graph, Launceston, Tas.
“ Herr Uassmussen’s press notices agree as to the ski I
he possesses as an Herbalist, and the bonafides of bn
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Hegister, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Med c I
Herbalist holds the highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading people of New-
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.” — Cooktovvv
Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
.£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Herr
Jtassmussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
V •«¥.
m
<■ .i" 1 ' i>
sasa
,
How did over 100,000 Sufferer*
get Reatored to
HEALTH ?
By taking
HERR, RASSM US SEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The wonderful success of Herr Rassmussen, and the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona- fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERR RASSMUSSBN,
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GrEORGrE STREET, SYDNEY.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALINE REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OVER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseases-.
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academic Parisienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the T.U.J.I.C.
Honourably Mentioned in “Centennial History of New South Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for his Herbal Remedies.
Author of “ The KTatural Doctor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course. 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3 '-, 6/-, 12/- and 23 6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3 -, 6/-, 12 - and 23,6.
Altaline Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 1/6.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Pastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 1,6.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 2,6.
Alfaline Lock I*lllB.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23/6; special powerful course,
43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-, posted.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Alfaline luiernal Pile Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3/- and 6/-
Alfaline External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- & 6,t
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders.
For the Whites. Posted, 3,'- and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6, - posted.
Porous Plasters.
Believe pain instantly. Posted, 1/0.
Male and Female Syringes, Suspenders, and
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTAHT Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Letters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cov.er. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR RASSMUBSEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies:
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT 150 Eoubke Street, MELBOURNE.
"QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT: : ICO Queen Street, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT : —154 Bundle Stkkkt, ADELAIDE.
“NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT: 91 Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.
A Dreamer.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
She came as such a hush that comes
Between the beat of sounding drums,
When silence seems to thrill with sound ;
She came as comes the summer night,
Alive with silver sound and sight,
And lit by one round rose of white.
And whiter than white flowers in bloom,
And sweeter than sweet rose perfume
The lovely dreamer seemed to be.
Her eyes were blue and dreamy eyes,
Enchanted and serenely wise,
Like two calm planets of the skies.
Her form was such as poets see
Down dusky glades of ancientry,
Or sceptred on a fairy throne ;
Her voice was soothing as the breeze
That makes a harp of forest trees,
And melting in a thousand keys.
In days worn out and wan as these
No fairy lands, no fairy seas !
O, lady with the pale, sweet face,
What purpose makes thy feet to tread
Through ruined dreams and legends dead,
High fancies lost and visions fled ?
O, lady, come from Arcady,
In days like these, for thee, for thee,
What place? what hope ? what joy remains?
Return thee to thy sylvan glade,
String roses in a blushing braid,
And there unmake what time hath made.
RODERIC QUINN.
The following: more or less reliable news
item is going the rounds of the press :
A lease of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, made in
the days of King Alfred, has just expired in England.
The land was leased by the Church to the Crown, a id
reverts now to the Church of England after a thousand
years —a striking illustration of the stability of the law in
that isle.
The legal stability isn’t so very evident. It was
the Saxon Catholic Church which leased the land,
and now the Anglican Church gets it and the un-
stable law leaves the original church in the
lurch. Moreover, the law is so shaky that if the
lease had had another 20 years to run, there would
have been no Church of England to resume posses-
sion at all. Further, the story isn’t true in any
case.
For the inhabitants of the fashionable
Sydney suburb of Manly Beach, and especially
for the little knot of absentee Manly property-
owners who, in what they conceive to be the direct
interest of their own pockets, hold meetings in
Sydney to denounce the carrying-out of a system
of sewerage :—“The last U.S. cholera epidemic
was in 1873, and resulted in 7356 deaths. During
the 20 years that have elapsed since then there
has been an annual loss of from 40,000 to 50,000
lives, due to typhoid fever, yet there has never
been a tithe of the excitement over this terrible
mortality that was caused by the ‘cholera scare ’
of 1892. In addition to the deaths, there are
about 500,000 people every year ill with typhoid,
the cost of all this —loss of citizens, money and
time is not less than <£15,000,000 annually. Yet
this enormous loss is entirely preventable. Up to
1859, the city of Munich was a nest of typhoid.
There were no sewers and there was no public
Water supply. There was a system of cesspools,
and the drinking-water was taken from shallow
wells. The deaths from typhoid were 24.2 per
1000. In 1859, the citizens began a system of
sewerage, and introduced a supply of wholesome
drinking-water. Now, the typhoid death-rate has
fallen from 24.2 to 1.4 per 1000. If the death-rate
from typhoid in the U.S. were reduced to the
Munich percentage, it would result in the saving
of 40,000 lives per year. And typhoid is not the
only disease caused by want of good drainage.’’
Some one once said that Oscar Wilde’s
mind was as foul as Thames River at London
Bridge. “ His men are roues and profligates ; his
women either are, or have been, or will be,
Aspasias; his situations are Bacchanalian episodes.
Indeed, with him everything is a joke—honour,
truth, female purity, conjugal fidelity, marriage,
maternity.” It has been remarked that at least a
score of the aphorisms scattered through his
“ Woman of No Importance ” arrest the attention
like the prick of a dagger. “ Women represent
the triumph of mind over matter; men, the
triumph of matter over morals.” Ladies will not
thank him for the epigram: “Twenty years of
romance make a woman something like a ruin ;
twenty years of marriage make her rather like a
public building.” “Women have a better time
than men; there are far more things forbidden
them.” “ A bad man is a man who admires inno-
osnce; a bad woman is a woman of whom men
never tire.” “ All men are married women’s pro-
perty ; in fact, that is the meaning of married
women’s property.” Again: “The happiness of
a married man depends on the woman he has not
married.” Of wedlock: “How can a woman be
happy with a man who treats her as if she was a
rational being?” “Men marry because they are
tired, women because they are curious.” As good
as La Rochefoucauld’s ; “ The Book of Life begins
with a man and a woman in a garden, and ends
with Revelations.” One can judge Wilde’s idea
of life from the saying : “If I have no temptation
in the course of the week, it makes me quite
nervous about the future.” He lays down a few
rules of life, among them : “ A man of social tact
should talk to every woman as if he loved her and
to every man as if he bored him.”


Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth —
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee ? Horace! thou shouldst
know ?
Why, in the Boaii’s Head Brand of limes and Oo.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got for sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpenoe, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
jar T TT o 3XT "ST TT O R. 33 3ES R 3NT’S ?
ANTHONY HORDERN'S ?
SO THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI
BUY KVISRVT INO at ANTHONY MOltliEBN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town.
ONLY ADDRESS oi’ the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYM ARKET (O NLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
At Chaffey Bros.’ Mildura (Vic.) irrigation
colony there are now 4000 people with average
holdings of 20 acres. Two young men there (so
say the Ohaffeys) cleared in raisins .£l6OO from 40
acres last season ; while at Renmark one man got
,£5OO worth of dried apricots from_ acres,
planted four years. These are exceptional cases,
no doubt. This year, it is said, 600 tons of dried
fruit, worth .£30,000, is being harvested.
All the rage in Paris. Send 13 penny
stumps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
March 28, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—
Sydney Liedertafel’s 73rd concert in Sydney
Town Hall, though not unspotted, was still a
success. A buffo chorus, “Italian Salad,” was
the most heartily-received item, partly because
the lack of tone-volume, which is becoming a
defect of the S.L., was less noticeable in it, and
partly because people love to laugh at a high-class
concert —it amuses them as much as smiling in
church. The re-appearance of the fetching Ada
Crossley, in cerulean satin like a blue coot, was
rather anti-climax, I thought, after the tears and
huzzas of her “ben.,” and the presentation of
another large lyre (gracefully handed by Mrs.
Burdekin in silken garments and impressive dia-
monds) looked as if the other affair had only been
a dress-rehearsal.
Bouquets hurled at Miss Crossley made the
platform look like a triumph of Spring, and when,
on her final disappearance, the Liedertafelians
pelted her with cut flowers the enthusiasm was
tremendous ; one fiddler turned a severe flip-flap
in his hurry to get within aim with his contribu-
tion. But to be pelted with cut flowers, though
complimentary, is sometimes as dangerous as to
be hit with a brick. Lady Halle —the only other
concert-performer I ever saw similarly assailed—
unblushingly dodged the cabbage-roses as if they
had been bad eggs; but Ada Crossley stood fire
unflinchingly. I saw two savage-looking dahlias
catch in her fringe—they would have involved
raw beef and cold flatirons had they landed an
inch or two lower down.
Was it a Melbourne fashion, I wonder, that
made Miss Crossley bring most of her bouquets
back on to the stage with her? To me it looked
like a guarantee of bona-fides: “No deception,
ladies and gentlemen ; they haven’t gone back to
the florist’s.” When a bouquet goes behind the
scenes anything may happen to it. For example,
I once saw a very graceful nosegay go up with
banners flying to an undulating artiste, and ten
minutes afterwards it was quietly brought round to
the donor, who grabbed it sotto voce and instantly
fled into the outer darkness. I don’t know to this
moment whether or not those flowers were hired,
like a cab, at per quarter of an hour.
N.S.W. Agricultural Society formally opened
its annual show on 22nd inst. with Gov. and
Lady Duff, attended by Major Leigh, on the
ornamental dais, and a pleasant air of success
pervading the well-stocked pavilion, which looked
like a harvest festival. But it was in the luncheon
marquee that the real official proceedings eventu-
ated. However, the only noticeable feature of
“the apostles’” table was the discovery that
Major Leigh can’t eat and keep his eye-glass up
as George Reid can.
Gov. Duff doesn’t drop his final gees in speaking
but he doesn’t always use good English. “Of
greater ability than me,” was the tail-end of one
vice-regal sentence calculated to undermine the
hardly-acquired grammar of the Points. It was
as bad as the President’s new pronunciation of
“decade” —altho’ an error of syntax is more
fashionable than a mispronunciation in these over-
educated days. Everybody bent a willing elbow
to all the toasts —indeed, when the “ Agricultural
Society” was given, several members enthusiastic-
ally drank their own healths with three cheers and
a tiger ! And I was amused by one politician,
with a faded flower in his coat, who dinned on his
plate with a fork every time the Governor rose and
sat down, as if a crockery-tattoo had all the
virtues of a national anthem. He recalled the
theatre-usher who clashes two horny palms in the
dim light behind the circle whenever a high-priced
“ fro it ” makes an unreceived entry.
After the very well-done luncheon, people rushed
forth into the fresh air—the vice-regal party
augmented by the Duff girls and Captain Feilding
—making a bee line for the centre of the ring,
instead of packing into the flag-draped box on the
stand. There was no autumnal dressing on the
stand, owing to the patchy weather, and the only
figure that attracted my eye was Essie Jenyns
Wood spanking about with hubby in a mail
plimton and pair, and wearing a fine cream serge
made with a long coat lined with primrose silk ;
primrose silk folded belt; black jet bonnet with
primrose bow at the back, and a cream-lace
parasol.
I thought the equestriennes over hurdles the
most sensational exhibit, but none of the clever
horsewomen were well-tailored, and, in point of
hats, two went very wide of the mark, indeed. One
had a curious touch of red in her beaver, as if she
was smouldering on top, and the best rider of them
all wore a balloon-shaped cap that filled with wind
every time she rose to a hurdle. It looked as if
she got over by inflating her head-piece with gas.
One point worth noticing about the lady-jumpers
was that none of them wore gloves—a sensible
practice which might be adopted with advantage
outside the show-ring, it seems to me.
In the gentlemen’s jumps, I couldn’t help notic-
ing how the amateurs who rode in cords and tops
took the shine (for style) out of the gaudy (silk
jackets that seemed like so many Lowry-parrots
getting over the rails. I don’t object to racing-
colours, but why on earth should a show-rider
dress like an organ grinder’s monkey to put his
animal over five feet? By the way, the horses
were the whole show, as far as moat of the women
present were concerned. It is only the agricul-
tural person who goes every day, and takes his
dinner in a red handkerchief, who is an authority
afterwards on the girth of the prize pumpkin.
The first appearance of the B. and B. 00., at
Sydney Lyceum, on Bun Saturday, was rather
spoilt, from a society point of view, by the semi-
religious character of the day. It is good form,
you know, to repent your sins steadily up to
Easter Monday—and then sow a fresh crop during
race-week. The overflowing circle looked like a
festival at the Synagogue, and Mrs. Brough’s
array of society admirers was meagrely repre-
sented by a lady in pea-green, who sailed behind
in an unimposing procession of one between the
acts. There were flowers in the air and a recep-
tion for each mummer—but yet the B. and B.
resurrection was not the success a concretely-
fashionable audience would have made of it.
There was one society lady in the circle
bedizened in paste, from whom I would have
expected better things ornamentally, but a woman
in a very wiggy-looking wig had a lofty society
precedent for her borrowed curls, anyhow. The
incident of the evening in front, though, was when
a plump lady, in a stage box, airily, and after
much coquettish by-play, hurled a red, red rose at
an admirer in the stalls. Upon which, “Strike
*ne with a feathah !” piped an affected voice from
Olympia. But if ladies start showering thorny
roses on to stall Johnnies, the bald-headed brigade
will have to hoist its umbrella between acts.
The Amazons haven’t changed their clothes
since we saw them last. The same effective sar-
torials prevail from Alpha to Omega as of yore—
which is a pleasant thing and leaves you free to
enjoy the highly discreet way in which the B. and
B. ladies sling their half-smoked cigarettes into
the wings. Brenda Gibson is the only Amazon
who is game to look as if she meant to burn it
down to the stump. Mrs. Brough puffs just a few
hurried whiffs, but Grace Noble takes only one
blow and looks as if the cigarette was going to
bite her. But there is never any realism about a
comedy actress getting through a whiff of tobacco.
To calm her obvious scruples the hero might be
made to say, “Will you take a cigarette, Miss?
It’s marked down in the business.”
The B. and B. Co., by the way, sounded some-
thing like infants crying in a boiler-factory on
their maiden trip in the big Lyceum, which seems
a slop-fit for them after the cosy Criterion. Mrs.
Brough (who looks extremely well). Miss Romer,
Boucicault (his Gaelic mustivey was gummed on
unevenly in the first act), Titheradge, and Carey
were fairly audible all through, but the rest spoke
in whispers as if the corpse of the author was
lying next door. I noticed the same thing at
Melbourne Princess theatre, which is miles too
big for the lung-power of some of the company.
After all is said, the wicked downpour on
Saturday—the maiden day of the A.J.O. autumn
meeting—didn’t spoil the races from a fashionable
point of view. Society wouldn’t have gone to
Randwick on Bun Saturday if the sun had risen
as clear as an orange. Gov. Duff had publicly
declared (in effect) that he wasn’t going to break
the back of the Lenten season prematurely by
patronising a “ certain contingency—to wit, a
horse-race,” as the suppressors of gambling say,
and Society stopped at home hoarding up its
autumn gown for Easter Monday. So if the first
day was simply mudlarks, it didn’t matter a row
of pins to the members’-standites.
General Hutton’s firm attitude as to supplying
vacancies in N.S.W. Artillery force with “Im-
perial officers ” —instead of with the local young
man who fagged thro’ his exams.—suggests a
strong army of backers. Indeed, it looks to me
as if the ladies of the Barracks ruled in N.S.W.
to-day, just as effectually as they did in the bad old
historic times when the officers’ wives used to
encourage the (logger to give the floggee “ another
dozen, just to amuse the baby.”
The Imperial officer is the dream of N.S.W,
military belledom. The real, live, mysterious
soldier who has smelt powder (of all sorts) and
who proudly lets the shaving accidents on his
manly cheek tell of the stirring chances of his
wild calling to the romantic damsel tired to death
of the peaceable home-grown warrior with naught
but a yearly sham-fight to his credit—is like a
novelette with a picture on it to the Australian
society - woman. Therefore, General Hutton’s
Imperial reinforcement is bound to come. It is,
my budding heroes, one of the privileges of living
in Australia to work “like a Chinaman” at your
glorious calling, and then see the coveted vacancy
neatly filled by an Importation.
Latest “informations” re Brian Darley—the
tall and husky hero of Sydney’s ever-green divorce-
case—tell of his playing Charlie, “with great
success,” in a New York representation of
“ Charley’s Aunt.”
The parties to that Sydney scholastic libel-case
must be congratulated on having settled the action
on the basis of a <£loo verdict and a written
apology, for, if the lady plaintiff had gone into
court and cast her melting eyes at the jury, those
good men and true (emphasis on the men) would
have awarded no end of damages and added a
rider that defendant be taken out into the wilder-
ness and lost. The worst legal antagonist in the
world is a pretty woman.
Apropos of law-suits, I hear that the hoary hero
of the latest scandal has melted out of sight,
nobody knows whither.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
Melbourne Confidences.
I hear from Brisbane that their Governor’s elder
daughter has accepted the widowed affections of a
local M.P. and ex-Premier, and promises a
mother’s care to his “ dear girls.”
The lady’s father has himself been married three
times, so he probably encourages widowers within
his gates on principle. Experience has taught him
that widowers mean business as a rule. Although
a middle-aged relict is not the Romeo of one’s
dreams, a wise woman doesn’t stick out for
romance in her wooer when she has a step-mother
no older than herself, and a step-sister who is—
well, younger than either of them. Apart from
these considerations (which will obtrude them-
selves, in spite of the best endeavours to keep them
under), the lady may be honestly congratulated
upon escaping the perils of a youthful spouse. I
begin to think the youthful spouse is intended,
these modern times, for very old brides of the
Burdett-Coutts pattern.
The present Lady Norman was, as a child, a
ward of the Norman family, and was educated in
England, along with Sir Henry’s daughters by
his first marriage. When the girls grew up they
went over to visit their pa in India, taking with
them a dear little friend, who was soon as
great a favourite with the warrior, their parent, as
with everyone else. Before the Misses Norman
knew what was coming, they were called upon,
for the second time in their lives, to welcome a
step-mother, who, in this case, was no other than
their quondam protegee, now the popular chatelaine
of Brisbane Government House.
One of Sir Henry’s “original” offspring is
matron of a military hospital at Gibraltar, and
when Lady N. wants to propitiate good old dames
at hospital committee meetings, etc., she talks
maternally about “my daughter the nurse!”
“ Our daughter the matron! ” Another sister was
married just before papa’s appointment to
Bananaland, the chief feature of her trousseau
being, so I am told, its extreme simplicity.
It is the third and last of this first family wno
is reported to have met her fate in Brisbane, so
their young step-sister will soon have the matri-
monial arena all to herself.
When pleasures are lawful they cease to be
attractive, and just because the ’Varsity boys had
a grand opportunity for noise, at last Saturday’s
“ Commencement,” they did not avail themselves
of it to any extent. A riot was only what was
expected of them, therefore the prospect lost its
charm. Now, at the theatre, especially if the rest
of the audience seem nervous or pernickety, or
during lecture hours, these victims of an excessive
meat-diet feel themselves possessed with a desire
for lunacy which nothing short of pandemonium
can satisfy.
Talking of student mania recalls to my mind an x
idyll of the last terra at our “ noble University.”
One day, while a lecture was going on, the skirt
of a lady medical student, through some defect in
its construction no doubt, was observed to be
gaping open in the region of the “back hooks.”
The underlying raiment had followed suit, with
the result that some inches of the wearer’s spine
were laid bare to the scientific gaze of her brothers
in research.
Women who hear this story invariably protest
that the vista must have been calico, not skin, but
the boys hold to their version, and at the time a
prize was offered to whoever should, by means of
improvised squirts, &c., awaken the unconscious
damsel to a sense of her position by a cold splash
of ink. Quarts of the dusky fluid were expended
in this attack upon the spine, but by special
intervention of Providence, not one drop reached
the goal, and the lecture over, the lady went her
way at peace with all men. Later on she must
have marvelled at the spotted and smudged con-
dition of her upholstery.
The peaceful suburb of Kew hardly knew itself*
the other week, with two weddings in three days-
One of the brides, the daughter of a Melb. bank
inspector and a relative of well-known Toorak and
Buninyong families, introduced into the solemn
sacrament more worldly display than might have
been expected of her father’s daughter.
When a Patriarch groans if his friends’ boys go
to “ the Cup ” and shakes his head mournfully if
their girls are addicted to adorning the poor
perishable body, one is surprised at seeing his own
descendants, apparently with the paternal sanc-
' tion, go in wholesale for pomps and vanities. To
make room for spectators, by turning the seats
out of the Tabernacle, and have the decorations
done by professional, and possibly ungodly, florists,
would not have met with the good man’s approval
at anyone else’s wedding; while to sign all the
necessary documents and declarations in the
church, as part of the tableau, instead of in the
vestry as usual, would have been regarded by him
as vain and worldly ostentation. The bride was
calm and collected throughout, only allowing one
tear to hang becomingly on her dark eyelash,
when her father referred to the noble way “in
which his lassie had,” etc., etc. The travelling
costume of white (gown, hat, boots, gloves, and
sunshade, all to match) was even more becoming
to its black-haired, blue-eyed wearer than the cere-
monial toilette itself.
The other wedding, though less expensive per-
haps, was noteworthy from the courage displayed
by the popular bride. She was linking her for-
tunes with those of a widower missionary and his
small child, and cheerfully looked forward to a
home in the lonely South Sea Islands, which had
witnessed the death, under most sensational cir-
cumstances, of her predecessor, the rev. gentle-
man’s first wife. For my part, I have a sneaking
belief in ghosts.
On the last day of the polo tournament at Rich-
mond the play was exciting, but if not cruel, it
certainly had the appearance of being so. A grey
pony, with bleeding sides and the rider’s spurs
digging into its wounds all the time, was a de-
pressing spectacle. All the fashionables were
E resent, in most cases wearing their race raiment.
iady Hopetoun, our recognised polo enthusiast,
looked rather sombre in a black carriage cape and
chapeau of piebald straw, with a spray of red roses
nid-nodding aloft. She had with her Miss Wilson,
of “ Ercildoune,” dressed quietly, in the demure
English style, which doesn’t seem in keeping with
our bright sunshine and blue skies.
Miss Wilson wore a butcher-blue jacket and
skirt, with a rosette to match in her small sailor
hat. Her pretty sister was attired in a similarly
designed grey frock, with pink vest and hat
trimmings. It is said that “Salmon” didn’t
intend allowing his daughters to go to the races,
or club ball, or, in fact, any of the festivities.
Only at the eleventh hour, “ the Countess, ” pity-
ing these martyrs to noblesse oblige, invited them
to attend such gaieties as still remained, under
her aristocratically-fledged wing. Whereupon the
careful father, satisfied that his children would be
suitably chaperoned, blessed them, and bade them
go their ways rejoicing.
Everyone has been jeering at those Brisbane
ladies who, at a Suffrage meeting, saluted one
another by such names as “ Old cat ” and “ Old
maid.” Male boasters declared that herein was
“ woman’s intellectual inferiority manifest, her
inability to view matters from a business rather
than a personal standpoint.” We don’t hear
any more of this bombast since the Mutual
Store fracas, at which some of the leading
merchants of Melbourne were to be heard
squeaking out in voices, thin with excitement,
such personal remarks as “ Old fool 1 ” “ Bad old
man 1! ” “ Ugly old man II!”
Ours is always described as the vainer sex, but
it certainly looks as if men cared more about being
young and charming than is generally admitted,
when the most cutting epithets that they can find
are “ Ugly ” and “ Old." At such a meeting as
this that wonderful creature, Maoriland Mayor
Yates, would have been a decided acquisition. In
her presence even an ill-timed smile is not allowed
to pass without rebuke.
When women get the chance they ate thorough
martinets. The first Lady Brassy was an example
of a she-disoiplinarian. During her wanderings
in Bananaland she visited an up-country opal-
mine, in company with “ Tom ” and a mounted
escort of bluejackets off the Sunbeam. These
hardy mariners displayed a loose, bounding style
of horsemanship, which soon had the effect of
working their wide, nautical “bags” up to their
knees, greatly to the amusement of the plain bush
folk en route.
When the head of the expedition perceived the
decollete condition of her followers’ shins, she
commanded a halt and issued these orders.
“Brown! draw up your sock!” “Smith, pull
down your pants!” “Jones! you look like a
fool!” The culprits lost no time in obeying, but
before long their ankles were once more bared to
the breeze. The lady began to be annoyed, and
the ridicule of passing swagmen and sundowners
increased her irritation. In the end, she decreed
that each gallant tar must sever his clean, starched
pocket-handkerchief in twain, and with the
halves thereof, reef his fluttering lower sails firmly
to his ankles. That night in the township
“pub” when “Jones,” the good boy of the
“Sunbeam” crew, had enjoyed a few whiskies,
he remarked—“ That’s the worst of a she captain,
she’s always huntin’ and uaggin’ about, and a
feller gets no peace.”
Anyone, who makes a study of photographic
albums, must notice how few, when compared
with the early days .pf the Hopetoun regime, are
the pictures of urchins seated in goat-carriageei.
When Hopetoun, junr., otherwise Lord Hope, if
you please, arrived in the “colony,” he possessed
one of these turn-outs and was once or twice
photographed therein.
The picture took greatly with local mothers who,
in some cases, went to the length of ordering a
miniature cart and turning loose upon their
cramped suburban quarters one or more of those
blatant aggressive pests, usually known as “Billy
goats.”
When Claude or Tommy, as the case might be,
was divested of his Fauntleroy suit and, much to
his own mortification, degraded into a white
tucked frock and cloth pilot jacket (d la Hope)
his fond mother had him “ immortalised ” in his
goat-carriage. Then she went about telling her
friends that hundreds of people had mistaken the
picture for a portrait of “ His Excellency’s little
boy.” For some reason or other it’s no longer
lawful to drive goats in harness, so paterfamilias
can once more recline in safety under his own
vine and fig-tree, or talk “poultry ” with the next-
door neighbour, without fear of rude and sudden
assault.
Talking of the Governor, people say that ever
since one of their servants was carried off by the
fever the Hopetouns have a nervous dislike to
spending typhoid season at the big House. This,
perhaps, accounts for the Arab-like wanderings,
the comings and goings, the sojourning at head-
quarters for a night, and departing unto the
uttermost parts of the land in the morning, which
enliven vice-regal existence from December to May.
After her Hopetoun (meaning the township of
that august name) trip, the Countess intends
visiting her brothers up North. These lively
youths are certainly blessed with an attentive
sister. Didn’t she convict one of them of flirting
with his grandmother (figuratively speaking), and
at infinite trouble to herself, and carry him
“home” to his mother’s apron-strings? What
made her action the more heroic was that her
departure, at that juncture, left the field open to
two upsetting sisters -in - law, who instituted
obstacle races in the classic groves of Government
House, and, in fact, played up in a most unstately
manner. They were wholesome affable amazons,
nevertheless.
Miss Bon Watson, one of the pets of Melbourne
society, has at last accepted a suitor—Mr. Bert
Armytage, a young squatter, whose brother so
chagrined the “ first eleven,” some years ago, by
marrying a dashing girl connected with a Collins-
street caravanserai.
Apropos , Mr. Olive Clarke, whose body was
brought from London to Melbourne for interment,
the other day, would, in all probability, had he
lived, become the husband of the pretty* daughter
of a legal family resident at St. Kilda. — Van M.


STEWART DAWSON & CO.’S Charming Specialities in Jewellery
Just Published, our New Pamphlet of elegant London Specialities, a copy of which will he sent post paid on application to S.D. & Co., Sydney.
Delivered, i*x IW.S.-W. and Queensland, (post paid and duty free) at Sydney Prices.
Ladies’ 18-ct. Gold Keyless Hunter, £5 10.
Ditto Silver ditto ditto £2 lO.
Unapproachable in quality and price.
Usually
Sold
at £lO 10s.
Usually
Said
at .110 10s.
No. 525. —Lovers’ Knot and Heart Brooch,
15-ct. Gold, £1 5.
m
oQ *
No. 533.—15-ct. Gold Brooch, 1 Diamond,
2 Pearls, *2 10.
No 511. —Elegant Lucky Kell Bio.c.i, Oct.
Gold, 17 6; 15-ot. Gold, ±ll 10;
Silver, 5 6.
15-ct. OoM, Diamond centre, £3.
K'-' / rn,nt
li ‘lit
and
Lovers*
Knob
Brooch.
Whip and Shoe Pin,
15-ct. Gold, 15/0
Silver, 4/0.
WATCHES.
The variety, ex-
tent and value o!
our superb stock
outrivals the sem-
blance of any com-
parison.
No. 228.-Set Links,
9-ct, Gold, 10/6.
Silver, 3/-
Pin and Stud, 18-ct. Gold,
10 Diamonds, 1 Ruby,
£7 IT 6.
No. 226. —Set Links,
9-ct. Gnl6, 15/6;
15-ct., £1 10; Silver, 4/6.
Pin and Stud, 15-ct. Gold,
6 Diamonds, 1 Sapphire,
£S l!f «■
15-ct. Gold Locket,
Diamond Centre, £‘i 5.
Telescopic
Pencil, 9-cfc
Gold, 357-
Silver,
10 6.
ğ
No. 764.
9-ct. Gold.
Lucky Charm Bell
Bracelet, £1 10.
Loose Curb Chain and Padlock Bracelet,
9-cfc. Gold, from 1 1 15 ; 15-ct. Gold, from £3 5.
For sizes, see Illustrations in Pamphlet.
No. 756. Bell Bracelet, 9-ct. Gold, £1 10
5 Bell ditto, £2 ; 3 Bell ditto, silver, 7/6.
SI?
BET
No. 759.—Double Heart Bracelet,
15-ot. Gold and 2 Diamonds, 13 10.
No. 106.-Gent’s Albert, 9-ct. Gold, £4 4; 15-ct, £6 15; Silver, 16/6.
No. 107.—Gent's Albert, 9-ct. Gold, £3 12 6; 15-ct., £5 17, 6; Silver, 13/6.
No. 42.—Ladies’ Ring,
15-ct. Go’d, 7 Rubies,
6 Pearls, £1 5.
No. 53.—Electro-Silver
Breakfast Cruet, fine
English Cut Bottles, Spoons,
complete, 21/-
No. 39.—Ladies’ Ring,
18-ct. Gold, 2 Diamonds,
3 Rubles, £3 10.
No. 70.—Solid Silver
Napkin Rings, lin. wide.
2in case £1 2 0
4 ditto 2 5 0
No. 32.—Ladies’ Ring,
18-ct. Gold. 1 Diamond,
2 Rubies, £2.
No. 25.— Wedding Ring,
Missive 18-ct. Gold, 21/-
18-ci. Keeper, same price.
ġ
Lovers’ Knot
and New.
9-ct. Gold, 14/6
Silver, 4,6
Lucky Beil
Brooch.
X5-ct. Gold,
si j e
No. 601.— Silver Match Box, 116.
Size Smaller, 8 6.
m
506.—G.H.M.
Diamond Centre
15ct. Brooch,
£1 15s.
No. 504.—The “Little Pet’s” Brooch,
9-ct. Gold, 5/0.
m
SOVEREIGN
PURSE.
No. 605.—Silver, 9 6. Plain dilto, 8 6.
9 ct. Gold, eiHfiavi d, £2 10.
No. 531.
-Pearl Initial Rr r ocl), any letter
9 ct. Gold, 7/ii.
NOTE.—Each Article being Government Hall-marked or Stamp?*, the quality is Guaranteed, at the same time our Prices are about HALF the usual Color
Add tc Remittance for Pest an • >l r
We despatch Goods daily, post pa;*
,-ister ; One Article, 6d.; Two, 9<1.; Three. Is.; Six, Is. 6d.
at these rates, and take all risk in transit. Address —
STEWART DAWSON & CO., 412 George Street,
SYDITBY, IsT.S.NV.
Harold Boyd, the Ripp-lene man, late of Aus-
tralia, writing of the Indian coalfields “ In Bengal they
are indeed developing a‘black country.’ After getting
well away from Howrah, the E.I.R. takes the traveller
over many miles of pronounced coal country. An English
miner would stare if you told him of a coal seam 9611.
deep, yet this is a reality, and may be seen a few hours
journey from Calcutta. And in (hose mines what an
abundance of coal 1 Coal everywhere! Coal under foot,
coal in the vast arches over our heads, supported by so i
walls of the same material. And coal, too in many
instances, yielding so small & percentage of ash as to vie
with the best English article. g
* * . , . _ . , , ,
Dear Bulletin,—lb is long since I troubled you
with a letter. I do so now, through seeing you refer
sometimes to Mashonaland and Matabeleland as places to
which there is likely to be a rush. I arrived in Fort Sajis-
bury, 15th July, ’9l, with five others well fitted-out with
nine months provisions, also tools, dynamite and every-
thing required, besides waggon and oxem We had four
donkeys to oti y > fhe Tsetse flv and
even they won’t last very long. (Strange they don’t seem
sufi••rjasfS’ttisss?s*;.' l tss
not in Loben.’s country. We went as far as the Hunyati
RWer that divides the two territories, but were shy of
?““ ain r ikstj? z “ ’is-
c™Ke. the country‘is cleaner-wotked’-out then any
part of Australia. I could not determine the age
of the workings—but should say they are not less
than a hundred years old—they might he three,
There are in some places patches of old workings a mile
long and a chain or so wide, as if they had been taking
out small surface leaders (all the Mashona workings seem
to have been for quartz), but nothing carrying more than
colours could we get on the bottom of any place we
cleaned out._ There were places which the mullock-heaps
indicated might lie worked down 30 or 40 ft., and which
I should have liked to sink on, but all such places
were held by the Chartered Go. s police with pegs and
paper. I went to Dr. Jamieson to ask about some work-
ings which, according to dates posted on them, had been
pegged six months; he told me that that ground was
protected, and I suppose they are protecting it still
Whatever people worked that country were as thick as
bees, for you come on places among the workings where
•r h rao e e8 h o a f Ve the ei hkbilatfons “n'sSfl Mseen-each j’ust a
round ring of baked mud eight feet in diametef, the
bottom of what was once a hut; likewise the stones which
they ground the quartz with. I think, too, that they
knew how to follow a little gold as well as do some of the
smart hands who are looking for it now. I also believe
that the country, as a rule, was poor. We can’t tell, but
a dwt. per week might have paid them. Anyhow, a Joz.
per ton prospect was the best ever I could raise,
and I pounded rocks till I began to get lop-sided.
Toe C. Co. gave all the fellows who joined what they call
“ the police ” 10 claims and a farm ; also, I think, 3s. per
day. An outsider could get a farm, too, of 3000 morgen—
-6000 acres—by paying £3OO. I did not bother much about
the condi I ions, but some £3 would have such a stretch of
country kept for you just long enough to make some
improvements—and then the Co. would put on the place
whatever tax or rent their elastic conscience dictated,
After doing three months we packed up and started for
Umtaii in Manicaland, 170 miles N.E. of Salisbury, and
25 miles from Massi Kessi—where the “ great” engage-
ment took place between C. Co.’s “police” and Portu-
g.iese. Manica seems to have been worked for alluvial.
It, is'very mountainous, and the valleys have been
worked for miles. Here, too, nothing but a colour
could we get, though we found many sound blocks
in amongst the old workings. There are a few reefs
with however, only about the same prospects as
those in Mashona. I don’t think much of the goldfields
inO Co. possessions. The Portuguese have a grand piece
er country from Massi Kessi to Port Beira for sugar-grow-
inu- or any purpose of tropical plantation. There are
miles of country where the soil is equal to that of Port
Mackay, but it’s of no use to the owners. Nothing in any
of the settlements except soldiers and officers and tootling
on a bugle day and night, and flags flying from every
possible place where one can be tied up. The filth lying
round in the settlements would make a pig sick. If you
do wad . e through all this perhaps you’ll build out of it a
par. calculated to prevent men from going a long journey
to find nothing.—Wokabut, l Ravenswood, Q., 3rd March,
1894.
* ♦ ♦ *
Facts which should be weighed well by any
Australian bent Matabelelandwards. The easiest ai d
nlost expeditious stage of the journey is the first-
from Australia to the Cape. That accomplished, train-
fare from Cape to Johannesburg, third-class, £4 17s. 6d ;
251 - i ue , gage> free—all over that weight, 3d. per 11). is
charged ; coach-fare from Johannesburg l to Pretoria, £2 ;
p re tbria to Fort Salisbury by weekly mail-coach, £32 10s.,
plus expenses on journey, which takes a week ; 251 h.
weight of luggage, free ; all over that, 2s. 9d. per lb. is
charged. Also, if the traveller remains for over a week
w ithin the borders of the S.A. Republic he is poll-taxed
ios. and made to feel like a Chow. Four months ago the
population of Fort Salisbury was 1800, all of whom were
either out “putting down the niggers,” or down them-
selves with fever.
« * * *
Thia Jg how tha( . f ar . see ing, liberal-minded organ
public opinion, the S.M. Herald, welcomed the news
?. f F th^effig^^
«-?>*******>*.-«■.
manla - • - The digging cannot be prevented.
. but } b ma y be regulated provided no time is lost in
sirs
il « eirculation went up from 3000 to MOO a day.
* _ *
ine Californian gold yield for 1893 about
£2,700,000.
* * * *
Seven fatal accidents have occurred at Luck-
now (N.S.W.) gold mines in the last 18 months.
* * * *
Some of the very best things in raining you
never hear anything about. For instance, in Western
N.S. W. three or four ptople, who work a mine them-
selves, turn out £l5OO worth of copper-ore—averaging 48
p er cent, t—every month. They are quietly making a
fortune.
« * ♦ *
Gympie Great Monkland has cut leaders carry-
. coa rse gold at 1479 feet. If anything payable is got
at * this dep( & there will be
a new boom on Gympie.
* * ♦ *
Good f? ld Prospects reported from surface iron-
Stone on M’Laughhn s leases next Mount Morgan. Many
sad Queenslanders hope it isn t true- say the province
can t affordWo Mount Morgans in a
r . , , , ~ „ i
Billy Little, ex-Queensland M.P., has gone
mining on the Hodgkinson, N.Q.-starting life again as
an old man, after many ups-and-downs. The Bulletin
wishes luck to the hard-handed, soft-hearted veteran,
* * * *
Alluvial gold found in the old Crocodile Creek
workings, near Rockhampton, Q., beneath a cement bed
which first prospectors struck and took for bottom. How
ma ny miners really do know cement from thin gravel?
* * * *
,
‘‘Good reports come from the Swamp Oak
field, N.S. W. Wanted, good cakfs.
* . . *
The story of a mine is generally written on the
tombstones of its shareholders, night or nine years ago
the Globe was one of the most hopeless concerns on the
West Coast of Maoriland. It had an immense, hungry,
barren reef, and year after year it toiled, and made calls,
and broke the hearts of its shareholders to no purpose,
At last, when many of the shares were forfeited for un-
paid calls, and couldn’t be auctionedevenatJd.each.it
closed up. An ancient mariner was put on at a micro-
scopic screw to see that no one ran away with the shaft,
or the rusted battery, or the silent, moss-grown engine-
house. One day the aged guardian, for want of better
recreation, went forth with a pick and discovered a big
new rtef. Then there was a whoop of joy, and Globe
shares went up to 425. The old shareholders might have
sold out and retired, but (hey didn’t. There was a
carnival of dividends for seven years or so, and just when
it looked as if the prosperity was going to last for ever,
the bottom fell out of the mine a s'condtime. So the
other day one of the largest shareholders, who had
blewed all his dividends in wild-cat mines, solemnly put
his affairs in order, left his bank-book on the table along
with a package containing his false teeth, and then went
forth and drowned himself. The Globe mine had killed
him.
* ♦ * ♦
Has the glory of Bendigo finally departed ? All
along the New Chum line deep-sinking has of late been a
disappointment. Presumably there must be some depth
at which the gold finally gives out, and what everybody
wants to know is whether the deepest mines have already
reached that point, or whether there is something yet to
be struck down in the unfathomable bowels of the earth
which will resurrect and even eclipse all the ancient
glories of Bendigo. At present, the prospects seem to
point rather to the former possibility. Meanwhile, the
shafts keep going down, and if they don t strike gold
they may at least settle a theological question which no
one has ever yet solved. The Hustler’s line is a trifle
deader th'an even the New Chum ; and the Garden Gully
group is a painful story of hope deferred which maketh
the shareholder sick. The share-list is a long and dismal
category of stocks which are trying to keep above the
shilling level, and mostly failing dismally in the effort,
and very, very few of the fortnightly returns get above
XOOoz. Often half of them don’t get up to ten.
* * * ♦
Dear Bulletin, — I visited Anakie, Q., a month
or so ago, to see what the much-talked-of Dobson’s claim
was like. The shaft was then sunk 40ft. on an ironstone
blow. This stone when dollied resembled yellow ochre
in appearance, and when panned off showed a tail, say,
|-of-an-inch long. These operations had to cease for the
gold is so fine that it can only be saved by an expensive
process. Given chlorination and Anakie might be a big
thine', for all round this place gold-carrying ironstone
abounds.—S.
* * ♦ *
Mareeba (N.Q.) crushings on the downward
grade. Very doubtful whether bulk results will ever
equal the first specimens.
* * ♦ ♦
The world’s annual production of gold now
touches 30 millions, and is increasing fast.
* * * *
At Coolgardie, The Bulletin presumes, a man
is reckoned a fool who spoils good water with whisky.
But even now, things cannot be muqh worse than in
Cenlral Queensland before the bores went down, when
hotel visitors had to do with a dry polish, and the land-
lord at the bar handed you the brandy bottle to help
yourself, but measured out the water in a teaspoon—if
you were so soft as to want water.
* • * *
H. M. B. Sfc. Ruth, who started a prize chicken-
farm near Sydney last year, is going to Coolgardie, &c.,
in the interests, it is said, of Pall Mall Gazette. If St.
Ruth knows as much about incubating mines as he does
about hatching chickens, he has struck the right spot.
♦ * * *
Rough clean-up (Feb. 5) of Raub G.M. Co. gave
800 oz. amalgam from 310 tons stone.
* * * ♦
At Irvinebank (N.Q.) Vulcan mine crushed,
for the half-year, 1070 tons stone tor 150 tons black tin.
Since ’9l, 9174 tons stone have given 1411 J tons black tin,
worth £44,549 ; divs., £20,313.
* » ♦ *
Since 1877 some 6260 tons tin (value, say,
£365,000) have been shipped from Cooktown. During ’BB
the best year for tin—losl tons were got; value,
£67,000. In ’93 only 346 tons were raised—estimated
value, £17,000 odd.
* * * «
The long-lost Lower Cape (N.Q.) “ deep lead ”
has, it is said, been picked up again by two jockeys.
One hundred men are on the ground. The Towers warden
reports—sinking 70 feet, wash thin.
* * * *
From Rocky River (N.Q.) rush few men are
coming back —perhaps because there is something good
or perhaps because of floods. The gold is scattered over
11 miles, and is like that of the Coen—mint value, £3 7s.
It is, however, persistently rumoured that the rush is a
duffer,
* * * *
Millionaire Horn’s prospecting expedition to
the M'Donnell ranges will probably pay. A lot of queer
stories are current on the ruby question.
• » » *
Why don’t the whites take to vegetable-grow-
ing? The writer has heard no less an authority than
Angus Mackay declare that the whites, if they seriously
began, would easily beat the Chow at vegetable-raising.
What is more—there is a white at Botany (Sydney) who
has done so and is making a good thing out of it. Let a
company, managed on the lines of the Fresh Food and Ice
Co., begin, and there is a grand investment.
♦ * ♦ *
“ I feel that the vengeance of God has been on
me ever since, three years ago, I brought a lot of unused
jewellery, &c., from England and contrived to get it
through the Customs without paying any duty. I there-
fore enclose J 55.—1 am, your conscience-smitten servant,
M.D.F.” This was posted, unstamped, to the Victorian
Treasurer—4d. fine to pay, and no £551
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
A Melb. daily remarks that a new local cemetery
will soon be a necessity. On account of the coming
winter, of course. This may explain why some dismal
relics of the Boom have been seen with their heads
together lately, in the old fashion. Working up a boom
in grave allotments.
* * * *
In one asylum in England there are eight
lunatics who went crazed through the failure of the City
of Glasgow Bank some 16 years ago. How many bank
lunatics will there be in the various Australian asylums
when all the mental wrecks of the reconstruction year are
gathered in ? And how many crazed ghosts will be wait-
ing beside the Styx to gibber horribly at the Melb. and
Sydney boomers, when their spectres in their spectral
top-hats appear on the other side ?
♦ * * *
Among the U.S. railway bankruptcies of last
year were the great Northern Pacific with a debt of
£25,000,000; the Atchison, Topeka, and Santa F6—the
biggest railway co. on earth, with nearly 13,000 miles of
line and an ugly record of previous reconstruction, and
built, like the Northern Pacific, mostly out of land grants ;
the New York and New England system ; and the Read-
ing railway—one of those Pennsylvania lines which
squatter Abbott holds up to public admiration in his
perennial letter to Sydney D.T. as a glorious example
of the advantages of private railway enterprise and the
horrors of State ownership. Which reminds The Bulle-
tin, by the way, that squatter Abbott, of Wingen, hasn’t
been heard from on this subject for quite a long time now.
« * * *
Welcome Gully, Daylesford, is the scene of the
latest Vic. gold discovery.
* ♦ * •
There is in Sydney a man who has proved to the
satisfaction of a number of men in the trade that salt,
equal to best imported, can be made in any quantity
from sea-water at Bulli for £1 a ton—the amount of the
import-duty. Most of the required capital has been put
together, and very shortly the Pacific salt-works will be
in full blast.
• * * •
It is officially denied that outside of the com-
missioners’ fees, any N.S W. bankruptcy officials get pay
beyond their salaries. All the sani", it is true that certain
of these officials divide annually hundreds of pounds in
copying-fees —a system in vogue also at other State law-
offices, and which wants looking into. The perquisite
system causes many abuses.
* * ♦ ♦
Melbournian : “ I am surprised at the villa and
grounds which my friend obtains, in a delicious subuib,
for 10s. a week.”
* ♦ » *
A German importer in Melbourne lately for-
warded to a German firm in London a £5 Bank of England
note, in payment of certain goods. The Louden firm, in
acknowledging receipt, debits the Melbourne firm with
7s. 6d., being Is. 6d. in the £, “which we have had to
pay for changing the note into currency.” For cold
cheek this is unique.


A SPECIALTY
For INFANTS
Specially prepared for the delicate
Shin of Ladies and Children.
Imparts and maintains a soft, velvety
condition of the Skin, and prevents
Redness, Roughness, & Chapping.
Professor SIR ERASMUS WILSON,
{Late President of the Royal College oj Surgeons, England.')
“ The use of a good Soap is certainly calculated to
preserve the skin in health, to maintain its complexion
and tone, and prevent its falling into wrinkles. Pears
is a name engraven on the memory of the oldest inhabi-
tant ; and Pears’ Soap is an article of the nicest
and most careful manufacture, and one of the most
refreshing and agreeable balms for the skin.”
The independent testimony of Scientific Experts
%nd the most eminent Shin Specialists award it
. the first place among Toilet Soaps,
m
wm
ii
Ghosts of a Gallows.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When I was a very small boy, some 18
years ago, I had the run of Melbourne Gaol.
Gates, such as they are there, for the most part,
did not limit my freedom, for I was so small that
I could squeeze through the interstices of the bars
of which they were made. “Oit in the stilly
night ” did I startle the lonely warder on duty in
the silent prison.
Fittingly with my morbid environment, and
doubtless encouraged by it, my disposition was
gloomy, not to say ghoulish. I took a delight in
the gallows and all its hideous appurtenances,
animate and inanimate, from the hangman, Gately,
who was my particular friend, to the victim whom
the hour faithfully provided ; and from the rope,
renewed for each execution, to the soap wherewith
it was greased. Then there was the gallows
graveyard in which I often sat and indulged my
boyish meditations. I can let anyone have an
“ Elegy in a Gallows Graveyard ” cheap. Hang-
man’s acre in Melbourne Gaol was what was
known as “ The Boys’ Yard.” It was a narrow
strip of high-walled space in which juvenile
larrikins were set by day to break stones and
gather what wisdom they could from a contempla-
tion of the initials of the hanged, carved into the
wall opposite each other. By night, no doubt,
the gallows ghosts whose corporeal substances
were quicklimed at the south end of the yard,
came forth and disported themselves with spiritual
skipping, swinging, or other pastime in which a
rope plays leading part. One night I went to see,
but saw nothing, which, however, I attributed to
the fact that
A cock at sight of sun mistook for moon
Crowed forth the hour of dawn some hours too soon,
and so caused the deceived spirits to prematurely
vanish.
Some fifty or more strangled saints lie buried in
this spot, of which there are many legends whose
time is not yet come.
# # •
My chief interest in the luckless wretch
on hand was always consummated on the night
before the strangulation, which almost invariably
took place on a Monday. The Sunday evening
before, during church-time, when it was not likely
I would be impeded in my mission by paternal
interference, would see me, a seven-year-older,
slip from a door leading from my father’s quarters
into the front yard of the gaol. Across this I
would dart into the main building, along a passage
to a barred gate, which gave me no check, through
the new wing, under the gallows, along a lane,
through the hospital garden, and then up some
well-worn steps that led to the chocolate-coloured
old wing, in which were the cells of the con-
demned. The high, long, narrow place was always
but dimly lighted, and steeped in a palpable
silence, which was only emphasised by the low
whistling or pathetic croning of some prisoner
whose sorrows thus salved themselves in song.
I always made straight for the condemned cell
in occupation, easily distinguishable by the light
which from its door of bars shot across the corri-
dor. In the rays of this the warder on duty sat
on guard. From him I got welcome. Every
warder was my friend, but apart from such a fact
my company would prove a break in the depressing
monotony of the night duty.
Of valedictory interviews with tne condemned I
have eight records. Among these stand out those
with Weaohurcb, my present story ; Basilio Bon-
dietto, against whose execution old George Stephen
(and David Gaunsotf, by the way) vigorously pro-
tested—l have the legal Nestor’s final protest
before me now ; James Ashe, who “ had no know-
ledge of a Creator or any religion, had lived the
life of an ignorant herd boy, and died penitent.”
How thac sort always does die penitent! And
finally with Ned Kelly, historically heroic, literally
commonplace.
• • •
“This man was a deep scoundrel,” says
Evening News Heaton of Weachuroh in his
diabolical “Dictionary of Dates.” If he was,
then it was only that sort of scoundrel for which
rotten prison systems are mainly responsible. In
the eyes of all right-thinking persons he was, of
course, the very worst type of desperado, because
he set “ law’n’order ” and every other “respect-
able ” consideration at defiance in the vain hope
that thereby he would obtain a fair open trial and
justice of an ideal quality. He is further interest-
ing as being the pet illustration of the efficacy of
hanging, or rather the insufficiency of imprison-
ment.
# # «
He was variously known as John Hallara,
John Taylor, and John Weaohurch. The last was
probably his proper name. In appearance he was
like the common variety of Chinaman, sallow com-
plexion, low-built, and with slanting, sleepy eyes.
He was possessed of a rude sort of capacity for
disputation, and that bush-lawyer quality, unillu-
minated _ by any sort of cultivation, ultimately
proved his destruction. He questioned all things,
and so firm fixed was he in his own interpretations
of them that his eagerness to put them to the test
consumed him, until at last it became a sort of
insanity, under the influence of which he com-
mitted deeds which gave the law an excuse to
hang him.
He was cradled in crime, and in gaol was his
grave. Born in 1829, he took the lawless path
before he was old enough to have understanding
of any other. He was first consigned to a Re-
formatory, in itself a sufficient sink of contamina-
tion to defile one far less susceptible than he.
Burglary was his speciality, and in 1862 he was
first committed in Victoria for that crime.
It is no wonder that a man like this was in
constant trouble both in and out of gaol. In gaol
he disputed the legality of almost every act of the
authorities, sometimes sanely enough, but more
often frivolously, and like an imbecile. Punish-
ment naturally resulted, and his original sentence
was increased. In this was his grand opportunity.
He was convinced beyond moving by any known
power, including fear of death, that such increase
of his term was totally illegal. Of course the
authorities would not admit his contention. It
was deemed impolitic even to consider it or give
the prisoner any satisfaction in such a dispute, or
indeed any other. It was “subversive of dis-
cipline,” “bad precedent,” and much more besides
in the shibboleth of official stupidity and red-tape
thraldom.
“Then,” declared Weachurch, “if I am denied
a hearing and justice by fair means, I will obtain
them by foul,” He meant that he would resist
what he considered his wrongful detention, by
such acts as would compel the authorities to
place him in the dock, where he would have an
opportunity of publicly declaring his grievance.
This was no empty boast, for subsequent to his
pronouncement of it he was punished for more
than a hundred breachesof thePentridgediseipline.
So intractable did he become that he was kept
closely confined, but even then he found means to
pursue his purpose.
Inspector-General Duncan was a God-fearing
man, and when the convict requested an interview
with him, he granted it, and entered the cell well
armoured in the spirit of the Lord, Notwith-
standing, he was carried out prostrated by a
wound in the groin inflicted by Weachurch with a
knife, which, despite of official vigilance, he had
secreted. For this he was sentenced to death, a
decree which, however, was commuted to ira-
prisonment for life. Inspector-General Duncan
was only scratched* and was well compensated
later on, when Parliament voted him £5OO or so
as a solatium for the injury.
On another occasion Weachurch complained
that the close confinement was affecting his health.
He was, therefore, given a hoe, and set to cut
down weeds in a remote paddock, under the super-
vision of Warder Ooghlan. In a little while he
reported himself at the prison, and calmly
announced that he had just killed the warder.
Happily, this was not strictly accurate, but it was
not far out, for Ooghlan was found with his head
split open, and like unto death. He, however,
recovered, and Weachurch was again put on his
trial for attempted murder. The benevolent and
eloquent Ireland undertook his defence and
secured an acquittal. In gratitude, Weachurch
indited a poem to his able and generous advocate.
1 his metrical effort was far less excusable than his
attempt to murder, but no action was taken to
avenge the violated muse.
Among other acts of violence committed by the
aggrieved convict was the burning down of the
shoemaker’s workshops, causing a damage
estimated at .£4OOO. But he was not again able,
for a long period, to compel the authorities to
send him to public trial. However serious his
offence he was brought before the Visiting-Justice,
and it was the series of petty trials which he
invoked which caused the magistrate’s court at
Pentridge to be known as the Star Chamber, a
nick-name which it retains to this day,
At last the authorities took drastic steps in
their own defence. A cell was converted into a
cage, to be seen yet by the curious, and in this
Weachurch was confined like a wild beast. Special
rules were made directing how he was to be
treated. At exercise he was always to be escorted
by two warders. His clothes were to be changed
weekly. The cage-door was never to be opened
exeept in the presence of two warders, and much
more of a similar character. But all the ingenuity
of the authorities could not conquer the cunning
of the convict. One day, warder Moran, with
another, entered the cage to repair the prisoner’s
irons, and was struck down with a bed-bolt
wielded by Weachurch, just as Parson Hill had
been slain some years before by convict Ritson.
There followed a third trial for attempted
murder. It was unique, but its place is not here,
I have before me Weachurch’s brief drawn up in
his own misspelt quaint diction and crazy scrawl,
In his written speech he says : “The gallows is
ready and yorning for me, and my base and
maliceous enemies are ready to shed my blood and
gloat over my miserable corps. . . The name
of Weachurch has become a mock and a by word
for mothers and nursemaids to frighten children
with.” Then followed his defence, so eloquently
characteristic of his ruling crankiness: “Inno-
eence of the assault is no part of my defence,
because I wilfully and deliberately committed
that assault after due consideration, and I call
God to witness that I did it not out of malice or
ill-will (although I confess that I did not like
Warder Moran’s way of doeing his duty) or with
any intent to kill or do anybody searious injury,
but I done it with the greates of deliberate caution
and with no other view than geting sent to where
I now stand so that I might have an opportunity
of exposing the wilfull and maliceous injustice
that I have been so long subjected to, and seek
legal redress.”
His legal redress took the shape of the sentence
of death. The gallows was prescribed, when
obviously the case demanded nothing but a lunatic
asylum and a straight-jacket. But such are the
inscrutable ways of civilised and christianised
men I
• *
This wa s the poor wretch whom I trotted
up to Rape at on that Sunday evening 18 years
ago> All was still as usua l in the gaol at such a
t j me- Noiselessly I went along the corridor of the
old w j ng to t ] ie warc ier on duty, who gave me
we i come . a nd when I peered through the bars of
the con( Jemned cell door, Weachurch gave me
we ] come a l so
“Ain’t you frightened of me, little man ?” he
ag k ed
Inspired perhaps by an unconscious generosity,
or perhaps w i th a feeling of safety in the presence
o{ a warder we ]] armed w j t h deadly weapons, I
anawere d the pathetic query in a manner which,
con templating it now with an appreciation of
art i st i c e ff ec t, I cannot regard as anything short
0 f b eau tiful if not sublime.
j squeezed through the bars and stood in the
cell of the condemned man. He took me on his
knee.
“ Do you know who I am ?” he asked,
I nodded my head after the uncouth fashion of
juveniles of seven. Had I spoken, great was my
veneration for hanges, I should have said ;
“Yes, sir! - ’
His only acknowledgment of my nescience was
a heavy sigh.
“Do you know what is to be done to me?” was
his next.
I nodded again. Glad am I now that his legal
acumen was not alert, so that he was not moved
to test my affirmative by cross-examination. It
would not have been pleasant to have had to say,
“ You are going to be hanged !”
“Do you know why ?” he next asked,
I shook my head emphatically, and he seemed
pleased. I suppose^because it gave him an oppor-
tunity to tell his grievance.
“It is because I sought justice,” he said,
“Never seek justice, my boy. Let people do
what they like to you. If you don’t you’ll only
be hanged like me.”
I wasn’t experienced enough to know whether
he was serious in this advice. I have my sus-
pioions now, however.
At last I thought I must be going, and I said
good night. I shall never forget that parting.
The miserable wretch pressed my boyishly soft,
small hand in his, rough and so often less gently
used. Then he kissed the top of my head, leaving
it wet and warm with tears,
Next day he was hanged,
• • *
TT . , , ~ , , , , -
, wished. another trial, and had hope of
it. right up to his last moment. And 1 have often
wondered why he did not make a final bid tor it
iu his wonted fashion, by taking me by my
juvenile heels and dashing out my juvenile brains
against the cell wall.
I suppose it didn t occur to him.
Melb.
PAUL MELL.


BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
ģ
In Patent ’
Air-tight Tins.
Established
1825.
FOR
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Widow Welch’s IHUs
U'OR FEMALE COMPLAINTS. Mrs. Smithers,
1 Grand daughter to the Widow Welch, continues to
prepare this celebrated Medicine from the only original
nd genuine Family Recipe. Its just celebrity for all
Female Complaints has obtained for it a most extensive
►nd increasing demand. Purchasers should, therefore,
ittend to the following CAUTION. To be careful that
•<hat they purchase is prepared by Mrs. Smithers, who
m the only person in possession of the Original Recipe.
The genuine are wrapped in Blue Paper, and signed on
tie Outside label by Mrs. Smithers, and the names of the
Sole Wholesale Agents, “W. Edwards and Son, 157
Sjueen Victoria Street,” formerly of 67 St. Paul’s, London,
ire engraved on the Government Stamp.
Sold in boxes, at 2s, 9d. each, by most Chemists.
Australian Mutual p ßOVn> ”Soc^ty,
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Socir ty established
In Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YBARI
Directors:—The Hon. Sir J, P. ABBOTT. M.L.A., Chairman ; JAMES 11. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ;J.T
WALKER, Esq.; THOMAS LITTLEJOHN, Esq.; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS,
Esq., J.P.: ROBT. J. KINO, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TEECE, F.1.A., 1.1. A.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions storting
Accumulated Funds ... ... Over Eleven Millions sterling
The CASH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £501,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of ovei
One Million sterling.
Head Office: 87 Pitt Street, Sydney.
RICHARD B. CAMERON, SECRETARY.
E 5 3CP JSL 3EC P.gfl
g
ĝ
ğ
WOUL»-]tKNOWM:D
HAIR PRODUCER^RESTORER
PRODUCES
Luxuriant Hair, Whiskers and Moustaches.
Prevents the Hair Failing Off and
Turning Grey.
The World-renowned Remedy for
'ft—fc uA*. T■ X 3 £1 S.
For Curing Weak and Thin Eyelashes, Pre-
serving, Strengthening, and rendering the Hair
beautifully soft. For removing Scurf, Dand-
I ruff, etc.
Also for Restoring Grey Hair to its Original Colour, it is without a Rival.
Physicians and Analysts pronounce it to be perfectly harmless, and devoid of any Me!allio or other in-
jurious ingredients. Is not u l>ye. The Best Dressing. Bpe> tally prepared for Toilet Ise.
Is, 3s Cd, 3s 0d and 5s 6d per Be tile, from the leading Merchants, Chemists, Hair Dresseia and
Perfumers throughout the Colonies.
MANUFACTURED ONLY BY
EDWARDS & C 0„ 95, HIGH HOLBOEN, LONDON, ENGLAND.
ġ
ģ
1
'urehasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original
WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE
bears the Signature, thus
AsR for Lea & Perrins’ Sauce, and see Name on Wrapper, Label, Pottle and Stopper.
I Wholesale and for Export ho the Proprietors, Worcester : Crosse & Blackwell, London, <j'C., §c.,
and bp Grocers and Oilmen tl rcujhout the World.
Agents: Messrs. YIRGOE, SON and CHAPMAN; DAVID COHEN and CO., SYDNEY
&
o
£
4
Four Crown
*
• • It '
SCOTCH WHISKY.
THE FINEST WHISKY IN THE WORLD.
A,gent: NORMAN SHELLEY, 28 Hunter Street, Sydney.
THE GREAT
Scandinavian Remedy
—FOR—
Indigestion, Dyspepsia, Chest and Pulmonary
Complaints, Nervous Exhaustion, Rheumatism,
Gout, Chalky Gout, Scidtica, lumbago, Neuralgia,
Bright’s Disease, Kidney and liver Disorders,
British Cholera, and all Blood and Skin Diseases,
Thespian Institute, 168 Bay-street, Glebe, Nov. 22, ’93.
Professor Tbulinius.—My DearSir,—l feel Ishould be want-
ing in duty, did I neglect the opportunity of sending you my
testimony as to the wondrous efficacy of your rheumatic
specific. For the past ten years I have been a, complete
martyr to rheumatism in all its forms. I have tried doctors
. . with a view of effecting a cure for this most trying
disease I am well-known, and scores can testify
that at best I could only crawl about with difficulty. . . .
After leaving Little Bay Hospital at the close of last yeai I
was persuaded to try a bottle of your “ Tbulinius,” and in a
week or so afterwards I could get about fairly well. Upon
again suffering a relapse last February, I took another bottle,
with an equally successful result; but at last I determined to
go through a course of treatment, and I have just completed
my fourth bottle, with the gratifying knowledge that I am
quite free from pain, can walk any reasonable distance with-
out fatigue, have an excellent appetite, and feel myself again
competent to re-enter my profession, added to which my oft-
repeated attacks of pleurisy have become a thing of the past.
I have not dieted myself in any way, so all the credit is due to
your wonderful remedy, under Providence, that my blood is
becoming purer daily, and its effect upon my liver and kid-
neys most pronounced. ... I shall only be too glad
personally to convince fellow-sufferers of the benefits to be
derived from a course of your treatment, as exemplified in
my own case, after ten years’ martyrdom.—l. remain, yours
faithfully, W. H. NEWTON NEWMAN (Teacher of Elocution
and twenty-five years Actor and Manager).
[The Rev. J. D. Langley, St. Philip’s Parsonage, and Mr. If. H.
Lusk, Barrister-at-Law, can testify as to the crippled state of
MpTnavJH-
Scf&REMEDY
Mr. Newman prior to his taking’ “ Thuliums.**] . x . ~ ,
Depot: 15 VICTORIA ARCADE, entrance from Elizabeth-streefc (near King-street) and Castlercagh-
street, opposite “ The Australia” Hotel, SYDNEY. BOX 1405 G.P.O.
Write for Pamphlets and particulars of successfully treated cases.
9
“Clothed wldi Air."
Cellular Cloth
■sgrc66 ißhirt'S
WITH
Linen Fronts & Cuffs.
0/0 & 7/6
Just Opened.
Cellular Clolli Whirls.
Frei ch Print Frontsand
Cliffs; 3-stud; various
patterns—6/6.
When sending Orders hy
Post, mention s’ze of neck,
and include amount to pre-
pay carriage.
Sole Agents:
BRAHAM & MUTCH,
75 King St., SYDNEY.
«s*b
NATIONAL CASH REGISTER,
SMITH PREMIER TYPEWRITER.
National Cash Registers, Smiths Premier
Typewriters and Typewriter supplies.
WISHER and LINGHAM,
3 Victoria Arcade, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Celebrated Pipe .
GBD
Excels ALL Others.
FIRST PRIZE ALL EXHIBITIONS
Wholesale Depot:
JULIUS GOLDSCHMIDT & CO.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
RROQME’S:MUSIC
Full Music Size, and Guaranteed Correct.
m
g
m
or |3 Copies 3/-
OATALOGUES
POST FREE.
No. SONGS.
623. In Honour's Cause (Illustrated).
628. After the Ball (Illustrated!.
577. An Old Sweet Greeting, in F.
578. „ .
679. „ .. B flat -
-585. The Beason Why, in B flat.
586. „ .. 0.
184. Where the Sea Breaks on the Shore
(Illustrated).
567. Diver in E flat (Illus.l 568 in S
PIANOFOETE.
629. After the Ball Waltz (Illustrated)
621. Search Light Polka (Illustrated).
624. Impudence Schottische (Ulus.)
[Gautier.)
583. Geneva (Graceful Dance), CL
571. March of the Goblins Blue (lively)
527. Old Gold Pol ka (a very pretty polka)
630. Sprites by Night (just pub ished)
HOWARD & CO.,
66, QUEEN STREET, WOOLLAHRA,
Sydney, New South Wales,
MIIHWJzI.JM
SOLD
BY ALL
DRAPERS
pSBPq,
SHARPS
I
ĝ
TANDARD' NEEDLES.
■fe QU Sending
ft Pleasure to use
Mr. HENRY
IRVING writes
“ I find your
Razors excel-
lent
KROP
RAZOR
REAL GERMAN HOLLOW—GRODNO
From all Dealers,
or direct from the
English Depot, 51,
Frith Street, Soho
Square, London, W.
152
POSITIVELY CURBS all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by J. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
US
TESTIMONIALS
Like the following are constantly arriving
from all parts o/ the-wor.d and prove con-
clusively, the wonderful curative
Qualities possessed by Dr. Pierce's
Patent GALVANIC CHAIN
BELT. Bead the letters:
From Australia.
Mb. W. H. Pbice, of Wells Silver Mine,
Emmaville, N. S. W., writes as follows:
.“To W. H. Soul h (Jo., (Agents for Dr.
Pierce’s Belts and Trusses), 158 Pitt St.,
Sydney: Sirs;—l am in receipt of Belt
and books of instruction, and can safely
say that your advertisements are very truthfulin regard to
the statement that a man feels the electnca 1 strenglthiof
thebeltassoon as it is placed on his body, for I felt the effect
of the belt as soon as I placed it on, and believe me, I am
a sure advocate of this belt.”
From England. ,
Mr. Chas. Middleton, of No. 76 Aston St.,Birmingham,
speaks as follows: “I can say that I have felt better, a great
deal, since I have used your Galvanic Cham Belt, and I
thank you very much. I have taken patent medicines but
I shall not take any more. You can use my name in praise
of your Belt. From America.
Mr J. W.Pohlman, Tacoma, U. S. A., writes— Your No.
3 Galvanic Chain Belt has done what a whole drug store
could not do, for it has cured me ot Sciatic Rheumatism
and Weak Back, also, which came
ship’s hold some ten years ago. I fell 18 feet on my bade,
and although I got up as i f nothing had happened, the back
troubled me ever since until I tried your belt. For one year
now I have felt as I used to at 20.
Avoid all inferior imitations of Dr. Pierce s Belts
Call; or write tor free descriptive Pamphlet No. 2, and
please mention this paper when youaddress. M ■ H. I Sou l A Co.,
158 Pitt St.. Sydney! Elliott F.ros Bmsbanei oi tho
Magnetic Elastic Truss Co , San i eancisco, u . b. a.
LIFE.
This, the most splendid prose poem in the
English language, is a recent utterance of R. G.
Ingersoll, the greatest living American orator :
Horn of love and hope, of ecstasy and pain, of agony
and fear, of tears and joy—dowered with the wealth of
two united hearts—held in happy arms, with lips upon
life’s drifted font, blue-veined and fair, where perfect
peace (inds perfect form—rocked by willing feet and
wooed to shadowy shores of sleep by siren mother singing ,
soft and low—looking with wonder’s wide and startled
eyes at common things of life and day—taught by want
and wish and contact with the things that touch the
dimpled flesh of babes —lured by light and flame, and
charmed by colour’s wondrous robes —learning the use of
hands and feet, and by the love of mimicry beguiled to
utter speech—releasing prisoned thoughts from crabbed
and curious marks on soiled and tattered leaves—puzzling
the brain with crooked numbers and their changing, tan-
gled worth—and so through years of alternating day and
night, until the captive grows familiar with the chains
and walls and limitations of a I'fe.
And time runs on in sun and shade, until the one of all
the world is wooed and won, and all the lore of love is
taught and learned again. Again a home is built with
ihe fair chamber wherein faint dreams, like cool and
shadowy vales, divide the billowed hours of love. Again
the miracle of birth—lhe pain and joy, the kiss of wel-
come and the cradle song drowning the drowsy prattle of
a babe.
And (ben the sense of obligation and of wrong—pity
for those who toil and weep—tears for the imprisoned and
despised—love for the generous dead, and in the heart
the rapture of a high resolve.
And then ambition, with its lust of place and pelf and
power, longing to put upon its breast distinction’s worth-
less badge. Then keener thoughts of men, and eyes that
see behind the smiling mask of craft-flattered no more
by the obsequious cringe of gain and greed—knowing the
uselessness of hoarded gold—of honour bought from
those who charge the usury of self-respect—of power
that only bends a coward’s knees and forces from the lips
of fear the lies of praise. Knowing at last the unstudied
gesture of esteem, the reverent eyes made rich with
honest thought, and holding high above all other things— |
high as hope’s great throbbing star above the darkness of
the dead—the love of wife and child and friend.
Then looks of grey, and growing love of other days and
half-remembered things—then holding withered hands of
those who first held his, while over dim and loving eyes
death softly presses down the lids of rest.
And so, locking in marriage vows his children’s hands
and crossing others on the breasts of peace, with
daughters’ babes upon his knees, the white hair mingling
with the gold, he journeys on from day to day to that
horizon where the dusk is waiting for the night. At last,
sitting by the holy hearth of home as evening’s embers
change from red to grey, he falls asleep within the arms
of her he worshipped and adored, feeling upon his pallid j
lips love’s last and holiest kiss.
Nemesis —an old, old man and a young and
pretty wife.
“If Cleopatra were alive to-day the
length of her nose would have little to do in
determining her career. Noses, as other traits in
the present advanced state of surgery, are merely
determinate features. If a pug-nose does nob
harmonise with the other features or a pensive
disposition, it is easily changed by removing a
wedge-shaped piece between the nostrils. This is
done without pain by spraying the nose with
cocaine. If a Roman nose gives one the air of
being too dominant, the hump is removed by
making an incision, cutting the flesh away, and a
steel burr, run by an electric motor, easily grinds
down the hump. The skin, then trimmed to fib,
sewn, and properly bound, soon heals. Cocaine
again renders the operation a mere detail. In the
same manner large mouths are transformed into
dainty shapes by removing the surplus ab bhe
corners and sewing bhem up. The surgeon who
is bhe authority for bhese statements says bhab bhe
time will come when skin-grafting will be so easily
managed that another countenance may be ordered
like a new bonnet.” —Ex.
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “ Cannalin ” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
“It is often said that if the fears of hell-
fire were suddenly removed men would abandon
themselves without restraint to their propensitie 3
and appetites; recklessness and despair would
take possession of the human race, and society
would be dissolved. But I believe that the fears
of hell-fire have scarcely any power upon earth ab
all, and that when they do act upon the
human mind it is to make it pious, not to make it
good. Prevention of crime, it is well known, de-
pends not on the severity bub on the certainty of re-
tribution. Just as a criminal is often acquitted by
the jury because the penalties of the law are dis-
proportioned to the magnitude of the offence, so
the diabolic laws which inflict an eternal punish-
ment for transitory sins have been tempered by a
system of free pardons which deprive them of any
efficiency they might have once possessed. What
would be the use of laws against murder if the
condemned criminal could obtain his liberty by
apologising to the Queen ? Yet such is the
Christian system, which, though in one sense
beautiful on account of its mercy, is also immoral
on account of its indulgence,” (from Winwood
Reade’s “Martyrdom of Man.”). For instance,
the late Mrs. Knorr, baby-farmer, pub herself
right by apologising to God, the fear of hell-fire
having made her suddenly pious without making
her the least bit better than before.


Cadbury's
Pure I Economical I Refreshing !
“The Typical Cocoa of English
Manufacture—Absolutely Pure.”
—The Analyst .
“ The name Cadbury on any
packet of Cocoa is a guarantee of
purity.” — Medical Annual.
“We have examined the samples
brought under our notice and find
that they are genuine, and that the
Cocoa Essence is just what it is
declared to be by Cadbury Bros.”
— Lancet .
NO CHEMICALS USED
(As in many of the so-called Pure Foreign Cocoas).
I
(T
A
CAO*
o
*
h
m
&
Co
c
o
1
m*
i
%
I
D
: v
I
Nf
Vil^M
The Woman of the Future.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
O 1 The Woman of the Future ! Sound the
trumpets —beat the drums !
She has donned the coat and breeches and in
triumph on she comes ;
fthe has fixed her vengeful optic on the trem-
bling tyrant Man,
She has sworn to quit the bondage of the wash-
tub and the pan.
She has sworn to crush the despot and to pu l
his best cigar,
Sworn to spout from many a pulpit and to
practise at the bar ;
Sworn to clip her flowing ringlets, whether
auburn, black, or brow u,
Ami to raise upon her upper lip a tiny crop of
down.
She will come as comes a conqueror and she’ll
scorn to bill and coo,
And she’ll whistle for her darling when sl.c
comes to win and woo ;
And she’ll brave the boot cap icious of our own
irate papa,
And she’ll hug us in a frenzy when we bid her
“ Ask mamma !”
And she’ll leave us in the evening, saying,
“ Rock the cradle, John !
If you’re lonesome, darn some stockings, dear,
or sew some buttons on ;
Pray, be careful that you don’t disturb the
baby’s soft repose,
And you’ll find his feeding-bottle close beside
his little nose !”
Yea ! She’ll hold the land in awe from far
Beersheba unto Dan,
And she’ll take us to the opera and go out “ to
see a man
And with cursed cunning ogle (ah, ye husbands!
there’s the rub !)
Will she leer upon the barman when shecalleth
at the pub.
And she’ll chuck the handsome youths she
meets beneath the chubby chin,
Aud she’ll tell you with a hiccup, “ Sack and
sugar’s not a sin !”
And she’ll wander home at 2 p.m. aud tell her
trusting hub.,
“ We were slaying of the microbe at the Gay
Galooters’ Club.”
And the pride of Man shall dwindle and his
glory fade away,
Like the glory of the sunset in the train of
parting day ;
And a huge discarded petticoat shall be his
funeral-pall,
And a cackling Hen-Convention scream a paiau
at his fall.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Sydney Municipal Council issues about
7000 writs per annum for the recovery of rates.
At the inquest on the body of Martial
Bourdin, alleged Anarchist, who blow himself up
in Greenwich Park, the jury returned a verdict of
felo-de-se. That is a British juryman’s idea of
being nasty. But it would really have been much
more insulting to have brought in the customary
“temporary insanity.”
During the year ended Ist October, ’92,
clergy of the English State Church distinguished
themselves as follows : Convicted for drunken-
ness, 121 ; assault, 109 ; cruelty to animals, 11 ;
various other charges, 84 ; eloped with other men’s
wives, 17 ; cast in damages for breach of promise,
14 ; suicided, 12. God bless the Establishment!
Numurkah (Vic.) Standard is as good as
a natural history. A delighted subscriber sends
Thk Bulletin a copy, dated Feb. 13. which con-
tains a column leader on poultry-fancying, and
a half-column sub. on the dog-market, while
another half-column is taken up with a panegyric
on a dead cat who was “ the heaviest, largest,
most intelligent, and most peaceful proper-
mannered cat that ever looked into a fish-tin.”
This editor should be keeper of a Zoo—or
resident.
Heine in Paris, July, 1842 : —“A weary>
sleepy, yawning state of peace. All is still as a
night of deep snow in midwinter. Only a light,
monotonous fall as of drops. That is Interest
(Zin/.e) which keeps trickling into Capital; you
can really bear how they grow, these riches of the
rich. Between whiles, the light sobs of poverty.
Sometimes, too, there is a sound as though a knife
was being sharpened.”
This is the confused story of a youth, now
in serious trouble. The story is so much confused
that it is difficult to tell where the moral comes
in, so the bald facts are laid down, and each
person can find his own moral. He was the
enthusiastic secretary of a suburban teetotal
society in an Australian capital, and being
taken unusually bad with the divine afflatus
he decided that he was a “ Numble In-
strument ” selected by Providence to lecture
on the drink curse. Accordingly he hired
the local town hall, and persuaded a well-
known light to promise his services as chair-
man. Also, a respected clergyman and other
celebrities undertook to be present on the plat-
form, and a brass band was engaged. But when
the night arrived the young man was missing and
there was no lecture. The miserable youth’s
courage had failed him at the last moment and he
fled in a bad attack of stage-fright, and left the
brass band in the lurch. Next day he was
arrested on a charge of obtaining tan boots by
means of a valueless cheque. So far as can be
judged by the evidence, the intentions of the un-
happy youth were perfectly honourable, but he
fell a victim to an over-sanguine temperament.
Being convinced that the day after the meeting he
would be able to open a large banking account
with the collection-money, he bought great quan-
tities of tan boots in different shops and gave
post-dated cheques in payment; and when he
funked there was no meeting and no collection,
and the cheques were all n.s.f. This shows, for
one thing, that the tan-boot curse is about as
undermining as the drink curse.
Justice in the Punjaub (British India) is
administered in a curious fashion. The occupants
of the gaols are mostly old men—very old men as
a rule, and utterly past work. When a crime is
committed and there is strong evidence against
some man or woman who is still of working age,
the accused’s oldest and most helpless relative
always comes forward and pleads guilty, and all
the rest of the family and the neighbours give
corroborative evidence. The idea of letting a
bread-winner go to gaol while there is a bedridden
grandfather who can go there instead and be fed
at Government expense is such obvious waste that
the Punjaubi never dreams of allowing it. A few
years ago a young woman was charged, on good
evidence, with infanticide, but a venerable harri-
dan belonging to the family promptly assumed
the whole responsibility of the infant, and her
confession was backed up by such a mass of evi-
dence that the Court lost its head and sent her up
for the rest of her life. And on another occasion
when a sturdy native was nearly convicted of
murder and robbery, his‘grandfather, who was
paralysed in both arms, was assisted into Court
and solemnly pleaded guilty. This time the law
objected, but half the neighbourhood swore to
having seen him commit the crime, and it was
universally attested that the old man had
recovered the use of his arms for an hour or two
and had perpetrated the murder in the interval,
so there was nothing for it hut to send him to
gaol-with the rest of the cripples.
A paragraph re Maud Hobson, who plays
the name part in “A Gaiety Girl,” has gone the
rounds unoritioised. It is to the effect that Maud
received a choice variety of Xmas boxes, including
i i r i i i a. •
a necklace of absurd value, two or three carriages,
sundry horses with fodder attached, and a couple
of men servants. This latter item sets one think-
ing. The British flunkey is largely a creature of
circumstances, who often consents to be trans-
ferred along with the fittings and other furniture
from one employer to another. But the
nght of Jeames to give a month s warning
to the temporary possessor of his padded
calves and immortal soul is generally ac-
cepted as a portion of the British coustitu-
tinn The camins of London rnav nnf their
lion. me gamins or London may put their
tongues out at the plush-clad menial and call him
by many contemptuous epithets, but, thus far, no
boy has twitted Jeames with being a Xmas-box.
In short, The Bulletin wants to know more
about the pair of men-servants who were made
over to Maud Hobson by deed of gift. Were their
salaries paid up to the day of their demise, and
are they under contract to hang on to the lady’s
fortunes, come what may ? Also, can Maud, for
her part, give them to a johnnie without consult-
ing the original purchaser, and could they be sold
by auction in the event of Maud’s establishment
being broken up? Are they two special atten-
dants on whota Maud had previously oast her
virgin eye, or did they enter as strangers at
her gates and briefly announce themselves as
seasonable offerings ? Had they previously decided
the vital question of whose place it was to fill the
coal-scuttle ’ What would barmen to them if
coalscuttle. yvnat would happen to them it
‘Sisrtsi
blanky coal-scuttle herself? These are but a few
of the conundrums which never suggest themselves
to the sub-editor as he clips the monotonous para-
droftoTe P =tr ry an '
P. ’ , .
Little differences of opinion like those
expressed re the inspiration of the Bible, at the
recent meeting of the Presbyterian Assembly in
Sydney, play the deuce with the waverers. The
Moderator asserts that the Bible cannot be wholly
inspired, the Rev. Dill Maoky says that if the
Bible be not verbally inspired it is valueless as a
guide to faith or practice. It used tube the Word of
God—now part of it is the Word—but which part ?
Missing word competition for parsons only.
Your true believer is the great doubter, but he
seldom has the courage of his unconvietions.
Revolution—Reform resisted too long and
yielded too late.
Estimated 1894 sugar crops—Queensland
103,500 tons ; N.S.W., 17,500 ; Fiji, 25,000. By
the time the projected beet industry is firmly
established in N.S.W. and Victoria there will be
no Australian market left. Then beet and cane
can compete for export trade, and we shall see
which is fitter to survive. But beet isn’t ready
yet, by a long, long way, in spite of Melb. experi-
ments.
Touching epitaph over the dust of a local
celebrity’s third wife in a Maoriland West Coast
cemetery :
Remember thee! Ay, while memory holds a seat in
this distracted globe. Here lies Mary Ann Emily
daughter of George , of , the honoured
wife of S. F. , of Ibis town. A woman of infinite
tenderness and generous impulses, whose ear was ever
open to a tale of distress, and whose purse was always
ready to alleviate it. A woman who, in life, had the
privilege of meeting on level ground (he good and
reverend man who lies south from this when each were
about their several works of mercy. A woman who was
a pattern wife as surely her husband's word was law, and
she made him her god. A woman who, given fair oppor-
tunities in youth and lively sympathy of the sex in
middle life, might have attained a ripe old age. A
woman, in short, who, for large-heartedness, unselfishness
and integrity and piety, as few could compare. This work
poor tribute of respect placed here in loving memory by
the man to whom this woman gave all her wealth of love
is a lasting reproach to those who failed in their duty
when, sick unto death for 17 months, she laye a-thinking
a-thinking, a-thinking. Aye, countrymen, if when you
make your prayers, God should be so obdurate as your-
selves, how would it fare with your departed souls?
Tliis inscription winds up with eight verses of
a hymn, and has a large magnifying-glass fixed
in front of it for the convenience of readers, and
the magnate’s fourth wife comes along and looks
at it occasionally. On an adjacent tombstone a
rival personage goes one better with this brief
memento :
She was—ah! what was she?
What a wife should be that was she 1
Hordern Brothers, 203-11 Pitt-street (only),
Autumn season, 1894. The Autumn season has
now set in, and, our novelties for the season being
all opened out, we are prepared to give our
numerous customers even greater satisfaction with
our new goods than we have ever given. Our
goods for the Autumn season having been person-
ally selected by our home buyer, Mr. E. Carr
Hordern, in the best Home and Continental
markets, is a certain guarantee of their extra good
quality and economic price. Write tons at once
for a copy of our Fashion Book of Costumes, for
Autumn season, 1894. As we give all Country
Orders our personal attention, our country friends
are assured that their orders will go out the same
day we receive their letters. Parcels of Drapery
sent to any part of the colony, free! free ! ! free!!!
Address your orders to Hordern Brothers, 203 11
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*
THE WORLD’S PHILOSOPHY.
Remember that gold and brass bear rule ;
Deem each man a knave or a fool;
If thou dost not cheat him, then he will cheat
thee—
This is the world’s philosophy.
JOG.


“Men I Have Smiled With.”
M 1
r E STAY at JO rutoix’a,
MHna'inoo
TEE LANGHAM HOTEL,
CHAS. PRINCE, PROPRIETOR.
Wynyard Square, Corner of York-street, Sydney.
Best Brands of Wines, Spirits, Liqueurs, Cigars, &o.
First-class Accommodation for Visitors.
68. per DAY. TERMS: 30s. per WEEK
[F you VISIT Brisbane, don
forget to Smile and stop with
crmyniMiy
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL" is
Waterside Paradise.
mount victoria
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt,
Victoria. Reasonable terms ; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, lA Hunter Street.
G. H. COOPER, Proprietor.
MOSS VALE.
GOOORIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
QUIRINDI.
O’HALLORAN’S TERMINUS HOTEL
Is Tip - Top.
ARMCDALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
Mrs. P. iTlTacle’s
TATTERS ALL’S HOTEL.
The Traveller’s HOME in Nevfr England.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club
and Houses of Parliament.
Sennsssfs Queen’s Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
JoMeettbe Times, the Prices in this POPULAR
bANATORITJM have been Reduced to 42/-per
Week. FREE use of Buggies and Billiards,
very Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meets
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
E. EVERINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CLUB HOTEL,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL ir
to;n nS p nd Brisbane. Buggy meets every
. n ‘ Pnvate Suites. George A. Godsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
“te“ t p Ves » e t p ’ ! Hotel at Lawrence, fo.
H ickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
IMPORTANT MEDICAL NOTICE.
Dr. CLINTON, M.D., E.R.O.S.
c »ncei' h ind i rnna, Spe0 i i - al Hos P itals for Diseases of Women,
from 12 to dTK 0 ’ ma y be CONSULTED DAILY
VnJL* ri r Street (opp. Tram), or
has for years m P Jn Counoi l Chambers). Dr. CLINTON
diseases and v. ad f a s P e °ial study of the abovenamed
Special Hoard tail a , wide experience in the chief
Europe and AmpHr^ eVOt it 5° tbeir treatment, both in
'ug specialists of tho’ and ho ds certificates from the lead-
dualists of the present day.
y an . , DISEASES OF WOMEN,
hr. Clinton' t 0 thia /important Specialty enables
treatment has nrn«3 e s ° un de3t and best advice, and his
°f cases. P ' ed eminently satisfactory in hundreds,
Asiious?S EASBS of ™ E chest. x ;
Special Hosnitik o^ 11 n° r two y . ears to one of the largest
le adingSp eo ; al | t £ . or Consumption, and as Assistant to
ployed unusual 6 f="nv r il i and Paria . Ur. CLINTON has
diseases. abilities for studying these particular
Th CANCER.
Guaranteed and £atesii scientific treatment is
t'sease are’ ? se offering from this dreaded
Probably had a co /} sult Ur- CLINTON, who has
than most medicafine^ a ° tlCal experience in thia disease
Those des- NERYOTJ S DISEASES,
physician of Uihtvvl C °> nSUlting a re H a lile registered
1° ho so either ™LIT Practical experience are invited
JL strictest con-
... . As Hn Zc L or W tetter, in str
benna Special ul burgeon to the London,
NessorffiJfc alls ’ and as Clinical As
had an unique^xperienoe.'' 11 S6qUard ’ CLI
derate Fe« ?° NSULTATIQNS -
6x Perienoe) inching aWe adVi ° e 1
triable to « COUNTRY PATIENTS
by lefcuj’ °“" 8U l li Dr - CLINTON are
"ill l*m fuliy into detai
d deotionsfortreatm P e r- fU - y .°° nsidere d> and 1
week, will be fn.-i J'L sufficient m
Jeeipt of ONF omvrc? P ost tree, securely
E ht.- patientB
■ a " d hundreds of Testimonia
7n I'" CLINTOn M.D., F.IU
Street, Sydney, and Str
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition--No. 12.
An 7 purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
onl y one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
rec ®ived to Saturday, 31st
March, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange. \
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
The Bulletin's Missing Word Competition Coupon. —Ho. 12.
x X
Cut this out, fill in the missing word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to manager, “Bulletin ” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, March 31st, 1891.
Great Britain is at last waking up to the fact that the wild-eyed Anarchist
is an eminently resident, and steps are being taken to shift him.
When he is shifted, Australia will be almost the only place in the world
where he can manufacture his bomb in peace.
Name __ *
Address
Missing Word
The person who fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will he divided pro rata amongst such competitors .
No replies will he admitted except contained on this coupon.
N.B. Every precaution has been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy of the reputation of the paper.
** Bulletin ” Series, UXTo. X.
IN THE PRESS, AND SHORTLY TO BE PUBLISHED,
-OF-
“A Golden Shanty 77 :
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
Bulletin” Series, KTo. 3,
99
The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERKEST FAVENC.
mth Prefatory Note by Molf Boldreivood.
Opinions of tine Press ;
f“ TS *** -- * a.
wrbel bas BWen the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness tlnn EVnoaf tjv ,
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this liuinni whi!) 1 avenc, and the secret of this is that
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be loofU TnVS ■ posse ® sed b y scarcely any other writer,
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain.”— Sydney Matt, -Tidy 8, 1893 ’ ° stolies under notice he has given us some of
They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from i ,, r , ~ .
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkablf power of^LcMeMs^mh^ 61 ?’ Btriki “ g piotures
when human hearts are stored by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the mindsTfTonelv men ‘nw V l . wild places
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hamis i°nejy men. Ihe Last of Six’ is a terrible
thrilling interest. ‘ The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider his Imßatofs to Mr ‘ Favenc makes of
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr h 18 ltself relicv ed from the
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘Spirit Led,’ which the great American miShaJwtoS‘ A % «i clies Poe - This
J$ ;^ e M3 a Co “ 6Ct, °* l tl,at st “ >uld w,de ‘J' Mad - “4 « » -»% addition to lpS“ Aus
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the vho’hns a rare wllecWon of e I °°i * Thi ? 13 a collection of short but
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to thisAblw lore ' All the stories here arc good
Bulletin series of Australian reminiscences. ’’-Austkalian Stae? Julyls, 1893 h collection. The present issue forms the third of The
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.


JSOL I T O 3E3C 33 L
—CELEBRATED—
Insect Destroying Powder
—KILLS—
Fleas, Flies, Fugs, Mosquitoes, Cockroaches,
Etc. Harmless to Animals or Birds.
Manufacturer—R. T. BELLEMEY, Chemist.
151 King Street, SYDNEY (late Rigney’s).
Tins, I/-; Boxes, IP. On receipt of stamps will be
forwarded post free at 1/2 and 1/9.
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
—THAT—
JAMES STEDMAN
IS THE
Sole Manufacturer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
7
j s.
tRADEMA
“LION"
BRAND
Co nfe ctio fiery •
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
fJIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM-
PRICE—ONE SHILLING.
The IKPERIAL HOTEL,
WYKTYARD SQUARE, SYDKTEY
(Established over Thirty Years).
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tarifflos. Gd. per Day, Walter Sidney, Manager.
G BOS YE YOB HOTE L,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. Sd, per Day.
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OF THE SEPARATE TARIFF.
SINGLE LOOM, 4s. - DOUBLE BOOM, Bs.
‘Tales of the System.’
Price: One SMlling; per Post, Is. 3d.
[_OST POWER BEGUM
Varicocele
Cured.
AJID HEALTH RESTORED.
sar NO STOMACH DEU&SINS.
Send six Stamps for illustrated treatise on Urethral
Treatment. Every Weak. Nervous and Debili-
tated Man should read it. DJ?. GEO. WALSH
131 Collins Street, Melbourne.
EPPS’S
GRATEFUL—COMPORTING
COCOA
“THE LAST OE SIX:”
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
Price,’ One Shilling—Posted to any Australasian
address, Is. 3d.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS,
SOLD in PARIS by
j. PERRB
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
N.S.W. FRESH POOD amd ICE COMPANY (Limited)
-FOR-
Ixx One Found. or Half-pound, Fats.
The CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Australasia. Brane “GOLDEN SPAR.
The Awards at the Royal Agricultural Show yesterday (21st March) :
BUTTEE (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.) —First Prise for ONE CASE, not less than 50lb. weight, for
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.—First Prize for CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption.
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products is the excellent quality of the butter.” I
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. . H ' PATESON » Manager^
AUTUMN, ’94.
Now comes “the winter of our discontent,
made glorious summer ” by the untiring efforts of
vour affable and indefatigable servant, FOY.
Now an unfolding in ail the glorious tints of
Autumn
Moreas
Hopsacks
Cheviot Serges
Autumn Tweeds
Undine Cloth
Epingles
Bengalines
Whipcords
Redolent in all that is beautiful, becoming and
bewitching, sensitive to the touch and pleasing the
wearer, and all of which, will bear our symbol of
excellent good value.
AT —
MARK FOY’S,
a-, ' - • • ../• ■■" ' .
Oxford Street, Sydney.
The EMPIRE HOTEL,
Corner of Pitt & Hunter Streets , Sydney*
In the Bottle Store all the Leading Brands of WINES and SPIRITS may be had by Case, Bottle, or Gallon,
at WHOLESALE PRICES.
33c?ard a,n.c3. Hesidsn.ee Moderate Oliarg© 3 .
Every Modern Convenience, including Electric Light, etc. WmEjiM
Special Arrangements made for Private Families and Permanent Poardeit
V" .. y
1
■
Ssg
1
I
r
‘
INCLUSIVE or SEP AH ATE TAB IFF, AS T)ES Tl! ED-
Luncheon, d la Carte, from 12.45 to 2 p.m.
Dinner, Table D’Hote, „ 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., 3s. , yg re ly up
SS" Special attention is given to the Culinary Department, and Visitors may
getting a First-class Meal.
J. CURTIN, Proprietor.
‘THE LAST OF SIX
J
