

CADBURY'S COCOA
ABSOLUTELY PURE THEREFORE BEST.
4
V
Parsons 9 Flaked Oatmeal
R. G. WATKINS *SC CO.,
107 Kent Street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Ttfiniwg- and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. '
df
FRY’S MALTED COCOA.
Guaranteed PURE COCOA and EXTRACT of MALT.
A
ZXD
m
T,
4>
4* o s>
o
<RAc^asocK>
o
r> O Cj>
S? 5 't.
V
o
lit. A, Hcnc), Agent,, I’lll-Kt , Sydney.
W. H. SIMPSON & SON,
€6 VX.D -U L. JErt £>
To His Excellency Sir R. W. Duff, the Earl of Jersey,
Lord Carington, etc., •
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Importers and Manufacturers of every description of
SADDLERY, harness,
TRAVELLING and HAND DAGS, etc.
A Single A tide Sold at Wholesale Price.
Elf” Orders of £3 value delivered Free of Carriage to any
Railway Station or Port.
1-
0*
rH£
-
a
The Oxford. Hotel, Eixig Street, Sydney
H. THORPE
Propkiktok.
Bv Appointment to His Excellency Sir Robert
Duff, K.C.M.G.
'—THE—
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD & ICE GO.
<LIMITED)
FOR
The Purest Country.
Double or Single.
The Clearest Crystal.
“Golden Star” Creamery, Regd.
Colonial, English, N.Z., American.
The Choicest Sorts.
From the famed Farms of the Colony
The most Exquisite.
The Carts of the Company DELIVER TWICE
DAILY to all parts of the CITY and SUBURBS.
The splendid railway facilities offered by the Railway
Commissioners enable us to FORWARD DAILY to all
parts of the Colony;—
XVHX.K, ICE, BUTTER,
FISH, GAME,
Poultry, Pastry, etc.
H. PATE SO.V,
Sydney, Ist July, 1893. Manager.
Milk ...
CREAM ..
ICE
BITTER
FISH
GAME
POULTRY
PASTRY, Ac. ..
7TcU//wJ
J.
Sole
C.
Agents ixx 3XTSoutll
HOWARD.
Wales for Messrs. Clayton <a,x>.ci. Slmttleworth.
, -THE-
—THE—
Oldest Plough-makers
In the World.
THE BUILDERS
OF THE
First Iron Plough in the World.
We have a reputation for Plough-
waking all over the world, coupled
with a vast
COLONIAL EXPERIENCE,
which is not to be equalled by any
°f the younger and less experienced
firms.
cWSSoS STee Knee: plough
■ntmm
Howard Digging Plough.
The most perfect Cultivator
yet made.
To be had in 1,1 descriptions.
ALL CLASSES
—OF—
Agricultural Implements
and MACHINERY,
Write us for full catalogues and
prices, which we shall post free on
application.
Call and inspect our new and
recently largely-extended SHOW-
ROOMS.
J. & C. Howard, 280 & 2SOJ Pitt Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN
Vol 14— No. 740. J
Saturday, Aprii 21, 1894
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newsnaner.


Medical.
—for—
Winter Coughs and Bronchia
BOMNINGtON’S
22=* IRISH MOSS
WILL CURB
Any kind of a Cough or Cold (recent or chronic),
Influenza, Loss of Voice, Sore Lungs, Asthma,
Hoarseness, Tickling of the Throat, Bronchitis,
Incipient Consumption, and all other similar
complaints.
It is guaranteed to give satisfaction.
It is endorsed by Vocalists and Public Speakers.
It clears the Throat, removes all huskiness and
causes that lead to Loss of Voice.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Wholesale : 179 Harris Street, Sydney.
r ATKINSON’S^
WHITE ROSE
Fragrant and delicate, its sweetness is
delightful. Use none but Atkinson’s,
the original and only true Essence.
ATKINSON’S
OPOPAHAX
WOOD VIOLET
HELIOTROPE
TREVOL
and other well known Perfumes are
superior to all others for their
strength and natural fragrance-
Of all Dealers.
J. & E. ATKINSON,
I, Old Bond Street, London.
CAUTION ! —Only genuine with shield-
shape blue and yeflowlabe! and usu-
Trade Mark—a“ White Rose ' A
and address in full.
Deafness Completely Cured!' Any person
suffering from Deafness, Noises in the Head, &c., may
learn of a new, simple treatment, which is proving very
successful in completely curing cases of all kinds. Full
particulars, including many unsolicited testimonials and
newspaper press notices, be sent post free on appli-
cation. The system is, without doubt, the most success-
befo £ e .. t . h . e ! ,,,blic - Address, AURAL
SPECIALIST Albany Buildings, 39 Victoria Street, West-
minster, London, S.W.
A WONDERFUL MEDICINE.
Beecham’s Pills
PATENT
PILLS.
Are universally admitted
to be worth a Guinea
a Box for bilious
and nervous disorders,
such as wind and pain in
the stomach, sick head-
ache, giddiness, fulness
and swelling after meals,
dizziness, and drowsiness,
cold chills, flushings of
heat, loss of appetite,
shortness of breath, cos-
tiveness, scurvy, blotches
on the skin, disturbed
sleep, frightful dreams,
and all nervous and trem-
bling sensations, &o. The
first dose will give relief
in twenty minutes. Every
£™r er JV earneS n y u invi , ted t 0 try one box of these
FUw, and they will be acknowledged to be
Worth a Guinea a Box.
For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable!
“ a few doses of them carry off all humors, and
bring about all that is required. No female should
be without them. There is no medicine to be found
equal to BEECHAM’S PILLS for removing any
obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken ac-
cording to the directions given with each box they will
soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust
health. This has been proved by thousands who have
tried them, and found the benefits which are ensured by
their use
Btomach, impaired digestion and all disorders
Of the liver, they act like “ MAGIC,” and a few doses will
be found to work wonders upon the most important
orgsjis in the human machine. They strengthen the
whole muscular system, restore the long-lost complexion,
being back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into ao-
800 with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical
energy of the human frame. These are “ FACTS ” testified
continually by members of all classes of society; and
one of the best guarantees to the nervous and debilitated
is, Beecham’s Pills have the largest sale of any patent
medicine in the world,
Beecham’s Magic Cough Pills.
As a remedy for Coughs in general, Asthma, Bronchial
Affections, Hoarseness, Shortness of Breath, Tightness
and Oppression of the Chest, Wheezing, &c., these Pills
itand unrivalled. They are the best ever offered to the
public and will speedily remove that sense of oppression
and difficulty of breathing which nightly deprive the
patient of rest. Let any person give Bbkcham’s Cough
Pills a trial and the most violent Cough will in a
short time be removed.
Prepared only, and sold Wholesale and Retail, by the
Proprietor, Thomas Beeoham, St. Helens, Lancashire,
England, in boxes Is. IJd. (containing 56 pills), and at
ts. 9d. (treble quantity).
Sold by all Druggists and Patent Medicine Dealers
»very where.
N.B.—Full directions are given with each box. 4
A BLESSING IN EVERY FAMILY.
HOLLOWAY’S PILLS AND OINTMENT.
There is not a country in the civilised world where
the healing virtues of thes a> grand medicines have not been
recognised by thousands of sufferers. In all the ordinary
ailments of humanity their beneficent action is at once
recognised. Fullest directions are supplied for their use
in every disease. IF YOU SUFFER, TRY THEM. Manu-
factured only at 78 New Oxford-st., London. Pur-
chasers should look to the Label on the Boxes and Pots.
If the address is not 623 Oxford-street, London, they are
Suurious
m
m
&
4
¥.
N
1
Si
C&
WOULONT lUKC TO Bt IN If
M ANTJFACTURED BY THE i
NEW YORK & BROOKLYN TOBACCO CO.,
Cleveland Street, SYDINTEY.
Medical.
The First Step
FOR
NERVOUS MEN
tB- APPLY FOR
Hr. PERRY’S BOOK.
POSTED TREE BY
Dr. M. PSRSY,
145 Elxzabeth-St., SYDNEY.
Dr. RIDGE’S
FOOD
for INFANTS AM) INVALIDS
‘ This is the MOST PERFECT FOOD
we have examined.”— Chas. H. Piesse,
M.R.C.S., F.C.S., &c. Wm. Johnstone
Ph.D., F.C.S., &c,. Public Analysts.
DR. RIDGE’S ROYAL FOOD MILLS
LONDON, ENGLAND.
MANHOOD,
HEALTH, STRENGTH AND RIGOR RESTOREt
In Four Weeks by the use of
D ' RICORD's
£•
The only Infallible Remedy for DEBILITY.
Used for a quarter of a century with unparalleled
and unprecedented success throughout the world.
Dr. Ricord s Essence of Life restores Health and
Strength to the most shattered and debilitated constitutions,
regenerating all the important elements of the Miman frame.
In cases of ISs, or four quantities in one for 30s. Freight
extra. Pamphlets free on receipt of stamped addressed
envelope
Agents for Australasia—Perry A Co., 73 Gertrude-
Street, Fitzroy, MELBOURNE.
AgentsforN. S. Wales—W, H. Soul &Co., Pitt-st., Sydney
DOWS
EMBROCATION.
lu/0
~rvr*
Uh
uas
m
fSI
ikSOLO
aEVERYWHEREv
* *;>
$
Medical.
V
4*
d
IF SO,
DON’T MISS THIS.
What everyone says is bound to be true, and young and
old, rich and poor, physicians who recommend, and
patients who try
THE KRUPP GALVANIC BELT,
All agree in praising that most scientific of Electro
Therapeutical Appliances. For Rheumatism it is un-
rivalled. Lumbago at once succumbs to its power. The
Nervous are strengthened and the Debilitated restored to
perfect health and vigour. In short, the appliance is an
unfailing cure for all Nervous, Sexual, or Chronic Diseases,
and is
Guaranteed to Absolutely Cure
completely and lastingly, the following complaints:—
Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Pains in the Back and Chest,
Lumbago, Catarrh, Rheumutimn, Dumb Ague,
Nervousness, Debility, Paralysis, Kidney Com-
plaint, Spinal Disease, Female Weakness, Diseases
of the Liver, Diabetes, Sciatica, Atrophy, Gout. In-
digestion, Akhma, Piles, Epilepsy Spermatorrhoea,
Specks before the Eyes, Excessive Heart Palpitation,
Defective Memory.
An Unfailing Cure for Varicocele.
It is a PORTABLE BODY BATTERY, and contains
special appliances for both sexes ; therefore, why waste
your money and health by procuring and taking USE-
LESS DRUGS? Electricity, when properly applied, is
acknowledged by all leading and unprejudiced physicians
to be the only safe and radical cure for Nervous and
Sexual Diseases, and the thousands of testimonials re-
ceived by the Krupp Belt Co. from leading personages
throughout Australasia prove the unquestionable curative
properties of Electricity as applied by the appliance above
referred to. Our confidence in this appliance is so
complete, that
We Send the Belt Out on Trial,
and guarantee to give perfect satisfaction. For full par-
ticulars as to terms, &c., send for our large illustrated
treatise, FREE, in which these Belts are fully illustrated,
the action of Electricity on the nervous system explained,
and a lot of useful information on nervous and sexual
diseases given. This treatise also contains facsimile of
testimonials received from some of our clients who have
tried our Belts. The originals of these testimonials pro-
duced on application.
l-if" The prices of the Krupp Galvanic Chain Belt and
Suspensory are from £l. j
Sole Inventor ... Carl Krupp.
Business Manager . . A. W. Courtnby.
Address all communications to the
KRUPP GALVANIC CHAIN BELT CO.,
BOX 647, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Remember—The K.G. Chain Belt is easy to wear, is
ent on approval, and the first cost is the only cost.
Free Prescriptions
Are to be found in the “Light and Life.’
for the Speedy Cure of DEBILITY and Kindred
Diseases, &c. A copy of this book will be seat
Free, sealed, for Six Penny Stamps.
Address —
S. WARD Sc CO., SYDNEY PHARMACY,
76 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
“ The Last of Six.”
PRICE—Ia.; Per POST, Is. 3d
“THE BULLETIN.”
(Published at Sydney, N.S.W.)
The Unique Weekly-Australia’s Nonpareil
Illustrated Newspaper.
Tlae Bulletin,”
Premier Australian Literary Journal,
the only paper which has a consistent and dis-
tinctive Australian National Policy.
-Thk Bulletin* favours—
A RepuWican Form of Government.
One Person, one Vote.
COm Fducalfon lariSationand Freedorn of stafce
Ref< Syatem the Criminal Code and Prison
h, e* WorlJj S^rada and Protection against
Australia for the Australians.-The cheap
;r*! na “ an ’ the cheap nigger, and the
excluded UrOPean pauper fc ° be absolutely
A State Bank, the issue of bank-notes to be a
monopoly.
Ihedu-eot election of Ministers by Parlia-
ment, instead of Party Government or
A „!!,p r I V over nment by Contradiction.
Anew Parhamentary System-one House to
oe elected by constituencies as at present;
he other to be chosen by the whole
* country yotrng as one Constituency.
Inmvranc ystem Compulsory Life
The entire Abolition of the Private Owner-
mu S iV p of Land-
-1 he Referendum.
The Abolition of Titles of so-called “ nobility. ’
Th ? publ j c ®y e rejects as uninteresting more
, as \ a 0 w hat appears in the newspapers of
eday. It i S only the remainder that is found
in The Bulletin.
The Bulletin is an aggressive Democratic
paper which strives to exclude from its artisti-
cally-condensed columns all matter that is not
ol general human interest. The Bulletin was
started 13 years ago with no capital but brains,
and nas become the representative Australian
journal, because it possesses a vitality lacked
y the countless news paper-ventures in which
Australian capitalists have unavailingly spent
large fortunes.
The Bulletin’s ■ conductors claim that every
progressive paper on the Australian continent has
more or less endeavoured to profit by its example
I j s ., ]lnes - Tbe result of its powerful
influence and its unprecedented literary and com-
mercial success can at once be seen by comparing
the methods pursued by the Australian daily and
weekly press prior to and immediately after th
first issue of The Bulletin.
Prom the date of The Bulletin’s inaugural
publication its success was assured. It had at
once a dozen more or less servile imitators, many
of which even took, so far as was possible, its
name. 1 hey are now all dead, while The Bul-
letin continues the one phenomenal success in
Australian journalism, the one completely non-
local and distinctly universal Australasian news-
paper.
The Bulletin proprietary have spent some
thousands of pounds in fitting their buildings
L .i e appliances for high-class printing
and the production of illustrations, and they have
now issued The Bulletin in an entirely new
u-rT Panted with new type of improved legi-
i . ° n r the ? ne , sfc P a P er > an d adorned with
sketches from the hands of the ablest and best-
paid newspaper artists Australia has ever seen.
The Bulletin is the only well-established Aus-
trahan journal which, throughout its career, has
been consistently Radical. It points with pride
to the fact that for years it stood alone among
secular newspapers in advocating the Irish
National Cause, and that it was the only Aus-
tralian journal which denounced the Soudan
Expedition from its inception,
The Bulletin is the beacon-fire of national
progress: it is the forceful summons to the
crusade against the monopolies in land, wealth
power, and privilege—the direct cause of half the
misery tfhich now afflicts British humanity.
Against the claims of avaricious clergy who claim
to monopolise salvation, against the dark despotism
of grasping plutocrats, and against the exercise of
any human authority which has not been granted
by the people aver whom it is exercised. The
Bulletin will fearlessly and ruthlessly contend.
The Bulletin, unlike the ordinary weekly
journal, is not loaded with a weight of matter
transferred from the columns of a daily paper
issued from the same office. The Bulletin is
not connected with any other paper, and the
matter it contains is all specially prepared by its
own unequalled staff.
The Bulletin is the journal which, of all Aus-
tralian journals, is most frequently quoted in Eng-
land, America, and the colonies.
The Bulletin, which is the only paper sold
by runners in the streets of every Australasian
capital, is the most widely-circulated of all papers
published south of the equator, and is the only
Australasian publication which enjoys a popu-
larity unhampered by the political boundaries
that so closely restrict other journals to .the
colonies in which they are printed.
The Bulletin’s red cover is equally familiar
to the bushman of the Far North, the stockman
of Central Australia, the pearl-sheller of Torres
Straits, and the digger in the Maoriland
Ranges. A paper which is at once the most’
popular city publication and .the organ of the
intelligent bushman must indeed be broadly based.
Perhaps the strongest proof of The Bulletin’s
popularity is found in the unchallengeable fact—
easily ascertainable from any postal official—that,
of all journals issued in Australasia, The Bul-
letin is the one most frequently remailed from
one reader to another.
The Bulletin is going ahead faster than any
other paper, because its vast mass of original and
specially-written reading matter is the brightest
and best, its illustrations the cleverest and most
artistic, and its policy the boldest and most
straightforward 'ever submitted to the Australian
public.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
Subscription (payable strictly in advance), Six
Shillings and Sixpence per Quarter, or One Pound
per Annum.
Business communications to be addressed to
William Macleod, Managing Director, to whom
all remittances are payable. Editorial communi.
ations to be addressed to J. F. Archibald.


Medical.
H
SYDNEY.
112 PHILLIP SI
T.ccall v Qualified and Registered by the Medical
g Board of Ne v South Wales.
Professor of Electro-Medicine & Therapeutics,
SPECI fILIST,
Prizeman of his College in Obstetrics, Forensic Medicine
and Toxicology ; Honours in Anatomy, Physiology, His-
toion-y. Practical Chemistry, Botany and Medicine;
Author of “ bectures on the Microscope,” and Treatises
on “Consumption,” “ Extra -uterine Gestation,” and
various specific subjects. Formerly Medical Officer of
Health (London Port Sanitary Authority), Public Vac-
cinator (English G ivernment). Railway Medical Officer,
Surgeon to the Police and Hospital Physician.
This eminent Specialist (whose experience of 23
Years’ continuous practice enables him to Guarantee
the Cure of every accepted case, or forfeit his fees) has
now completed the revision of his popular work on
“NERVOUS 4. SKIN COMPLAINTS,”
and the last edition will be forwarded immediately
on application to the Author, on receipt of Is.
(to cover postage). This book is replete with use-
ful hints to sufferers; and, whether for yourself
or your friends, you should not fail to send for a
copy for the valuable information it contains,
and for its Prescriptions and Illustrations.
To avoid superfluous correspondence, intending
patients should be careful to describe all symp-
toms in the first letter. To enable them to do
this I append a few questions Do you experience
Giddiness, Weak Back, Palpitation of the Heart,
Flushes of Heat, Dryness of the Skin, Pale,
Sallow Complexion, Restlessness at Night, a
Despair of Recovery, Anxiety without Cause, Fear
of Death, Tendency to Suicide, Lack of Mental
Capacity, Sluggish Li ver,lndigestion, Heavy Feel-
ing after Meals, Piles, Pains in the Chest, Cold
Shudders, Loss of Memory, Bad Taste in the
Mouth, Foul Breath, Coated Tongue, Hacking
Cough, Expectoration, Sleepiness during the Day,
Pains in the Back, Specks before the Eyes, Weak
or Bloodshot Eyes, Oozing of Yellow Saliva from
the Mouth during Sleep, Violent Temper, Loss of
Ambition, Lack of Development, Fits, or Short-
ness of Breath, Ringing Noises in the Head ?
Patients should send One Pound
with first letter, and describe all symptoms. This Fee in-
cludes Medical Book, enclosed in linen wrapper free from
observation, also Treatment for Nervous Complaints, free
from Customs duty to any colony.
Why Suffer hi Iden anguish while the following guaran-
tee is offered? Dr. J. Vin6s will, on receipt of JSX !
send the necessary remedies, which are guaranteed to
cure even the most obstinate case of Nervous Irritability.
Many persons have wasted large amounts in vain en-
deavours to rid themselves of nervous irritability and
weakness, and as a last resort consulted Dr. J. Vinds with
eminently satisfactory results. As a proof of my con-
fidence in the power of my remedy tor the cure of
NERVOUS COMPLAINTS,
[ am prepared to refund the fee of my patients,
within a month, if a satisfactory cure is not
effected.
Twenty-three years’ experience and thousands
of testimonials from
GRATEFUL PATIENTS
fully warrant my feeling no hesitation in advertis-
ing my treatment as a certain cure for Debility.
X OHarge 3XT otHing
for Consultations ; therefore, be you ever so poor, you
may have the benefit of my experience and advice.
Persons contemplating Marriage,
who suspect taint in their blood, irritability or weakness,
should write to Dr. J. Vin6s for Advice and Treatment; be
will cure all Local Complaints, and thus enable them to
marry honourably.
Patients may Depend upon inviolable secrecy, pure
remedies free from mercury or other injurious ingredients.
Honrs of Consultation :
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday—9.3o
a.m. to 1 p.m. ; 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.
Saturday—9.3o a.m. to 12 noon.
Evenings: Monday, Wednesday and Saturday—7 p.m. to
9 p.m.
Address all communications /
Dr. JECKELL VIKTBS,
112 Phillip Street, Sydney,
PLEASE QUOTE THIS PAPER WHEN wumvo
Kfo Cur e, JXT o Pay,
r
m
electro
belt
THIS is the ONE and ONLY Electric Belt which will
. cu re all NERVOUS WEAKNESSES in all stages,
however caused, and restore the wearer to ROBUST
HEALTH. This marvellous Electric Belt gives a steady
soothing current that can be felt by the wearer through
a '' WEAK PARTS. Remember, we give a written
guarantee that this Electric Belt will permanently cure
jou. If it does not we will promptly return the full
amount paid. We mean exactly what we say, and do
precisely what we promise.
NOTICE. —Before purchasing, we prefer that you should
call and examine them, or send for onr ELECTRIC ERA
and price-list (post free), which will convince the most
sceptical. Address—
German Electric Applianoe Agency,
Victoria Chambers, 63 Elizabeth Street, SYDNEY.
BKFORE
taking. 1
AFTER
21 DAYS.
NERVITA
CURES IN 21 DAYS
DEBILITY.
In ati stages, Despondency,
Bashfulness, &c., &c , how- j
ever caused, never returns.
THOUSANDS have proved that the only REMEDY
to effect a quick permanent cure is NERVITA, the
21 days’ cuie, forwarded by mail in plain package to
fmy ad Iress. Price, 21SHILLI MGS. Why pay more ?
NRRVir A REMEDY AGENCY, Box 599, G.P.0.,
Sydney, N.S.w.
BEEF iron and MALTED WINE
(ELLIOTT’S),
Tonic and Strengthening. Restores Delicate Individuals
to Health and Vigour.
Queensland Baking' Powder.
ASS :<»!,! TlilA
I IS Si.
Proprietors: ELLIOTT BROS., Limited, BRISBANE.
Medical*
Dr. Gibbons
Having completed his New and Centrally-
situated
ELECTRICAL
AND
CONSULTING ROOMS,
Will be Pleased to Welcome his Friends
and Patients at
137 Elizabeth Street,
SYDNEY.
Dr. GIBBONS,
Who is trebly-qualified and registered in London
and the Colonies, as a Physician and Surgeon,
received his Medical Education in the English
and _ Scottish Universities, and completed his
studies in the leading hospitals of Europe. He
has made a life-long study of
Private, Nervous
AND
SKIN DISEASES.
He has, by diligent research, investigated their
origin and course, and has discovered the quickest
and surest means of thoroughly curing them. He
has, by his unequalled success, during a period
of many years, obtained the highest position in
his profession. The various diseases embraced in
his speciality are those which have hitherto caused
more misery and suffering than any other kind of
trouble that affects the human frame.
■STOXJTJXTG}- HVHESUXT
AND
THOSE WHO WISH TO MARRY,
who, as the result of early follies, or excesses of
more matured age, suffer from any of the follow-
ing symptoms, namely Frequent headaches ;
giddiness; drowsiness in the day time; irregu-
larity of the bowels ; feeling of fullness after eat-
ing; specks floating before the eyes; halos or circles
round a candle ; cold hands and feet; pains in the
back, or under the shoulder-blade; tenderness
of the breast-bone on pressure; yellowish dis-
charge from the mouth on to the pillow during
sleep; palpitation of the heart; unpleasant
dreams; clammy hands; an aversion to
society ; a whitish or cloudy sediment in
the urine, after standing; fear of some-
thing dreadful about to happen ; impure blood ;
spots or pimples on the back, chest, legs,
or face ; failing memory ; hacking cough ; falling
of the hair, <fec., &c., should consult him, for he is
now enabled, quickly and effectually, to remove
the cause, and so prevent life-long misery.
On Receipt op 6d. in Stamps He Will Send,
POST FREE,
A COMPLETE MEDICAL WOEK,
fully describing how all private, nervous, and
skin diseases may be quickly and permanently
CURED, without loss of time and money. This
book will be of great assistance in making you
thoroughly acquainted with those diseases so
common in these Colonies, and may enable you to
restore some poor sufferer to health and happiness
that has lost all hope.
ONE POUND is Sufficient to Send
for Remedies necessary for the Cure of
DBBILIT Y,
and should be enclosed in the first letter.
Remember, “Procrastination is the Thief of
Time.” If, therefore, you experience any of the
symptoms enumerated above Do Not Delay.
Your case requires advice, and yon can either call
and consult the Doctor personally, or, if you
reside at a distance, you can sit down quietly in
the privacy of your chamber and write out a full
description of your case, and send it by post.
DR. GIBBONS
Will then write you a candid and straightforward
opinion. If, in writing, you do not feel compe-
tent to fully describe your case, send fid. in
stamps, and Dr. Gibbons will send you, post
free, the Latest Edition of his Celebrated Work,
in which you will find enclosed a list of carefully-
prepared questions that will assist you in giving a
true description of your ailment.
NONE NEED DESPAIR,
As in every case undertaken by Dr. GIBBONS,
A Permanent Cure
Is absolutely assured.
Dr. GIBBONS uses none but the very purest
remedies, and never, under any circumstances,
prescribes Mercury in any form.
PATIENTS are reminded that their letters are
Destroyed, by Fire
immediately they have been read and answered,
and that their cases and names will remain a
secret between the Doctor and themselves.
Dr. GIBBONS has documentary evidence of
having thoroughly CURED Thousands of Oases
during the extended time he has practised as a
Specialist in Australia.
All communications should be addressed—•
Dr. GIBBONS,
137 Elizabeth Street, Sydney
(Two doors front Market-street).
Mention this paper when writing.
CONSULTATION FREE.
Publications.
George robertson and company,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
BRISBANE and LONDON.
Rraddon (Miss), All Along the
River, picture boards, 2s, p.
2s 6d, p. 2s lOd; Winter (J. S.),
~ . icture boards, 2s, p. 2s 4d ; Hun-
gerford (Mrs.), The Hoyden, Sa 6d, p. 4a; Merry Min-
strelsy, Is, p. Is 2d; Hare, Last of the Bushrangers, new
edition, 8s 6d, p. 4s ; Serao, Farewell Love, 3s 6d, p. 4s;
Tolstoi, Kingdom of God, 3s, 6d, p. 4s.
NEW AUSTRALIAN PUBLICATIONS.—The Modera-
tor s Address, 1894, 6d, p. 7d ; De Lissa, Companies Work
and Mining Law, 10s 6d, p. Us ; Gibson, Ironbark Chips
and Stock-whip Cracks, ss, p. 5s 5d ; The Antipodean, ’94,
illus., Is, p. Is 3d ; M'lver, Neuroomia, picture boards, 2s,
p. 2s 4d; Warung (Price), Tales of the Early Days,
boards, 2s, p. 2s 4d ; Ditto ditto, cloth, 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd ;
Town Hall, Sydney, a beautiful steel engraving by
Daniel Forbes, Is, p. Is Id.
CEO. ROBERTSON and CO.,
361-363 George Street, SYDNEY.
NEW BOOKS.
2s 4d ; Ditto ditto, cloth,
The Soul of the Bishon. n
CHEAP MUSIC.
" PLAYFELLOWS.”
This popular Song, by the composer of “ After the Ball,’
and 1000 other popular Songs, Waltzes, Duets, &c., at 3d.
each. Of all dealers, or from the publishers:
W. PAXTON & CO., LONDON,
AND
203 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE.
Catalogues Post Free. Wholesale Prices on application,
enclosing business card.
WHAtJ
CU/»D
fsd
“ Romance of a Fair
Girl’s Bathroom .”
Price, 1/6 ; post free.
“Itnsli for the
Spoil,”
* By ZOLA.
1, 6 ; by post, 2/-
Zola’s Works, 1/6 each;
by post, 2/- Mysteries
Court of London, by G.
W. Reynolds, 2/-; by
Sost, 2/6. Secrets of
ature revealed! Book
of Nature, Guide to
Marriage Life and Rela-
lions of the Sexes, contains 50 engravings, by Dr. L. M.
Byrn, 3/6 ;by post, 4/- Private Companion for Married
People; The Wife’s Handbook, 1/-; by post, 1/2.
The art of Boxing, Swimming, and Gymnastics made
easy, enabling anyone to become an expert boxer and
athlete, price 1/-. Plain Home Talk about the Human
System, new edition, 200 illustrations, by Dr. Foote, post
free 7/6. Mrs. Feint's Law of Population, 1/-, post 12.
Aristotle, complete, 3/6, post 4/-. The Amours of Gustave,
1/-, post 1/3. Marriage as it was, as it is, and as it should
be, by Annie Cesant, 1/-, postl/2. Wonderful Song Book,
extra large, 1/6. How to Mesmerise, Thought Reading,
Mesmeric Entertainments, &e., price 1/6. Every Man
his own Schoolmaster, or How to Educate One’s Self, illus-
trated ; price 1/6. Modern Etiquette, Parties, Courtship,
Love, Dress, Visiting Introductions, Weddings, &0., 1/6.
The Silent Friend,” by Dr. Lamartine, 1/6.
Card Tricks, by Dr, Carver. A new work containing all
the tricks and deceptions with cards ever invented,
simplified, explained, and adapted for home and public
amusement, price 1/-, posted 1/3.
The Male Generative Organs, a book tor every man’s
own private use ; illustrated by numerous engravings and
coloured plates, by Dr. F. Hollick, M.D., new revised
Australian edition, superior cloth binding, gilt, price 5/-,
post free. R. BEAR, Central Book Depot,
16 Park Street, SYDNEY.
TTENRY FARMER’S Operatic Selections for VIOLIN
and PIANO. “Martha,” “Robert le Diable,”
“Crown Diamonds,” “ Luerezia Borgia,” “William
Tell,” “Faust,” “Un Ballo in Maschera," “II Trova-
tore,” “Les Huguenots.” Is. 6d. each—Of all Music-
sellers, or from the Publishers, W. PAXTON & Co.,
London, and 203 Swanston Street, MELBOURNE.
Business Announcement.
YEARS DYEING
FOR THE LADIES.
W. o. ELDEIDGE & CO.,
DYERS & CLEANERS,
40 YORK STREET, SYDNEY
(Opp. Centenary Hall).
Country Orders by post from all the colonies promptly
attended to.
53
Shipping,
England via America
by the
Australian A American Route
(A. & A. ROUTE),
ROYAL MAIL EXPRESS SERVICE.
Avoiding alike the heat of the Red Sea and
the cold of Cape Horn.
The steamers of this line are appointed to leave Sydney
and Auckland for Apia (Samoa), Honolulu and San Fran-
cisco every FOUR WEEKS, as under:—
Tickets are available for 12 months, and Saloon
Passengers can break their journey at Auckland,
Honolulu, San Francisco, and any points en route
to New York.
Through Fares, Sydney or Auckland to Eng-
land :
SALOON £6O ss. to £66.
Combination Ticket, =£s2 10s. and =£s7 13s. 4d.
STEERAGE £3O 18s. 9d.
Cargo and passengers booked to Apia (Samoa)
at current rates.
For time cards, railway maps, and guidebooks
showing all other information, apply at the
Office of Union Steam Ship Co. of N.Z., Ltd.,
15 Bridge Street, and Branch Passenger Office,
Moore Street, near G.P.0., Sydney.
MESSAGERIES MARITIMES
SYDNEY to LONDON, via PARIS.
Steamers of 6000 tons, under postal contract with
the French Government, calling at MELBOURNE,
ADELAIDE, ALBANY, MAKE, ADEN. SUEZ, and
PORT SAID, will be despatched monthly as follows:
Passengers booked to BOMBAY, REUNION, MAURI
TIUS, and EAST COAST OF AFRICA.
Rates of passage to London, FIRST SALOON: £6O to
£7O, including table wines. Liberal concessions to families.
RETURN TICKETS, available for 9 or 12 months, at
REDUCED RATES.—ENGLISH SPOKEN ON BOARD.
Upon arrival at Marseilles, English interpreters meet
the passengers for London and give them every- assistance
in landing and passing their luggage through the Cus-
toms, etc., and also accompany them to Paris and Calais.
N.B.—Passengers' luggage conveyed free of cost to
London by steamer.
For further particulars, apply at the Company’s Office,
15 Macquarie-place, Sydney.
E. BLANC, Principal Agent.
■\XTEST AUSTRALIAN GOLDFIELDS.
COOLGARDIE and THE MURCHISON.
The Adelaide Steamship Company’s Fine
Steamers leave Sydney WEEKLY. Best accom-
modation and Lowest Fares. Apply
G. S. YUILL & Co.,
17 Bridge Street, SYDNEY.
BROU’S INJECTION.
Hygienic, Infallible and Preservative.
CUKES PROMPTLY, without ADDITIONAL MEANS.
SOLD in PARIS by
J. F E R. R E
(Successor to Brou), Pharmacist, 102 rue Richelieu,
and in Australia by all Chemists.
SPEfifr
v , S T-.' NYNYARDS< 2^(, e
P. o. BOX 920.
Qualified Specialist in the Diseases of
|%#| CJ" IVI Nervous, chronic, skin,
IVI CL IV a and Special diseases of.
Treated with guaranteed success. Weak-
nesses removed and life made worth living
for. Fits, Bladder, and Kidney troubles
cured. Vigor, health, and manhood restored
WOMEN.
The Special Diseases incidental to young,
middle aged, and old ladies.
Irregularities treated with entire con-
fidence and success.
All Consultations Free, and Curable Cases guaranteed.
YigOl* Pills for lost vitality, debility and
weaknesses. 55., or 21s. for 5 boxes.
Female Pills for irregularities and obstruc-
tions. 10s. & 20s. per box. Guaranteed O.K.
LEPROSY,
Scrofula, Eczema, Erysipelas, Rheumatism, Smallpox, Asthma, Bronchitis, Urinary Diffi-
culties, Worms, Typhoid and other Fevers, Itch, Gout, Ulcers, Fits, Sciatica, Cancers, Lum-
bago, Scurvy, Piles, Gravel, Kidney and Liver Complaints, Indigestion, Debility, Pimples,
Freckles, Grog Blossoms, Dandruff, Billiousness, Jaundice, Headache, Depression of Spirits’
Heart Palpitations, Neuralgia, Ulcerated Throat, Tongue and Palate, Melancholy, St, Vitus’
Dance, Ringworm, Scaldhead, Scales, Barber’s Rash, and all other
Blood and Skin Diseases
Guaranteed to be speedily Eradicated and Permanently Cured by Dr. KOCH’S non-mercurial,
infallible Remedy. It expels Bright’s Disease and all foul matter from the blood, bones and flesh ; it
cleanses, heals and beautifies the skin ; restores the HAIR quickly and luxuriantly. It has
completely restored numerous Chronic sufferers after they were turned out of hospitals incur-
able. Men having any regard for their future welfare should thoroughly purify their
blood before marriage with Dr. KOCH’S great Bicod Specific; it only costs a trifle,
but may save thousands of pounds, and prevent insanity, desolation and suicide. No skin
eruption should be neglected, as Asiatics have spread Leprosy all over Australasia, and
Dr. KOCH’S treatment is the only speedy and reliable cure for this loathsome afflic-
tion. Dr. KOCH'S wonderful blood purifier and his marvellous skin cleansing solution are only
obtainable direct from us. Unobservable packages, with full directions, 10/6, 21/-, 42/-, 84/-, sent
anywhere in N.S.W., carriage free, on receipt of P.O. orders, and to any port outside N.S.W.
minimum freight extra. Parcels of either the Blood Purifier or the Skin Cleansing Solution
delivered to any address in the Australasian colonies, post and carriage free on receipt of P. 0.0.
for 7/G. Orange Butter Co , Market Buildings, George Street, SYDNEY, Sole Austra-
lasian Agents.


Australian Mutual p . established
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established T ’ I DLN I l/X .
The Oldest Mutual Life Assurance Society established
Li Australasia, and the ONLY ONE which DECLARES A BONUS EVERY YEAR!
-The Hon. SirJP. ABBOTT, VI L A., Ghairman ; JAMES tt. HILL, Esq., Deputy-Chairman ; J. T.
T I^^ S J jIT,i^BJOHN > Ks( l' ; BENJAMIN SHORT, Esq., J.P.; A. W. MEEKS
J-isq., j.i., ROBT. J. KING, Esq. General Manager and Actuary: RICHARD TBBCE, F.1.A., F.F.A.
Annual Income ... ... Two Millions sterling
Accumulated Funds ... ... Over Eleven Millions sterling
e • SH BONUS for the One Year 1892 amounted to over £504,000, yielding Reversionary Bonuses of over
One Million sterling.
Head Office; 07 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ROBERT B. CAMERON. Secretary.
DURABILITY and ECONOMY !
The Celebrated “Orient” Clothing
Gives UNIVERSAL SATISFACTION, and is UNEQUALLED
For Fit, Style and Wear.
All Garments are CUT from the Best Models, and the Materials are Thoroughly Shrunk.
The ORIENT Clothing is in all Textures, and suitable for Office, Bush, Town, Riding, Walking
1 ravelling. The Make and Finish of the Garments give them the appearance of being MAD f
TO ORDER.
First Quality Men’s Suits ... ... 40s
Extra „ „ ... ... 45s
Special „ „ ... ... 50s
W VALUE UNRIVALLED.
PATTERNS POST FREE ON APPLICATION. INSPECTION INVITED.
David Jones & Company
ORIENT CLOTHIERS,
Opposite G.F.0,, George Street, Sydney .
O, King i 11
SmilVE FOR EVER!
0»8E»3
Was the salute tendered to King Solomon by his people..
Nevertheless Solomon the Wise died at a comparatively
early age, because he did not know how to care for that
most important organ of the human body, the liver, which
has justly been considered the great centre of life’s
machinery. In it is stored the nutriments absorbed
during digestion, which is gradually given out into the
blood to keep up the vigor of the human organism. When
the Liver ceases to do its work the head is heavy, thoughts
come slowly, the tongue is dirty, mouth tastes foul, appetite
is poor; sleep is disturbed, bile circulates in the blood,
causing a yellow tinge in the skin and eruptions, fits of
coughing, slimy expectorations, and pains in the right side.
If this condition is not checked, the consequences will be
serious to the sufferer. The best and never-failing remedy is
Fuss’s
Liver Restorative
Constipation Cure
It is a Certain Remedy for all Disorders of the Liver and Kidneys, Indigestion,
Impaired Appetite, Flatulency, Sour Eructations, and Bilious Headache. It relieves
and cures Piles and Constipation permanently by continued use.
LADIES
will find it an invaluable home remedy, it being an efficacious aperient
of pleasant aromatic taste, neither nauseating nor griping. In its results
against the over indulgence in food or liquor its effects are marvellous. A
few doses prevent sea-sickness.
The Unprecedented Success PUSS’S LIVER RESTORATIVE AND
CONSTIPATION CURE has met with has induced the inventor to
offer the refund of the price, 2s. 6d., if the medicine fails to cure or
relieve the ailments he recommends it for.
Sold. Everywhere.
Baker’s Patent Boundary Rider’s Knife
ĥ fd
Consists of HUNTING KNIFE, with handy steel for
sharpening fitted into combination sheath, with loops
for belt. Oriental Design, 12/6 each ; Plainer Finish,
7/6 each. Postage 6d. extra throughout the world.
Awarded FIRST PRIZE by Royal Agri-
cultural Society,
■W. Jno.
Baker, Cutler, 3 Hunter-st,, Sydney
?w
I;
in-i-is
CLOTHED WITH AIR.”
CELLULAR AERTEX CLOTH is composed of small cells, in which
the air is enclosed and warmed by the heat of the body, a perfect
non-conducting layer being thus formed next the skin. Owing to the
cellular construction, this cloth is much lighter and better ventilated
than ordinary fabrics, easier to wash, and a positive safeguard against
Chills.
Ladies’ Cellular Nightdresses
(Trimmed with real Torchon Lace) made in
COTTON, LISLE THREAD, SILK and COTTON, NATURAL WOOL
MERINO, and SILK and MERINO.
Prices from Os. to SOs.
Combinations, Corsets, Petticoats, Bodices, Vests, Drawers, Stockings,
etc., etc.
CELLULAR FABRIC by the YARD or PIECE.
Price Lists, Pamphlets and all particulars,
Cellular Clothing Depot,
(Nearly opp. Hunter-street) 305-307 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
A 52
POSITIVELY CURES all
Urinary Complaints, Scalding,
Leuchorea, &c., &c., either sex.
It never fails. Price 3s, post free
3s 6d. Prepared only by j. Copp,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, Dar-
lington Pharmacy, Darlington.
Darlington ’bus stops at door.
Oriental Female Pills.
Triple power. Restores regularity without fail, no matter
what cause. Sure and safe. Large Box, posted, ss.
ORIENTAL VIGOUR PILLS for MEN. Large Box, ss.
Write W. W. Garfield, 325 West Oollins-st., Melbourne.
CSJEF FROM COIWH
JNIENMiNUTES.r ?N
df
A'!. SAM
OF HOREHOUNP.
A SAFE AND SPEEDY REMEDY FOR
COUGH, COLD, BRONCHITIS, &C.
“Invaluable for Bad Coughs and Colds.”
Mrs. Eason, Sleaford.
Sold by all Chemists in bottles at Is. lid., and 2s. 94
Rest for the Wearied Holes by trying
£1 L L X S’S
(Registered). SIMPLE FOOT GEAR
SELF-MEASUREMENT SYSTEM.
For liMlies, Gentlemen and Children.
SEND A
TWOPENNY
STAMP
for
WIRE TAPE
MEASURE.
A Complete
Catalogue
Post Free.
BEWARE
of
JEALOUS
UNRE-
GISTERED
IMITATORS
D
IK
\
* B
With an ordinary tape measure determine the width
round the joints AA, round the instep 88, round heel CC,
round the ankle DD ; next ascertain the length and width
of tread by placing the foot on a sheet of paper, and
running a lead pencil round ihe heel and toes. Cut the
outline thus made with a scissors, and enclose with the
other measurements, stating what size you generally take,
what are your peculiarities-a weak ankle, perhaps a pet
corn, ingrowing nails, or a blooming bunion. All these
little matters attended to, if you have a long thin foot, or
a short thick one, with very high instep, send to ELLIS’S,
where you are sure to get a fit. The propiietor, with a
view of introducing his new and simple system into the
country districts where practical boolmaking is unknown,
has decided to supply his patrons at the lowest cash price.
POST FREE TO ANY PART OF AUSTRALIA.
No matter how far in the interior you reside, ELLIS'S
system has already proved a sovereign balm to thousands
of country residents who, whilst performing their daily
avocations, had previously to endure the excruciating
tortures of narrow-fitting and shapeless foot gear, the
insoles of which fairly bristle with tacks and other un-
comfortable impedimenta. All boots made on specially,
constructed lasts, giving the foot an ample tie ci,
and consequently comfort. You can WEAR ELLIS'S
BOOTS STRAIGHT AWAY-they are a “going con.
cern” from the start. The materials are well tanned, and
will not “draw” or blister the feet, as most new bools
do. Send for catalogue, peat free. The following
are among our leading items; Gent’s French Calf or
Kangaroo, E.S. or Shoes, 14s 6d, 15s 6d, 16s.fid, 17s 6d ;
French Kid or Cloth-leg Lace-ups, 14s fid, 15s fid, 16s fid;
Glove Kid do (for tender-footed folks), 20s ; Genteel Lace
Balmorals (for office men and others), Kid, Satin, Calf, or
Seal Leg, toe-caps, sharp masher, round or square toes,
buffalo hide, oak tanned, soles wear quite 12 months, 19s;
Heavy Calf Watertight Camp Lace Shooters, for Volun-
teers or rough tramping, oak-tanned, English buffalo hide
soles, 15s 6d; Watertight tongued Bluchers, hand-closed,
13s 6d ; French Calf Cossacks, 14s fid; ditto Watertight
tongues, 15s fid ; Primes! French Calf or Wallaby Jockey
Boots (very light), 39s fid, Tops for ditto, 12s fid ; Priraest
French Calf Riding Boots, 425; Napoleon Knee Riding
Boots, 46s fid (worth A 3 10s); French Calf Long Welling-
tons, 28s fid ; Three-quarter ditto, 26s fid ; Half ditto,
23s fid ; also in stock, White Rep. Canvas Balmorals, 12a
fid ; ditto Oxford Shoes, 11s fid ; Ladies’ and Children's
Foot Gear to Measure, at low rates; Ladies’ Glace or
Glove Kid Balmorals, 20s; ditto E.S.,l6sfid. Instock-
Ladies’ Splendid Hand-sewn Evening Shoes, will not rip,
8s 9d : Nice Glace Ovford Shoe, 8s 3d ; Splendid quality,
ditto, 10s 3d ; White Rep. Canvas Oxford Shoes, 8s fid.
THOUSANDS OF TESTIMONIALS.
“lam pleased with the beautifully-finished pair of boots
you sent me ; make me another pair. I give you my
patronage, and herewith send you a patent.
“ JERSEY. Government House, Sydney.”
“Your boots are the best I have ever worn, both for
comfort and durability.
“ FRED. T. BERMAN, Public School, Coonainble.”
“ The boots are a perfect fit, and beautifully finished.
“A. M'MILLAN, Warri, Coolamon, N.S.W.”
“There can be no two opinions about Ellis’s Boots,
they are the best we have ever had.
“GEORGE GUEST, senr., Boggabri, N.S.W."
>/kus'i
?/C°UPON
/ GUll\l£a
/BALMORAL
£ASUR£
POSTF^^i
SPECIAL COUPONS
Cut this Coupon out, for-
ward with your measure-
ments and remittance, and
the goods will be mailed
free.
ONE COUPON will
secure any
numberof pairs
as desired.
led.
kid
Cv
■5
£ LUS
25/- **
OF
PURE r\s
SSSS**t
pure
TO
s e>f
rA5 5
CLOSE 0 ,
tuuj' t
TO STfl N P lai
? r~'rtj
nn
Atv,
Os
o.
*Mis
ladies
C °UPOi\i
H|Q H
balmo/^.
LfC
Fl "SCALP
UA M
PS
WORTH
?§l
FREE
POST
WlEA^i
to
6/6
Special Notice ! Every customer spending £1 will
receive a ticket, entitlinsr the holder to participate in the
next Grand Christmas FREE Distribution of 107 Gifts to
the value of
£IOO One Hundred rounds! £IOO
Ist Prize, ‘iO Sovereigns ; 2nd, value £5; 3rd, do.
£4; 4th, do. i. 3: sth, do. £2; 40 prizes, value Pleach;
10 do. at 15s. each ; 20 do. at 10s. each; 32 at ss. each.
Orders, accompanied by remittance, executed within
seven days, and CARRIAGE PAID. Add exchange on
cheques (Is.). Add exchange on Intercolonial Postal
Notes.
“X*. £!. ELLJS,
HUNTER STREET, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
Headquarters at Goorge-st., Sydney, Shortly.
Octopus Fate’s Defeat.
(FOR THE BULLETIN).
The drainage-shaft, owned by one Cassius, a Pole,
known as well in palmy Maoriland coastal history
as Ooolgardie Bayley is throughout Australia just
now, had ceased work. The diver was engaged in
taking the mighty columns of pumps out of the
mine. He had secured them all to a depth of
200ft., and he had had his diving head-gear
screwed on with the cast-iron resolve that this was
to be his last day at the dangerous work.
It was his last day at that employment. Slowly
the capstan spun round. Steadily the requisite
air was pumped down. When the diver got to his
depth, he rested his foot upon the summit of one of
the columns and felt about. All was dark. Slowly
he reached his arms around, but he could feel no
sides anywhere. He swung across to a second
stand with a like result. The shaft had, perhaps,
caved and twisted during the night.
Suddenly there was a rushing, swishing noise
in his ears. The accursed trap was “running”
somewhere far above his head. He snatched his
rope, and jerked the signal to pull up. The man
at the top recognised danger in the nervous
twitching, and yelled to those at the capstan.
Twenty brawny arms bent to the shafts, and the
rope tightened.
But it was fast. It wouldn’t heave. Then the
signal was repeated. Again they hove with all
their might. At that moment the air-pipe burst.
The manager gave a mighty shout, and slowly
the men got lifting way. Then there was a wrench
and the strain was considerably lessened. The
manager descended the ladder to the tail-race
level—60ft. below the surface —and waited.
The embrace of a vacuum is fearful. The diver
realised by the million sharp steel threads that cut
into his bones that the air was cut off. He tugged
madly at the knocker, and for answer he remained
stationary. In numbers, or in detail, death is a
lonely sort of shuffle.
The manager saw first a section of timber and
lathing, twisted and dove-tailed, that had been
torn from the shaft and in falling became entangled
on the rope. It formed a cone. Under that cone
appeared the diver. The manager saw through
the glass a face, black as the ace of spades. With
a blow of his fist, he smashed the plate.
An hour after, and the diver was conscious. He
must have been hauled through a perfect cataract
of timber and stones. His copper head-gear was
terribly dented. His hands were bleeding, and
he bears a soar, made by a piece of glass, under
his eye. But his wife prefers his life and his
deformity to his death, for the home is a happy
one.
The business of a diver is uncanny.
Polype.
Dubbo (N.S. W.) has 32 pubs.
Stead is almost certain to come here this
year.
Two years ago a Maoriland man received a
legacy of .£10,000. He promptly gave up work,
and in the course of 19 months of consistent drink-
ing and riot he disposed of all his fortune, and
then he returned quite cheerfully to the hard,
unremunerative occupation of gum-digging. He
never expressed any regret for his vanished pile—
in fact he seemed rather glad that it was gone.
A few weeks ago, however, another relative died
and left him £8000 more, and then for the first
time the gum-digger gave way to emotion and
cursed comprehensively, “ It’s just like my
luck,” he said, indignantly ; “ it’ll take me fifteen
months to drink that lot. It’s enough to make
a fellow wish he’d never been born,”
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucal. Loz. are for the voice
During February Chief-Justice Coleridge
found the name of the Rev. Coney among the
J.’sP. named for a certain English Grand Jury,
but,directed that he should not be “it
was better that gentlemen in holy orders should
not take part in criminal investigations.” A
wholesome generalisation—for parsons, when an
alleged offender has to be tried, are usually the
most prejudiced and cruel of judges. Aproj oi,
the wife of Green, condemned to death, and
whose affection for her husband caused such a pain-
ful scene in Court when he was sentenced, in-
terviewed nearly all the great people in Melbourne,
asking them to assist her to save him. She
was fairly received, except by the unco guid.
The only insult she received was from a
suburban clergyman. When she called, the
man of God told the unfortunate woman that he
hoped her husband would be hanged, and was
sorry that his wife would not be hanged with him.
The Gospel of Love—pooh !
All the rage in Paris. Send 13 penny
stamps for latest Parisian preventative. National
Drug Co., Russell-st., Melbourne.
The Lucifer-like fate of barmaids was the
theme of a paper read before N.S.W. Women’s
Christian Temperance Union Convention, held in
Sydney last week. The essayist was a lady bear-
ing the euphonious name of Hogg—Miss Hogg.
The barmaid, as Hogg-limned, is a diaphanous
maiden who becomes swiftly opaque with evil,
corrodes with vice, and dies in a lazarette. She is
a bud that blossoms gloriously but briefly in the
forcing pothouse of vice, then grows rank and
poisonous, is abandoned as a weed and latterly
infests only dunghills. Innocence, captivated by
gold, becomes the, glory of gold-strewn sensuous-
ness ; beauty, ravished of its dower, faces the bilk
of fortune: from private saloon, where she held
imperial sway, the decayed barmaid descends like
dissolving flakes of tarnished glory from hotel to
inn, from inn to pub., from pub. to beer-ken, from
beer-ken to brothel, from brothel to gutter-ways,
from gutter-ways to the Chinese opium-den,
which even the Social Gimletesses recognise
as the deepest deep of all. It is curious that the
barmaid doesn’t strike the average Australian
bibber in these highly fanciful lights and shades.
She is usually a creature extremely well able to
take care of herself, and wherever you find a
respectable hotel you find a respectable bar-
maid. It may be that the soreness felt by Social
Gimleteers is due to the fact that their noble lords
are the most numerous victims to the charms of
the few harpies there are amongst the many bar-
maids. If barmaids were as hurtful in their voca-
tion as Social Gimleteers are in theirs —there would
need be for a universal prayer, of “ The Lord save
creation!” But the average barmaid is neither
better nor worse than the average woman—whether
she be waitress on man or waitress on Providence.
And there remains this telling fact —barmaids
very often marry well. Ex-barmaids, good and
charming women, are to be found amongst the
wives of Australian topsawyers in every province
— judges, barristers, politicians and ennobbled
chanters of the National Anathema.
Nervous sufferers will find it worth their
while to peruse Herr Rassmussen’s advt. on page
19 of this issue.


SKINS
?
Kangaroo. Opossum.
AND ALL OTHER SKINS.
Rabbit.
SKINS
IEIXTIBIDTSir'V-E PBEPAEATIOUS IP O IR, T H IB COMIKG
SEASON.
M‘BURNEY, WALLIS & CO.
N. M'BURNEY.
E- SCWALLIS.
R. C. FRANKS.
S. J. HEAD.
15 to 29 years with the late Firm
o{ Mort Sc Co., and Golds-
brough, Mort & Co., Ltd.
Stores—Margaret Street and Circular Quay. Offices—Macquarie Street, Sydney.
, rh . Best House in the Trade for PERSONAL ATTENTION to Consignments and QUICK RETURNS. MEMBERS OF THE FIRM CONDUCT ALL SALES. KST WRITE FOR
ibe OUR BOOKS ON THE GET-UP OF SKINS, etc. '*
SlieepsKins and. Butcliers’ Produce gt Speciality.
Business Announcements.
A FREE GIFT !
Notice to our Country and Inter-
colonial Customers,
N 1
O matter if you live in town, country, or another
_ colony, if you have a photo, of yourself or any dear
fripnd and you want an Enlargement of it, send it to us.
We will male you from it a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
ENLARGEMENT on the Best Ground Opal, size 12 x 10
inches which, when properly mounted, is suitable for a
frame 21 x 18 inches, and pack it carefully, and pay for
it through the new parcels post right to your very
door for 10s. 6d. The usual price for this same
thinii in Sydney is Three Pounds Three Shillings
in 3 ”g 8- \ We are doing this as an advertisement,
and while it lasts it is a chance of a lifetime. Under-
stand there is no condition of framing or otherwise. All
you have to do is to send your Photo, and your Name and
Address, and your 10s. 6d., and you will quickly get your
tiicture, which we guarantee will Charm you.
1 Now every man who has looked through a camera, no
matter if he he the greenest amateur, knows perfectly
well that this cannot be done for the money in the ordi-
nary way of business. Query— I Then why do it? Answer
J-VVe want to put out a limited number of our enlarge-
ments each year as an advertisement.
Or if you have a Photo., and you want more of it, send
it to us; we will copy it and send you Six Enamelled
Cabinets and your own Photo, for 6s. 6d., or 12 ditto ditto
for 10s., post paid.
When in Sydney, if you will sit to us for one dozen of
our Highly-finished Cabinet Portraits at 10s. per dozen,
wew'ill present you with a BEAUTIFULLY ARTISTIC
PORTRAIT ENLARGEMENT of yourself on the BEST
GROUND OPAL, FREE OF CHARGE.
A GUARANTEE.
It is well known in the Photographic Profession through
the whole of Australesia, and by every man in Sydney,
that we have the Largest Photographic Studios, Offices,
and Works, and employ hy far the largest number of
artists and workmen in the Southern Hemisphere. This,
we think, is a sufficient guarantee that we wall send out
none but the very best production possible in each case, as
we are thoroughly alive to the fact that each Picture
speaks for or against us. We cannot afford to be careless.
CAUTION. —As we have no agents in the country, don’t
give vour Photo to anyone, but send it straight to us ; it
is safe then. Note the Address:—THE CROWN
BROMIDE ENLARGEMENT COY., at
THE CROWN STUDIOS,
Corner George & Market Sts.,
SYDNEY.
DIGHT.
STRONG.
CHEAP.
“SUNBEAM” O.K,
Price, with Cushion Tyres
~ with Pneumatic Tyres
£l4 0 0
17 10 0
Complete, with detachable brake, mud-guards and foot-
rests ; ball-bearings to all parts, including head and
pedals; unbreakable spokes; finished in best black enamel,
with parts nickel-plated; strong hammock saddle, spanner,
oil-can and tool-bag.
Further particulars (post free) from
EDGE & EDGE,
848 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
SALT-RHEUM,
or any other
SKIN DISEASE
Will quickly leave its victim, when the
remedy taken is
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
E. H. Stahl, of Des Moines, la., U. S. A.,
says: “My little daughter was, for seve-
ral years, afflicted with salt-rheum, none of
the many remedies prescribed by the physi-
ft.
m
%
v
'lx'
£
«T
cians doing her any good. When we had
51.1 l mi f IVllinn iiw .-.11 1,,. 1, All
IT iucu it, film uciuiD I'Gtuy jum
been taken, a grent change for the hotter
was noticeable. We continued the treat-
ment, and a thorough euro was the result."
Ayer’s ;nr y Sarsaparilla
Admitted at the World’s Fair. *
Made by Dr, J.G.Ayer & Go., Lowell,Muse,,U.S.A,
Oolemane & Sons’ Eucalypte Pills stir one up.
BEST
AND
CHEAPEST.
Established
1825.
df
In Patent
Air-tight Tins.
FOR.
INFANTS,
CHILDREN,
INVALIDS,
AND THE AGED.
Special Advertisements
NESTLES FOOD
FOB
Infants, Children
AND
Invalids.
Supplies all the elements necessary for the com-
plete growth and nourishment of the Human
Frame.
A Complete Diet in Itself-
Requiring simply the addition of water to make
it instantly ready for use._
Renders valuable assistance in Wasting Fever.
Beneficial as a diet in severe cases of Typhoid.
Invaluable in Cholera Infantum.
Professor Sidney Ringer, of the University College,
London, says Nestle's Food is the lest of all foods
for delicate children.
Extract from Prof. Ziemssen’s “ Cyclopaedia of
the Practice of Medicine” :
ON CHOLERA INFANTUM.—VoI. YII.
“Regulation of the diet constitutes, in fact, the
principal method of treatment for Sporadic
Cholera, and particularly Cholera Infantum.
When the mother’s milk is insufficient, Nestle’s
Food is alone to be recommended.” —Pro. Wm. 0.
Leube.
On TREATMENT of RACHITIS.-Vol. XVI.
“ In the treatment of rachitis, improper feeding
stands foremost among the causes of those gastro-
intestinal disorders which are so dangerous in
infant life. I recommend Nestle’s Infant Food
from personal experience of its value and con-
venience.’’ —Prof. Senator. >
On SOROFULOSIS.—VoI. XYI.
“ What form of artificial feeding ought to be
selected? The results of our own experience may
be briefly stated to be in favour of Nestle’s Food,
the use of which was but rarely attended with
indigestion, while the nutrition of the child im-
proved in the most gratifying manner.’’ —Prof.
Bibch-Hirsohfebd.
It is recommended by the highest Medical
Authorities throughout the World.
BOSISTO’S.
“Parrot Brand" EUCALYPTUS OIL
FOR
Rheumatism, Sprains, Coughs, Colds,
Sore throats. Influenza, etc-
Professor TODD, Anderson’s College Medical
School, Glasgow, in an entirely voluntary com-
munication on his part to Messrs. Bosisto & Co.*
writes
11 is lighter, clearer, and more ethereal oil than any
X have hitherto used, besides being free from the heavy
nauseous odour characteristic of others.
Tins is particularly noticeable when the oil is sprayed
into the throat.
It is very palatable when taken internally, which places
it above other preparations, and considerably enhances its
value.
Of all Chemists at Is per Bottle.
iJI Perfect Food.
sdfds
HORLIGK’S
MALTED
MILK
&
NOURISHING.
DELICIOUS.
For INFANTS.
For THE AGED.
For INVALIDS
For TRAVELLERS
MALTED MILK is made from the
richest and purest of milk, combined
with the nutritious and digestible
parts of wheat and malted barley.
Malted milk is not to be cooked,
no milk is to be added ; it is quick I 3
and readily prepared for instant use
by dissolving in water.
TWTALTED MILK is the best food for In-
fants. “ The composition of Malted
Milk resembles that of human milk.”
— Lancet, April 4, 1891.
TWALTED MILK, as a food for In-
-I*l valids, surpasses all other light diets.
Being most nutritious and easily
assimilated, it is constantly pres-
cribed by the Medical Profession
in England and America. “ Very-
palatable, and free from adulterants.”
—British Medical Journal, April xB. 1891.
Malted Milk will keep indefinitely in a r y climate.
Of all Chemists and Druggists.
Wholesale Agents:—
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., SYDNEY & BRISBANE.
THE AUSTRALIAN DRUG CO., Ltd., SYDNEY.
Malted Milk to., 39, Snow Hill, Loudon, E.C,
fJIALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM,
PRICE Is, by Post Is, 3d,
Musical Instruments.
XMAS BOXES!
To every Reader of “ The Bulletin.”
Given Away 11 (only HO, 000)
BE IN TIME.
Scud Four Penny Stamps and you will receive
In return a 4s. Song, Walt* or Plano Piece,
FKGEI
HOWARD & CO. have a List of .£100,000,000
left to people in the colony, and they will look for
any name and send full particulars free of charge.
Some of you readers may have a fortune, and only
waiting for you to claim it.
Remember tills I HOWARD & CO. are the
LARGEST IMPORTERS of MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS in the COLONY-
Violins, Bows, Cases, ’Cellos, Auto Harps,
Banjos, Guitars, Elutes, Cornets, Saxhorns,
Baritones, Basses, Concertinas, Harps, Pianos,
Organs, Mandolines, Zithers, Clarionets,
Accordeons, Harmoniums, Organettes, and
every description of
MUSICAL INSTRUMENT;
ALSO,
Gruns & Rifles,
GOLD and SILVER WATCHES,
MANGLES, SEWING MACHINES,
And all kinds of MERCHANDISE, sent to all
parts of the Colonies at
Lowest London Prices for Cash*
Or on EASY TERMS from
6d. per week 6d
According to the value of Goods selected.
55 Tons of Cheap Music
IN STOCK I
At 2d. and 3d. each. —Lists Free.
Half-Ton of MOUTH ORGANS,
with Silver Reeds, in case, any Key.
lid. each.
STRINGS, and every description of MUSICAL
INSTRUMENT FITTINGS, posted daily by
the cartload to all parts of the colony.
HOWARD & CO.,
Merchants A Importers,
Queen Street, Woollahra, Sydney, N.S.W.
£3T Write for Lists, and beware of WOBTHLESS
imitations of our Goods.
WM. BRUCE & CO.,
197 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Pianos, Organa, Musdc,
Violins, Strings, Flutes, Concertinas, &c.
DISCOUNT FOR CASH.
&3T Easy Time-Payments to suit Customers.
Hotel.
w
111
“<Pe (Sydney §offee <galace” (Hotel,
Sir John Young’s Orescent,
Lower Domain, Sydney, N.8.W., Australia.
J. A. QUIN, Proprietor.
TARIFF.
DESCRIPTIVE.
SINGLE ROOM.
Per week.
Without Board ... 15s
With Board 30s
SPACIOUS ROOMS,
With Two Single Beds.
Suit two friends.
25s each per week, Board
and Residence.
DOUBLE BEDROOM,
Man and Wife.
80s each per week. Board
and Residence.
PRIVATE SUITES
OF ROOMS,
Ranging from £4 4s
' per week.
Board and Residence
SMOKING,
COMMERCIAL,
SITTING and MUSIC
ROOMS, BATHS, &c.
Position in the very centre
of the City.
Overlooking Government
Domain and
Botanical Gardens.
Five minutes’ walk to
Banks, Government Offices,
Theatres,
General Post Office, etc.
The quiet of a country
home without the noise
usually disturbing residents
of other houses in the main
streets of the city.
PROMENADE ROOF,
150 ft. long.
The most modern sanitary
appliances are connected;
A'ilh the establishment.
Kitchen on top of the
premises.
“ Advance Australia.”
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
We may shout “Advance Australia” till our
throats are dry as tan,
We may talk about our freedom and the “ Brother-
hood of Man,”
But the same old awe for title does our nation still
evince,
She will truckle to a “ Noble,” 'she will grovel to
a Prince,
And although we boast of equal rights, the highest
with the low,
We’re the same old race of “toadies” that we
were ten years ago.
We have leaders who will tell us that our land is
blest by Heaven ;
That a glorious independence to each Cornstalk
heart is given ;
That his heritage is Freedom, and Equality his
right,
That man is but his fellow, be he prince, or lord,
or knight;
But the men who preached the doctrine are the
men who bent the knee,
They have been successful “ toadies ” and are now
K.’sC.M.G.
When our six-foot-three Republican went ’Ome,
some time ago,
Oh ! his heart was all his country’s, as he’d have
his country know ;
And his foot was on oppression : aristocracy was
wrong,
’Twas the People that he worked for, and he
scorned the titled throng ;
But he saw a glittering bauble, and he licked his
sov’reign’s hand,
And got knighted for his loyalty—to Greatness,
not his Land !
And we’ll never be a nation till we stand alone
and free,
Our noblest title Manhood, and our prize
Equality—
And till Worth exults o’er sounding name, our
chronicles will show,
We’re the same old race of “ toadies ” that we
were ten years ago.
T. H. WILSON.
One of the troublesome spots of New
Guinea is Rossel Island, where the cannibal is
still in full blast. A few years ago a shipload of
Chinamen were wrecked there, and more than 200
got ashore safely. That was the grandest experi-
ence that ever befel the Rossel Islanders. The
Chinamen were shut up in pens—a dozen or two
in each pen—and everybody who wanted meat
picked out the fattest Chow he could find, and led
him away by the pigtail to the pot. The supply
lasted several weeks, and that was the last really
satisfying orgy that the islanders had. Things
are woefully changed now. The other day a dozen
strangers were eaten there, and Governor
M‘Gregor came along and proceeded to hang the
revellers straight away.
The successful removal of Piles of the
most stubborn description is being effected by
Sharp’s new “Cannalin” treatment, large quan-
tities of which are being forwarded to sufferers
throughout the colonies. It is obtainable, with
advice, from 257 George-street, Sydney.
A wandering Maorilander, just returned
from the U.S., writes to the Southlander about
his experiences in the prohibition town of Port-
land, in the good, old prohibition State of Maine:
Portland is a dreary, dirty place, the dullest and most
drunken town in the least progressive State in the Union.
You are no sooner landed from the boat than you are
shadowed by drink-touts, who haunt the wharves, public
places, even the barbers’-shops, billiard and oyster
saloons, advertising the places where you can get poisoned
by a villainous compound they call Bourbon whisky. Our
Bob had letters of introduction to a teetotal family in
this prohibition town, and was received very kindly.
Daddy took him into his study for a yarn, and
produced the black bottle, with a wink—just an
appetiser, you know. After dinner Tom, the eldest son,
took him to his boatshed, and from the locker produced
the brandy and curacoa to settle tbe dinner. Mamma,
when coffee-time came, whispered “it’s served d la
Francaise." And, to crown all, Bob, who was pining for
a glass of beer, and hated spirits like poison, after a bout
of tennis with the girls, was fixed up by them with
another teetotal drink that he swears to his dying day
was nothing more or less than brandy and soda. If you
want to study hypocrisy and prohibition go to the tee-
total state of Maine. Bill Nye had a big spree
given him before leaving home. It came off at
the farm about 12 miles from town. The boys put the
horses in and loaded up brandy labelled vinegar ; whisky
was orange bitters, and beer was ginger pop. The girls
and boys danced and had a high old time of it, and the
old men boozed till further orders, elders, deacons,
churchwardens. They never left the farm while there
was a shot in the locker. Old Deacon Cheyne told Bill
the day he left that the prohibition state of Maine was an
object lesson for all creation.


i. ;
uim
m r wfi
'M:
mum
Petty’s Family Hotels Sydney.
WYNYARD SQUARE;
Is UNEQUALLED for SITUATION and COMFORT.
Large, well-ventilated Bedrooms.
Hot and Cold Water Baths.
Lakes’ & Gentleman's Dining Sc Drawing Rooms
SMOKING and COMMERCIAL ROOMS.
Private Suites of Apartments.
MEALS Private or Table d’H6te as preferred, at very
Moderate Charges. J
Special Terms made for Permanent Boarders.
' Mrs. GANNON.
Business Announcements.
WANUFAtTITOI
|SL*sli
Mercer^;
PRIDDY’S
HATS
111 OIICO
PUOOIiAIM
TUB
iwAisr.
mHEY give a creditable appearance, which is
X BETTER than BANK NOTES, and as
GOOD as GOLD.
Do not Fade, are Latest Fashion and Light-weight.
"World-renowned.!
And have taken Prizes at all the important Exhi-
bitions for the last Fifty Years.
Note the Addresses:—
433 GEORGE STREET (opposite Lassetter’s,,
and 678 GEORGE STREET (Brickfield Hill).
Orders by Post carefully attended to.
Bank of Van Diemen’s Land, Ltd.
IN LIQUIDATION.
GRAND LOTTERY
Conducted by GEO. ADAMS (“Tattersall’s”) as Sole Agent.'
300,000 Shares of £1 each.
First Prize £26,000, Second £22,500, Third £12,000,
Fourth £10,500, and 372 other Prizes ranging from
£9,500 down to £lOO.
-A-PPly Early.
GEO. ADAMS, Collins-st., HOBART, Tasmania,
or to
GEO. ADAMS, Telegraph Chambers, BRISBANE, Queensland.
H. P. GREGORY & CO.,
Limited.,
Engineers and General Machinery Merchants,
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE.
ALWAYS IN STOCK:
Steal3Q. Engines, B oilers, G-as Engines,
SHAFTING, PULLEYS, STEAM PUMPS,
WOODWORKING- MACHINERY, ENGINEERS' TOOLS and MINING MACHINERY.
tS~ Write us with regard to any and every description of Machinery you may want particulars of.
Prices quoted, and your enquiries intelligently replied to without any delay.
VISITORS TO THE OLD COUNTRY
WILL FIND
HOTEL
American Elevator.
Modern Sanitary Im-
provements. Electric
Light. Special arrange-
ments for Families.
These Hotels contain over 500 Apart-
ments and are highly recommended by
Australians. The Theatres, Exhi-
bitions, . Museums Parks, Colonial
Institute, &°c., are easy a/ access.
Gloucester Road, London, S.W. and the
South Kensington Hotel, Queen’s Gate Terrace, S.W.
Replete with every possible comfort and convenience. &
JAMES BAILEY, Managing Director.
THE
‘ Plum ’
...J i s '- ...
f
Plum
SA ENTLEMEN who find their Razors unsatisfactory should not fail to give our celebrated Plum
Razor a trial. This brand of razor is something superior to any others offered to the public
It is specially-tempered, perfectly hollow ground, rings like a bell and never requires grinding. We
can highly recommend it to the general public. Being practical tradesmen ourselves, we
know the exact kind of edge that is required to ensure an easy shave, and, having had them in use for
a number of years, can testify to their merits. We guarantee each Razor for Tivo Years.
Price I Razor, in strong leather case, 10s. fid. ; Pair, in beautiful morocco leather case, 21s,
e \ Single Razor, in ivory handle, 15s. ; Pair Razors, ivory handles, in beautiful ease. 30s.
Registered and sent Rost Free to any of the Australian colonics, Queensland and Tasmania, Is. extra
Eo!o
Agents:
CRAIG & AITKEM, 680 George Street, SYDNEY.
Public Companies:
Fire Fis/cs at Lowest Fates .
Head Offices}
“95-
Pitt Street,
Sydney.
df
SUBSCRIBED
CAPITAL,
£150,000
..a>V
~#v
4#
Directors;
Hon. JOHN SEE,
M.P.,
Colonial Treasurer
(Chairman),
Hon. JOHN T. TOOHEY,
M.L.0.,
JAMES P. GARVAN, Esq.. M.P.,
PATRICK HOGAN, Esq., M.P.,
PATRICK STANLEY, Esq., J.P.,
JOHN DONELAN, Esq.
__ SPECIAL FEATURES.
It is an AUSTKALIAN Institution. All Funds
invested in the Colony. A CASH BONUS is PAID to
Policy-holders every year. Settlements are prompt and
equitable.
ROBERT KERR, Manager.
4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
4s. in the £
DISCOUNT
Fob Cash.
STATIONERS’ HALL CO.
(C. E. FULLER & CO.)
STOCK-TAKING SALE.
EVERY ARTICLE REDUCED
NOTE PAPER, 5-quire packet, ruled, 4d.
ENVELOPES, 25 for Id., any shape.
PENS, good quality, gross boxes, 9d.
MAGNUM BONUM PENS, superior, 3 boxes for 6d.
LEAD PENCILS, good qualify, 4d. dozen, 3s. 6d. gross.
OFPIOB APRON FILES, full size, 9d. and Is. each.
POCKET FOUNTAIN Pen, with refills and nibs, lOd.
OFFICE INKSTANDS, with rack, from lOd.
ACCOUNT BOOKS, all the best makes, greatly reduced.
Independent Stylographic Pens, 2s. 9d. each ; Photo.
Frames, from 3Jd., splendid assortment; Leather and
Wooden Desks, at cost price; Photo. Albums, at sale
prices; Purses, good quality, Moro. Leather, from 6d.;
Children’s Books, reduced ; Prize Books, reduced ; Bibles
and Prayer Books.
STATIONERS' HALL CO. AND BOOK DEPOT,
385 GEORGE-ST., SYDNEY, opposite the Strand.
d
Hotel.
AARONS’ EXCHANGE HOTEL
CO. LIMITED,
Attached to the Chamber of Commerce,
SYDNEY, N.S. WALES .
mm
Opposite Lands Office and Sydney Wool Sale
Rooms.
The Leading Hotel for Pastoralists in Sydney.
Terms, 10s. 6d. per Day or £3 3s. per Week.
W. W. AIKEN Manager.
(20 years in the Establishment.)
Banking.
THE
Bank of New Zealand.
Sydney Branches I
64 PITT STREET, and 538 GEORGE STREET.
Paid-up Capital £900,000
Reserve Liability ~ 1,500,000
£2,400,000
The Bank has Agents in all the principal cities
throughout the United States of America and
Canada, and can offer special facilities for dealing
in Bullion, Bills of Exchange, Commercial and
Travellers’ Letters of Credit.
Drafts issued and Bills collected on most favour-
able terms, at rate which can be ascertained on
application.
G. A. WILSON. Manager.
npiHE ROYAL BANK OF QUEENSLAND
(limited;.
Head Office-Queen Street, Brisbane.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. £3otM'oo
RESERVE LIABILITY .. .. 375,000
RESERVE FUND 83,000
A. MACINTOSH, General Manager.
The Bank of North Queensland
(LIMITED).
Capital Paid dp .. £200,000.
Reserve Liability .. 250,000.
Head Office - Brisbane.
D. MacDIARMID, General Manager.
Sydney Office - 16 BRIDGE STREET,
A. BRYANT, Manager.
Medical.
EETH.—A COMPLETE SET, ONE
GUINEA.—THE LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KING STREET.
Single Tooth, 2/6; precisely the same
CELEBRATED GOLD and PRIZE
MEDAL TEETH, nainlessly fixed
by ATMOSPHERIC SUCTION, as
advertised at the highest cost by other firms.
FIVE YEARS’WARRANTY. Country
patients supplied in one visit, PAINLESS
EXTRACTIONS with GAS, 5/-
A REVOLUTION IN DENTISTRY.-The
London Dental Institute’s Economical
System offers the following advantages :
Absolute painless treatment, no unnecessary
extractions, perfect and permanent life-like
appearance. Special soft palates for tender
gums.
BR. HACK E TT writes : “ The London
Dental Institute have one of the largest
practices in the world. . . The scale on
which they work enables them to employ
both capital and labour in the most effective
and economical way, and content themselves
with a reasonable profit on each individual
transaction. Being able to keep their chairs
full from morning to night, they can employ
the most highly skilled operators and the
best materials. They can do everything
that science and experience suggest to
satisfy every customer.”
SEND or CALL for our great WORK on DENTISTRY,
post- fr e on application to the LONDON DENTAL
INSTITUTE, 98 KIN6-ST. (the only address), Ud
doors from Pitt-st. Hours : from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m,
Beeta Beeta
EUCALYPTI EXTRACT
IS ' CURES COLDS,
ABSOLUTELY " COUGHS,
PURE. It INFLUENZA, dc
Sold by all Chemists and Storekeeper*
Wholesale by
JOHN CONNELL & CO., Sydney.
FELDHEIM, GOTTHELF & CO., Sydney.
JOHN BARLOW & CO., Sydney.
TILLOCK & CO., Sydney.
F. BUTCHER, Sydney.
J. W. JOHNSTON & CO., Sydney.
ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney,
HOLDSWORTH, M'FHERSON & CO., Sydney.
MASSEY & CO ,
MANUFACTURERS,
746 George Street, Sydney .
FACTORY, YOUNG, N.S.W.
WHY WALK WHEN YOU CAN RIDE
Our NEW DEEKPOOT BUGGY is Substantial, Neat,
Durable, Graceful and Comfortable, and the
Frice is R.igb.t.
Price, complete with SHAFTS, STORM APRON,
_ OT—• WRENCH, etc.
f; Without Hood .. £l4 O O
With Hood .. £l7 10 O
We pack these Busies in cases without any evtra
charge.
HOLDS TWO PASSENGERS
Comfortably, and RUNS as SMOOTH
A TALE OT? LOVE.
Frice is Rigb.t.
The Body is 54 inches long, 26 inches wide, and
7 inches deep; Width of Track, 5 feet 2 inches.
WE DEFY COMPETITION. Write us for particulars.
James Martin & Go.,
Market and
Clarence Streets
Sydney.
London & Melbourne Tailoring* Co.,
31 ERSKINE STREET, SYDNEY.
We are just OPENING UP n splendid assortment of WINTER GOODS— Tweeds, Serges and
Viennas, in all Shades and Patterns.
Tweed Sac Suit (to measure) 45- .. Trousers, 12 6
Serge „ „ 50 - . Trousers, ISA-
Corkscrew „ (Coat & Vest louiid) 50 - Trousers, 16 6
Country Customers please WHITE for PATTERNS, TAPE and SEEP MEASUREMENT FORMS Cmin'e
Paid to any part of the Colony. ' 11 '
LONDON S MELBOURNE TAILORING CO.,
S. M. RAUMASHE, Manager.] 31 ERSKINE STREET.


The Bulletin
Proffered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for transmission by rost as a Newspaper.
Vol. 14-W0.740,
SATURDAY, APRIL 21. 1894.
Prijse, 6d.
( 7j.<! faj)o( n/Fff op Y
fhx falfaryej s
lc y
lt )4*dr<
■fCLe tfa^ r
\/\m *•'
sort-Q'U.rf
Wiff h<s>y.i Q s<xr J
acljupcf"
ifi l/ill U
°j
h ° tu w
TjflMlß
“j h jj 1 ' fi/ialftof fjadf
We/f m irUW
ri? s
r-t iMl ,f r
■'' Sia/c/ Ih&fW [ft* 1 lij
D/N-Stf. fops uf d « ft
%*ST ■
, €hmd pnifdrCifot)*-
(]ui‘ a^t-yyP j?^ 1 *
l/nffout a pontjef'-p'y 01
NEW SOUTH WALES UNDER ARMS.


Isi Vole*.
'2|»<I Voles.
3rd Vote?.
4th Votes.
Hhown
41 HI
200
100
00
JONKX
300
(lou
200
50
Smith
!W0
100
40U
too
KoIUNMPN
100
00
100
300
Total,
1000
OJIO
800
500
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
"Au.tralia for the Australians.’'
Proprietors :
BULLETIN NEWSPAPER CO., Limited.
PUBLISH PD ONCE A WEEK,
At 24 Pitt street, Sydney, New South Wales.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS
(payable in advance, only).
Per Annum ... ... ... ... £1
Half-yearly ... ... ... ... 0126
Quarterly... ... ... ... ... 06 0
Nor wit.
By sending direct to The Bulletin Office Twenty
Shillings sterling — with, postage added where, required,
which yon may pay hy Post Office Order, One Pound
Mole, or stamps of any Australian 'province —you can
lure The Bulletin posted regularly to you every week for
a year.
This offer is not open to residents of Sydney. In that
city The Bulletin is not delivered hy mail, hut is entirely
in the hands of our carriers, with tvhom ive do not wish
to interfere.
Che jves. Drafts, etc. , and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleoo, Managing Director
L ternry Communications to he addressed J. A
Arciiibalii.
The Editor will carefully rend and acknowledge in the
'Correspondence" column all contributions submitted—
whet her in the form of Political, Social, or other Articles,
Verse, Short Tales or Sketches (those dealing with Aus-
tralian subjects, and not exceeding two columns in
length, or say 3000 words, are specially acceptable),
Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper-Clippings. All
c immunisations will he regarded as strictly confidential.
The Bulletin will return all unavailable MSS
when the address is specified and stamps are enclosed.
I!iil ire desire those sending MSS. to distinctly under-
stand that we are not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of such MSS.
LONDON.
Copies of The Bulletin can he obtained in London,
a lei the arrival of each mail, at the office of the British
A astral as!an Co., Limited, 31 Fleet Street, IH.C.
Also in the Transvaal:— The Standard and Diggers
News Co., Limited, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Also; 11. A. Thompson and Co., 3 Church Street,
Capetown, South Africa.
Notice to Subscribers in Victoria, Queens-
land and South Australia.
In consequence of the imposition of One Halfpenny
postage hy the Australian and Tasmanian Governments
on Interprovincial Newspapers, the annual subscription
outside N. S. Wales in future will he £l, with 3s. 3d.
added for postage.
No papers will he sent unless the subscription he pre-
paid. There will he no exception to this rule.
Notice to Subscribers.
Coloured wrapper denotes expiration of subscription.
Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd.
SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 1894.
The Purity of Justice.
\ short time ago a question was asked in
New South Wales Assembly as to an assign-
ment said to have been made by one of the
Supreme Court Judges for the benefit of his
creditors, and Premier Dibbs replied that
the Judge indicated had assured him that he
“had no liabilities whatsoever in New South
Wales.” Then, a similar question having
been put concerning another Judge, Mr.
Dibbs returned a supercilious and hazy reply
to the effect that, in his (Dibbs's) opinion,
no Judge “ would fill the high and respon-
sible office which he holds in a manner
derogatory to the position.” The question
was evidently intended to imply that an im-
pecunious Judge, whose creditors may come
before him any day as parties in a suit, is a
menace to the purity of justice. And the
answer was evidently intended to convey
that justice, in an English-speaking com-
munity, and under the British flag, is
naturally pure, and that it is unnecessary to
lake common, degrading precautions to pre-
vent it going askew. The House in general
took no notice of either question or answer.
It was evidently quite willing to take the
purity for granted, and in this respect its
attitude is that of the community in general.
# * #
It is, however, well worth while to analyse
this fetish of judicial purity. To begin
with—the lowest, cheapest, meanest form of
justice is that which is administered by the
common or garden J.P. This individual
doesn’t necessarily know any law. He is
often a mere item in a very small community
where almost everybody is related to every-
body else by birth or marriage or business
connections. He is part of its general
relationship ; he leans up against the same
public-house bar with it ; he buys from it,
sells to it, drinks, dines, gambles, and loafs
along with it, borrows money from it, tells
obscene stories to it ; and lives with it
generally. When anyone outside his own
circle appeals for justice against anyone
inside the circle he naturally doesn’t get that
article if the J.P. can help it, and when any-
one inside the circle wants the law’s assist-
ance to perpetrate an injustice upon anyone
outside he naturally does get it, if it can be
in imaged by his Worship. The J.P. who
dispensed even-handed justice would often
have to fine or gaol a good customer and
thereby lose his business and that of ail his
relatives, friends, and dependents. He
would have to give decisions against creditors
or the friends or dependents of creditors, who
might sell him up the next day in retalia-
tion, or to severely admonish other people
from whom he hoped to get financial assist-
ance. And he is not paid one solitary copper
for doing these things. He is expected to
wreck his own business arrangements gratis
—for the mere abstract love of justice.
And naturally, being only human, he does
nothing of the sort. In the country districts
of Australia nearly every affluent white male
is a J.P., and nearly every other white male
is certain to be one if he only becomes
affluent. Therefore, if justice is pure, the
inevitable inference is that almost every
male citizen is an absolutely spotless
character and fit to be a martyr at the
shortest notice, and if such were the case
there would be no need of J’s.P., magistrates,
judges, policemen, hangmen, or law in any
form. As the inference is obviously absurd,
the natural assumption is that justice-is just
about as unclean as anything else in a com-
munity which is no better than the average.
* » «
The situation of the stipendiary “ beak ”
is too often not widely different from that
of the J.P. He is sent out to some country
township while still comparatively young,
and is left to vegetate there for 20 or 30 or
40 years. He marries and becomes some-
body’s son-in-law, and by his marriage he
gets a lot of brothers and sisters-in-law, and
acquires an interest in their husbands and
wives and the relatives of their husbands
and wives. He becomes a component part
a narrow clique, and, in the long run, becomes
somebody’s father-in-law. He dines and
drinks with suitors, and plays billiards with
them, and has orgies with them and the local
doctor and the police - inspector in the
principal public-house at forbidden hours.
Also, he borrows moneyfrom them. For some
unexplained reason the elderly country
magistrate is often by nature a miserably-
embarrassed being, and the leading local
attorney is one of his principal pals and
creditors. Therefore, whenever it can bo
managed without an altogether too glaring
perversion of justice, the said attorney’s
client wins. Also, the statutes are often
strained in favour of the magistrate s con-
nections, and the law winks at the midnight
orgies in the magistrate’s favourite public-
house. The miserable stipendiary dare not
send one of the local magnates to gaol for
anything short of murder, else he will be an
outcast fro n local society. And if he dis-
penses even-handed justice he becomes
an elderly, red-nosed pariah, and is
left to drink by himself, and pres-
sure is brought to bear upon the local
member to make him bring pressure
on the Government to have the obnoxious
magistrate removed to some smaller and
m re remote and still drearier town. The
average magistrate has no special incentives
to judicial honesty. He seldom has any
prospect of becoming anything else than a
magistrate. His salary goes on in any case.
If he is promoted it is generally through
political influence, and the best way to
obtain political influence is to keep on good
terms with local society, which is probably
all more or less related to the local member,
and to decide in its favour on every possible
occasion.
# !» *
As for the Judges of the higher courts, it
is the favourite assumption that their inte-
grity is spotless and their fairness absolutely
beyond question. The Bulletin regards
the vast majority of the Australian Supreme
Court Judges, past and present, as men of
spotless integrity of purpose, but the as-
sumption that they are, and must neces-
sarily be, altogether proof against the
influences which consciously and uncon-
sciously ' sway humanity is merely part
of the good old the tv that “ British ’
justice always is pure. The higher Judge,
in fact, is merely an average human being—
made a little better by letral training and
political experience, and partially restrained
by considerations of self-interest, and to
some extent put beyond temptation by the
possession of an office of high trust
and constant association with men of
the high character which, we are proud
to say, ordinarily distinguishes the
Supreme Court Bench. But there is no
reason to suppose that, when distracted
by financial troubles, he is one whit
more inflexible than any other hard-
pressed man who means well in the
main. One Australian inferior-court Judge
has left behind him a malodorous re-
cord as a man who borrowed money from
usurers who were constant suitors in his
court, and who was otherwise celebrated
chiefly because the fact that those usurers
had lent him money was frequently visible
in his judicial decisions. The Bill recently
passed in Queensland, forbidding any barris-
ter to plead before a Judge who is his father
or near relative, is—and was evidently in-
tended to be—a grim reflection upon the
bench. And the perpetual appearance of
certain Australian barristers in the court
where their relatives preside, coupled
with the fact that they very seldom appear
anywhere else, is evidently intended—by the
attorneys who employ them and who prob-
ably judge others by their , own standard—
to be another reflection upon judicial weak-
ness. Also, the same may be said of the
proposed new law in Maoriland, whereby the
Judges are to take all the circuits in rotation,
so that no one of them will do the same
circuit oftener than once in two years or so
—the openly-avowed purpose being to keep
him free from the local influencers which
gather round a. man who moves perpetually
iu one narrow circle.
* # *
To make Justice as pure as possible,
many changes are wanted. The unpaid J.P.
should be entirely abolished because he is
ignorant, untrained, and too often utterly
and incurably corrupt. The paid magistrates
should be moved from one station to another
every two or three years, and should never
serve two terms in the one town, in order to
prevent them becoming altogether the slaves
of personal and family interests. No Judge
or magistrate should be allowed to become
financially embarrassed, for no insolvent
Judge is I oyond temptation. He should
be absolutely disqualified from holding
shares or being a partner in any undertaking,
and any shaVe, transfer, or deed of partner-
ship with his name upon it should bo abso-
lutely null and void. His bill, note, bond,
or security of any kind should be made
waste-paper by Act of Parliament, and his
debts should be irrecoverable. He should
take oath that he does not, and will not,
belong to any secret society whatsoever. He
should be highly paid, and liberally pen-
sioned on retirement, and his investments
should be practically restricted to Govern-
ment bonds, as almost the only form of
investment which cannot lead him into
temptation. He should be shut out, in
short, by every possible means from every
possible kind of influence, financial, social,
political, or otherwise. But to bring about
this result it is necessary, in the first
place, to realise that justice is not
necessarily pure, else no steps will be taken
to purify it. Premier Dibbs’ cheerful, bull
headed assumption that everything must be
correct as a matter of course represents the
State’s customary attitude iu the matter, and
it is mainly because of this attitude that ugly
things pass almost unnoticed.
The Contingent Vote.
The “secondary” or “contingent” vote is a
vote cast by an elector in addition to his first
or “primary” vote. The number of contingent
votes may be arbitrarily limited, or limited
only by the number of candidates for whom an
elector is entitled to vote. The vote is called
“contingent,” because it is only employed con-
tingently on the first vote becoming inoperative.
At the coming New South Wales election, for
example, the majority of votes cast will pro-
bably be inoperative ; that is, a majority of
electors who vote will be unrepresented in
Parliament, and the representatives of the
minority will rule the province.
# * #
Under a democratic constitution, it is unjust
that either a minority or majority of electors
should be unrepresented in the Government.
Contingent voting may be used to secure either
(1) the rule of the majority, or (2) the propor-
tional representation of both majority and
minority. In a simple form of the first case it
could be easily applied in New South Wales.
Under the existing law, in any constituency
where there are more than two candidates, the
chances are that the successful candidate will
represent a minority of the electors who vote.
Were an absolute majority of votes essential to
election, contingent voting seems the best
means of ascertaining the choice of the con-
stituency.
» # •
An alternative system is the second ballot,
which is a second poll taken between a limited
number of candidates who are highest at the
first poll. This system was contemplated by
an amending electoral bill introduced to the
Queensland Parliament in ’9l, but was aban-
doned for the contingent voting Act passed in
’92. The objections to the second ballot are
that (1) a minority of electors are still dis-
franchised ; (2) it is possible that the final
choice does not represent electors’ wishes ; (3)
there is great additional expense, delay, and
dissatisfaction involved in the second poll,
o # *
Contingent voting is based on a system of
preferences expressed by an elector on his
ballot-paper. The simplest way of expressing
preference is to write the figures 1,2, 3, and so
on, opposite candidates’ names, thus ;
4. Brown.
2. Jonhs.
1. Smith.
3. Robinson,
and so on, to any number of candidates. This
voter will be understood to reason : “I wish
Smith to be elected, and so I give him my first
vote. If, however, Smith has not a sufficient
number of supporters to elect him, I would
sooner have Jones than Brown or Robinson.
If 1 can’t have Jones, I prefer Robinson to
Brown.”
» # •
There are several ways of counting con-
tingent votes. Perhaps the most satisfactory
is to give a qualitative value to each, consider-
ing two second votes, or three third votes, or
four fourth votes, equal to one first vote.
Thus, in the above case, supposing 1000 electors
voted, the poll might show :
(The inequality of totals would result from the
probable failure of electors to record some or all
of their contingent votes.)
* * •
Here, under the present plan, Brown is
elected as the representative of a minority, the
majority of voters remaining unrepresented.
Contingent voting on the plan recommended
would count second voles at half the value of
first votes, making—
-Ist. Vote. 2n 1 Vote. Total.
Brown 400 100 500
Joxss 300 300 600
Smith 200 50 250
Robinson 100 25 125
Jones would then be elected by an absolute
majority of votes. (If any candidate failed to
get an absolute majority of votes on the second
count, third votes would be included at pro-
portional value, then fourth votes, and so on.)
« « *
Contingent voting on a system similar to, but
not the same as this, took place at the Queens-
land election last year. The Queensland method
is, however, vitiated by the existence of double
electorates; by the arbitrary exclusion of the
contingent vote given to certain candidates ; by
considering first and contingent votes of equal
value ; by sometimes preferring the contingent
votes of one candidate to the first votes of
another candidate, and vice versa— causing com-
plication and injustice, and defeating the
expressed purpose of the Act.
* * *
Contingent voting on a wider basis, providing
for the proportional representation of all classes
of electors, is hardly compatible with the
existence of local constituencies. If prac-
ticable, the best scheme is too novel to be
popular, and too complicated to be successful.
It could, however, be applied with ease and
advantage to the election of the New South
Wales Legislative Council on a new footing.
The most reasonable plan, that of Thomas
Hare, was actually recommended by Went-
worth during a discussion on the Constitution
of the Council in 1802, and a Bill embodying it
had passed its second reading when the
Government resigned, and its successors estab-
lished the House on another plan.
# # «
Under the proposed system any number of
candidates would offer themselves for a definite
number of seats in the Legislative Council, and
the whole body of electors would vote for the
whole number of candidates at the same time,
using contingent voles as illustrated above.
The total number of votes polled would be
divided by the number of vacant seats, and the
quotient would form a “quota” necessary
to secure the election of any candidate. Those
who obtained this quota on the first vote would
be elected at once, and their surplus of votes
would go as contingent votes to increase the
votes of candidates beneath them on the list,
and so on until all the seats were filled. In the
event of the surplus votes of all elected candi-
dates being distributed, and vacancies still
remaining to be tilled by candidates who all fall
short of the quota, the secondary votes would
be counted on a qualitative valuation, and
so on.
# # *
This seems complicated ; but, once under-
stood, is very simple. Suppose there were 50
seats to fill, with 200 candidates, and 100,000
voters. Then the quota would be 100,000
divided by 50, equal to 2000. Thirty candidates
might get 2000 and over on the first vote.
These would be elected ; the ballot-papers of
those in excess of 2000 who had voted for them
would be examined, and the second votes
thereon distributed as first votes to the remain-
ing candidates. Ten more candidates might
then obtain their quota, and have their surplus
votes distributed. Then a count of all the
second votes of hitherto defeated candidates
might become necessary, followed by qualita-
tive valuation, distribution, and selection of the
remaining ten candidates from the highest on
the list of those who then obtained the quota.
* i *
This scheme provides the most perfect repre-
sentation of all classes of electors that has so
far been devised, by enabling scattered electors
throughout the country to break the trammels
of limited constituencies and unite their votes
for the return of chosen candidates. It would
probably issue in the election of the best men
in the country, now deterred from seeking seats
in the popular Assembly by the preponderance
of local interests ; and the result, at all events,
could not fail to be productive of better things
than the present system of glorification of
wealth, political friendship, and political in-
fluence.
Darkest Womanhood, and the Way Out.
Dear Bulletin, —The other night, on my way
to Princes’ Bridge Station, I passed the
building with the saffron blinds—the Melb.
W.C.T.U. In front, on the side-walk, a group
of women were haggling. Ugh, such a group 1
Each was grasping a roll of yellowish paper —
probably arguments against “ the drink.” Not
one of them had any pretensions to good looks.
And look at the W.C.T.U. portraits which
have been published. What a pitiful crew !
I know that engravings are usually a severe
trial to anybody’s looks, but if the artist
had done these heroines anything like justice
what a libel they would bo upon rosy, full-
lipped womanhood ! 1 have seen them in the
flesh, or bones. Miss Aokermann is about the
only one of the crowd who looks as if she had
any sap in her, and her conspicuous physical
superiority has created such jealousy among the
hags that she had to stand up, the other
day, and publicly deny a rumour that she
is going away to be married. I was sorry,
for a good husband is precisely the thing which
would make Miss Ackermann complete.
* • #
But nobody ever dreams of rumouring limb
Miss Blank or Miss So-and-so is going to be
married. Good Lord, no ! Men instinctively
fight shy of them, and the reason is that sexual
attraction in their case becomes repulsion.
Nominally they are females ; but actually and
physiologically they are aborted males. You
cannot be in their company without noticing
the signs—the strong muscular system, the
prominent bones, the harsh voice, the dim
beards and unsuccessful moustaches, the thin
hair, and the general predominance of katabolic
tendencies. The males who congregate with
them are generally similar examples of sex-
perversion—nervous, excitable creatures with
small frames, no muscle, delicate skin,
and an irresistible itching for long hair


an d tea. They are scorned by vital
women just as their counterparts are
shunned by vigorous men. Luckily Nature
has made a freak to fit a freak, and provides
that the negatives of humanity shall mutually
attract as well as the positives. And the reason
why the he-female and the she-male pride
themselves on monopolising virtue is because
nothing else is left to them.
* # »
Hear my aphorism : It is well to have virtue
—when one has neither beauty nor wit. The
more you study this the more you will see in it.
Do you think for a moment that there is any-
thing but sex-jealousy at the bottom of the
agitation against barmaids ? Do you think it is
really sympathy for the poor unfortunates in the
bars which impels sister after sister to rise and
shriek for their forcible removal ? Nothing of
the kind ; the impulse is an instinct, the most
natural of all instincts, the instinct of self-
preservation. Under existing social conditions,
when there are not enough eligible men to go
round, and some women must draw blanks, all
are engaged in a fierce competition for the
prizes. Each displays the wares she has in the
hope of attracting a customer. The good-
looking ones take two hours to djress ;
the clever ones get a University degree ;
but for those, alas ! who are not good-looking
and not clever there is nothing left but virtue
and the W.C.T. U. They don’t want the
W.C.T.U., they would shirk it if they possibly
could, but circumstances force them to embrace
it. “ Evil, be thou our good !” they sorrow-
fully cry.
# # *
It isn’t much good. Men are naturally so
constituted that virtue doesn’t attract them in
anything like the numbers which by rights
should rise to such a morally superior bait.
While warm blood pulsates in their arteries
(and even when it cools) they go for good looks.
Of course the natural man is right. Good looks
are generally a sign of the vitality necessary to
the perpetuation of a healthy race; virtue, by
itself, generally isn’t. Consequently, pitting
tiro barmaids against the W.C.T. U., the
average barmaid attracts fifty admirers to
every one who drifts up to sniff doubt-
fully at a W.C.T.U. I have figured the
thing out on the basis of women who want
to marry and men who don’t, and the barmaid
gets exactly 49 83416 more men than she has
any business to get. This is monstrous, and
the W.C.T.U. does well to be angry (see
Jonah, iv., 9). »
# # *
t Then, if you notice, all the leading
Women’s Franchise lights have either had
unlucky love - affairs, or made unhappy
marriages. I could name you two in Bris-
bane, three in Sydney, two in Melbourne,
and one in Adelaide, in the very front
rank of female liberators, who have all had
misfortunes with their men. You will never
find a woman who is really happy and busy at
home making a fool of herself on a platform.
The great majority of women need happy homes
much more than men do. They don’t want
votes, or total-abstinence tickets, or social
purity badges. What they do want is husbands
—good, upstanding husbands. They are yearn-
ing for husbands, pining for husbands, dying
for husbands —and children. They long to
nestle their little heads close into somebody’s
waistcoat. Give them husbands. How ? Easily.
Let the Y. W.C. A.’s,and W.C.T.U. ’s, and all the
other faddy associations, form themselves into
one grand Association for the Promotion of
# #
Oh ! and what of morality ? Mora-
lity be hanged! Excuse me, but the case
demands strong language. Is it morality to
make natural instincts criminal, to set law
above reason, and cramp humanity to the stan-
dards of Mrs. Grundy ? Walk down any street,
and see the scores of young women, shrivelled,
yellow, diseased through leading unnatural lives.
Ask any doctor to tell you how many die in
early womanhood from “ decline,” “consump-
tion,” “ lung complaint,” or a dozen other
ailments whose names euphemistically hide
their real cause. And monogamy is “moral,”
forsooth ! What is monogamy, after all, but
veiled polygamy, with hetairai for second
wives ? How many men are rigidly mono-
gamistic? Ten per cent? The unions, the
W.C.T.U., and their kindred run hither and
thither seeking palliatives for prostitution. Let
them take polygamy, and prevent it. Poly-
gamy is natural, polygamy is scriptural, poly-
gamy is holy; and I am, yours, Brigham
Brown, M.D., F.R.C.S.
Work versus Shirk.
The gist of New South Wales Premier Dibbs’
Bathurst speech was its endorsement of the
policy of work as opposed to the policy of
shirk. As yet, Australia has hardly com-
menced to tap the springs of wealth which on
every hand surround her. Where minerals lie
on or near the surface of the ground, we have
picked them up. Where cattle will breed we
let them breed. Where wool will grow on a
sheep’s back we let it grow. But where actual
labour of brain and muscle is involved we have
hitherto done pitifully little. Seven million
acres under crop make a poor figure beside
200 million pounds of debt. The fatal
facility with which we have been able
to borrow money has been the national
undoing. It has starved the country of
labourers to accumulate drones in the cities ; it
has turned our Governments from directors of
industry into employers of industry, demoralis-
ing individual character and destroying indi-
vidual energy and self-reliance ; it places daily
before us the contrast of untilled fields and idle
hands, of mouths empty while earth and air
and sea teem with food, of the greatest natural
resources in the world side by side with poverty
and destitution.
# # s
Australia has only too faithfully imitated
the carter in the fable, who fell on his
knees and prayed Jupiter to help him when
his cart stuck in a rut. We have prayed to the
English capitalist for all he is worth. O, that
Jupiter would insist on our own shoulder going
to the wheel ! Observer after observer has
come to these shores to be astonished at the
apathy exhibited in the face of such golden
opportunities. Miss Shaw told us that the
characteristic attitude of young Australia was
to lean against a post ; and it is true.
Professor Shelton told the Queenslanders
that if there was in America one-hundredth
part of the rich coast-land which lies idle be-
tween Cooktown and Buudaberg, the Americans
would never rest from advertising and hustling
until every inch was under cultivation ; and it
is true. Armour, the Chicago meat-exporter,
asked by a New South Wales squatter what he
would do with bullocks walking about worth
50s. here and £25 in England, said he guessed
he’d do something, for such a state of things
was a slur on our progressiveness ; and it is
true.
* # *
Australia has long enough sat still and waited
for something to turn up : it is time she went
ahead and began to turn up something. Aus-
tralian Governments have been long enough in
the habit of feeding the people with a spoon ;
it is time they were turned adrift to
feed themselves. Premier Dibbs outlined
a policy of decentralisation as the policy
for New South Wales to follow. The
sooner the better. The Queensland Divi-
sional Boards Act has atoned by its suc-
cess for many of MTlwraitii’s blunders.
Anything which makes patronage and plunder
cease to be regarded as political perquisites ;
which sets the people on their own feet, and gives
them to understand that God and the Govern-
ment help only those who help themselves;
anything which strives to level class distinc-
tions, to put poor and rich on a footing of equal
opportunity, to give every man a fair chance,
and none more than a fair chance ; will be a
blessing in this world, and the next, and the
next after that. The eight-hour day is good, if
a man has to work for an employer ; but the
fewer employers Australia has the better, and
when a man works for himself he doesn’t count
his hours. There is plenty of grit in the com-
munity ; and when it is driven to the wall it
will put back its ears and fight. It is getting
pretty close to the wall now. The more need
for Dibbs and others to preach down the old
gospel, the gospel of shirk, and preach up the
new gospel, the gospel of work. /
Hopetoun and his Private Income.
Governor Hopetoun has contrived to drag
into a country banquet speech the statement
that his annual Victorian expenditure exceeds
the £lO,OOO and extra-allowance moneys pro-
vided by an obsequious Government. Lord
Hopetoun, with delicate Scotch humour,
describes himself as a “remittance man,” com-
pelled to send “ home ” for cash from “ his own
income” in order to “ keep up the position of
Governor thoroughly.” He somewhat doubts
the propriety of continuing this drain upon the
resources of Great Britain. Ho has to study
the feelings of his tenants, who, “though for
some time they may not object to money col-
lected from them coming out here, at the end
of that time may perhaps ‘ kick ’ at the money
going out of the country.” Brassy self-lauda-
tion is the rule at official gobbles, and the bush-
town banquet has ever been a favourable
opportunity for the diffusion of inflated non-
sense per medium of newspaper reports, but
probably Lord Hopetoun’s financial revelations
in the Mallee district deserve the palm for
absurdity.
# * *
In the first place, this non-productive noble-
man presumes to consider that Victoria has left
the discovery of a “ thorough ” maintenance
ofthe gubernatorial position to Hopetoun,
whereas he is actually, and even from the
“loyal” point of view, merely an imported
figurehead supplied with a certain fixed quan-
tity of gilt for gilding purposes. He is expected
to live comfortably en famille, and devote the
balance of his subsidy to the least objectionable,
or most worthy, matters that come within his
range. The quantity of dry champagne, the
number of expensive horses, the items of super-
fluous luxury that he may choose to order from
Europe are nothing to the people who provide
his Victorian allowance. The position of
Governor has a money limitation, and a very
liberal limitation it is. Nine-tenths of the
population would select a Governor (until such
time as they can abolish the office) who did his
little bit of official duty thoroughly, and saved
money from his official salary like any other
prudent occupant of a good billet, in preference
to the young lordling who draws upon a truly
scandalous source of unearned increment at
“Home.”
# # #
Admitting that the snobocracy prefers a
Hopetoun, it is certain that a Rothschild
would be even more acceptable. The Roths-
child figurehead might vote himself an extra
£200,000 a year from his privy purse in order
to keep up the position of Governor
“ thoroughly,” and yet what that plutocrat did
outside of his salary limit would be no more
irrelevant to the point than is the thing which
Hopetoun does. As regards these remit-
tances extracted from the Scotch earl’s “own
income ” —-what do they represent ? The fruits
of other people’s industry to which he has no
tittle of moral claim. The outcome of shame-
ful land laws by means of which a tribe of in ■
fluential drones maintain their social and poli-
tical ascendancy over mankind at large. Lord
Hopetoun’s first and foremost occupation in
life is the spending of riches that ought not to
be his. So much undeserved money is placed at
his disposal in Scotland every year, and what
he doesn’t scatter he heaps up to the family
glory. For some time past the growth of his
pile has been accelerated by the good people of
Victoria who give him what is tantamount to
£20,000, or more, a year for consenting to live
in their midst.
» # •
But because the lord has chosen to be not satis-
fied with living up to £20,000 a year, and has,
by some imperceptible means managed to ex-
ceed that sum, he has the puerile “ cheek” to
hint that his Scotch tenants —poor devils! —may
feel aggrieved at the spectacle of their callow
chieftain spending a few of his Scotch bawbees
in foreign parts. Observe the thin attempt to
represent peers as men responsible to their
tenants for all dealings with the rent-roll !
Whoever heard of a British farmer kicking on
account of the noble landlord spending half the
year on the Continent, and—Oh—is there any
case on record of a noble landlord caring
whether his vassal did so kick, or not? The
Morning Post is herewith commended to the
notice cf any up-country innocent on whom
Lord Hopetoun’s speech may have produced a
beautiful impression. In that flunkey journal
the reader may find abundant proof of bucolic
docility in the lists of landed proprietors who
are eternally leaving the country—let alone the
county —to spend money wrung from its soil.
Also, he may generally assume that the duke,
who departs on an unusually long tour, has
instructed his steward to miss no chance of
raising rents whilst the thoughtful landlord is
far away.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Political Deficits.
Inasmuch as the Victorian Government has
failed to adapt its expenditure to its income
during the current financial year, Melbourne
Age affects to believe that “the country is
still drifting to leeward at the rate of £ISOO a
day.” The country is warned of its imminent
peril and advised to cease drifting, as though
each individual inhabitant were privately
getting further and further into debt through
the agency of half-a-dozen feasting speech-
makers. This confusion of “ Crown ” and
country in financial matters is a popular press
fallacy, or trick—it is hard to say whether a
daily newspaper misrepresents a case with
malice aforethought, or from ignorance—and
thereby the public are taught to accept a partial
responsibility for the sins of their reckless ser-
vants. J. B. Patterson is the manager of a
unique kind of business, which may be styled
the State Taxation and Expenditure Co., un-
limited. He has full power, in his simple
business capacity, to prevent the faintest possi-
bility of a loss on his year’s transactions. He
could ensure a surplus in unprosperous times as
easily as he could run the co. into debt when
its income was exceptionally large. Very little
wisdom is needed to govern the world. The
smallest of nous would suffice to produce a
satisfactory State balance-sheet if the business
were conducted with that sole end in view.
Mean political considerations have governed
Patterson’s management of taxation and
expenditure, as they will always govern all
Governments founded on parliamentary cor-
ruption and “ party” principles. The moneyed
classes protested against a practical reduction
of the Civil Service, upon which their relatives
subsist, neither would they hear of a tax on
land or incomes sufficient to pay the salaries of
the swarm of State drones. Ideas of retrench-
ment in a number of dark corners were aban-
doned lest they might affect the prospects of
Patterson, and, as a last resource, the Govern-
ment added a special Customs duty in the blind
hope that it might work a miracle. The
miracle did not eventuate, and Patterson is
drifting to leeward at the rate of £ISOO a day.
Meanwhile, the country, meaning its working
population, practises economy. People are
living within their legitimate means, or
cautiously eating up their own capital, for the
reason that credit is strictly limited. There is
more real industry and far less extravagance in
Victoria to-day than at any time since Mel-
bourne began to fatten on foreign loans, and
although the country may not be steaming
ahead, it most certainly is not drifting the
wrong way. As for Patterson, he can be
safely left to work out his own destruc-
tion. If he can’t avoid a deficit under the
present easy conditions, when the wail
of the discharged barnacles would be drowned
by shouts of hungry derision from the masses—
then Patterson must go the way of the poli-
tical fraud who has been found out. Munro,
Shiels, and Patterson have each in turn
undertaken to tax Fat Man, or dispense with a
horde of his -proteges and other abuses, in order
to make Expenditure tally with Receipts.
Each of them has drifted further into debt
without in the least degree altering the state of
the country. The people have paid, as of yore,
a certain amount of money for the maintenance
of necessary and unnecessary departments, and
for the perpetration of scandalous jobs by
uncalled-for legislators, and the amount paid
has fallen short of the sum absorbed in
“ governing.” The balance is still owing, and
must be paid very shortly. This could be most
easily accomplished by electing a clean, new
Parliament, in which a new, clean Government
might exist without drifting. There is nothing
so conducive to official reform as a large deficit,
which the country is determined to wipe out.
♦
Characters and Characters:
The libel-case of Hayes v. The Australasian
has enabled a few more people to understand
the rank injustice of barristerial procedure, and
the unfairness of law-reporting by “great”
journals. Hayes, the plaintiff, is a jockey—a
“ flash ” young jockey, with a taste for bursts
of debauchery, and none of the strength of
mind, or coolness of character, which preserves
the small minority of jockeys from evil com-
panionship. Inasmuch as he had dared to con-
tend that he was not the dishonest rider por-
trayed by a weekly newspaper, Hayes was
made the victim of a violent verbal assault from
the defendant’s counsel. In a fiery opening
speech the aforesaid counsel described Hayes
as a light-weight monster of bagnio
wickedness, a committer of horrible crimes
upon unfortunate women, and the jury’s
attention was specially drawn to the impru-
dence of such a creature in bringing an
action for defamation of character against a
virtuous newspaper proprietary. No evidence
of these horrible crimes was adduced, however.
Women who were to go into the box and reveal
mysterious deeds, did not fulfil the awful pro-
mises of the opening speech. In point of fact,
no female entered the witness-box at all,
although a barmaid’s name was mentioned (and
reported) in a singularly aimless manner.
Jockey Hayes revealed, without hesitation, the
fact that he had gone to “bad houses ” in the
company of men older than himself, but the
evidence of his “ vice ” went no further. All
that could be made of this improper behaviour
was made by a truculent cross-examining purist
in a horse-hair wig, and the newspapers backed
him up with a full report. Previous to the
full exposure of the ignorant jockey-boy’s mis-
doings, a witness of higher social standing had
given testimony in support of the Australasian
case. Hayes’s solicitors saw cause for seeking
to discredit the evidence of this important
allegator, to which end they briefed a story
of his earlier life a story which, if
true, told considerably against his sense
of honour, and which was therefore as much
entitled to a full hearing and full publi-
cation as was any narrative of the Jockey’s
viciousness. Yet no sooner had this particular
old scandal been broached by the jockey’s bar-
rister than the Australasian barrister begged
the Judge to forbid publication. He raved and
wept, did this bold traducer of Hayes, this
famous “ terror to decent witnesses,” merely
because a gentleman on the Austrai-asian side
was experiencing the same kind of treatment
that was administered to the jockey. Further-
more, it is remarkable that the jockey’s bar-
rister soon desisted from questioning the person
of higher standing, and almost apologised for
having commenced to make himself unplea-
sant. He said that his questions were “ in
his brief,” wherefore he had seen no harm
in putting them, but the opposing wig-
wearer snorted, “In your brie/!’’ with all the
indignation of a man who wouldn’t hurt a
gentleman’s feelings though a thousand briefs
had instructed him to do so. The incident then
dropped. After being dropped, it was prac-
tically wiped out of the case where, on the
other hand, the immorality of Hayes was writ
so large. The Judge, forsooth, could not order
the suppression of evidence unfavourable to the
Australasian’s chief witness, but the “great”
newspapers suppressed it on their own account.
The Bulletin withdraws the remark that this
incident was “ wiped out.” It was covered up
by general consent of barristers and Press out
of respect to the majesty of the Law, which is
no respecter of persons, or for some other highly
respectable reason.
The progress of the pistol is so rapid that in
about a year, at present prospects, every Sydney
man will have to carry a revolver in his hip-
pocket, and learn how to draw first bead in a
street encounter. “ The strongest constable in
the force,” one McQuaker, was on duty in
Cook Park at 11 o’clock la,st Saturday night
when he saw a “suspicious” nigger. Why he
was suspicious, or even why he was a nigger, is
not clear ; but McQuaker alleges that he asked
for information and received a butt in the
stomach from the nigger’s head, which effectu-
ally doubled up “ the strongest constable in the
force.” Then the nigger ran away, and the
constable recovered sufficiently to reach for his
revolver and fire thrice after him. He didn’t hit
the nigger, but he very nearly hit a woman, and
he might easily have hit any one of the large
number of persons who pass through Cook Park
on a Saturday night. It seems almost a pity
he didn’t “blood” his new revolver, which, in
the ordinary course of human nature,. every
constable must itch to do. As for the nigger,
and the woman—well, there are plenty of
women and niggers. Led by Dibbs (who, it is
publicly stated, also carries a revolver and
shows it off before admiring reporters) the
police might organise a little battue in the
parks on Saturday nights, being careful always
to ask a person if he was “ suspicious ” before
shooting him, and if not why not. As the
average park proinenader would probably
become indignant and refuse to answer, he
could be dropped off-hand. When the sus-
picious public take to carrying revolvers them-
selves, the fun will become fast and furious,
and the province will be happy and free and a
pleasant place to live in.
Constable Andrews mixed himself up in a
dispute between Mr. Garvan, M.P. (N.S. W.),
and his tenants, in such a fashion that the In-
spector-General of Police thought he should be
reprimanded. That was foolish. Premier
Dibbs mixed himself up in a dispute between
Mr. Garvan, M.P., and a policeman, and lent
himself to further his supporter’s vengeance by
adding to the punishment awarded by the
Inspector, and disrating and removing a
man for the first mistake made in 14 years,
during which he had borne an excellent charac-
ter. That was unjust. New South Wales
Assembly, overwhelmed with work, wasted a
whole evening in discussing this, because the
Opposition wished to make political capital out
of the matter, f That was both foolish and
unjust.
The Marquis of Ailesbury, turf blackguard
and “ Juggins,” has emulated the more amiable
Marquis of Hastings by dying of liquor and
late hours, in his stale young manhood. He
leaves a widow (Dolly Tester) of giddy repu-
tation, and a sister who is the wife of bookmaker
Sutton, to mourn his loss, whilst the Hebrew
money-lenders who hold his life - assurance
policies are probably drinking champagne in
honour of his early decease. The splendid
Ailesbury estate has already passed into the
hands of exalted brewers, or was lost to the
noble Marquis in a maze of mortgage, and as
he no longer owned a single shilling there was
nothing in particular left for him save death
and burial in the ancestral vault. This high-
born personage was a natural larrikin, accord-
ing to all accounts, an enthusiastic consort of
blacklegs, bullies, and inferior boozers. The
Jockey Club warned him off the turf, and even
middle-class tuft-hunters, possessing ideas as to
social decency, would have refused to open
their doors to the title borne by this rowdy
character. But the House of Peers, it is
interesting to note, was always open to the
Marquis of Ailesbury. The glorious British
Constitution recognised him as a pillar of the
State, and his power to obstruct the march of
progress with his hereditary vote was unim-
paired up to the day when dissipation carried
him off. Therefore, Rule Britannia, for Britons
never will be slaves !
The Melbourne Board of Works “ dished ” the
Vic. Government with its loan last week, in
revenge for Shiels’ Government beating Fitz-
gibbon by a fortnight when he went to London


M. &, H. WOOLF & CO.,
Tobacco and Cigar Merchants,
HAVE
REMOVED TO 376 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY (General Post Office next floor).
This WKKK, send for Box of 100 Indian Cigars
(Spencer’s Heavy Weight), 15s.
FROSSARD’S SWISS.
A. Good. and. Clveap Cigar.
HIGHEST AWARD:
Melbourne Exhibition*
1888.
m
Manufactured by
FROSSARD & CO.,
PAYjBKNE (Switzerland).
Finest Quality and Workmanship obtainable. They are longer, better filled and heavier than
any other brand. Buy them by bundles of 25—they cost yon less, and you know you get the genuine
article, by seeing our Name and Trade Mark round each bundle.
Oh ! draught divine, that adds new life—breeds
mirth—
Links soul to soul upon our dry old earth.
Where shall I quaff thee ? Horace! thou shouldst
know ?
Why, in the Boar’s Head Brand of Innes and Co.
At all Grocers and Wine Merchants.
to be snubbed by the brokers. People want to
know why the Board of Works borrowed this
£500,000. There is still on hand, it is said, a
large portion of the money borrowed locally
last year, and, as no big contracts are being let,
the Board has the money idle, losing interest.
The loss on that money must now be added to
the accruing loss on this new loan, which is 4J
on £500,000 or £22,500 a year. This is a big
price to pay for the derangement of the Board’s
spleen. Besides, if the Board had waited till
it wanted the money, say next November, they
might have got it on a 4 per cent, basis, as
money will be unemployable all the winter.
A meeting of the Vic. Women’s Suffrage
League was held in Melbourne the other day
in the presence of about 40 “ ladies ” of assorted
ages and shapes. No men were there. The
majority of those present belonged to the
squatto-financial crowd, the remainder being
social-gimletists, suburban mayoresses, temper-
ance-faddists, Blavatskites, and a handful of
Austral-Salonites to give things tone ; but one
and all appeared to be well under the control of
a certain Tory pen-lady who “ ran ” the meet-
ing and maintained excellent discipline. A
well-nourished member made the hit of the day
by remarking that “ Our grooms and coachmen
and workmen to whom we give employment are
liable to make laws to govern us. The lower
orders can dominate those who own Property ”
—which was received with a snort of indigna-
tion. The remark, however, need hardly have
been made in the presence of the wife and
daughters of an ex-coachman who sat lower
down the room. The election of office-bearers
was proceeded with, Agar Wynne, the egg-
headed Postmaster-General, being chosen presi-
dent, on the ground that he was “very nice.”
The well-known opposition of a prominent
politician was overcome by a lady who under-
took to secure his adhesion before “ to-morrow
morning.” What means she intended to em-
ploy were not made public. The glorious
principle of the woman property-vote is to be
furthered by “drawing-room meetings” every
week, and Parliament is to be urged and
threatened to pass the bill immediately upon
opening and give the Fat Woman a show to join
the Young Victorian Patriotic League by next
election time.
[?]
846 Macquarie-street North, Sydney,
April 18, 1894.
My Dear Moorabinda—•
There is at least one “ town ” fashion which
hasn’t caught on in Australia yet, and which I
hasten to place before the local Anglo-maniacs in
time for the social season. It is that the up-to-
date British woman in a crush behaves more like
a circular saw than a human being, and without
the suspicion of an apology whether she rips up
somebody’s veil with the tip of her brolly, or
carries an eye off on the savage point of her orna-
mental hat-pin.
In the up-to-date English reception-room, too,
plain and fancy hustling is the most fashionable
behaviour for a well-dressed mob, and the woman
who apologises for carrying away half-a-yard of
tulle on her sharp shoe-buckle is immediately sus-
pected of being no lady. In fact, the woman who
begs your pardon is lost in “ town ” just now ; so,
when Potts Point prods me with its naked elbow
without apology, and treads on my heels without
looking shocked at itself, I will know the reason
o’t.
The very latest phase of British ignorance, as
applied to this impossible continent, cropped out
in a Sydney drawing-room the other day, when a
recent arrival from the shady side of Piccadilly
was asked by the hostess if he would come to a
dance? “ Weally delighted, Ai’m shuah,” said
the object, “ but Ai have no clothes. Dontcher-
see, Ai didn’t think evening dress would be worn
in Austrailyah, so Ai didn’t bothah bringing it.”
People who make a hobby of seeing the big
mail-boats off to “ town ” get a little amusement
out of it. For example, it is always interesting to
see how the only single captain now left in the
service (and even he is only the left-handed sort
of bachelor a widower makes) always sets steam
from a wharf absolutely crowded with ladies—
frisky little society women who are the last to
leave the ship, and at whom thebe-buttoned auto-
crat gazes with rapt opera-glasses as they linger
down the gangway. The rush of women to the
ship of this unattached male is simply sensa-
tional, and it strikes mo that the shipping
owners who want to boom their line ought to
advertise that none but bachelors command their
tubs, and a chaplain is always carried ! Though,
as a rule, mind you, the sea-dog moves in a
mysterious way his mashings to perform, and ik
takes a clever woman many voyages before she
knows for certain whether there i» a Mrs. Captain
or not!
Which reminds me that one single ruler,
on a certain line, was haunted by a devoted
voyageuse who pegged to and fro in his ship,
gazing up in his face from her sealed seat at
the cap’ns table, and always appearing under his
arm on moonlight nights in the shadow of the
smoke-stack, voyage after voyage. At last, when
he had landed her for about the forty-ninth time,
and observed her, on the day of sailing, coming
peacefully aboard for her fiftieth trip, his patience
gave out. “I say,” said he, desperately, “don’t,
you think it would be a square thing to give
another ship a chance ?”
But as I said (before I interrupted myself) yon
see some funny sights when the mail-boat is cast-
ing off. At a recent departure the crowd round
the freight shed was kept lively by the spectacle
of a departing youth hanging by the tips of his
toes to the bulwarks and holding out his yearning
arms to his sweetheart on the wharf, whom he
implored to “Kiss me, darling,” although there
were three or four feet of dubious wharf-water
between the quay and the ship.
And the darling’s superhuman efforts to balance
herself at right angles over the watery hiatus with
her lips puckered up ready for the salute shows
what a blank the whole grinning world is to a
woman when her best boy wants to hug her; ib
also proved that, after all, women aren’t much
more modest than men. However, the youth was
dragged away without the kiss he asked for,
though probably if he has many moonshiny nights
en route he will avenge his unkind fate somehow
if there is a pretty girl aboard.
The only point of interest that I discovered in
the recent Sydney newspaper controversy on
“Why don’t girls marry?” was when “A happy
father” burst into print to accuse other and pos-
sibly unhappy papas of not encouraging eligible
sons-in-law about the premises. “For his parb
he always made it a rule to encourage young men
whom, he knew to be gentlemen ’’—with the result
that all the dear girls got married, thanks to dear
pa’s sixpenny cigars !
But life will be a twig simply smothered in
matrimonial bird-lime if Pa augments the trans-
parent blandishments of Ma in making an un-
decided youth too comfortable when he only
meditates “ hanging up his hat.” Hitherto the
scowling parent who fidgets about the gas after
ten p.m. and converses in scornful grunts, has been
the olive in love’s saccharine young dream, and
has lent a fictitious uncertainty to the sure and
certain hope of winning the willing damsel—bub
if Pa takes to beaming from ear to ear from 7 p.m.
to midnight on Angelina’s victim, Gussie in
search of a wife will have a truly awful time.
Pa’s smiles would frighten Adonis off. Man
respects man’s opinion, and when Gussie sees his
Angelina’s progenitor on tenter-hooks to surrender
his darling che-yild to a stranger, he will eye the
che-yild with as much suspicion as a bargain-
hunter eyes the shopman who is concealing the
spotted part with a graceful fold of the “goods,”
His Excellency of You-Know-Where —he offers
people two fingers of his gloved hand at receptions
continues to run foul of his loving “subjects,”
and the last V.R. blunder is that the Government
steam-launch is large enough to carry a Crown
Minister or two beside the Governor and party,
but not the ladies of Crown Ministers. Conse-
quently, when his Ex. and her ladyship and a
comprehensive suite journeyed to the Darktown
show the other day, a politician, whose foot is
always on his native heath and his nameM’Gregor
in that particular district, was barred out of the
patronising party and travelled with his wife per
ordinary steamer for the first time in the whole
course of his parliamentary career. But where,
may I ask, is the woman who would give up the
fearful joy of sousing along in the same tub as the
Guv’nah’s party and travel in the cheap saloon of
a smoky coaster in order to stick to her husband ?
I am afraid that, under the circumstances, the
average Darby would have to make his pilgrimage
en garQon.
Apart from the invisible gratification of Mrs-
Politician at being thus snubbed out of the hunt,
it won’t make their Excellencies wildly popular
in feminine political circles if the penalty a vir-
tuous M.P. pays for fetching his legal consoler
with him to the side-shows is that he is shorn of
the glory of landing on the same strip of carpet as
His Ex., and must arrive per ordinary tramp-ship
simply because the Missus is “along.” And the
lady in question, too, considers herself some pota-
toes in the town hereinbefore alluded to. Her
bouquet on similar occasions has always been bub
two rosebuds smaller than Lady Blank’s. In the
best interests of the nation, if the Government
steamer really is too small for married Ministers,
do let us get one a more easy fit.
A recent ’Ome sensation is a woman who pulls
splinters out of herself at the rate of a hundred
per day, and as no pain attends the mysterious
exudation it must be rather pleasant to be able to
provide tinder for the kitchen-grate out of your
elbow-joints. Which reminds me of the Australee
man who got married, nob an age since, to a
charming girl, who was unfortunately handi-
capped with a wooden leg. Of course, the bride-
groom was “honourably” enlightened on the
subject of the timber toes, and in the magnanimity
of green inexperience declared that such a thing
was a distinct advantage to have in the family.
And so the marriage took place. But sometime
afterwards a trusted friend asked him how the
timber had turned out. “Ib is not the leg I
object to,” he said, sadly, “it’s the splinters !”
On dit that the grandfather (I notice a steady
increase of grandfathers in Australian society, by
the way) of the man who is going to marry one of
the richest of Southerners made his little heap in
preserving pigs, or—to pub ib more formally,
bacon. His uncle alleviates the porky aspect of
things by being of considerable literary distinc-
tion, and another prominent relative gets farther
away from Grunterdom by making his immortal
pile in a gold-mina Bub the true secret of the
family is hog, nevertheless.
Here is a Chinese anecdote fit to keep company
with that hideous Bulletin story “Shduffin.” Ib
occurred on a N.S.W. station, fed by a celestial
cook whose wonderful gift was the smoothness
with which he could spread his bread with butter.
No matter whether the season was one for oily
butter or for butter frozen into marbles, the rolls
of bread always came up as beautifully even as if
a dog had licked them. But there, it wasn’t the
dog that did it. Somebody coming quietly into
the kitchen one day discovered Ah Sin carefully
licking the spread loaf.
It is level-headed of Mrs. Brough to dress
“ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” to the last curl on
her sinful poll. Whatever is thought as to the
extent to which she revealed the inner workings
of the complex character of the second Mrs. T.,
all the women in front were quite satisfied that
lull justice was done as regards the outer husk.
In the first act a powder-pink silk with Beatrice
sleeves and lashings of fine lace was eclipsed in
more senses than one by the wrap in beaver cloth,
brown fur and brown silk embroidery, made from
a design by Mrs. Potter’s idol —Worth (of Paris).
In the second act, a very good-looking gown of
white stamped velvet on a satin ground with
shirred under-sleeves and artistic intervals of
yellow velvet, the bodice fastening up the back
with rosettes of white and yellow (rather sug-
gesting spinal notches, I thought) was just the
sort of expensive tackle a promoted demi-mondaine
would be likely to sport at breakfast; and it was
a relief when Grace Noble appeared in neat tailor-
cut grey. Miss Noble steals all through the
tragedy, by the way, in the Carmelitish tint,
like a grey tabby eat—which is a good enough
pattern for the character she takes in this parti-
cular play.
A second dress worn by Mrs. Brough in the
second act is a dark seal-brown out-door toilet
with the deep shoulder-flaps designed in black
jet and a vest of pale primrose silk—picture hat
of brown velvet trimmed with jet and feathers,
which will hardly live to the end of the run if
Mrs. Brough continues to scrunch it in her wrath
as she did at the premiere. But the way she
maltreats those feathers gives realism to the
situation. No woman falls foul of her best hat
unless she really means every word of it.
The swell gown of the play was worn in the last
two acts. It was very pale brocade—the colour
of town milk—brocaded in a design of pale-pink
flowers and made with a sacque back and full
train line in the front with quilted blue satin.
The underdress of the brocade was made plain,
but with enormous sleeves trimmed in a novel
way with silver-tagged laces tied in bows, and
frills of creamy lace. Diamond jewellery com-
pleted an imposing costume, which had, by-the-
way, another finishing touch—an inky-black
rosette on the bosom of it suggesting that she was
wearing her heart on her corsage for daws to peck
at. In the same acts Emma Temple, as the
peroxided Lady Orreyed (pronounced ’Orrid), is
very suitably dressed in petunia-mauve satin
theatrically contrasted with gold-spangled yellow
gauze and “ salted ” with wild-cat diamonds.
A pleasant thing in the deportment of Mrs. T.
No. 2 is that she doesn’t smoke a cigarette—which
looks as if the harmless paperpuff is losing ground
in the worst stage circles. But, instead of a
cigarette, we have strong language. It isn’t so
long ago that somebody wrote a play with a girl
in it who said “Damn !” and there was a news-
paper-war about it, but in “ Mrs. Tanqueray ” the
language is—er—forcible. “Deuce take it all!”
says the heroine, using the weakest oath in the
play.
By the way, B. & B.’s jeune premier, Mr.
Renouf (they don’t need to bill him as an importa-
tion : quarter-acre checks and tan boots speak
louder than words), has an unattractive habit of
sticking his hand in his pocket that makes it im-
possible to take him seriously. Even if it is the
go at ’Ome for a man to plunge his horny fist
among his loose silver in the exigencies of conver-
sation with a lady, it wasn’t very artistic to make
Captain Ardale keep one hand coolly in his
pocket for almost all the time he argued fran-
tically with Mrs. T. An actor who melodrama-
tically grabs the star by the wrist with one hand
and keeps the other pouched, looks about as tragic
as Romeo would shinning up the ladder in carpet
slippers.
The part of the husband, Aubrey Tanqueray,
taken by Mr. Titheradge, is a most ungrateful
one. Mr. Tanqueray is the sort of hero who says
“Never mind, my dear,” in an unmoved voice,
and then kicks up a gorgeous row about it. He is
always morally justified in his wild expostulations
—which is probably the reason why the audience
generally sides with Paula—but the change of the
pig’s ear to a silk purse is the mere A. 8.0. of
legerdemain to what Tanqueray expected of the
frisky Mrs. T. after twelve months or so of holy
matrimony.
There was a full and plenteous dress-circle to
sample Mrs. T,, but all I remember was a vision
of Essie Jenyns in a stage-box accompanied by a
lady in bright scarlet, and “Jack,” of course, who
ought to begin studying hair-restorers. The
divine Essie wore cream colour draperies and
diamonds, but the interest of the house was
absorbed by her fan. Slowly Essie let it drop
stick by stick on the ledge of the box—every stick
split right up as if the fan was broken to bits—
and then with a sudden wave it was all put to-
gether again and as sound as a cast-iron punkah.
What is the true inwardness of a fan that splits
its sides at the option of the purchaser I am at a
loss to conjecture, but it must be the very latest
snap.
The ground-plot of “Mrs. Tanqueray,” I may
say for the benefit of those who can’t be there, is
not complicated. A lonely widower marries a
demi-mondaine, in the cheerful hope that Mrs.
Grundy isn’t as black as she’s painted, and
believing that his daughter has taken religious
vows and won’t obtrude her innocence into his
experimental menage. But the frigid daughter
pops out of her convent —a lover turns up for her
who is one of the gilded youths the second Mrs.
T. has been “friendly” with, and when matters
get into this Gordian knot, Mrs. Tanqueray, with
the ghosts of dead-and-gone champagne suppers
whispering in her ear, disposes of it by suiciding
—behind the scenes.
I must confess to being sorry that the fascinating
Mrs. Gordon-Baillie has again got into trouble in
England. I am sorry because the handsome
adventuress, “ who a few years ago was quite as
good to look at as Lily Langtry,” says a man who
knew both, had the makings of a really good
sort of duchess had circumstances not perverted
her. “It is easy to be good on five thousand a
year.” A typical Highland lassie, full-blooded,
warm-hearted, was Mrs. Gordon B.
She was a washerwoman’s daughter, and yet by
her tact and cleverness in holding her tongue at
critical moments, her stately figure, quietly modish
dressing, and grand manner, she impressed you
as a lady despite her big hands—the only mongrel
point about her. Some women, of course, are so
adaptable that one voyage first-class in a P. & O.
is enough to give them the veneer of a marchioness,
and “girls quickly learn the trick of dress”—
but others, again, might go to the moon first-elass
and eat their supper with a teaspoon when they
got back. I know a Sydney woman who has been
the guest of no end of swells, but who tilts her
plate to this day when she eats porridge.
Like the elevated Australian personage who
alleged that she couldn’t sign a petition because
her gloves were tight, Mrs. G. B. never wielded a
pen in public, and it is possible that the scribal
contortions of Brough’s policeman in “Dandy
Dick ” are similar to what this fascinating woman
went through in writing a note. But then her
tact drew a veil over the scene, and if she wrote
with square elbows and her tongue out, the world
at least never knew it for certain. Then there
were the carefully-looked-after children, any of
whom were pretty enough to be the original of
Millais’ “Cherry Ripe,” as Mrs. G.B. said one
baby was ; and altogether—reviewing the whole
ladylike masquerade—it seems a pity even now
that an unpaid Melbourne milkman’s bill should
have spiked the wheel of one of the most charming
women Australia has ever done or been “done”
by.
A picture of the past: Mrs. Gordon-Baillie, in
the Governor’s box, affectionately stroking the
silky heads of the children of “the very first” in the
fair land of Australia. It’s no use now for people
to say they could “see through her.”
The marriage of Miss Chirnside and Everard
Brown is, I am told, to take place at the con-
clusion of the hunting season, and will be followed
by a trip “ ’Ome ” in time for the English one.
Yours faithfully,
SAPPHO SMITH.
The Wild-Cat Column.
That wonderfully dead-and-gone institution,
the Freehold Investment and Banking Co. of Melbourne,
wants to reconstruct on the most truly wonderful basis
yet heard of. Firstly, it is proposed to make a new co.
with a capital of £250,000, in 250,000 shares of £1 each.
Every shareholder who pays up his shares in the old,
busted Freehold Investment Co. to the extent of £6 per
share will get £1 shares in the new co. in exchange for
them, the other £5 per share being written off as utterly
lost and dead ! As it happens, however, the old shares
are now only paid up to £3 10s. and the most desperate
efforts of the liquidators (who have made a call of £2l
10s.) have only resulted in extracting an average of a few
coppers per share from the most utterly dead-broke set
of contributors in Melbourne. The great mass of the
contributors, in fact, either have no money or have it
securely planted, and they have successfully taken up the
attitude that the liquidators may go to Sheol. Seeing,
therefore, that they can get through—as they have
already demonstrated—without paying anything, the
suggestion that they should pay up £2 10s. per share, for
the pleasure of getting a £1 share in their own hopeless
co.— a co. which no one would have at a gift—is lovely.
When the new concern is formed, and the share-
holders have paid up 50s. a share, and 30s. has been
written off as lost, and in exchange for the other 20s. they
have got all their old debts and embarrassments back
again with the prospect of more calls in the future, (he
creditors are to be considered. The liabilities (£1,362,000
of them) are to be paid by “ \ ” debentures bearing 5 per
cent, interest. When the interest on the “ A ” debentures
can’t be paid in cash it is to be paid in “ B ” debentures,
and when the co. can’t pay the interest on either its “ A’’
or “ B ” debentures, it will probably set tle up by issuing
more debentures, even unto Z. This transaction means
that the new co. makes itself liable for £68,000 a year in
interest alone, and the shareholders are to pay 50s. per
share for the pleasure of having a 20s. interest in the right
to pay that interest. The “A ” debentures and the “B ”
debentures, and any other debentures, are to accumulate
until the co. can buy them up out of profits, at current
market rates, whatever these may be. When such a con-
cern is likely to have any profits no one Knows.
Ib all reads like a hideous joke or a nightmare.
In reality, the Freehold directors might as well try to re-
construct the original Moses of the Exodus, by issuing
debentures to Isaac Isaacs, the Hebrew bookmaker.
When Fink, the Jd. composition man, is able and
willing to pay 2s. 6d. in the £ as a bonus for
the privilege of paying up the 19s. in the £
which he still owes, then the Freehold Investment
scheme will be a success, but not till then. The
concern has nothing to reconstruct save its deficiency.
Among its principal shareholders are three of the biggest
boomers, and the prospect of these persons paying £2los.
per share on their stupendous mass of scrip is a jovful
circumstance. The present situation is that all the old
capital, reserve funds and alleged “undivided profits”
are completely lost, that three-fifths of the capital of the
new co. are lost before it is paid up, and that whether the
other two-fifths is lost or not is a matter for conjecture.
Which is not a gratifying basis to start any new co. upon,
or the sort of thing which leads to a frenzied rush of
subscribers.
* • * •
The Federal Bank balance-sheet for the latter
half .of 1891 was bolstered up with £95,000 of “ emer-
gency ” payments, which wiped out the big overdrafts for
a day or two and inflated the appearance of “cash at
bankers.” The ledger being ruled off, cheques were
drawn for the same amounts that had been paid in, the
overdrafts stood as before, and the sudden addition to
cash at bankers melted away like the shadow of a dream.
That is to say, a director who had exactly nothing to his
credit, or a debit already, drew a huge cheque which was
in effect duly honoured. There was no formal application
for a renewal of the old overdraft. It just vanished and
then popped up again, like a revolving light. This system
of balance-time finance was perfectly legitimate, accord-
ing to ex-manager Priestley, because “ the same thing was
being done in connection with other Melbourne banks.’’
And is being done now, The Bulletin presumes.
* * * »
Liquidator Priestley, in denying his personal
responsibility for many sins committed by the Federal
management, said quite enough to justify the contention
that no high official of that ill-used bank could be a
proper instrument for winding it up.
* * • »
The reconstruction of the New Zealand Loan
and Mercantile Agency Company is sanctioned by the
Court, and a new*" board of directors appointed, including
Martin (of Turnbull, Martin & Co., shipowners), John
Beaumont, formerly of Christchurch (M.L.), and W. W.
Oswald, manager of the National Bank of Australasia.
If the directors face the situation squarely, there is no
reason why the co. should not prosper yet. There is any
amount of uncalled capital, and if the shareholders are
content to take the losses upon themselves, after the
valorous manner of the 8.N.Z., some years ago, instead
of trying to pass them over to the public, things will gee
straight away. Whether the old directors can be brought
to bock is not very clear.


Matthew Davies committed a ghastly indur
rretion the other day, by writing to the Argus denying
that the Victorian Mortgage and Deposit Bank was “a
I‘retohed Daviesian company.” Matthew, on his own
showing, had had no connection worth mentioning with
this concern since he resigned his place on the hoard in
1890 nor did he know much about it any time.
m,ert this explanation," wrote the indignant knight. The
Argus editor added a P.S. to the explanation-a gentle
that the V.M. and D. “ Bank was an evolution
nf Matthew’s own particular Victorian Land Company,
and that it was Matthew who led the new company s
appeal to the British company.
An acutely virtuous British judge shuddered on
nedesial, last week, when he heard that the N.Z.
Loan and Mercantile directorate had toned down aoertain
report to prevent It from being too strong. This
astounded the guileless judge, who enquired, after
recovering his breath, ‘‘Can the truth be too strong?
♦ ♦ * *
Shareholders at bank meetings should never
fm-o-et to enquire how much of the assets has been mytni-
Lf v paid in for balancing purposes. The answer may be
a diplomatic lie, but it is advisable to pin the chairman
down to a good fat lie as often as possible.
* * * *
It is alleged in Melb. that a syndicate of five
brokers scooped the pool over the Metropolitan Board of
Works loan, besides taking the “ kitty.” Somebody got
i, no w the Union Bank was to tender for £250,000 at
.nr and the dealers boldly bid for the balance of the loan
at o’ver par up to £lOO 10s. The public will have to buy
from them, and the coup looks like being the biggest and
best any “ push ” has yet made in Australia !
* * * *
It is not generally known that the revenue of
Melb Board of Works from water-rates fell from £174,500
fn 1592 to £155,500 in 1893; and management expenses
have gone up from £17,863 in 1890-1 to £24,253 in 1892-3.
The shillHi :r rate must be made if the Board intends to
pav its big annual interest bill, and when the policemen
collect the water-rate and begin selling off one 8 German
pianos and brio-a-brao to pay Fitz’s big salary—well, the
hobbies will have to carry Zalinski guns. It looks as if
the Government will have to take back their waterworks
inside five years.
» • • *
A Southern magnatehas just borrowed <£150,000
on real estate, at 5+ per cent., to pay calls on re-con-
struoted bank-shares.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
A firm of pastoralists, whose liabilities amount
to £557,000, privately offer a Is. composition.
* * * *
One Melb. stock and share broking firm is liable
for £1 0)0,000 in calls on shares whioh it bought m
its own'na ue, for clients, who are now “ men of straw.”
* * * *
From the N.Z. Loan and M. Agency examina-
tion in London, it would appear as if the zeal of the
masterful Mr. David Elder had seriously outrun his
discretion.
♦ * * *
The City of Melbourne Bank made a nett pro-
fit of £5647 last half, which, plus £1694 brought forward,
is <r o od enough to pay 5 per cent, on preference shares—
£Bls in all—but not enough to go round the ordinaries.
The common shareholders rely on the courteously ex-
pressed hope that their turn is coming—some day.
* • * *
Gideon’s fleece was nothing to the heavenly
moisture in a thirsty land offered by the Trust and
Agency Co. of Australasia’s 20 per cent. div. and 24 per
oJ’.t bonus. £37,500 to the reserve fund as well. If
jealousy could kill, the co. wouldn’t linger ten minutes
w.th all the stabs of “ reconstruoteds ” in its vitals. For
it must have thriven on others’ loss.
* * * *
Minister Suttor (N.S.W.) told a Bathurst
audience that he had seen the aocounl-sales of a shipment
of 3000 frozen lambs from N.S.W. to England. These
5-months’ -old carcases, which would have fetched in
Sydney market from ss. to 65., realised in London, nett,
12s. 6d.
♦ • * ♦
S. M. Herald glowingly refers to the “golden
harvest” now being reaped by the Australian shipping
companies, in the Westralian passenger trade. You may
be sure that the shipping co.’s that recently united to
reduce seamen’s wages, on account of the then depressed
shipping conditions, have at once joined hands to raise
present wages and to give bonuses to crews ?
* * * .
Indian hawker providers and enterprising
Chinamen have learned to file their schedules in Mel-
bourne. “ Payee shillin’ in pound and startee flesh allee
same—O, welly good 1"
* • •
Mr. M‘Mahon, landowner, of Clyde Elver,
N.S.W., on whose estate a little gold was lately found,
met 400 miners, and read the registered regulations under
which he would allow mining-amongst others the pay-
ment by the men of £1 a month each, and a quarter of
the gold found by them. The miners yelled and groaned.
No wonder. Thev knew that the gold belonged not to
Mr. M’Mahon, but to the State. “Subsequently a com-
promise was arrived at.” But the thing was a duffer.
* » • •
Bolte and party struck a rich patch at Wyalong
last week, the stone being shot with fine gold right
through, but, like the rest of the Wyalong finds, it was
only a small blow.
• * • ♦
The battery at Wyalong threatened to be in
working order by Monday, 16th inst., but it will be fully
another week before crushing begins.
* * * *
Newspaper correspondents persistently boom
Wyalong. “ Those who have left are chiefly artisans and
newohums to mining. . . False reports are being
circulated respecting the field . . . the prospects of
which are better than ever.” And so on. But the fact
remains that to date no enduring reef-formation has
been tapped.
* • ♦ »
The Clyde Eiver, N.S.W., rush, boomed to the
extent of 3oz. to the bucket by Sydney E. News, seems a
hopeless duffer. The News should have said 3grs., instead
of oz., to the bucket.
* • ♦ •
Broken Hill returns, week to April 12 Pro-
prietary, 9321 tons ore, 929 tons bullion, 269,5160 z. silver.
Block io, 81 tons ore, 10 tons bullion, 16,4850 z. silver,
* * * »
Broken Hill estimated rates have fallen from
£12,095 last year to £9391. The mines, which paid £4221
last year, are now rated at £3496 ; in each case they con-
tributed over a third of the town revenues. Ratable
property has fallen from £256,329 to £188,354.
* » * •
Block 10 lode, struck in Campbell’s shaft 80ft,
below the 1015 ft. level, is no improvement on the 815 ft.
and 915 ft. levels, where it was driven through in cross-
cuts. It, is the usual forbidding sulphide, high in zinc,
low in silver. The theory of improvement of sulphides
at depth receives a distinct shock.
* • » ♦
Drake, N.S.W., again excited because of a good
crushing (300 oz.) from the All Nations claim.
• * * »
The Rockvale Freehold, N.S.W., is in volun-
tary liquidation—a chance for anyone in want of a new
80-head.
♦ » * *
A large percentage of quartz-mining in N.S.W.
t» done by trilmtors, who take up the ground at the point
where the companies leave it. It is usually the better end
of the stick, the co. having provided machinery and most
of the dead work. There are six payable tributes at
Parkes.
♦ * * •
In March, ’93, two men, Pain and Bartley,
found a reef while fencing at Yalgogrin, 30 miles west of
Wyalong; it showed paying stone and caused a bit of a
rush. The reef, being narrow, Pain and Bartley sunk 20ft.
to catch it thicker, but found it clean gone. Yalgogrin
men who are on Wyalong reckon the nature of the soil
exactly the same, and for the better field give the palm to
Yalgogrin.
» * » *
Frank Cotton, M.P., says, at Fort Bourke Hill,
Cobar, there is a reef 60ft. wide, carrying sdwts. per ton,
and that a tunnel has been driven 450 ft. into the hill
proving the lode to be equally massive and of uniform
gold-bearing quality at that depth ; yet a single Hunting-
don mill is slowly and painfully grinding the mountain to
dust. Humph ! A sdwt. free-gold lode that siz; should
be worth £50,000 a year. If Mr. Cotton can’t, will some
local miner explain the fly in the ointment?
» ♦ » »
When Wyalong rush first set in men employed
on adjacent railway stations took the gold-fever badly,
threw up their billets and started for the field. At Junee,
a busy junction, the station-master and one man done
remained at their posts. Even some of the men after-
wards sent from Sydney to fill the vacancies “ cleared.”
However, that’s all over now and many would like to get
their old billets back again.
* * • ♦
Isn’t it about time to hear something more re
that wonderful discovery at Marshall’s claim, Hill End ?
* » » »
The D’Arcy Wentworth, recently floated in
London, have started their main shaft, which will be sunk
about 1000 ft. before opening up on the “contact.” This
in one p irt of the Proprietary minegoes out at 600 ft. The
property has hundreds of useless acres in other directions.
Who is responsible for the tremendous blunder of not
securing another strip of 20 acres on the eastern boun-
dary ?
* * * *
Mitchell’s Creek Freehold, N.S.W., in 3| years
crushed 20,000 tons for £60,938 gold. It is about to erect
ten additional head and a chlorination-plant.
» * * *
In 3 h years, the Sunlight Co., Hillgrove,
N.S.W., crushed 25,378 tons for 17,0780 z., gold valued
£60,883, but it never paid a div. save in royalties to the
owners of the freehold. It is now’ erecting a concen-
trating plant, which should have been doneSJ years ago.
* » * *
Berrigan rush, N.S.W., also a newspaper duffer.
» ♦ * *
Tindall’s mine, out of which much gold has been
dollied, has ordered a 10-head battery.
* * * *
Editor Bulletin. Sir, —I have to thank you
for your reference to the Bodalla reef, and to confirm
your statement as to, the enormous quantities of ore in
sight. At the same ’time, I desire that you will correct
the statement that attempts are being made to float. No
such attempts have been, or are being, made. The few
men associated with the Mumuga Creek leases on the
giant reef (and they include Mr. Johnson, M.P., of Ade-
laide, and Mr. E. Pritchard, of N.S. Wales) are hearing
the whole cost of development themselves, and have no
intention of asking the public to join them until they
have thoroughly tested the reef, and are fully satisfied of
its payable character ; and probably not then, unless
abnormally extensive reduction-plant is necessary. With
a view of exhaustively testing the reef, a small plant,
capable of crushing 100 tons of stone per w'eek, is now in
course of erection, and a trial lot of at least 1000 tons of
quartz will be put through before deciding upon further
steps. —Yours truly, Chas. L. Garland.
* * * *
The Tas. Govt. Geologist has reported on a
large deposit of iron ore discovered at Blyth River (Tas.).
According to the analysis made, “ the ore is one of the
finest and purest in the w’orld, ranking with the famous
Spanish, Algerian, and Cohan ores, which are now
exported in very large quantities.”
♦ * * *
The Volunteer G.M. Co. (Tas.) lately crushed
190 tons for 5540 z. ; gold value, £2216. The co. has now
paid £13,750 divs., and has £2700 to reserve.
# » * *
The total gold won since the formation of New
Pinafore Co., Tas., from 34,207 tons of quartz is 33,9650 z.
7dwt., averaging 19dwt. 20Jgrs. to the ton, value
£132,827 155.; out of this has been divided £67,500 (equal
to £1 13s. 9d. per share), and £11,467 14s. carried to
reserve. Out of this fund the purchase of battery,
amount expended to date on the erection of concentrators,
construction of tram, purchase of rolling stock, and sink-
ing of central shaft, amounting to £6350 ss. Id., has been
defrayed, leaving balance to credit of £5117 Bs. lid., of
which £5OOO is at fixed deposit. The mine’s prospects
are excellent.
* * * *
Tasman Reef, Beaeonsfield, struck on the 700 ft.
level and shows good gold.
• • * ♦
The old Waterwitch lately returned to Hobart
with 65 tuns whale-oil, 33 tuns of which were taken during
the last six weeks of a short cruise. The old London
trader Helen has just been turned out of the shipwright’s
hands as a fully-equipped whaler, and will soon leave on
her first cruise.
♦ * ♦ ♦
Randt returns for February : 151,8700 z. Money
value of output for first two months of '94, over £1,000,000.
♦ * * •
Victoria once had an organising inspector of
schools, named Joseph Geary, a brilliantly-educated man
of brilliant brains. He afterwards became a journalist,
and once wrote: “ If ever a man offers you a horse cheap,
ask him ‘ Why ?’ ” The Bulletin ventures on a piece of
advice, founded on Geary’s apothegm. Never buy into a
specimen-mine. If ever you see in a prospectus: “The
owners dollied from the reef 400 oz. in two days.” simply
a S k—“ Why didn’t they go on dollying ?” Broadly speak-
ing, no enduring mine is a specimen-mine. A good body
of stone in which you can only just see the gold—that is
the mine which makes a company rich. The specimen-
mine is the mine that rarely enriches anyone but the
individual. When a promoter shows you glittering hunks
of gold, button up your pocket. Follow this advice, and,
if you live and invest for 20 years, you will bless the
writer.
• » * *
Cutting the reef at the 200 ft. level of Bayley’e
mine has not solved the water question. Not a drop of
water is coming from the face, proving pretty conclusively
that the reef was met with in sinking the shaft below this
level, and the water drained. The battery is ready to start,
but must wait till the dam fills. Two showers, totalling a
little over half an inch, put very little into the tank—in
fact, only a few inches.
* » * ♦
It is alleged that the recent row between the
manager and the managing-director of Bayley’s mine at
least partially arose out of the system of setting a “ swell ’’
to watch each miner—and that it wasn’t a miner who was
charged with taking too much care of the rich stuff.
* * * *
The reef at the 200 ft. level of Bayley’s is hard
white quartz without any sign of ironstone or the mul-
locky leader about which so much has been said. The
gold is coarse and free, and the stone carries a lot of iron
pyrites, being much mineralised in places. The reef is as
big and strong as ever, and the only question to be settled
i s _how much gold does it carry ? One thing is certain,
the face now exposed is not as rich as those in the upper
levels, but further work must lie done before the value of
the shoot can be determined. The most satisfactory
feature of the new level is that the ironstone has cut out
but has not affected the gold, which still goes down.
* * ♦ *
Bayley’s Consols, immediately south of the
Reward claim, has got nothing as yet, and it is being
hinted that a slide has thrown the reef into the No. 1
South ground. This would make Bayley’s and Gorry’s,
on the eastern and western reefs, one, and would suggest
that a similar slide is accountable for the extraordinary
turn in the reef between the main shaft and the Kelly’s
block of the big mine.
* * * *
The official estimate of the value of Bayley’s
reef at the 200 ft. level is 50z., but this is probably rather
above the mark. The absence of water at this level sug-
gests that the lode was thoroughly opened and tested in
the shaft 20ft. lower down, where quartz was met with
weeks back.
* * • *
If the slide theory is accepted it will add vastly
to the importance of the blocks on the western side of the
Consols towards the Ritanita.
* * • *
The crowd interested in the Premier line of
reef, at the 25-Mile, Coolgardie, have had a fright owing
to the reef in two properties giving place to mullock.
The country is soft schist, and after following the forma-
tion for a few feet the quartz came in again, and now
carries rather better gold than at the surface.
* * * ♦
Bayley’s South No. 1 is driving south at the
100 ft. level, where the reef is from 6 to 14 feet wide,
howing splendid gold. The stone is exactly similar to
he 100 ft. stone in Bayley’s, and in places carries almost
equally rich patches.
» * » *
J. S. Reid has sent up a general manager to
look after his numerous properties around Cool-
gardie, some of which, taken up by D. Lindsay on his
behalf, resemble small sheep-stations, and will coat a
fortune to mm. One or two are, however, really good
things, and will be floated in Scotland.
» * » *
J. De Bonn, who lost all he made at Silverton
and Broken Hill by holding silver stocks during the
slump, is now the wealthiest man in Coolgardie outside
the Browne crowd, and owns more of the main street
frontages than anyone else.
• ♦ * •
Westralia saves Adelaide sharebrokers from
absolute starvation.
» * * •
“Jack” Pearce, late manager of the Golden
Gully, N.S. W., has gone to Coolgardie as manager for the
Uniled Coolgardie syndicate. He was trained in the
quartz mines of Bendigo, managed a very wee alluvial
mine at Ararat, also a tin mine in India. There are few
better all-round managers in Australia. His last mine,
Golden Gully, was hardly worthy his good work.
» ♦ • ♦
The Murchison batteries mostly silent for want
of water. A few weeks ago, newspapers proclaimed that
the field had an abundance. Want of timber is another
great drawback, and the want of a railway the greatest
want of all.
» * » *
Premier Forrest gone to the Murchison, i t is said,
to declare the Govt, policy. He is wide awake to the
fact that the goldminers will soon be the ruling local
force.
• * * *
A correspondent, en route to the Murchison,
writes from Geraldton : “ I see signs that the field is all
right. Men returning here mostly come for a spree. They
make first for a bank and then for a pub. Most of the
teams are engaged in carrying liquor to the field, while
machinery (of which there is an enormous quantity accu-
mulating here) is allowed to wait. Yes, I think the field
is good enough for me.”
♦ » • *
Bad accounts of the scarcity of food and water
come from Kurnalpi, and Coolgardie is also short of pro-
visions. Perth telegrams say that a new goldfield has
been found in the far south, near Fraser’s range, where
200 men have been at work for some time. An 82oz.
nugget is reported—unconfirmed. Crushings: New Chum,
203 tons, 6390 z; Central, 387 tons, 170 oz.
» * * *
A cruel but common thing in the Coolgardie
districts is to quench one’s thirst and refuse to give any
water to the horses. Speaking to the writer, a returned
prospector said, “ Either ourselves or the horses had to
go without. So we tied them up and went into the bush
to drink. Yes, I have seen a horse shed tears as we
walked away with the water-bags.”
» * * *
Gifford, representing John Taylor and Sons, of
London, speaks well of Coolgardie as a field for English
investment. Taylor’s is the firm that floated the Mysore
mines in India.
» * * *
Begelhole received a flattering testimonial and a
gold medal from Coolgardie miners. He has made up his
mind to take a hand in the working of some of the div.-
looking reefs.
* * * »
Driscoll and Jones, the fortunate Coolgardie
prospectors, formed a prospecting syndicate with a sub-
stantial capital in Sydney one day last week, Jones leaves
next week, Driscoll next month.
» » * *
Recent Q. crushings : Towers —St. George, 385
tons, 2460 z.; Mills United, 1850 tons, 17550 z.; Craven’s
Caledonia, 236 tons, 4480 z., div. 3d.; Sunburst East
tributors, 127 tons, 1240 z.; Brilliant Block, 716 tons,
10690 z., div. 6d.; Victory, 410 tons, 5620 z. Gympie—
Nicholls’ Lease, 152 tons, 2150 z.
* • * *
Mawson’s Reward Claim, just floated in London
for £60,000, is at Dundas Hills and was taken to England
by Arthur Austin, of Albany.
» * * »
Croydon’s quarterly gold yield shows a decrease
of 58560 z big falling off.
» » * •
After all, “ Lachy ” M'Bean, the N.S.W.
squatter, only “ cut up " for just under a quarter of a
million. Real millionaires don’t grow on gooseberry
bushes. By the way, one N.S.W. man who looks
millionairish has 1500 mortgages registered in his favour.
* • * •
The prospectus of the Coolgardie Crushing Co.
is advertised in this issue. The co. is formed to supply
the battery-power so badly wanted at Coolgardie, and
under good management should give a handsome return.
The chief difficulty is water, but it is said an ample supply
is obtainable at 200 feet; if this is so profits should com-
mence straight away.
♦ ♦ * ♦
A fair average flock of sheep cuts about 71bs. of
wool per head, which yields a gross return of 3s. 6d. per
sheep, if the wool only realises sixpence per lb. under the
present low prices. From this has to be deducted shear-
ing expenses,'carriage to market, and selling commission,
so that in the case of a station at a long distance the nett
proceeds are reduced to about 2s. 6d. per sheep. This
means a clear profit of £875 from the clip of 7000 sheep,
and any practical man should average that income from
any of the three grazing farms, which are now being
offered by the Waggonora Building Society to its share-
holders, as they each consist of 20,000 acres of best salt-
bush country within easy access of the town of Cunna-
mulla, Q., and have 20,000 good young sheep divided over
the three properties. It is hardly surprising then that
anyone who can afford to invest £1 in a share should be
anxious to seize this opportunity of getting a nice little
sheep-station of 20,009 acres and 7000 sheep. The whole
thing in going order, without any interest or debt to pay,
and all for £l. There are only to be 20,000 shareholders,
and failing to win any of the three grazing farms, a share-
holder has five other chances of getting some of the 171
remaining prizes, worth from £9OO cash downwards.
Notwithstanding bad times and scarcity of money, appli-
cations are continually coming in, and the list of share-
holders closes 25th May, unless previously filled.
* * * ♦
Solemn joke from London Truth in answer to
a timid correspondent: “The Q.N. Bank is one of the few
reconstructed banks that will probably do well.”
♦ * * *
A lot of mines are being cracked up in the guile-
less dailies per medium of contributions “from a corres-
pondent.” For instance, a writer in the Sydney D.T. says
that the average in bulk of the Day Dawn, Murchison, is
lioz. without the tailings, which are to be cyanided.
Yet the vendors in their prospectus only claim 25 dwts.,
and they ought to know.
* * ♦ ♦
The concentrating plant at the South German
(Maldon), Vic., is said to be the finest in Australia, and
the mine is worthy of it. Last crushing, 611 tons, free
gold 4240 z., and from pyrites, 2350 z.
b » * * ♦
Victoria has exported this season butter to the
value of £761,273. In ’B9-90, the value of its butter
exports was only £51,300. The “ Cabbage Garden ” must
be re-christened the “ Cow Paddock.”
* » * *
Some Sydney female drapery hands, ranging
from 18 years to 25 years of age, are said to receive wages
varying from 2s. 6d. to 10s. per week of 60 hours’ work.
No meals are provided, either.
(“ Wild Cat ” continued on page 21.)
“ Politics were invented to keep the upper
classes out of mischief, and—to get the lower
classes into it.” —Zangwill.
A correspondent : —“A good thing hap-
pened yesterday. Boss met Yernon boy bringing
dead sheep to butcher’s shop. Boss (loq.):
‘ Where is that sheep’s head ? ’ (a dish the boss
is fond of.) Boy (who had given the head to the
piers): ‘Down in yard.’ Boss: ‘Go fetch it.’
This morning the Boss, walking in ration-paddock,
scumbled on a decapitated sheep.”
A “Hard Case."
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
Ay, it’s me, boys—alive—though I’m bloomin’
well cooked ;
’Twon’t be long till I pull up my pegs.
Fetch a doctor? What use?—just to tell me I’m
booked !
Damn it! mind how you handle my legs !
Shouldn’t swear ? Perhaps not! Though I’m
blest if I see—
Since I’ve cussed for these sixty years past
How ’twould make things a morsel the better for
me
Just to turn mealy-mouthed at the last!
I’m the wrong sort of joker to snivel, or pray
To be passed up aloft “ on the nod.”
I was never no good on the hypocrite’s lay,
And you can’t put no games up on God !
If He’s right on the job, as the parson-chaps tell,
He is bound to know all about me—
How that, plank me in heaven or dump me in
hell,
I’d be just the same Billy Magee !
How was it? Oh ! just as you said it would be—
“ That my bones in this gully I’d smash.”
’Twas a slip and a stumble-a grasp at a tree —
And old Billy was knocked into hash !
Was I tanked? To the eyes!—and don’t you
fellows say
That I funked about that when I croaked,
Nor make out, if I’d lived, I’d have altered ray
way,
For I’d like to die bloomin’ well soaked !
But I’ve come to the end of ray tether; and so
Don’t you write up no lies over me !
But just say on the stone that the party below
Was poor, drunken, old Billy Magee!
ALEX. MONTGOMERY.
A policeman has just written and pub-
lished “A Manual of the Duties of a Constable.”
The reviewers say it .can be carried in the breast-
pocket. They must mean watch-pocket.
The Conservative “ South Australian Com-
pany,” which sprang into existence with that pro-
vince and grabbed the very choicest spots in it, is
offering for sale the freehold of some of its farms.
Good effects of the threatened absentee-tax.
Gov. Duff lately requested a prominent
politician who accompanied him to the North to
keep clear of contentious politics in his presence,
intimating that if one party-shot were fired he
would quit the company and retire to Moss Yale.
There is a cry from the sugar-districts of
N.S. Wales for the abolition of the excise duty on
locally-distilled rum. It is said that the sugar
industry is languishing. In truth, sugar without
rum never has paid, and never will pay, and the
duty, together with the expense of maintaining
the excise-officer necessary tor its collection, puts
any but very large distilleries out of the question.
Thus the Colonial Sugar Co. has acquired a prac-
tical monopoly, which, like all monopolies, has
become oppressive. The danger of throwing open
the business of distilling is a chimera. A strict
Adulteration Act would prevent inferior spirit
going into consumption, and at any rate open dis-
tillation would at once shut down the host of
illicit stills now in operation in defiance of the
law. Once abolish or largely reduce the excise-
duty, and N.S. Wales’enormous surplus of maize
would be turned into corn whisky—a far more
wholesome tipple than a good deal of the imported
gjotch and Irish.
Dear Bulletin, —“ Why don’t white men
pay more attention to vegetable growing in Aus-
tralia?” A swagsman lately told me that he and
two mates started it in N.S.W. and found that
they could grow vegetables quite as well as any
Chinese; but they also found that when they
offered them for sale the wife of the Australian
working-man, as a rule, absolutely declined to
buy, preferring—although there was advantage
neither in price nor quality—to deal with the
Mongolian. My authority assured me he could
have dune well at the business but for this un-
accountable prejudice and, as a case in point,
instanced the fact that in Melbourne the Chinese
were gradually but effectively acquiring a mono-
poly of this form of trade. His only explana-
tion is that the fascinating Chow, in going round
to each'different house, puts on every article a
price above that which will pay him to part with
it. He knows that the average woman, who is
always a bargain-hunter or a sweater, will feel so
proud of herself when she can beat John down a
penny or so that she will always think she is
saving money by dealing with him.” — Paul
Blunt.
GOVERNMENT BY PALAVER.
Eagles and reptiles alone may mount to the crest
of the cliff that is cleaving the sky,
And the places of power are the prize and the prey
of such as can creep or can fly ;
But these whom “ Our Rulers ” we name cannot.
Now, tell me, how rose they so high?
Fearless in fight and a man of might, wary of eye,
and in counsel cool,
Must the Leader stand in a troubled land who
rises to right and to rule,
But to reign in the House of Palaver ye need but
the Purse of the Fatted Fool.
I hear the roar of a rock-bound shore where the
waves in thunder sweep;
I hear on the edge of a beetling cliff that bends
o’er the billowy deep,
In the midnight dread, a fearful tread where a
nation walks in sleep.
Q.
P. LUFTIG.
Of Mrae. Melba, thus a Parisian correspon-
dent in one of the papers :
Melba has a fault quite common with artists—that of
singing to someone she knows in the hall, and she warms
up only on the condition that she has friends listening to
her. Strange faces freeze her, and then she becomes
indifferent. Melba mads a great mistake to go to America
in a crowd. She ought to have gone alone, in better
times, with a good company, as Patti and Nilsson did, and
then she would have been appreciated at her true worth.
It is not often that one meets with such an agreeable
voice as Melba’s, and with such a superb method, and
comparisons are often odious. They certainly were in the
judgments between her lyrio talent and that of Oalvd.
Naturally, perfect acting is attractive to the general
public, and it takes an educated ear to understand per-
fect singing ; and to my mind that is why one had more
success than the other in America. It was not possible to
see a more plain, insignificant type of an Englishwoman
than Melba when she first came to Paris to take lessons of
Marches!. Her plain woollen dress, too short in the skirt,
looked like the last year’s cut of an obscure provincial
town; the combination of colours showed that she had
not the least notion of what taste was in dress, and her
hat looked as if it had been made for anyone else’s head
but hers. To-day she is not only the best-dressed woman
in Paris, but she wears her clothes as if she were born
with one of Doucet’s last creations. Mine. Marchesi told
me that, of the three stars now occupying the music-
loving public in America, Melba is the greatest musical
artist.


The Oldßlervd
WtusKy
Horse
Cellar
WHI'
DIRECT PROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE. MELLOW
AL (AJLTURED SCOTCH MALT
1 \
Edinburgh
m
m
Ulllt
Bjm/A i
sfi(BSSa?
m
•mi*
O
FOSTER’S
Ale & Stout.
GUARANTEED SPLENDID CONDITION.
Largest Bottlers and Shippers in the World.
Purveyors to Chicago Exhibition.
Balchin, Johnston & Co., 6 Bridge-st., Sydney.
Watson'S
DUNDEE ====^=^.
WHISKY
—is the-
BE ST IN THE MARKET:
Personal Items.
On dit that Fitzwilliam Wentworth will
become a N.S. Wales M.L.O.
“ Songs by His Honor Chief Justice
Onslow,”—Westralian bazaar programme.
Parkes went to Westralia in search of
health. He has come back with five-sixths of it.
Vic. Premier Patterson apparently prospers
as an auctioneer. He has just moved into much
larger offices.
Herr Mommsen, formerly secretary of
Melbourne German Club, is a son of the renowned
historian of that name.
Bismarck, Gladstone, and Sims Reeves
each has a son named Bertie, and the three are
chiefly clotheshorses. Give a dog a bad name,
etc.
Eight Hours pioneer Ben Douglass is now
out of Vic. Public Service, and is working a Melb.
suburban news agency. He talks of running for
Parliament.
William Holden, an active member of
S.A. Register staff, celebrated bis 86th birthday
on April 6. He is the oldest of Australian work-
ing journalists.
N.S.W, Chief Justice Parley so strictly
carries out in his court the rule “ Be seated,” that
an eminent Q.O. (Rogers) was recently ordered to
find a seat, or leave. He left.
Mr. Colquhoun, the newly - appointed
N.S.W. Crown Solicitor, practised at Forbes in
the days of the first rush. His name still appears
on the gable of an old house there.
“ To tell the plain truth, Queen Victoria
is ageing a good deal, and her infirmities become
more marked at each public appearance,” says
Sydney D.T.’s London correspondent.
At £650 the Dailey Memorial Fund stops
short. And old Jack Robertson was voted
£lO,OOO, and Dibbs raked up £3OOO, and Parkes
managed, principal and interest, just on £lO,OOO !
Demise—Dr. Barker, of Melbourne,
brother of the eminent surgeon, Dr. Barker, who
died many years ago. The gentleman just gone
was nearly 90. He was best known as a squatter,
in the early days of Victoria, about the Ballarat
region.
Charles Todd, for more than fifty years a
public servant, is marked for destruction by the
S.A. Govt. He has a multiplicity of offices,
£lOOO a year, a house and some perquisites. He
would take less to save his billet, for he is still a
poor man.
A private letter from ’Ome records the
fact that a certain showy ex-Governor who, while
in Australia, was considered a very rich person-
age indeed, is now living in a somewhat obscure
quarter of London in a state of modified poverty.
His Lordship, it is said, came to Australia to
a’low his finances to be put on a better footing, but
this happy result was never realised, owing in
great measure to his having made bosom friends
of certain very “ fly ” land-sharks.
Amongst recent re-
tirements from N.S.W.
Civil Service is that of
Thomas Regan, crier of
Sydney District Court.
Mr. Regan wasamounted
orderly at Govt. House,
Sydney, in the palmy
days of Gov. Fitzroy.
William Stanbridge,
of Melbourne, ex-M.L.O.
and Anglican Assembly-
man, passed hence the
other day. He was a
self-made saint who
began his career, it is said,
as a blacksmith, minus
even the proverbial shil-
ling, and ended it in the
odour of opulence.
Though a comprehensive
admirer of the fair sex,
he kept Hymen at bay
until late in life, and his
young wife, dying early,
left him with an only
child, now a handsome
heiress of seventeen.
The “Florence Stan-
bridge Chapel ” in con-
nection with Trinity Col-
lege, Melbourne, was
built and endowed by
the chastened widower
in memory of his spousi-,
the which and similar
acts of soul-insurance
constituted him a pillar
of the church, and bishops
loved him much, also
bishops’ wives recognised
him as a dear, good man.
The late church - cqun
cillor had been invalided
for some years prior tc
his death, but bis name
came into prominence, a
while back, in connec-
tion with a pecuniary
gift he once benevolently
made to that abducted
heroine, Clara Arny
Parker.
Miss Jessie Acker maun, before leaving
Sydney for South Africa, was made a “Son of
Temperance ”of the third degree. First degree—
bifurcated skirt; second degree—knickers ; third
degree—the terrible trousers. Now, she’s “got
’em all on.”
Barrister Pridham, who was Times cor-
respondent in Hungary during the Kossuth time,
is living in Hawksburn, Vic. His letters were
collected into a book, and dedicated to Kossuth.
One of the great Hungarian generals, Woinarski,
died recently at North Melb.
Andrew Brown, of Lithgow, N.S.W , who
died recently in his 97th year, arrived in 1823.
In 1837 he "attended the first Port Phillip land-
sale, where he bought largely; this laid the
foundation of his fortune. It was the first
Melbourne land-sale that also made the Hordern
family*
A coming publication; “The Complete
Angler,” by Dr. Renwick.
The Whirligig. 1893, James Munro,
Agent-General ; 1894, James Munro, General
Agent.
Lady Carington wrote recently to Mrs.
B. F. Glasson proffering a hospitable hand to her
sh ° ldd the much-to-be-pi tied young lady find her-
self m the neighbourhood of London,
, T c , ... ~ ,
JN.B. W. Premiers and ex-Premiers are
P rovided with a.special plain-clothes police-guard,
Premier Farnell was the only official who ridiculed
the solemn absurdity and jeered the minions when
he reC ognised them.
J ero me K. Jerome, who is constantly
bowling about contemporaries cribbing insigni-
fieanfc items from his j O J, rna i # To-day, in a redent
issue prints “Banjo’s” “ Ace from Snowy River,”
original in The Bulletin, under a new headline,
and without mention of the author or any
acknowledgment whatever.
James Smith has a not bad poem on a
suio i de , in the Australasian. With it is the
absurd statement that it was written by night,
0 n the wharf, while waiting for a steamer,
“ A.K.H.8.” mentions, in one of his essays, that
he is writing on his horse’s forehead, in the stable,
Such explanations are always stupid,
R ev . J. G. Frazer, of Camden College
(N.S.W.), lately titled D.D. by Glasgow Univer-
sity, was a fellow-student with James Bryce,
politician and author of the “ American Common-
wealth,” and was then supposed to be the makings
of the better man of the two, so far as mental
foroe and brilliancy of ideas was concerned,
Rev. Marshall, of Melbourne, Bentley’s
friend, has been slavering the press in a sermon.
What he says may be true, but the per contra is
wholly suppressed. The newspaper impartially
supports good and evil, as it must, while a com-
mercial speculation. The best thing for the clergy
* s -leave it alone and attend to their own
usiness.
J' Horace Tucker, whose New Ar-
®ac“a sooial-problem-novel has just appeared in
Melb., offered the MS. first to Ward, Locke and
Go. I hey would have published it but for the
author s refusal to make his ending happy. He
left the disposal of the MS. in the hands of a Lon-
don cleric who got half-profit terms with George
Robertson and Co.
. ,
By Under-Secretary Johnsons death N.S.
Wales married lady-teachers, with husbands
living, lose their best and only friend. Mr. May-
nard the new Undersecretary, is against their
retention in the service. ihis latter is joyful
news for the unhifcohed female-teachers who
declare tliat when thi R 0 wr at home with
the married they make things “hum” at
So p, oo l
’ *
A certain Maoriland Board of Education
heard with mixed feelings of the misfortunes of a
certain Australian lawyer. When in Maoriland,
he was employed to collect £lOOO due to the
He wanted a close, “ so that his wife would not smell his breath.”
Board, which he faithfully did. His bill of
charges for the job came to £l4OO, and the Board
paid the odd £4OO with the worst grace in the
world.
According to N.S.W. Premier Dibbs, it
takes two policemen to watch (or protect) his
rival, Barkes, all the year round. Parkes didn’t
deny the soft impeachment—not he. It all adds
to his importance. Nothing would please him
better than to have a bodyguard constantly attend-
ing him, in the style of a feudal lord, with heralds
and trumpeters warning people to “ Make way,
make way, for the illustrious Prince Parkes ! ”
Brqkenhillionaire Horn, a M.P. of S.A.,
was most anxious to get Bray’s place as Agent-
General in the interest, probably, of the inevitable
knighthood. He was ready to do the work
without salary, which would have been a grate-
ful change after Bray, who drew the salary but
did no work. Playford, however, had a strong
grip and would not let go the place.
A ternperance-lecturess, who is now thrill-
ing Australian audiences with an account of her
remark-able a-chieveraents, once told a Towns-
ville audience that she was the only woman who
had ascended Mount St. Elias in Alaska ; where-
upon an enthusiastic male admirer of the lady’s
6ft. lin. and otherwise impressive attractions,
thumped the floor loudly with his stick and
exclaimed : “ Good, old woman, / believe you ! ”
Waiapu diocese (Maoriland) which Bishop
Stuart deserted in the interests of Persian mis.
sionary labour, will remain widowed of an over-
seer till the diocesan fund is swelled to =£lo,ooo.
The fund, on the interest of which Bishop Stuart
had to survive with episcopal dignity, was only
.£5OOO, and missionarying in Persia will be a less
tax on his ingenuity than supporting apron and
gaiters was in Waiapu.
Re departmental censorship of Civil ser-
vants’ names. Years ago a Brisbane lady-teacher
yclept Mary, paid a visit to Paree. Writing to the
Education Office, on her return from France, she
signed herself “Marie.” Whereupon the Queens-
land Education Office, which has the highest
reputation for urbanity, wrote back to Miss Marie
requesting her to notify the Department in case
she wished to Frenchify her name. '
Among Queensland Civil servants is one
Church to four Bishops, two Deacons, three
Deans, five Sextons, two Popes, one Pagan, one
Savage, one Crane, one Crow, one Drake, one
Swallow, ten Marlins, one Wren, one Dove, one
Nightingale, two Herons, one Good, no bad ; one
Rich, no poor; one Sword, with Shield, and
Armour; three Kings, without Queens; twenty-
seven Browns, four Blacks, ten Whites, one Blue,
three Grays, six Greens, two Judges to one Court,
one Cain and one Abel, six Adams, but no Eve, to
one Eden ; one Curry with two of Rice.
Railway-contractor Robb, whom bank-
smashes have financially crippled, during the
progress of the great Cairns Railway Arbitration
case (Robb v. Queensland Govt, for £225.000,
extras on contract) gave a luncheon to all parties
concerned, and in replying to a toast, expressed
his wearim sj of toil, and stated that, should he
get a verdict for a fair amount, he would realise
on all his properties, buy a farm on his native
Scotch mountain and spend the rest of his days in
peace. “I suppose you’ll call the place ‘Dun-
robin?’” mischievously suggested one of the
opposing counsel. The veteran laughed gaily
with the rest.
Dowe, of bullet-proof-armour fame, only
applies to human covering the principle which old
Mr. Arnold, of Marrickville, Sydney, after a life of
experimenting, applied to the covering of ships of
war. Governors Hercules Robinson and Loftus,
with a variety of Premiers, visited Arnold and
examined his work, leaving testimonials as to the
value of his invention. Arnold’s hope was that
he could get it taken up by the Britisli Admiralty,
hut influence seemed to fail him in that quarter.
The present writer fired a revolver at the leathery
composition, at a distance of 10 feet, and picked
up the bullet, which rebounded, without doing
more than leaving a mere “dent” in the com-
position.
“ Thank God, so far as I am aware, during
200 years the name of Hopetoun has been borne
by my family it has never been disgraced, and I
do not think this township need be ashamed of its
god fattier. ” —(Hopetoun at Hopetoun, Vic.) Also,
as far as The Bulletin is aware, the small collec-
tion of crude buildings need not assume frill on
the strength of its toady-made title. The pro-
bability that no Hopetoun has committed murder,
or been tenanted by cruel fortune to “ shake ” a
pair of boots, is nothing to feel proud of, any-
way, whereas the certainty that gudpa failed to
pass a military examination some years ago is
evidence that the new township might as well
have adopted the name of Jones. There are plenty
of clever Joneses about.
Young Toby Barton (son of G. B. Barton
and nephew of the Toby Barton), who died nob
long ago, to the great regret of all who knew him,
was an outspoken wit who would have made his
mark in the world. To him once the grim host at
a caravanserai where the meals were uninviting :
“Off your feed, Mister Barton?” “No,” replied
Young Toby, “off yours.” One day, at a meeting of
a much-perfumed and hideously fashionablecricket-
club of which the youth was a member, a certain
individual, gushing over a civil letter just received
from Lord Somebody thanking the club for its
hospitality, said : “Our club is the nobbiest club
in 'Australia, and its nobbiness, I claim, is entirely
owing to the committee.” “Yes,” chorused
young Toby, with a face of aggravating solemnity,
“our club is the snobbiest club in Australia, and
its snqbbiness, we are all quite willing to admit,
is entirely owing to the committee.”
The mental equilibrium of John Bray, the
Agent - General for South Australia, always
seemed, from an outside point of view, to be safe-
guarded by his pompous dullness. The writer
conjures up a vision of Bray as he appeared when
filling the chair at a Federation “Conference”
held by A.N.A. delegates in a little room atMelb.
Town Hall. The solemnity of the man amidst
those wildly inane proceedings was magnificent in
its way. There he sat, the personification of im-
portance, whilst Ninian Melville roared, “ The
eye of Europe is watching our conference, Sir
John, and I will never consent,” &c., &c., and
Peacock called upon the Natives to be true to
themselves at that great crisis of the world’s
history. Bray looked incapable of losing the little
bit of reason that was so deeply imbedded in his
self-esteem. His brain lias succumbed, perhaps,
to the strain of keeping Bray’s greatness up to
concert pitch in a city where his dignity was often
under-estimated. London contains too much
population for personages of the Bray type. He
might walk the streets for weeks without hearing
anyone exclaim “ There’s Sir John ! ” and his mind
broke down at last. Fortunately, the average
•knight has his title always ringing in his ears, and
fancies he can detect admiration in the glance of
every creature who crosses his path. That keeps
him out of the asylum.
HARRY LAING, champion boxer of Maoriland—killed
last week by falling from a train in motion.
Tom Playford goes to London to succeed
Bray as S.A. Agent-General. Nothing could be
more dissimilar than these two men physically,
mentally, or morally, but both have a sharp eye
to the main chance. Playford is 6ft. 6in. high
and broad in proportion, be is lumbersome in bis
modes of thinking, and an ascetic in his habits of:
living. Bray is sft. nothing and thin, he is as
cute as a child of Israel, and he has pampered his.
senses in more ways than one. Playford first,
entered the Assembly as M.P. for Onkaparingai
in April ’6B, but in Nov. ’7l be was shot out by
this Teutonic constituency because he indiscreetly
remarked on one public occasion tliat “the
stinkwort, like a lot of other bad things, came
from Germany.” However, he persuaded E ist
Torrens to elect him in Eeb. ’75, and, excepting,
three years, during which, taking advantage of the'
second batch of contests, he was returned and sat
for Newcastle, he has stuck to that district ever
since. He has twice been Premier of the pro-
vince, and has served in Ministerial office for an
aggregate of 3654 days. Bray sat for 21 solid
years in one stretch as member for East Adelaide,
was Premier for three years. He became Agent-
General in January ’92. Bray’s father was a
shoemaker. The senior Playford fought as a
private soldier at Waterloo, and was afterwards a
Methodist parson in Adelaide.
Sydney can lay claim to the champion
polite letter-writer. A weekly paper prints a.
letter from a correspondent to the editor, whom
he addresses as “ Accursed Skunk.”
Owing to a mistake in the mechanical
department the advertisement of the Mutual Life
Insurance Company of New York, setting forth
its annual statement was omitted from our last
issue. It appears this week on page 21, and, as
will be seen, substantiates the reference made to
it in a par. last Bulletin. The assets of the co.
total <£38,338,332 13s. 7d., or about three and a
half million more than those of the next largest,
life-insurance office in the world.
THRICE IS HE ARMED
WHO HAS HIS QUARREL JUST-
CLEMENTS TONIC,
THE WORLD’S GREAT RESTORATIVE
HAS CURED MORE CASES OF INDIGES-
TION, NEURALGIA, WEAKNESS, DE-
BILITY, DROPSY. BRIGHT’S DISEASE,
AND LIVER COMPLAINT THAN ALL
OTHER MEDICINES PUT TOGETHER.
If you are sick and value your life, insist on
having Clements Tonic, and no substitute or you
will be disappointed.
READ THIS CASE.
Mr. F. T. Sharp, commercial traveller, George
Street, East Maitland, N.S.W., writes on Feb-
ruary 16th, 1893: —I have great pleasure in
bearing testimony as to the curative properties of
your valuable Clements Tonic. For several years
I have suffered from rheumatism in the sciatic-
nerve from the hip up the spine. After other
remedies failing I was induced to try Clements
Tonic, and at once found relief therefrom. In
fact I can safely say that owing to its wonderful
virtues I am now thoroughly cured, and able to
attend to my duties again. At one time I thought
it impossible to recover, as it had become deep-
seated and chronic. I have much pleasure in
adding this unsolicited testimony to the number
you have already received. Hoping that
may also receive the same benefit that 1 have
done.—I remain, yours faithfully, F. T. Sharp,,
commercial traveller, George-street, East Mait-
land, N.S.W.


■■ *
mmm
<3-0 TO HELL-
IGOLAND tor Pretty Stamps. We
Sell the Set of 14, unused, for Is. (>dl.
Illustrated Price List of Foreign and
Australasian Stamps, post free; and
gratis.
D. A. VINDIN & CO.,
74 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY,
N.S.W.
sdf
PHOTOGRAPHY!
“ Gin a body meet a body coinin’ down the street;
Gin a body snap a body, need a body see’t.
Every laddie has a faddie, why then shouldn’t I ?
To snap a face in public place, “A Cameret” I’ll buy.”
UEPrice 355.
J3T" YOU PRESS THE BUTTON-WE DO THE REST.
Send for Illustrated Catalogues to
BAKER & ROUSE,
:575 GEORGE STREET SYDNEY
2fio COLLINS STREET MELBOURNE
09 RUNDLE STREET - ADELAIDE
40 QUEEN STREET.
BRISBANE
CHEAP BUILDING BLOCKS
Close to the City of Sydney.
£2O each Grand Blocks at CARLTON. 8 miles from
Sydney, 40 x 132. Gas and City Water. Asphalt
paths. Easy terms. 14s. per Month.
£0 each Marine Villa Sites, MANLY BEACH. 10s.
Deposit and ss. per Month; no interest. Free
Deeds included in the £B.
£5 each Capital Residential Blocks, ROOTY HILL.
10s. Deposit ; ss. per Month ; no interest. Free
Deeds ; Torrens.
£lO tor Blocks 50 x 150 at MERRYLANDS. 131
for Land 89 x 396; cost £65. GUILDFORD
Cheap Lots £5 each ; ss. Deposit; ss. Monthly.
£25 for Land 82 x 190, next Clyde Railway Sheds ;
£1 Deposit; 10s. Monthly.
If you want to make Money, buy now. Land will never
be Cheaper. Plans sent anywhere ; Post Free. Apply—
E. V. V. BKOIICHTON, Auctioneer,
301 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Established 1878.
POLITICAL POINTS
The (Lost) Paradise of the working man—
Victoria.
The 24th May approaches. O.M.G. :
Cheap Meretricious Glory ; also, Candidate Moral
Gallows.
“The Conservative believes that Provi-
dence is on his side. The Liberal—that he is on
the side of Providence.” — Zangwill.
The N.S.W. Ministry has “friends.” The
anti-ant business smells ; so apparently does the
Garvan estate improvement business.
Both Max Hirsch’s Beacon and Jos.
Symes’ Liberator appeal for aid, or—they die.
Absolute cocksureness always means martyrdom.
Chief-Secretary Gordon was S.A. Acting-
Premier during Kingston’s absence in Westralia.
Thus were settled the rival claims of Holder and
Playford.
The resolution not to sign the Labour
Electoral League pledge was the first absolutely
solid vote recorded by the N.S.W. Parliamentary
Labour-party.
The demand for Queensland-grown tobacco
is becoming so great throughout Australia that
the Northern Customs authorities propose a new
saale of excise-duties.
Two Sydney newspapers have offered
themselves from title-page to imprint to the
N.S.W. Freetrade Association for three months
at “ nominal figures.”
Be Mestre once said he was “crushed
under an enormous weight of nothing.” Which
accurately describes the present condition of all
the Australian Parliaments.
Clark is the only new Tasmanian Minister
who has established a definite claim to democratic
regard ; but almost anything is better than the
sway of the Dobson family.
Sydney has now four Labour papers : the
Workman, the Worker, Justice and the New
Order, and not one of them has a single good
word to say of any of the others.
The Yic. Government justifies its appoint-
ment of railway-station mistresses on “ the broad
ground of economy.” A direct contention that
female services are less valuable than male.
A significant, though small, circumstance is
that Frank Cotton, M.P., the N.S.W. Single-tax
leader, with seeming habitude, glibly writes of
sheep fanning as “the national industry.”
“ The three lions in the path of the Western
N.S.W. wool-grower are pine-scrub, rabbits, and
confiscation of invested capital in the shape of
improvement 3. Frank Cotton, M.L.A.
At Naraudera, N.S.W., the use of the
courthouse was refused to the aborigines flooded
out on the river flat. But it was granted to the
Chinese, when in a similar predicament two years
ago. Australia for the Australians !
Cabled that General Booth intends, unless
some unforeseen difficulty arises, to establish one
of his “oversea colonies” in Westralia. The
“ unforeseen difficulty ”is going to arise. It will
consist in the fact that very soon Westralia will
contain an army of diggers.
One of the letter-receivers at Sydney
G.P.O. has the following disloyal inscription :
Foreign letters other than those for the United
Kingdom.” And yet a N.S.W. Ministry once
struck a J.P. off the rolls for publicly alluding to
England as “ a foreign country.”
Rev. Hopper Joplin quits Australia for
ever. He says he tried by preaching in “ a Demo-
cratic fashion ” to induce men to aro to church, but
admits his efforts failed. Joplin was, therefore,
“a democrat” with an ulterior purpose. Alas,
how many are Joplins in that respect!
Premier Kingston (S.A.) has frequently
pledged himself to his constituents not to accept
knighthood. Apropos, “Honest Tom” Playford
was offered knighthood awhile ago and declined,
at the solicitation of the S.A. Premier. The two
have always been warm personal friends.
Sydney Labour-Councilman Flowers, sup-
posed to vent an official voice, says that the
Labour-party will be dissatisfied with the next
N.S.W. elections if afterwards it is not strong
enough to govern. The Labour-party will govern
the country when it has learnt to govern itself.
Albert J. Gould, M.P. (N.S.W.), the
colourless representative of Patrick’s Plains,
N.S.W., actually disbelieves in something—pay-
ment of members. Gould, as an empty-headed
squireen, was Parkes’s ideal of a Minister of
Justice. “J. Gould” sounds strange applied to
vacuity.
Melbourne paper
The Secretary of State for the Colonies has granted
Lord Hopetoun permission to spend the last six months
of his term, from April to November, 1895, on leave.
Premier Patterson ought to return the compliment
by granting Queen Victoria six months’ leave on
full pay.
Patterson’s right-about-face on the fiscal
system at Williamstown and the wrath of the Age
are said to be but beat-drops in comparison with
the thunder-storm to follow. Rumour in the
Vic. railway department says that Patterson
intends reinstating Speight, and that he gave a
promise to this effect to the departed Gillies !
Varney (N.S.W.), wants
every candidate for Parliament (or even for an
aldermanoy) to be compelled to pass an examina-
tion to test his knowledge or ignorance of public
affairs. Varney is illogical when be bases his
argument on the ground that Ms.P. are paid
salaries, since he also applies it to aldermen who
are not paid, and whom he does not propose to
pay.
Premier Patterson’s attack on the Protec-
tive duties, at Williamstown, the other day,
sounded the tocsin of renewed battle of the tariffs.
When Parliament meets, the Labour-party (who
are first of all Protectionists) must throw in their
lot with the Opposition; and a cry has been
raised for the Protectionists to close up their
ranks.
Ileid, Vie. Minister of Defence, and State-
aided drummer, tells Westminster Gazette that
“ a power is steadily growing in Australia which
will become an important factor in any future
war in which the Old Country may be engaged.”
Reid, no doubt, alludes to Victorian brandy. He
is trying to induce the authorities to use it in the
army and navy.
Josiah Symon, Q.C., once president of the
long since defunct S.A. Freetrade League, will
try to win election for Treasurer Playford’s vacant
seat at East Torrens, for the express purpose of
badgering Premier Kingston, whom he hates. The
Labour-party pin their faith to that pious share-
broker and aggressive single - taxer, Cornelius
Agrippa Proud.
The weightiest critic against N.S.W. banks
Was Premier Dibbs, who practically published
allegations of their insolvency by his panic legis-
lation. But Dibbs isn’t in gaol. Only the most
miserable of the runners who sold copies of a
foolishly candid paper, were housed in prison. If
Hard Cash libelled the banks, Dibbs “soft-
cashed ’’ them.
£IOJ,OOO is to be spent on the new bridge
across Brisbane River, replacing that partially
destroyed by the floods. This should make dis-
tressed Brisbane cheerful. Government money,
Of course, and two-thirds drawn from N. Queens-
land for the benefit of Queen-street property-
owners, who sniff contemptuously when you talk
of betterment taxation.
If the present crowd of Freetrade and
Protectionist members are sent back toN.S. W.
Assembly in a fairly substantial body at next
elections, leaders of both parties assume that pay-
ment of members will be either reduced by one-
half or abolished. A test-question at the elections
should therefore be—“ Are you in favour of pay-
ment of members ?” —meaning thereby £3OO a
year, which is not too much.
The Rue- Australians meet a generosity
from the Paraguayan Govt, which they wouldn’t
find in Australia. The Govt, gives the seceders
land at 3d. an acre, finds them food for six months,
gives them a cow and a calf, and cuts roads
through the scrub for them, besides supplying
tools at cost-price and seeds for the first crop.
And, as the soil is good, and it’s a case of “Root
hog or die,” the men are likely to give a good
account of themselves.
Holder, Commissioner of Works, will take
S.A. Treasurership, vice Playford, and John
Greeley Jenkins, Government whip, will succeed
Holder. “Jenks,” a ’cute Yankee in the book-
agency business, is a fairly consistent democrat,
WYALONG, WEST END, SHOWING GRENFELL STREET, RUNNING FROM LEFT TO RIGHT.
and is famous because he defeated the only unsuc-
cessful Labour candidate at last year’s general
election. “The member for Amurnka ” has
always been sore because Kingston omitted him
when forming his Ministry last June.
The unlucky Townsville (Q.) breakwater
has been badly damaged in the recent floods. This
outrageous mullock-heap was built at a cost of
£3OO 000 (Govt, money) in the vain attempt to
make a decent port of Cleveland Bay, with the
result that there was actually less water after the
breakwater was built than before. And 90 miles
down the coast is Bowen with a splendid natural
harbour, which a few thousands would make one
of the best in Australia. But there is no political
influence at Bowen.
Parkes, in one of his latest hours of
solemn reflection, observed: Never no, you
never will have a Press capable of independent
criticism until you renounce the advertisement
patronage from the Government of the day.
[The Press will never be independent until it
does without advts. altogether and lives on its
circulation.—Ed. B.]. lam as guilty as others,
but was first struck by the enormity of the
political profligacy when the Stuart-Dalley tribe
bushranged the seat of Government and have
held myself ready since that day to help any man
to put an end to the system of Press-bribery.”
Administrator Macgregor has had just
about enough of New Guinea. He must have
swallowed a good half-cwt. of quinine during the
last six years, for there’s no other way of fighting
the fever constantly prevalent. MTlwraith and
Co. won’t be averse to his departure, for Mac-
gregor has steadfastly set his face against the
deportation of natives to Queensland, and the
scarcity of Kanakas is becoming serious to the
black-labour planters. Already the underground
engineers are hard at work preparing for tne im-
portation of thousands of “cheap and reliable ’’
labourers from New Guinea. But the prospect
doesn’t look as bright as it was before Townsville
and Ipswich elections.
The amateur J.P. must go. It is a poor
country which can’t afford stipendiary justice.
Here is a sample of the kind of letter The Bul-
letin is constantly receiving
A certain Western J.P. sits on the Publicans’ Licensing
Bench, though he has an interest in a hotel; also, when a
butcher applies for a butchering licence, the J P. (a
butcher) refuses to sit on the bench for a few days,
thereby delaying the issue of the licence, as there are hut
two J.P.’s in town.
The foregoing may be true, or it may not. But
such tilings are eternally happening; and from
Melbourne, with its brazen roll-up of brother-
tradesmen and secret society men to pack the
benches, to the far Gulf country, there is naught
but rottenness and injustice in the J.P. system.
Since the recent Labour victories at
Queensland elections the following reasons for
Ministerial defeats have been given by the Q.
capitalistic press
(1) The constituency returning Labour-tnembef is only
an ii significant place which doesn’t count. This one elec-
torate is not all Queensland.
<2; The Labour platform is becoming so modified that it
differs very little from that of the Ministry.
(3) Only about half of the electors voted. Consequently
this election is no criterion of the real state of feeling in
the country.
(4) The candidate is not really a Labour man at all.
The Courier only (strange to say) honestly owns
up to defeat. Thus There is no denying the
significance of the Ministerial defeat. If Philp
(Mines) and Barlow (Lands) were to resign to-
morrow their seats would probably be captured
by the Labour-party. It would seem as if Queens-
land, in addition to its other misfortunes, were to
be the first colony to fall into the hands of the
Labour-party.”
Victoria, it seems, is to be the first of the
Australias to confess that its alleged democracy is
really a Fattoeracy which must needs have a Poor
Law, as an attempt to coax off the discontent of
its poverty-stricken masses. Treas. Carter is
drafting a Bill, which, amongst other provisions,
will appoint a Central Charities Council to receive
and distribute all charitable grants made cither
by the State or by municipalities, and a percentage
of the receipts from all public entertainments held
on “Crown” recreation reserves. Further, the
municipalities will be compelled to vote annually
a certain minimum percentage of rates for charity.
There is but a short step from the proposed Bill to
the establishment of parish poorhouses. Being
possessed of epidemic misery, Australian demo-
cracy does not object to poorhouses ; but how its
protesting gorge must rise against the nauseous
admission that its present condition breeds a vile
pauperism that has no present hope, beyond the
stolid refrigeration of old-world, workhouse
machinery !
Bagman Reid, M.P., of Victoria, now in
London, is drunk with gush. “In addressing a
meeting of volunteers in Westminster-hall, ha
expressed his thanks to the Duke of Cambridge,
the Commander-in-Ohief, for having sent such
splendid officers to commands in Australia. Mr.
Reid asserted that the colonial volunteers Were
ready to fight on behalf of Great Britain ill any part
of the world.” it is impossible, alas, for the Aus-
tralian nation to cable a muzzle to this fatuous
drummer. There are in Australia hundreds of
bravoes who, partly for money and partly for pure
blood lust, would be ready to fight anywhere for
Britain, or even for China. But— and'it is a big
but—they won’t ever get any more money out of
the State Treasury to go away and fight with.
“BILLY ” LANE, the “New Australia” leader.
Softgoods Reid, asked by a British inter-
viewer : “In case of war, you in Victoria are not
afraid of a hostile visit from the navy of any
European power?” defiantly inflated his chest ;
“ Not at all,” he replied. “We should give them
a particularly warm reception. The Cerberus (a
25-year-old tub capable of steaming a mile and
a-half per week) would blow almost any out
of water ;we in Australia are all Britons. ’ I hi*
comes of inflating a chunky shopman with mili-
tarism, and then letting him escape. It is now
necessary to include in each Australian Constitu-
tion a law prohibiting any Minister from visiting
England during his term of office—so many want
to rush off and exhibit themselves in the dear old
mother country immediately upon securing the
right to place “ Hon.” on their luggage. We can-
not be held responsible for the grimaces and
gyrations of a jumped-up politician whose chief
intention in going ’Ome is to amaze Ins lubberly
relations and those people in the village who
remember him only as a “ pore ” boy with holes n
his pants.
New Tasmanian Ministry : Premier (with-
out portfolio). Edward Braddon ; Treasurer, P O.
Fysh; Chief Secretary, William Moore; Attorney
General, A. I. Clark; Lands, A. T. Pillinger ;
Minister (without portfolio), Thos. Reibey. Brad-
don is an ex-civil servant (India), an ex-volunteer
soldier, an Indian pensioner, and an ex-Agent-
General of Tasmania. His chief recommendation
is that he is a brother of Miss Braddon, the
sensational novelist. Philip Oakley Fysh is a
Cockney, and used to trade in soft-goods till
politics seized him; he also has been a volunteer
rnajah, but strictly for show, while Braddon has
smelt powder. Attorney-General Clark is a
Hobartian, a good lawyer and advocate, and an
avowed Republican who can be relied on not to
take a little. Pillinger is simply a sticker-on in
Parliament. Tom Reibey used to be an Anglican
parson, and rose to be an archdeacon. His mother
was a sister of the late Wigram Allen (N.S.W.
Speaker). The annals of Tasmanian law-courts
mention Archdeacon Reibey in at least one case
that would make first-class “copy.” Reibey has
been Opposition Leader, Premier, Col. Secretary,
and Speaker.
Among the late Bathurst (N.S.W.) blasts
of Premier Dibbs, let these bo noted
When the province sent 36 Labour-mm into Parliament,
it tried an experiment by which it has not benefited. . •
The proclamation [proroguing Parliament! which had
shaken the nerves of the country had to be issued to sober
the Parliament. . . The fact that the Gov* imiinnt
obtained supplies for the current year on a test division
by a majority of 27 votes, justified it in every act it has
done. . . We are not going to have a suicidal fight
between Protection and Freetrade. . . Protection and
Freetrade have hitherto separated the best men in the
country. . . If certain questions are not dealt with
now, it will be years before the country recovers its wont d
prosperity. . . The whole thing might be summed up
in the wards—“ Stable Government.” . . The question
of the central leases is to be dealt with in Cabinet to-
morrow. . . Legislation will be prepared for the pur-
pose of dealing finally with this matter, so as to give the
country more confidence and establish confidence in the
pastoral industries. . . It we can restore the pastoral
industry to its position as the backbone of New South
Wales. . . When the Local Government Bill comes, it
w ill be a full and fair answer to the land-taxers and single-
taxers. . . There will be absolutely no room for the
land-taxer and single-tsi er.
It is difficult to accept the shake-up of a kaleido-
scope seriously, but the above fragments, dove-
tailing with many rjeent Dibbsian eccentricities,
seem to point suspicion to these five things as
planks to be avowed in Dibbs’ electioneering plat-
form :—(l) We confess that we side with the Fat
Man class, as against Labour. (2) We abandon
fiscal differences in order to consolidate the Fat
Party against the Lean. (3) We incline to a
Coalition, under the guise of “stable govern-
ment.” (4) We deify the squatter. (5) We will
dodge the land-tax by the Local Government Bill.
En passant: “ A suicidal fight between protection
and freetrade” could only have come from a
republican nobleman.
THE SUPPLIANT.
Whatever requisitions we make of the native races in
Africa, the latter have at least this guarantee —the proved
honesty of our dealings among them for tire past 20 years.
If this be not sufficient to ensure compliance with our just
demands, we must resort to stronger measures, &c.—
Times.
There came a churl with dagger bared and shining
And boldly oped a decent burgher’s door ;
Stepped in and asked, in accents soft and whining,
“ Have you no trifle for the homeless poor?
I know your pity’s ever prompt and speedy,
I know you sympathise with others’ woe;
I know your heart beats kindly for the needy—
For all whose lot is hopeless here below.
I beg in suppliant tones —I come not plying
The bandit’s trade beneath the beggar’s part—
I plead ” (and here he showed the steel) “relying
Entirely on the goodness of your heart.”
P. LUFTIG.


<§>~fjQ. ~~Po\ic.d Qay falcuy hltlev’fy Kf clifj-iCulfa 5 flyey
Couyftr \\j dtlnQhyd' Electors. ty %oye iijsfoycts
rtjt} d'Ujol~ lVa.Uj lODjwfy To pci (w.
sd
d\
|\^j
Ip
I
n
((
j'/r
r \ \>/
fs - S c & s/'
of r S7 fJ /
4 jjuyclhad Styx }° I
V'V’i
/-v
h t
'r f-
Mi
A%,
f
(3k <* l°Q£(yf~ pPoodS ujl Co i' • ijui/C. 'fo difficulty
r?i
1 5 s«t Hf Coyt S’ rf rtj is Wt 175 Cl do j- l^el
-for a Voter $ f^sicUpce*
dsf
Force, is tjejfw fo \,g , f . '"jv
o.9 elector Jfetfy reuses to recede Jj>s «'^' s
~ty e P kl’iHj*
ftr< for^
1 ** odor, 5=
DISTRIBUTING NEW SOUTH WALES ELECTORS’ EIGHTS.


X'tp"
/>
n f •
7/jp fj/ainUff
beaded fuilry
Tf ha.i/'i'njf Ta/<’? ,x
a hai-mcud
for
cdrii/'e.
77e ya l/e/jt 7/torOuyAly enjoys cl fje case.
fjjfafe n /ire Juryman
h
Cu
o
t
**
\
\
\
' X - Ca^ot r
« x don’t linow.
- -I might have.’
, £ ;
-;***** '
/
s
/■O.
o
, <?/ .'S
' N / t
w
1
a-.
l\
o
r
i !
• cr.J
j
%
v%
\ \
I v
I
•i\
%
\
•%»*<*-
1 do not remember.!
4 4
o5 -
#*■
y
■O’ £
c? O-
o
/
r
, T/ p .
1 N£s 5
e°*
C^0 S -
f y
.
*s •
CV /.
'Vc
77 <7/U/c 'u//~~
ur/fries S.
ds
fsd
fsd
//e'/cr" bum/i ' ay ain s f a Joe /coy~ .
y
1h e
T/j e 7/a in hf/S /<*fc u 1
7 La r -
r oft
Sy?*t.Jb<t//ey>c Triend 3/-ope John | ||| |||{®™
Aa*o /eft/ox* provided for."
Wfdovr-"} fooor fe/h-ur ?ie Aat. tee, A e i*. '<£■ S B
fifi one orTivo ‘sfecidjv tits' hee/ted. '
JOCKEY HAYES AND HIS CAS E-CHIEFLY.


WEST AUSTRALIA.
TT'OHTUNES HAVE BEEN MADE by those who bought
P Land in Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane
years back, and fortunes are waiting for those who buy
nowin PERTH (the capital city)and ALBANY, WEST
AUSTRALIA.
GRAND VIEW ESTATE, PERTH.
Splendid Building Sites.
£lO Each, £1 Deposit; 10 - Monthly. No Interest.
PERTH CUV ROTS,
From £4O each. Very Cheap. Eisy Terms.
ALBA NTT AC R E BLOCK S.
Grand-position. From £l5 each. Easy Terms.
Title guaranteed perfect. No forfeiture if ill or out of
\work. Send for plans and Government map, showing true
position of land.
The INTERCOLONIAL INVESTMENT CO.,
Limited,
(Established Berth and Sydney, 1885),
.too 1-m-st , SYDNEY. W. J. Douglas, Manager.
Wonderful Discovery !
ROSE’S
CELEBRATED
EYE LOTION .
mills Lotion cures Swell iny and Sandy Hlit/hf,
J- Inflamed Kyes and Lids, Dimness of Siyht,
Very beneficial to those who have II eah Jiyes, as it
strengthens the siyht. By post, ils. per Bottle.
B3F" Manufactured Solelyby 11. A. ICOSii. ( iicmisl,
531 GEORGE a-TREET, SYDNEY.
Donf
let
any one
deceive
you:
Tbtre
can
bt
no
for
air
IWolfesSchmpps
Society
A letter from Lord Carington, lately
received in Sydney, shows that he was aware of
the neglect in store for him in the new arrange-
ments of the Liberal party. His claqueurs made
him successively Lord Lieut, of Ireland, Gov.-
General of India, and Gov.-General of Canada,
and were so dismally out in their reckoning that
when they now dangle the Gov.-Generalship of
Federated Australia before him he merely yawns.
But, though politically he sits far back, the letter
indicates that his animal spirits are as exuberant
as they were years ago, and it is quite possible
that if he were again offered his old post in Syd-
ney he would pack up and sail out. It is better to
reign in Hell than serve in Heaven.
# * »
.Sydney University Commemoration was
marked by the usual display of larrikinism by the
students —“ young gentlemen ’’ belonging to “our
best families,” and trained at considerable ex-
pense to the country to know that the hoodlum
who stands at the street corner and spits is a dis-
grace to civilisation, while the hoodlum who
mocks, shouts, jeers, and howls in the presence of
ladies and his seniors in authority, age, and
knowledge, is the flower of culture and refine-
ment.
# • •
Dear Bulletin, —I want to find the
meanest man (or men) in Australia. When I
knew a certain big squatter ten years ago he never
used to say his prayers in bad seasons. Said that
if the Almighty didn’t help him, he didn’t see his
way to shove along the Almighty. When there
was plenty of rain and a good lambing, the
squatter’s incense ascended regularly night and
morning. I used to think that was pretty mean.
Perhaps Melb. Trades’ Hall Council beat it when,
after damning the Chinkies all over the country,
they accepted an official Chinkie subscription of
£25 in aid of the ’9O seamen’s strike. That was
mean. And the other day, up at Bathurst, when a
poor devil of an unemployed stripped and went
into the water to look for the bodies of the
drowned girls whom M‘Credie tried to save,
somebody came along and robbed his clothes,
taking his miner’s right, his railway pass, and
something like Is. 9d. in cash. That was d d
mean, and I think even The Bulletin would
like to give that thief a touch of the whip. Do
you know anything meaner, now, or do your
readers ? I want Australian meanness, mind, not
foreign-we have plenty of our own. —Yours,
Thin Man.
« • *
The new Yic. Sunday trains don’t pay.
* * *
'The present
-.address of a late
Sydney co-respon-
dent, old enough,,
.one would have
(thought, to be
good without any
«ffor t, is Oool-
gardie.
» «
Gilbert Parker
professes to have
—and is credited
by many Eng-
lish newspapers
with having a
wide knowledge
of things Aus-
tralasian. In
“ Mrs. Falchion ”
he talks about
‘ pearling” in a
schooner, with a
white crew, skip-
per, Ist and 2nd
mates! Then,
talking of the ill
treatment of the
Jews at Aden, he
remarks: “ As
the Chinamen are
treated in Oregon
and Port Dar-
win.” And yet
the Chin am e n
absolutely run
Port Darwin.
The Rev. Horatio
Gilbert Parker is
only the common
kind of globe-
trotter, after
all.
it was put about that the Tapley-Varley
marriage wuuld be celt' rated at St. Paul’s Cathe-
dral, Melbourne, whereas solemn arrangements
had already been made with Kev. Chas. Strong,
of the Australian Church. A strictly “quiet”
wedding was achieved by this neat little ruse.
The bride had announced the imminence of the
interesting event, after the manner of her kind,
but Joseph—his name has been associated with
modesty for ages—seems to have reserved th e
right to reveal the name of the appointed taber-
nacle.
# # *
It is officially notified by Sydney Charity
Organisation that two single women and 71 single
men, sick or incapacitated for work, were relieved
during last month. If it were tw‘o ►■jeotek men and
71 Irishmen, what would be the inference? If it
were two English men and 71 Chinamen, what would
be, in debating-club parlance, the basic principle
of the explanation?
# « #
N.S.W. Justice Manning, the other day,
declined to hear a waistcoatless solicitor who rose
before his Honor to “move probate” until the
“gent, one” had—buttoned up his coat !
Scoff not, oh ! cynic of the styles,
ie sjrious, and make the best of it.
Kofrain, ye torturers of smiles,
Nor dare to make a common jest of it.
For here’s no vulgar point to take
Concerning wig, and gown, and rest of it;
The Judge raislikes a “ gent.” to make
A lay-like, clean, and open breast of it!
According to his fastidious Honor, a lawyer who
wears no vest is indecently clad. The man-mil-
liner now gives place to the Manning-milliner.
TT i
The head office of the W.C.i.U. Has a
stupendous order on hand. It is getting up a
petition with 5,000,000 signatures, demanding the
absolute, instantaneous and universal abolition of
the accursed drink, which document is to be multi-
plied by photography and a copy presented to
every Government on earth. TheW.O.T.U. is
going to toil throughout the globe with its literary
effort in its hand, and present it personally, and
when it has got through it will feel bright and
refres hed all over. Nobody supposes for a moment
that anything will happen when the document is
CAREFUL MAN.
PROSPECTIVE BRIDEGROOM ( purchasing his housekeeping outfit, to saleslady
"Yes, it seems a good strong kind of chair, but—hut would you
mind sitting upon my knee for a moment? I should like to try
if it will carry double.”
pr “sented, for even 5,000,000 teetotallers don’t
amount to anything very impressive in a world
of fifteen hundred million drinkers, but the
W.C.T.U. will have done its duty. It spends its"
while existence in getting up petitions, and
nobody cares any more for the biggest petition of
the lot than for a bag of dirt, and the signatories
know it, and the W.C.T.U. knows it also, but
the documentary drunkenness has got into its
system and can’t be shaken off. What is wanted
now is for someone to get up a huge petition from
everybody to everybody iu general asking every-
body to stop getting up petitions for evermore.
# # *
Melbourne City Health Officer insists that
Yarropulis does not stink. Perhaps this gentle-
man has no moral sense of smell.
Dear Bulletin, —The most concise “Philo-
sophy ” you have had, or are likely to get (from
the French, of course): —
“ Sans six sous, sans soucis.”
—D.W.
# # #
A well-known Melb. electrician, slowly
recovering from a long and dangerous illness,
sends us the following tag, snipped by him from
an Age “In Memoriam ” advt. :
God takes the good—-too good to slay ;
God leaves the had—too bad to take away.
He says it makes him think.
* # #
One reason for the stupidity of the com-
mon policeman is said to be that ho stands so
much, so that the blood gets into his feet instead
of into his head. The natural consequence is that
he is a person of splendid hoof-development, but
yiar „
a Jjjof.
with no brains worth speaking of. What the
policeman wants is to be stood on lus head for ten
minutes every day to strengthen his intellect —
sergeants and inspectors to be up-ended for 20
minutes daily.
* * •
The other day a solicitor who, it was
alleged, had pocketed the fee, failed to turn up to
defend a man accused of a serious crime ; and the
court actually refused to grant accused even an
hour’s adjournment, although one of its own
officers had, apparently, broken a contract on the
performance of which depended, from one aspect,
the prevention of the court’s commission of the
crime of punishing an innocent man.
* * •
“WHY DON’T MEN MARRY?”
(Dedicated, without permission, to Miss Jessie
Ackermann —pronounce the name rapidly, please.)
Why don’t men marry when they can ?
Because they’re always called to rumin-
Ate upon the yacker-man.
But fail to find the yacker-woman.
# * *
A woman was imprisoned in Melbourne,
the other day, for pawning her employer’s
trousers. She was receiving 7d. a pair for making
them up. Under these conditions woman is justi-
fied in appropriating the breeches.
# * #
Another diver killed at Darnley Island.
Will some statist kindly find out how many pearls
go to a diver? It should comfort the society
beauty to know exactly what her necklace cost.
# # #
A Melbourne man has been fined a shilling
for tarring his wife with hot tar a few days back.
He asphalted her whilst she was in bed. She
escaped before he could find the feathers. That
bends evidently is not without sympathy for the
man who shows himself earnestly desirous of sub-
stituting a cheaper toilet for women.
» » •
A cushion was being raffled at the bazaar
in aid of St. Patrick’s Church, and the Mayor
threw 18 with the dice. Feeling pretty sure he
would win ho went off among the crowd. When
he returned he was told the cushion had been won
by Father Muldooney. “But,” said the Mayor,
“I threw 18.’’ “Of course ye did,” replied the
Milesian lady who conducted the raffle, “ but
didn’t his Rivcrince throw tvvinty !”
# * *
An Australian solicitor lately struck off
the roll for irregularities in the trust-moneys
department, had strongly developed tastes of a
Don Juanesque character. He maintained four
different suburban establishments with young lady
attachments at each—and he was a married man
into the bargain !
* * *
Cable tells us that the jealous London
husband who recently shot at and severely
wounded his wife ami her solicitor, when he found
them together in toe latter’s private office, has
been sentenced to 12 years’ penal servitude.
Five years for shooting the wife and the man he
supposed Jo be her paramour —seven years for
wounding a solicitor. Never hurt a limb of the
law if you hope for mercy in this world. On the
same principle, never start a crunk company with-
out having a lawyer on the board to ward off the
Crown’s vengeance.
# # #
Tennyson Smith, the temperance evan-
gelist, made a triumphal entry into Ballarat last
week. A mob of unwholesome fanatics and sly
drinkers met him at the railway-station, armed
with drums and banners. Subsequently a pro-
cession, mixed in the proportions of one lank-
haired adult to twenty-six totally abstaining small
children, marched through the streets with Tenny-
son Smith in tow. This demonstration incited at
least a couple of thousand citizens to liquor up on
the spot, but the people who never touched any-
thing before are still “off it,” so Smith’s mission
has given general satisfaction to the good cause.
* * »
“ Aged about 35, stylishly dressed, with
iD and a watch in his pockets -and yet found
self-hanged from a tree-branch near Lai Lai (Vic.).
Poor Dick Thatcher, after his brain had gone on
the whizz, used to say that the Melbourne tram-
bells always ding-donged “Lai Lai,” which, he
would add, is the identical signal used to usher
souls into “Hell Hell.”
* • •
The banjo-craze has fairly caught on in
Melbourne; the Block during afternoons presents
a ceaseless procession of girls carrying banjo cases.
To the uninitiated, the first impression would be—
a terrible infant mortality and a rush on baby-
coffins.
* # *
The self-assertive, positive female requires
a vote; the comparative Australian woman is
satisfied with existing conditions if she can get a
voter.
A Melb. genius has hit upon a good
anti-dun system. He rents two rooms.
On the door of one his name is painted ;
this door he always keeps locked. On a
card tacked to the door is a notice that all
messages are to be dropped into the letter-
box. In the door of the other room (on
the opposite side of the passage) is a small
peep-hole. Directly he hears anyone at
the locked door he “ takes a lunar” through
the peep-hole. Welcome visitors are re-
ceived ; duns are allowed to play on the
panels until they fall from exhaustion.
* * *
A Melb. firm the other day got 164
replies to an advt. for a junior clerk. Men
of all ages were among the applicants.
Many offered to work for from ss. to 10s. a
week, and a genius who claimed to be a
shorthand-writer and type-writer volun-
teered to work for six months without
salary. Which all goes to show to what
devilish depths of misery the Lean Man is
being driven nowadays.
# • #
A very interesting subject of de-
bate for the Women’s Christian Temper-
ance Union Convention would bo “Bar-
maids and Female Nurses, comparatively
considered.” Which would the W.C.T.U.
vote as the more unsexed? Miss Jessie
Ackermann is invited to consider all the
points involved in this appetising problem,
and to deliver her sOul of its convictions
thereon.
# * *
A recent Yic. Civil Service bolter
made an official complaint, shortly ere he
went, that his local police-station, Caulfield,
was not sufficiently conspicuous. Caul-
field is the residence of other illustrious
personages.
A Sydney man last week broke a window
for the purpose of getting into gaol, as he was
starving and could not get work. The P.M. of
the Central gave him four months’ hard labour.
Another stole harness, purely as a thief, and pro-
tested loudly that he didn’t want to go to gaol—
and the P.M. of Redfern gave him 21 days’ hard
labour. Who will say that the moral aspect of
the deed is not considered by Sydney beak< ? All
the same, if a man is starving and wants to draw
atteirtion to his misery, he should try to refrain
from window-breaking It would be enough for
him to say to a policeman : “ Here is a stone. I
want food. Unless you arrest me I’ll break that
window.”
• # *
An Adelaide poet advertises that he will
supply suitable lamentation in verse for head-
stones, &0., at moderate fees.
* • #
The latest plaint from New Australia rises
over the innate cussedness of the Paraguayan flea.
Neither steam-hammers nor pianos nor homilies
on “ true raateship” avail against him ; he cannot
be expelled by the Paraguayan police.
* * *
A select party of naval officers and gentle-
men lately made themselves most objectionable at
a suburban oyster-shop, but the “ Dago ” pro-
prietors just slung them out and handed them over
to the police. A subsequent discovery of the
identity of the prisoners resulted in their being
immediately released and no further questions
asked. The discriminative powers of the police
are wondrous keen—occasionally.
• * *
Press interviewer : “ Why didn’t you go
to Grafton with Governor Duff ?” Premier DihLs:
“ You ask no questions, and I’ll tell you no lies.”
* # *
The testimony of a Sydney licensed
victualler: “If I were robbed in King-street, I
would go into a private bar or a wineshop to find
a constable.” The Christian policeman in posse.
# * *
The N.S.W. Oddfellows have just made a
law fining a man 2s. Gd. for sleeping during lodge
business. 2s. Cd. for reading the newspaper, Is. for
eating, is. for interrupting a speaker, and half-a-
crown for singing an in lecent or a religious song.
In N.S.W. Parliament memlters read newspapers
with impunity, snore on benches —one lately
dropped on to the floor with a dull thud—and one
member is known to have eaten sardines from a
tin during debate.
* * *
Example is better (or worse) than pre-
cept. Since the broken Hill police shot Cousi-
dine, two alleged trespassers have been shot in
different places in N.S. Wales.
BEYOND THE BARRIER.
[For The Bulletin].
Are you tired of the South Land, comrade
The smoke and the city’s din,
And the roar of the chiding ocean
When the sobbing tide comes in ?
Would you ride to the northward, rather,
To the skirmish-posts of earth.
Where the darkest dust-storms gather
And the wildest floods have birth ?
Are you tired of the revel, comrade.
The life of folly and wine
With its one half lived in the shadow
And one half lived in shine ?
Are you tired of the poison glasses,
The lawless love and the kiss,
Out East where the brown range passes
Do you hope for dearer than this
Where the sweetest maid that ever knew
Love’s bliss and parting’s pain
Is waiting open-armed for you
Beyond the Barrier Chain ?
Let us steer to the northward, comrade,
To the Bush, with her -witching spells,
The sun-bright days and the camp-fire blaze
And the chime of the bullock-bells -
Down the long, long leagues behind us
The rain shall cover our track,
And the dust of the North shall blind us
Or ever we follow it back,
Away from the old friends, comrade,
The grasp of the strong, brown hand,
The love and the life and the laughter
That brighten the brave North Land
So long as the sunlight fills it,
So long as the red stars shine,
So long as the Master wills it
The North is your home and mine.
GLENROWAN.


Send ONE an d 3 PENCE STAMPS
(OF ANY COLON Yj
And PURCHASE (Post Free) any one of the following Useful Reference Books :
Profitable Poultry Hook
The Self-Educator Hook
Comic Recitations Hook
Ready-made Speeches Book
How to Play Billiards
Colonists’ Guide to Health
How to Train-Running, etc.
The Popular Song Book
House Painting and Papering
Whist and Card Games
Athletics and Gymnastics
Familiar Quotations
Character in Faces and Features
Letter Writer’s Manual
Character in Handwriting
Hand}' Book on the Horse
Handy Carpentry B 10k
Manual of Book-keeping
A Iso, the'following j4l t( StVCI 1/i (Ml \tlVilS ‘ 9 J)ctC(‘tivC SfOVICSf CtC»
Geoffrey Hamlyn (H. Kingsley)
Eulalie (VV. S. Hayward)
Lost for Gold (Katharine King)
Botany Bay (John Lang'
Assigned to His Wife (John Lang)
Gold Hunters’ Adventures (Thomas)
A Study in Scarlet (A. C. Doylej
The Sign of the Four ~
Light that Failed (H. Kipling)
The Right Sort (A. Kennardi
Out of Hurly-Burly (M. Adder)
Elbow Room (M. Adder)
Moina (L. L. Lynch)
A Slender Clue (L. L. Lynch)
Crime of Xmas Toy (H. Herman)
Broken Bonds (Hawley Smart)
False Cards „ ~
Play or Pay „ ~
WARD* LOCK & BOWDEH, Ltd. (and all Booksellers), Melbourne.
“GAILY THE
TROUBADOUR.”
The troubadour has long since passed into history,
hut his sweet guitar still lives in fact as well as in
memory.
We have just received about a Dozen of the famous
pANDANGO
Guitars.
They are remarkable for the purity and richness
of their tones, tor their strength and for their low
price. A good one for 50s. —better ones up to £7 Js.,
and every one guaranteed.
SPLENDID STOCK OF MUSIC
FOR
GUITAR OR MANDOLIN.
Call and Inspect our Magnificent Stock of
PIANOS AND ORGANS 1
The finest choice in the city, and the best for the
money. Most Liberal Terms—CASH or CREDIT.
W. H. PALING & CO., LTD.,
33S GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Hear Bulletin,— Why is it that invariably
in the man and wife love-story, with its horrid
accessories of murder, or adultery, or suicide, or
all together, the luckless (and reckless) couple
never have any children? Instance Price Warung’s
“At the feet of his Fame,” last week, and—the
best story of the kind—Kipling’s “ At the Pit’s
Mouth.” Of-course you will answer me that Art
precludes the interpolation of children. But Art
(should be malleable. Anyway, here is the one
field for literary genius that is still untilled. Per-
sonally, I don’t think anyone could touch it with-
out making a mess of it. Undoubtedly the man
who shows (if he ever does) that he can artistically
handle a child in the tale of love, adultery,
murder, &c., &c., will be greater than Shake-
speare.- D.W.
# * •
TONES & SONS, Furnishing Undertakers, 199 Lons-
J dale-street, Melb.; 138 Sampson’s-road, Richmond;
191 City-road, South Melb.; 362 High-st., St. Kilda;
5X4 Sydney-road, Brunswick; and Hopkins (near
Cowper-3t.>, Footseray. Factory and residence, Clarke,
Varia i, Paterson streets; and Marine Parade, near
C invent, Abbotsford. Telephones.
The above is the simple addendum to a three-line
funeral notice in a Melb. daily. The unfairness
to the corpse is conspicuous. As the funeral
column of the paper is clearly for the convenience
of the corpse, the latter’s business should at least
have equal space with the undertaker’s.
« # •
Stipendiary-Magistrate Giles, who a little
while ago lost a valuable gold watch on Redfern
(Sydney) railway-station at the deft fingers of a
pickpocket, is now the “ Windeyer ” of the lower
courts when dealing with that particular class of
the community. An ounce of practice is worth a
ton of theory.
* * •
A side appeal to the Yic. Full Court, in
Speight v. Syme, has been chiefly dismissed and
partially upheld—each side paying costs of these
incidental proceedings. So the game of fleece
goes on.
» * *
For pure, unadulterated barbarity it would
be hard to beat the sentence passed, for a sexual
offence, of a boy of 10 years, in Brisbane. This
miserable youngster was actually sentenced to 10
years penal servitude I
# * •
Sydney’s huge skating-rink at Darling-
liurst is now used as a wool-store.
Open a vault in Sanclgate, Newcastle
(N.S.W.), cemetery and the coffins literally float
oat. To sink the ingoing box weights have to bo
used And yet the cremation era is not near
enough to be seen ! Why does not every pro-
vincial Parliament vote a sum for a metropolitan
crematorium to set cremation going?
* # •
N.S.W. offers two rewards : one, £5O, on
e mviction of the murderer of a child ; the other,
£lOO, on conviction of the incendiary of a reaping-
rn ichine.
# • •
Houses and shops are going up all over
Adelaide, and, though rents in many places have
come down, there are practically no empty tene-
ments.
m # •
An elderly maiden lady, Miss Raymond,
has commenced a religious crusade within the
ranks of the Sydney police. Her congregations,
comprising some 24 married men, pray and sing
hymns with much zeal up to 9 p.m., when they
fall to and partake, with proportionate fervour, of
lams, scones, tea, coffee, milk, and so on. A
suburban sergeant and a policeman from the
Mint pray like practised parsons to their sinful
brothers, and it is hoped that their consoling
words will have the effect of bringing them all
fewer “cases.” Single policemen do not attend..
Tile rascals are probably banging upon the con-
soling words (and pie) of other (and younger)
maiden ladies.
“ London ” is the name of n small port in
Westralia, about 90 miles from the goldfield of
Marble Bar. There is a London in Canada, and
it is said that there is one somewhere in a place
called England.
A Melbourne paper reminds its readers
that the Mayors of Leicester (Eug.) used to be
chosen by a pig. The proceeding is often reversed
in Australia—the hog is chosen.
* * #
A Melbourne trooper, not long ago, found
a pin stuck up to the head in his horse’s haunch.
This had been done while backing into a crowd.
# # *
In a recent Sydney
fire scare, one youth tried
to leap from a window
30ft. from the ground,
and a frantic mother
threw her baby from the
gallery into the hall,
luckily withouthurt. You
never realise the utter
idiocy at the bottom of
human nature until it is
displayed in all its naked-
ness at a fire. What a
Bedlam hell must be !
“ A civil servant is a gentleman with a
silk umbrella and a grievance.”
“ To tell you the truth, I remember your
name perfectly,” said Oscar Wilde to an effusive
person who grasped his hand in the street, “ hut
for the life of me I can’t recollect your face.”
Sydney University Prof. Macallum’s book
on Arthurian idylls gets scant mercy from English
critics, who dub it a heterogeneous hash-up of
other men’s writings, darkened by the rushlight
of the professorial intelligence. Why will Aus-
tralian university men persist in plodding the
beaten path of letters, gleaning fields which hun-
dreds have reaped before them, while the new
problems of a new continent await the touch of
the master to thrill into literary life ? Perhaps
for the same reason that books published in
Australia fall flat, while anything sent to England
and returned with the stamp of a London publisher
is eagerly bought up. So far, the chief charac-
teristic of the Australian reader (yes, and writer)
is the absence of a mind of Ins own.
John Mat tin, a boy of 14, has been dis-
tinguishing himself in Adelaide. Fourteen times
lias he escaped from the local reformatory. The
last time he was hobbled to a bed in the third
storey, but he broke loose and, still hobbled,
climbed out of the window, went hand-over-hand
along a gutter 40ft. from the ground to the angle
of the building, and then slipped along the down-
pipe to the earth. He robbed a neighbouring
dwelling because, as he told the Judge, he was
cruelly treated at the reformatory arid wanted to
be sent somewhere else. Justice B'mdey, a kindly
yachtsman, declined to send Martin to gaol, but
handed him over to a gentleman who has more
than once before fashioned good citizens out of
alleged incorrigible lads. Some day Martin may
be either Premier of the province or leader of
the S. A. troops in their expedition to annex the
Barrier or Coolgardie.
In the wisdom of all the ages
There’s nothing that’s half as bright
As the things that we can’t remember
That we thought of in bed last night.
Melb,
M‘G.
HUMANITY.
Sae far enough to guess infinity:
Then heavy night falls round.
Love true enough to wish eternity:
Then the life snaps—o’erwound.
Muse deep enough to doubt the Deity:
Then die, no answer found.
A GOOD STOVE.
A WORD OF CAUTION.
Everyone know's what a good stove is—at least,
the women do ; and every woman knows that, of
all the treasures of the household, a really first-
rate, reliable cooking-stove is the greatest desider-
atum in a house. A great many stoves are
advertised every year, many of which are like
jerry-built houses—thrown together to sell. A
word of caution is therefore necessary to intending
buyers, because tiiere are few things so annoying
and vexatious as to buy a stove and then find that
it d >es not possess all the qualities that are neces-
sary to give complete and lasting satisfaction.
Now, the points in choosing a good stove are: —
1. Strong cast-iron frame.
2. Good draught,
3. Facilities to burn either wood, coal, or
even turf.
4. Simplicity of parts, and thus, easy to clean.
5. Duplicate parts kept in stock, so that
bieakages can be replaced at small cost
and without delay.
And if, in addition to these five points, you can
get a stove that is also an ornament to the kitchen,
all the better.
Price, of course, is a point, but that is a matter
which need scarcely be mentioned, since, if the
above points are combined in any stove, it would
be cheap at any price within reason.
It only remains for us to say that, with con-
fidence, we can honestly recommend “The
Housewife,” sold by Holds worth, Macpherson
and Co., 250 George-street, Sydney, from £3 10s.
upwards, as one that fully and entirely “ fills the
bill.”
We should suggest our readers writing to this
firm for an illustrated catalogue, with further
iparticulars.
MOI ET TOI-TOI ET MOI.
All that 1 am is thine
My body, my heart, my soul ;
Thou fillest my life as wine
Filleth a white glass howl:
Colourless, cold and thin,
But for the wine therein.
Can I say more to thee ?
Nay, there is naught to be said
Thine am I, living or dead.
Thou art the All for me ;
Take but thy love away
1 am but dead, cold clay.
Fear not, my love hinds thee,
What is the earth to the sun ?
Is it his care that the sea
Lies dark when the day is done ?
Leave me, thou art most free ;
What is my love to thee ?
Upper Hunter.
A.B.
SOLD
{iKelb "" |
ii G SfoqD 'ffiGß.fc ; I
A^T\ST«eBLAt K G , L‘ r Piuis»G€PS( SmtD |
We CfjATHPH I N\ Tfie TOPMOST Rfti k 2
'■f>jesteN\ep A CHAP oJWo account, -M
Mn Innocent BcTORCTHe Lo^P."
onTtje OffS 1 Pe.T^i ej) To amount;!
k 0>(olY s'+foV we^oA^p||
tie Acrambitp OuT[Aw’s S'Pt%
'XefpoW/O'He ]^iis--we ur fWcM DotfM.
UKeBiAzeP
v 'GoopbA,P£AA Boys, lVepoY€You2f(pWtJ.
Tt)€Besr>lpqp-coir cW W?
WAS SkMCiY&NCATH
Os Holy a°^s : Ji
}/ * g
kC^F <<r 3R» < £AN'c >*d
Answers to Correspondents.
No notice will be taken of communications which arrive
at this office insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must, in every case, appear on US,
“A.E.”: Wooden enough to make pavement
with “Palsie”: Weak, stale type... “ Pt-ekey ” : Not
a bit too late ; our basket's like the grave—it yawns
on untiringly. “H.R.W.": May use “J.W.":
Declined “Nemo”: A \ery feeble sparkle
“G.H.W.”; Your Pegasus does jog occasionally, but he
never jogs out of the rut....” Sartor ” : A church is
mostly a commercial speculation, and a man who pays for
a first-class pew in a first-class church is a first-class pas-
senger to heaven. A second class passenger has no more
business to put him out of his pew than out of a railway-
carriage “Colonial”: The State can’t do everything,
but it does what it can. In giving education it gives
knowledge, and morality is founded on knowledge. Reli-
gion is mostly founded on dogma, and may or may not he
moral, inasmuch ar dogma is incapable of proof, and
therefore may or may not be true. Which is one of the
reasons why the State shouldn’t run the risk of teaching
religion. All your objections have been answered over
and over again “ Spokeshave ” : About as much point
as a pile-driver.... “ Boiling B.”: Thanks ...” R.L.H.” :
Popular in the days of the plesiosaurus “M.L.” : “Old
and Young ’’—motive old, interest very young .
“ X.X.X.” : Seems a stiff fine to impose without warning,
but if you make laws you must have penalties for breach.
“Bat”: The brand of the commonplace is heavy on
its brow “Ole'Nap ” : Will cheerfully give half of our
kingdom and the hand of the princess our daughter in mar-
riage to anyone who brings us your head on a charger
“Morgan” ; John O’Shanassy was a draper in Elizabeth-
st., Melb., and - never a butcher .. “Toby": Ponderous
and hackneyed humour “R.J.” (Bourke): Can’t you
tell the yarns in one-ninth the space Colo” : All
the Astor fortune was certainly not made in real estate.
Have you never read Washington Irving’s “ Astoria? '....
“ W.VV.P.” : An old, old story, told in an old, old way ...
“John W.” : It isntpoetry and it isn’t rhyme. So there!
“C.S.” (N.); Authorship attributed to a score of
people.... “ I’.M. : Isn’t sentiment rather exaggerated for
subject?.. “ A 7 ox " : Are you prepared to die?... “Tom
Gayndah” ; In olher words, establish a gorgeous
national workhouse system. Thanks; we’re pretty
had; hut. we haven’t got that far “Mia”:
The gory bush-tragedy has done good work in the shafts,
and Tub Bulletin has now turned it out on grass.
“Regular R.”: Seems a fair-enough gamble.
~.“T.”: Dominoes may, as you say, he “the
game of the goody-goodies,” hut you won’t find the
champion domino player among ihe goody-goodies. A’ou
will find him np at the Cafii Franeais, Sydney .. “C.
Kelly ” (V. 8.): The fact that children are still thrashed
by their parents is no v alid argument, especially as the
best parent is the parent who controls, and the best child
is the child who is controlled, without flogging. In Aus-
tralian schools corporal punishment is practically abol-
ished. The State won’t flog school boys, but it flogs
grown men, It begins at the wrong end, anyhow....
“Mountebank” (Melb.): It might be misconstrued
“C. Vargas ” ; Too late. Opportunity should be grasped
by the forelock—it is bald behind, as the Dutch
say “ Llando ” : Thanks. The Bulletin, however,
suggests that final decision re the death-sentence on
Montgomery and Williams, who failed to kill a policeman,
and probably never intended to kill him, should be
deferred until after the trial of the two revolver-armed
policemen charged with having manslaughtered a drunken
man “ Spectatress ” : We regard the shares as good
value “Democrat” (no name or address): You say
that a N.S.W. Minister employs a Chinese workman at 3s.
a day at the expense of a white man with four children
who refused to work for that wage. Please put us in a
position to make full enquiries. If the story is true, the
Minister is a bigger fool than we took him for
“.Eligible”; “ Why should men marry ?” Because they
can’t help it, sometimes. Marriage isn’t usually a thing
argued about by the man chiefly concerned, any more
than revenge, or jealousy, or dipsomania. Some young
men select a girl of malice aforethought and save up to
buy an allotment, and then pay off a house in the building
society and then cold-bloodedly marry the woman.
But most men don’t. They just get married and
leave the bride in her parents’ custody while they
get out to look tor lodgings “ L.” ; Mr. Trenvvith’s
belief that the establishment of a Foundling Hospital in
Melbourne will “only increase immorality,” and that
the punishment and degradation of illegitimate mothers
deters others from immorality, is worthy only of the 1
ancient Tory belief that unless men were hanged for
petty thefts, society would return to chaos.... ...
“ 0 ” ; The crime of the Sunday ice-cream man is getting
the children’s-missionary pennies .. “A. M’Kenzie”:
The Bulletin believes in Oiling all junior Civil Service
posts by competitive examination.. .“Wanderer" (B.):
Unsuitable “T.M.W.”; Could only tell you on reading
the article “The People’s Advocate”; The people’s
cause is blasted because the loudest-mouthed of the
people’s self-constituted champions are desperately in-
earnest and have no more sense of humour than the goats-
of Woolloomooloo. We can’t afford to print solemn
letters. We have lo get our living.'., “Lurgan”: We
aren’t interested in Orange quarrels. No Orangeman can
be a gentleman any more than any alderman can be a
gentleman. By gentleman we mean a man who isn’t a
bore . “Mac.”: Wasn't Butters Mayor of Melbourne
then? Wasn’t it said that the Duke of Edinburgh used
to pray every morning: “ O Lord, give us this day our
bread without our Butters ”?... “Midget”: It is always
the “young lady” in distress who advertises for “kind
old gentleman” to help her. The world knows it would
be vain to ask “ young gentleman” to help “distressed
old lady.” “A.D.”(S. Melb.): An old motif “V.”:
You object to the Referendum because people couldn’t
use it unless they voted on Sunday ; and the clergy, you
say, would oppose Sunday - voting. Well, let them.
They’ve opposed every other reform.... “A. Collis ”: In
the great gravel-mining epoch of 1853, California alone
produced ±16,000,000 and Ahotoria nearly ±13,000,000 in
gold “Waukariri”: No newspaper - man entirely
devoted to his paper and not to himself courts personal
advertisement. The newspaper - man best personally
known to the public is the one who does no work. The
chief steward is always more in evidence and wears more
brass buttons than the captain. The ideal journal wouldl
be the one of which the staff were utterly unknown. If
you could get the earth to open daily and vomit forth so
many thousand copies of a newspaper, and then close-
again the next day, or next week, that newspaper, other
things being anything lik-t equal, would get along better
than any other paper. It is only the unknow n that is
respected.
On Easter Monday, at Oak bank (S.A.),
The Rector won a race and Nazarene fell and had
to be shot. The Church flourishes and Christ
dies.
Another J. G. Bennett yarn. His London
manager was remonstrating with a contributor
for not “writing-up” his subject enough. Said
the “liner” indignantly: “You don’t want
reporters on this blooming paper—you want
blanky novelists !”
The appeal in the somewhat celebrated
“Ananias” libel-case has been decided by' the
Privy Council in favour of the Australian Star
against Sydney E. News. The total costs will be
a couple of thousand at least.
When the Russian bridegroom is led into
the bridal chamber, he orders his wife out of bed
to pull off his boots, which she does as a token
of submission. In one of the boots is hidden a
whip ;in the other a trinket. If she draws off the
latter first it is considered a good omen, but if, by
bad luck, she chance to pull the former first, she
gets a stroke of the whip. Let us hope that on
her wedding night, at least, it is a light stroke. —
Pall Mall Gazette.
According to official records, there were in
the last nine years above 250 murders committed
in San Francisco, and only six white murderers
hanged. In the year ended June last, there were
30 murders, 11 cases of manslaughter, and 281
assaults with deadly weapons—and not a solitary
conviction for any of these offences ! In the whole
world there is no other city, having laws and
courts and calling itself civilised, that can show in
its history for 1893 such a page,
“ Let me give you my dying advice,” said
Rufus Choate, the acute American counsel, “never
cross-examine a woman. It is of no use. They
can not disintegrate the story they have once told
they cannot eliminate the part that is for you from
that which is against you. They can neither com-
bine, nor shade, nor qualify. They go for the-
whole thing, and the moment you begin to cross-
examine one of them, instead of being bitte nby a
single rattlesnake, you are bitten by a whole-
barrelful. I never, excepting in a case absolutely
desperate, dared to cross-examine a woman.”
Sand, village settlements and salvation
are the leading features in the landscape of the
lately-flooded districts of E. Gippsland. The
sand has settled on the recently submerged hop
and maize fields inches deep and the good soil has
been swept away to help silt up the lakes. Nine
acres of hop poles all bent at an angle of 45deg., as
they were left by the flood, is a depressing sight
on the Tam bo bank near Bruthen. An idea of
the damage done may be judged from this, that
Millionaire (will this soon be a misnomer?) Clarke
offers the whole of his Orbost (Snowy River) pro-
perty at £3 ss. an acre which before the flood was
worth £l5 or £2O.
Caution.
I eind it necessary to Caution the Public that
every copy of “ The Duchess of York” Waltz,
as played at Government House, Sydney, by
Needs’ Band, bears my name and address, H.
J. Samuell, Publisher, Box 1077, C.P.0., Syd-
ney. If you cannot obtain it from your music-
seller, send to Messrs. W. H. Paling A Co.,
Limited, George-street, Sydney, who will for-
ward it to you on receipt of a postal order for
Two Shillings.


TATTERS ALL’S
MAY DAY CUP,—MAY Ist 25,000 at 5.
BIRTHDAY CUP.—MAY 24th && 50,000 at 5.
BIRTHDAY CUP.—MAY 24th iKT 10,000 at 10.
“ TATTERS AH/,”
Care of Qkorob Adams,
“The Telegraph” Chambers,
QUEEN STREET,
, Brisbane, Queensland
The N.S.W. Labour-party “ outside ” are
throwing away what they regard as the dirty
water before they get the clean. In planning
Melville’s defeat in Northumberland they are
arranging for the return of a Property-man. In
trying to oust G. D. Clark, at Leichhardt, they
are preparing a welcome, not for their own candi-
date, but for some ass-nominated alderman who
will slip in between. And so on in a variety of
places.
Amusements. _
Her majes m the atrb
Sole Lessee ... Mr. George Riga old.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of Mr. George Rignold in
Tire Ligirts o’ X* mdon.
Supported by a Specially-selected Oast.
New Prices of Admission. BOX PLAN at THEATRE.
THE LYCEUM THEATRE
(Pitt-street, between Park and Market-streets).
Lessees and Managers, Williamson and Musgcove.
Treasurer and Business Manager, Geo. L. Goodman.
Under the Management of Messrs. Brough & Boucicault.
IMMENSE SUCCESS! IMMENSE SUCCESS!
of the
Brough-Boucicault Comedy Company
in A. W. Pinero's Great Play,
**TH E SECOND MRS TANQUERAY.";
Albury missing word competi-
tions. DOUBLE GUESSES -No. 7.
“ Women are rapidly qualifying themselves for men’s
positions in life. If such a questionable change is desir-
able, what more occupation could be found than
fiat at present monopolised by Ministers of the Gospel?”
CLOSES MAY 4.—Every Competitor allowed two
guesses for eacli 1/- sent by Postal or P.O. Order, 1/1 if
in siamps. Add exchange to Postal notes other
colonies. Total amount (less 10 per cent.) divided amongst
successful guessers. The Missing Word is deposited, in a
sealed envelope, with Mr. T. F. Hughes, the well-known
Albury Bookseller.
No. 6 Competition closed with 1668 guesses. The Miss-
ing Word was AFFRONTIVE, and was named by the
following competitors:—Mrs. E. Cupitt, King-st., New-
town, Sydney; E. Allan Rowe, Flinders-st., Townsville;
V. M’Vean and E. H. Knox, Kensington, Adelaide ; J. J.
Tinsley, Maryborough, Vic. ; R. Woods, Hargreaves St,,
Bendigo ; Janet M‘Laren, Belle l ine, Geelong ; N. O. Bliss,
Sluart-street, Ballarat; and Ethel Mapleslone, Malvern,
near Toorak. Dividend £4 3s. 4d. each. The predominat-
ing guesses were—dangerous, obnoxious, and offensive,
then objectionable, hostile, brainahle, and undesirable,
with a host of assorted words more or less appropriate.
Several informal, but none of them successful in guessing.
Burton A Metcalfe, Dean-street, ALBURY, N.S.W.
NOW UK till, POST Fit EE Is. 6d.
r f /
l r y
li J
\ ft
■
"w \
KM
The ballet
GIRL: Her Thea-
trical a id Domestic His-
tory. Giving an account
of her first steps in life,
the morning rehearsal,
the evening’s perform-
ance, after the theatre
is over, her pleasures,
her habits, her idiosyn-
cracies, ballet morals,
how some of them
manage to wear real
sealskin jackets and ride
in broughams on a salary
of 255. a week, the
naughty Nautoh girls of
India, dramatic virtuoso,
with sketches of actors,
singers, musicians,circus
people, &c. Illustrated
with 2 2 engravings.
Also, post free Is. 6d.,
“ The Life, Adventures,
and Confessions of a
Sydney Barmaid.” To
be had only of Madame Panza, Box 913, G.P.0., Syndey.
FOR the person who is not a millionaire, there are
ONLY TWO COFFEE PALACES to stay at in
SYDNEY. One is “THE CRESCENT,*' situated 631
GEORGE STREET (handy to Railway), and the other is
the “POST OFFICE,” situated 50 KING STREET,
and near the General Post Office.
Proprietor GEO. TV. ELLIS.
1
MAY DAY CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BRISBANE CUP.
5000 at 2 6
BIRTHDAY CUP.
10,000 at 2 6
(BRISBANE)
May 1, 1894.
(BRISBANE)
May 24, 1894.
(RAND WICK)
May 26,1894.
Address “STAR,’ care of MORRISON & ELLIS, Opera
House, Queen-street, BRISBANE.
Woman’s Salvation.
Treatise posted FREE. It will teach you more in ten
minutes than all the years you’ve lived. Weak men gured.
Treatise on Manhood Free. Write. Prof. HERMANN,
French Specialist, 41 Collins Place East, MELB.
N
OTICE
TO
SHEARERS.
is hereby given that FROM THIS
DATE members of the Pastoralists’ Union of
New South Wales, and members of any federated
Association within the Colony of New South
Wales, will pay the following rates for the work
of shearing:—
Hand Shears. Machines
In Western portion.
Embracing the West-'
era division, except-
ing those parts known
as West Darling,
Riverina, and South-
ern Riverina.
20s per 100 20s por 100
In Eastern portion.
Embracing the Central
and Eastern divisions
excepting that part
known as Southern
Riverina.
per 100 17s per 100
In West Darling.
(Under the
of The Pastoralists’ I
Association of South V
Australia and West I
Darling.) J
*2oa per 100 17s per 100
Inßiverina,west of the
Murrumbidgee and
south of and including
Kilfera, Albemarl and
Netley Stations (un-
der the jurisdiction of
The Pastoralists’ As-
sociation of Victoria
and S. Riverina).
-20 s per 100 17s per 100
In Southern Piverina,'
south of the Murrum-
bidgee (under the
jurisdiction of the
Pastoralists’ Assrcia-
tion of Victoria and
Soutliern Riverina.) „
18s per 100 17s per 100
WHITELEY KING, Secretary,
Tlie Pastoralists’ Union of N.S.W.
6 Spring Street,
Sydney, April 14, 1894,
CHARLES ~WESTBROOK,
THE ORIGINAL CASH FIELDER,
116 a Pitt Street (opposite G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE, No. 1542,
Telegraphic Code: “WESTBROOK, SYDNEY.
Executes Commissions on all events throughout the
Colonies. Double and Straight-out.
Caulfield and Melbourne Cups—lo,ooo to 10 to 20.
V.R.C. Derby and Melbourne Cup—s,ooo to 25 to 20.
These tiny CAPSULES are superior
to Balsam of Copaiba, Oubebs or In-
f
i -ctions and CURE
IN 48 HOURS the
same diseases with-
out inconvenience.
Sold hy all Druggists.
Wholesale Agents;
EUiott Bros. & Co.,
and
Australian Drug Co.
Mach Capsule ts
Stamped “ MIDY.”
Government Notices.
Department of Public Works,
Sydney, April 17, 1894.
ri \ENDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND
_L SUPPLIES.
For Conditions, see Goveknment Gazette.
TENDERS for the Works, &c., specified below
will be received at this Department until 11 o'clock
a.m. on the dates mentioned.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25.
Construction of Wbarf and approach thereto at
Goodwood Island, Clarence River.
Erection of Courthouse, Red fern
Taking Down, Supplementing and Re-arranging
portions ot Wrought Iron Fencing and Gates,
Woolloomooloo Bay
Supply, &0., of Fittings, University of Sydney
WEDNESDAY, MAY 9.
Bridges over M'Donald River at First and Second
Crossing
Bridge, Schroeder’s Creek, road Casino to
Listnore
Construction of Trial Yard, &c., Wilcannia Gaol
WILLIAM JOHN LYNE.
TJELATIVE LOST.— R. A. Highman, who
JLAj was working at Liverpool about seven
years ago at Printing trade, friends in Wellington,
N.Z., enquiring.
GIVE IST AWAY 11ST 140 PRIZES
For Guesses on this Rebus.
Which represents when correctly solved the names of Three Great Military Heroes of European
Celebrity. To the First Five Persons sending correct answer on or before June 30th, 1894, we
will give to each A Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever "Watch., Value £lO. To each of the
next Ten, a Sterling Silver Lever Watch, Value £3. To each ofthenext2o a Nickel Silver
Keyless Watch, Value 25/-. To each of the next 25 a Ladies’ Solid Gold Brooch, Value
20/-. To each of the next 50 a Ladies’ Sterling Silver Brooch, Value 10/-. To each of the last
five correct answers, a Gold Hunting Case Keyless Lever Watch, Value £lO. To next
25 a Model Sewing Machine or a Paragon Washing Machine. With your answer send
Fifteen Penny Stamps for a Box of either “Star Antihilious Pills” best Liver, Kidney
& Bowel Regulator ever used. “Star Cough Pills” best Remedy for Coughs, Colds, Influenza
“ Star Rheumatic Pills” cures Rheumatism, Gout, Sciatica, Lumbago. “ Star Neuralgic
Pills ” cures Neuralgia, Tic Doloreux, Toothache. These Valuable Gifts are made solely to
introduce our Wonderful Medicines. Every person answering this will receive list of names &
addresses of Prize Winners. Pair proportion of prizes reserved for each Colony; write at once
to The NATIONAL DRUG Co . Russell St., Melbourne, or MARSHALL BROS..
Cor. Pitt & Park Streets, Sydney, Agents, for N.S.W.— Mention this Paper.
LI
K3
MANLY
00-Operative Steam Ferry 00. (Ltd.)
v —FROM—■,
No. 1 JETTY, tllMlLilt QUAY
(Foot of Pitt-street), to
Mlellxi Meanly
rpHE STEAMERS of this COMPANY run as follows
(weather permitting, and as far as practicable);
Leave Sydney— 7.ls, 8.0, 9.0, 10.30, 11.30, 12.30 (1.0),
1.30 (2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0), 4.30, 5.0, 5.30, 6.15,
7.30, 9.30, 11.15.
Leave Manly- 7.15, 8.10, 8.45, 9.45, 11.30, 12.30, 1.30
(2.0), 2.30 (3.0), 3.30 (4.0 , 4.30 (5.0), 5.30, 6.0, 6.30,
7.0, 8.30, 10.15.
Trips marked () Saturday only.
Spacial Tima-Tabla, Sundays and Holidays.
SPORTING NOTIONS.
The 360 Melb. cyclists who lately met and pro-
cessed, partly to show off their calves and partly as a
protest against the £5 duty on imported bicycles, did not
oonstitutea “remarkable Freetrade demonstration.” The
Victorian bicycle-tax isn’t a protective impost, for there is
in Victoria no local bicycle industry to protect; it is a
revenue duty pure and simple, of the good old Freetrade
pattern. The demonstrators simply wanted this Free-
trade impost shifted on to someone else. They were not
Freetraders, but merely 360 egotists with abnormally
developed legs, each demanding that the tax should be
removed from his particular form of nuisance for his own
particular convenience, and they had just as much
political significance as a procession of 860 dogs pro-
testing against the dog-tax, or 860 dingoes howling at
midnight against the State-purchase of dog-scalps.
* * *
The so-called “ Betting Houses Suppression
Act ”is administered most lopsidedly in Sydney. Nearly
every week little men who lay shilling doubles are fined,
and the shops of big fielders who do not bet to less than
half-sov. pasted by. Why ?
» * • ♦
Y.R.O. —Victoria’s Reduced Cup.
♦ * * »
At the recent N.S.W. police swimming-club
carnival, the majority of prizes were presented by publi-
cans and brewers. Hem 1
* * * ♦
A Sydney stable-boy cheerfully admitted in
court last week that he had committed perjury. “Oh, it
wasn’t true what I said before; only the boss asked me
to swear it, you know.” For of such is the turf.
• * * *
Pedestrianism is reviving in Victoria, but it
must soon decline, for the peds, unwarned by the past,
are up to all the old games, and practise them in the most
barefaced fashion.
* * * *
G. Meadham has won the 1000 yards swimming
championship of N.S.W. in 14min. 43 2-ssecs., thus
beating W. J. Gormley’s record.
* * » »
Owing to the secession of Humphrey Oxenham
and other prominent men, that once powerful body, the
Australian Bookmakers’ Association, is likely to soon
collapse.
* * » ♦
As with pedestrianism, sculling, and boxing in
bygone days, pony-racing in Sydney is being done to
death. The N.S.W. Pony and Galloway Association will
shortly confer with the A.J.C. for the purpose of limiting
the number of racing days. Even those who live on the
game cannot tell where the money comes from.
* • * *
George Lohmann, so far from intending to
“settle” in Australia, hopes to get back to England for
the ’95 cricket season. Unless he is overestimating the
improvement in his health, we may find Lohmann playing
here with Stoddart’s Eleven at the end of the present
year. The story that he would settle in Australia for the
benefit of his health was decidedly ominous, and everyone
who knows this brilliant cricketer and bright, good fellow
will be glad to hear that his lungs are not such a bad case
after all.
♦ * * •
Journalist Scott, the party responsible for the
attack on Hayes, stated that he has never paused to con-
sider whether he is a smart writer, or not, inasmuch as
“ we don’t need to put smart things in the Australasian.”
The latter portion of the statement was unnecessary, but
it afforded another illustration of the pretentiousness of
heavy newspaper writing. “We” are dull on principle,
although “ we ” could reel off brilliant copy if the editor
desired it. As a matter of fact, every journalist has tried
to be smart, at some time or other, and the more utter
his failure the more virulent his avowed contempt lor
brighter men.
* * • •
The explanation of Titan’s vagaries was inside
of him, as with many another horse who gets a character
for “roguery.” That Titan didn’t die before he was
worked back into form speaks highly for Scobie’s careful
treatment of him.
* * * *
It is understood that the hushed-up cross-exam-
ination of a witness in the sporting libel-case last week
related to the old-time troubles of a certain literary per-
son. The hushing-up could scarcely have been done on
behalf of this notability, seeing that Christie Murray’s
small domestic scandals were being announced in large
type about the same time. No, The Bulletin holds the
press guiltless of any desire to spare the feelings of its
own people when their peccadilloes make material for
“copy.”
* * ♦ ♦
The publication, during the notorious turf libel-
case in Melbourne, of the fact that a boy-jockey, not yet
old enough to bring a legal suit in his own proper person
(such as it is), had, in three years, earned £5OOO by riding,
and had won another £5OOO by betting, will do more to
promote turf-madness than all the shocking suicides,
failures, gaolinga, and whatnot, with all the denunciatory
sermons added, can undo in a generation. For a hobble-
dehoy to “ make ” £lO,OOO in three years ia an Aladdin’s
lamp to lure to destruction the already over-sporting
Australian imagination.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
The evidence of Mr. Claude Scott, aged 23, at
the Hayes v. Australasian trial, reads as a solemn warn-
ing to embryo turfites. Beginning while an articled
clerk in ’9O, he arranged, he says, with Jockey Hayes to
pay him 10 per cent, of his winnings resulting from Hayes’
ups. Tiring of such uninteresting sport, he became, in
’92, the owner of Baltic, with which nag he and Hayes,
principally Hayes, won considerably. Once, he alleges,
Hayes said, “If we back Baltic (Hayes’mount) he may
win, but if we back Auster we shall, as only the two can
possibly win." This he agreed to, and Baltic conse-
quently lost. Another time Hayes was riding Stone-
broke, a later purchase, and they backed Bridegroom.
At the last jump Stonebroke was leading, but after
what Scott describes as “a superb piece of horsemanship
by Hayes" Bridegroom passed the judge first, and they
won their money. Mr. Scott severed his connection with
racingowingtoilayes“takinghimdown” with Baltic, since
which time he has ceased to be an owner. He still con-
tinues, however, he states, to evince a lively interest in
the turf. Whether the evidence is believed or not, it
jives a very beautiful idea of turf morality, and should
be read with care by all ambitious young sportsmen.
• * » •
Dear Bulletin,—ln illustration of your corres-
pondent’s remarks re “knack" feats of strength, I nsod
to be able to raise at arm’s-length, by the lower fro it
“ rung,” a chair which men of twice my strength couldn’t
get clear of the floor to save their lives. I could no more
understand this than they could, until, after a hand-
hardening spell of existence, I found that, though actually
stronger, I couldn’t lift the chair ; the reason being that
the thickening of the palm-skin no longer allowed it to be
squeezed into such a ridge as had formerly prevented the
rung from slipping round in the grasp.—A.
♦ * * »
Australian jockey Clack is back from India. He
tells of some out-of-the-way experiences, including the
taking of a couple of horses to Cabul as a present to the
Ameer from one of the Beresfords. “ India’s a different
sort o’ place to the Sydney side,'chaps,” he tells his
cronies. “ It’s a perlite sort o’ a place. There’s none o'
yer bloo-me and hli-me (here. It’s all ‘Yes, me Lord,’
and ‘Cert’n’-y, Sir Charles;’ and the toffs ’ud be just
’orrified if you put a bit on yer own fancy when you were
ridin’.’’
* ♦ * *
There’s a legend that the Shah of Persia’s race-
horses cannot be be den now, as the owners of those
horses who formerly beat his heads chopped off.
The Shah’s example is being followed in Australia. A
wealthy man practically owns a racehorse up North,
also a racing stable, and a judge and starter. One
recent day a horse of his was adjudged winner of one
race, although 99 men out of 100 would swear he was
beaten by a head. In another race the Shah’s horse got
so far away at the start that there could be no question as
to his winning, and in yet another case the Shah’s horse
was given a dead-heat for first place, when to all unin-
terested observers the third horse won by half a length.
Horse-racing is indeed a noble sport.
* * » *
An eminent Australasian legal light was not
present at the recent race meeting where his horse was
used to ramp the bookies. Luck for him. He would h:ive
been powerless to bully that howling mob of infuriat d
pencillers.
* » ♦ *
Just before the recent Bairnsdale (Vie.) Regatta
some local girls formed themselves into “ maiden eights,”
and, with small boys as coxswains, practised daily on II r
river—costume, sailor hats and jackets, with short frocks
They had intended to compete in the races, but at the
eleventh hour “number five’s” young roan forbade his
fiancee to row. She dutifully pleaded a headache, so the
project fell through.
* » ♦ ♦
The Australian jockeys of the first flight number
over 80. But what a difference between Hales, Power,
Harris, Parker, with a few other, and the remaining 701
♦ * * *
Hanlan will shortly be in England with
Gaudaur to row a double sculling-match with Sullivan
and Harding. He brings with him a young scullh e
wonder, a lad named Gorner, son of his (Hanlan’s) sister
♦ * * *
Tom Sullivan, the erst M.L. sculler, is doing
well for himself in England, says The Bulletin’s corn s
pondent. He has got a nice pub. at Hammersmith, and
appears to have a good business. But, better than this,
he is about to secure an exceedingly nice girl for a w ife, a
Miss Rough, daughter of the well-known Oxford boat-
builder, who will give Tom a fit-out of boats for his slu d
connection with the pub. He has a staunch admirer in
in “ Billy ” Innes, who thinks highly of him as a sculler
and as a man. Any stake-money needed will not be
wanting.
* * • *
Prynne’s ghost: As a moralist, I have been
asking myself whether it does the Vic. Government any
good to be racing-entrepreneurs. Here they are, making
a fuss over such a little go as a building society lottery,
which Purves declares to be a necessity, while they
swallow the camel, by being the actual managers of the
Melb. Cup lottery. What would it be sans the railways?
* * * *
At a recent Vic. race-meeting, bookmakers re-
fused to bet on the ground that there were not enough
“ triers,” and no backers for the stiff ’uns. One is apt
to forget that the “ books ” want what the public want-
large fields and active competition among owners. In
fact, the blasphemous Hebrew is, tor business reasons, in
favour of Turf morality—and steady profits.
* * * *
Why don’t the Govts, run the totalisatoi
altogether or share the commissions with the clubs? An
ordinary S.A. meeting would produce quite £4OO every
day, and as N.S.VV. and Victorian commissions would be
much larger thousands of pounds would go to Slate
revenue which now pay for gold breastpins and broad-
gauge clothes worn by Ikey Moses.
» * * *
Dear Bulletin,—Besides forgetting that Greek
boxing was for glory, not gate-money ! and that the
metal-bossed cestus was practically a deadly weapon,
“M‘G.” falls into the mistake of taking extreme cases.
The well-supported contention that the professional
pugilist is not necessarily remarkable for courage or
manliness, commits nobody to an admiration of the spat,
equipped dude ; the one animal, like the other, suffer s
simply from lack of intellect. The best man, theoreti.
cally, is the man who best combines intellectual and
physical efficiency, and there is no ground for assuming
that anybody who disapproves of prize-fighting as an
institution is not, like the present writer, a fairly good
Man of ms Hands.
» » * *
There is one race for which everybody enters—
the human race. It’s open to all—white, red, black or
yellow—born in the usual way ; the distance is four-score
and ten yards ; the prize is a promissory note payable in
another world; the judge is the Deity; the clerk of course,
who whips you up, is religion; a good start is the pro-
verbial * silver spoon;’ the applause which greets the
winner is green and happy old age ; the desire to make a
pot by losing is temptation ; Old Nick is the bookie who
tempts you ; the ped., who runs “stiff” for a longer start,
is the foolish virgin, and the handicapper is that despotic
character “class."
♦ * ♦ ♦
A Bulletin correspondent: “ A fresh-water
cod was recently caught in the Burdekin, N.Q., weighing
9001bs. Its head alone weighed nearly 901b5.” Very like
a whale.
* * » *
According to a recent English decision, Hayes’
father, who is suing as plaintiff's next friend, will have
to pay the Australasian’s costs should a verdict be given
against his son.
♦ * ♦ *
Quigley is open to box any man in Australia at
12st. Lang and Dooley continue their paper warfare.
* * ♦ *
M’Garrigal, the Q. ped., now running in Vic.,
who skimmed the cream of the Sydney uedestiia.i boom
A BARGAIN AND SALE.
I don’t wish pertikler to sell,
But I know you would pfive ’er a show
And have ’er raced and trained well,
Like she oughter. Though 1 say so.
By golly 1 My gum 1
She’s a reg’lar plum.
What do I want for’er? Now that’s
A poser. I know what I did
Refuse from them as weren’t flats,
A ’undred ’ard cash was their bid;
I didn’t say “Thanks,”
Then went the banks.
Making things that bloomin’ shifty
I’ll give you the mare for a song ;
Yes, for a mere paltry fifty.
What 1 you think that a “ bit too strong 1 ”
For a mare like ‘er I
Well 1 my word, sir 1
Wait till you see her pedigree ;
She’s by Talleyrand out of Red Wine—
“ Bah ! given with a pound o’ tea ”
1 believe you’d refuse Carbine ;
I’ll tell yer wot,
You’re just red ’ot.
It’s risky, you say, “ ’cos she’s untried."
But there’s Talleyrand won the Cup,
And the sire of ’er dam, Greenhide
Donkey-licked Starve!, nine stone up,
In the big stakes s
Down at the Lakes.
Well, since you want ’er I won’t back
Out, she’s yours for a tenner.
Thanks! You’ll find 'er a real good ’ack ;
There’s only one thing agen ’er,
She’s blind in one eye—
Look out she don’t shy 11
Queensland.
GARN.


hv winning, in one week, a Botany Handicap (£850) and
Barrington (i 250) with a gold watch added to each, might
?rv his luck in England. He would be liberally dealt
luh and, on his alleged Australian form, should win.
But then many of the Botany Carrington performances
were doubtful. How Englishman Hutchens laughed at
Tiu big thing credited him when he got into a. Botany
lin'd ! On paper it was equal to anything he had e\ er
done, but, training on beer, he was at least a dozen yatda
below his true form.
* * * *
Tt is a pity that the knife was used on so many
of Grandmaster’s sons. Animals like Ensign, Highborn,
Paris, &c., could not beget bad ones.
* * * *
Legislator “Jim” Garvan (N.S.W.), who last
week threatened Jawbone Neild, was a boxer tn his day,
hut if the writer recollects aright, neither Jimmy, nor
his brother Denny, were fond of “mixing it with the
raw uns, although there are few men in the House at the
iiresent day who would have cared for a turn-up with the
Ln tins, a score or more years ago, with the Garvans.
L‘orge Dihbs still boosts of having had a private bunal-
Lround in Valparaiso, where he used to bury the men he
Slaughtered ; but for a right-down-blood-and-hair-rough-
and-tumble with the raw ’uns, the late George Cass in his
day would probably have laid the pair out in as many
rounds. , , * *
The N.S.W. public are invited to consider the
careers aiid associations of certain individuals through
whose agency Mr. Scarr, the veteran handicapper, is
being reviled.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Jimmy” Gough was the hero of the day at
Kosehill on -Saturday. The finish for the Rosehill Cup
between Marvel, with Kelso up, and Gough, on Lady
Trenton, was something to be remembered, as they
battled it out from the Leger Stand to the winning-post,
Gough fairly lifting the daughter of Black Swan in a
winner by a foot or so.
* * * *
The finish for the Flying Welter was even more
sensational. After passing the distance, 0.8., with Jack
Fielder up, came away from everything and seemed to be
winning as he liked. Fielder stopped riding and looked
back lam’hing, hut his mirth was short-lived, as the ever-
dangerous Gough came from the clouds on Theophilus,
a t ,d although Fielder showed his magnificent horseman-
ship in getting C.B. under way again, Gough drove
'j heophilus past him and won, by a few inches, on the
P° Bt - , * • *
At Perth, W.A , in a walking match between
Clark and Thomas, Clark, who stands 6ft. 2in., and strides
stt, walked 10 miles in Ihr. llmin, SOsecs. —thus lowering
the’world's record ty Simin.
* * • *
The Y.A.T.C., following the V.R.O.’s example,
has also drawn in its horns. The added money in the
Caulfield Cup, which for the last three years has been
£3OOO has been reduced to £2ooo—the value of the prize
prior to Gnaroo’s victory in ’9l. The first, second and
third prizes, which last year amounted respectively to
£2OOO £7OO and £3OO, will this year be £l5OO, £350 and
£l5O ’ The Debutant Stakes has been cut down from £BOO
to £5OO, and the Toorak Handicap from £7OO to £5OO.
The Caulfield Guineas has been reduced from £650 to
> 400.
“Is he worth much?” “No, bub he’s
very wealthy.”
One of the most cheerful current items
relates to Westralian Premier Forrest’s pro-
nouncement in favour of State-built railways as
against syndicate lines.
The Dibbs Ministry should have mercy on
the two wretched aborigines under death-sentence
at Albury—if only because Australian black-
fellows are getting scarce, and it might be as well
to keep two or three to breed a dynasty from
when this country becomes a monarchy.
Rumours to the contrary notwithstanding,
it is pleasant to know that a certain clever, legal-
minded journalist has now no truck with “his
worst enemy.” He will be still better off when
he manages to get rid of his “ best friends,”
The Pastoralists’ Federal Council have
reduced the rates for machine shearing in N.S.W.
from £os. to 17s. per 100, except in the West, on
the ground that if 20s. be the standard wage for
hand-shorn sheep a man with a machine can earn
the standard with the same labour at the reduced
rate. The 20s. rate for hand-shears is maintained
except in Southern Riverina, where it is said an
18s. i ate'has been customary and will be main-
tained. The shearers’ representatives will pro-
bably meet to discuss the matter.
The new One-man-one-vote Bill before
the British Parliament will enfranchise 600,000
new electors. That should lift the democratic
cause along. And think of the indirect gam
through the abolition of the plural vote, so enor-
mously increasing the comparative weight of the
Radical factor! J.dumchere’s opposition to f)he
Rosebery leadership is tight in principle, built
will be a pity if such antagonism is pushed so lar
as to mar the noble opportunities for reform which
now open before the British democracy.
The New City of Manoa.
When the Spaniards finally achieved the conquest
of Peru they were led to believe that the greater
pint of the gold and jewels had been hidden by
the conquered. The survivors were subjected to
awful tortures as a persuasive to confession, but
the treasure was never found. From that time
daring adventurers roamed the Spanish main in
searcli of golden cities, and stores of fabulous
wealth were freely circulated. The most common
of these was told of the city of Manoa, a mythical
place paved with gold and supposed to be situated
in South Eastern Mexico. Since that time to the
present the daring men of all the nations of the
earth have been chasing a golden city in every
quarter of the globe. Ballarat, Bendigo, the
Thames, Charters Towers, Sud-Est, Croydon and
Bingera have been the recent Eldqrados, and now
from Western Australia come stories of gold held
together by quartz, and the fortune seeking ar-
gonaut of Australia is convinced from the news-
paper reports that the real new city of Manoa is
to bo approached from the dry claypans of Oool-
gardie. And who shall say he will not earn his
city even if he does not achieve it? We of the
settled states who eat three meals a day and
consider ourselves martyred if we are unable to
have ice in the torrid seasons cannot imagine the
sufferings of the gold seeker in the extremities of
hunger and thirst. The impure water, the
irregular life, the dyspeptic diet and other punish-
ments induce a list of troubles of which liver
disorganisation is the mildest and Bright’s disease
the strongest form. These diseases and their
various phases are absolutely curable by Warner’s
Safe Cure, and, as far as we know, by no other
medicine.
Richard J. Haynes, Esq., Barrister, Howick
St., Perth, W.A. writes thus; —“I have used
Warner’s Safe Cure and can strongly recommend
it to any person troubled with affections of the
liver. Indeed, in a hob climate, where one is
liable to suffer from the various forms of liver
complaint, no better remedy can be found. Apart
from my own experience, I know of several persons
in Perth who were constant sufferers, and who
have been relieved and restored to health by the
use of Warner’s Safe Cure.” _
This medicine is the specific for_ the dweller*
alike in the city and the bush in the case of
Bright’s disease, gravel, bladder, kidney and liver
troubles, female complaint*, &o.
Adelaide hungers for a Sunday newspaper.
A recent Age contains an article on “ Clay-
eating People*.” The article is most inadequate
—it says nothing about O.M.G.’s.
Adye Douglas, M.L.O. of Tasmania, is a
formidable rival to Parkes as a G.O.M. He has
just become a pa in his 85th year.
At a Tas. ‘‘distraint for rent” sale the
prices realised were : acres potatoes, £7; 12
cows, 2s. 6d. each ; 3 horses, <£l each ; 7 pigs. 7s.
the lot.
Four-fifths of all N.S.W. electors’ rights
for metropolitan districts have been distributed
by the police. Those who want them now must
call on the chief electoral officer.
The Bulletin acknowledges receipt of
the New Order— a fair penn’orth—apparently
established to substitute unfledged Labour mem-
bers for unpledged Labour members.
The announcement that a Vic. country
postmistress stands charged with embezzling <£3o
reads curiously. Lovely woman, as a rule, is very
honest. She doesn’t steal : she only tells fibs.
Astor lost £40,000 on his first year as pro-
prietor of Pall Mall Gazette, Budget, and
Magazine. He says that if next year’s debit
balance exceeds £lO,OOO he will think there is bad
management somewhere.
Dodge discovered by the police at a Melb.
sale-yard. Cows for sale had their teats covered
with a thick coating of paste of kidney-fat and
glue to overstock the udders and give the cow the
appearance of being a great milker.
The “dignity” of the Argus is almost
gone. Posters bearing the device “ Jimmy Hayes
v. The Australasian ; full account of the libel-
action,” are on the walls. Five years ago the idea
of writing “Jimmy” would have sent Editor
Haddon into a fit.
CITY MUTUAL LIFE OFFICES, HUNTER, BLIGH AND CASTLEREAGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
Some papers predict that Chapman, a
popular municipal magnate, will beat Toby Barton
at N.S.W. general election. It is hard to believe
this as Mr. Chapman, who was born a grocer,
was’probably intended by God to remain a grocer.
Commissioner Coombs, and half-a-dozen
other Salvationist officers, have shipped from
Melbourne for London, in the Oroya, all first-
class saloon. Formerly the rule was for the
Harmy to travel third-class, then they gob to
second. The starving officers left in Australia
must water at the mouth while the bosses wallow
on the cushions.
With deep regret The Bulletin hears of
the death, at Sydney, of Mrs. J. Medway Day,
the amiable and popular wife of the no less
respected publicist of that name. Mrs. Day died
after a long and hopeless struggle with disease,
leaving behind her countless friends in all the
provinces, who will sincerely sympathise with her
devoted husband in his affliction.
• “Thiscamel,” remarked aKurrachee driver
to the S.M. Herald special in Western N.S.W.,
the other day, “has travelled from here to
Wanaaring, li3 miles, in one day. He can start
at 6 o’clock in the morning and get there by
nightfall.” The correspondent goes on to say
that light riding camels, in good condition, have
been known to do a hundred miles daily for five
consecutive days. And this is one reason why
the camel has come bo stay in Australia.
Hori Grey, it is cabled, in a London in-
terview, “dilated upon the destiny of the Anglo-
Saxon race, the federation of which, he said,
would dominate the world, with its council meet-
ing in London, Washington, Sydney, Melbourne,
and Auckland.” And Auckland! No fear!
That council won’t meet at Auckland; it will
meet at Wellington, or the southern crowd will
know why. Old man Grey, of course, himself lives
at Auckland.
Rue-Australian Wotherspoon in Rock-
hampton (C 2.) Bulletin
Another thing, there are over 300 families (not people)
living on the ground that was given to us. You can see
a house every way you look almost—all peaceful and
civilised natives of the country—with nice little groves
of orange trees around each and an acre or two under
cultivation, and a few head of cattle, horses and sheep. I
believe they are to be shifted off to another place, there
to start afresh to build up homes again and orange groves
(with those they have twenty and thirty years old), to
make room for us ; but there are a lot of us against it.
The British budget, announced by Har-
oourb on April 18, estimates revenue for 1894-5
at millions, and expenditure at 95£ millions,
showing a deficiency of five millions, which is to
be made up by Id. increase in the, income-tax,
now Bd. ; by an excise increase of 6d. per gal. on
spirits and 6d. per barrel on beer; and by a
graduated succession duty from 1 per cent, on
amounts under .£5OO to 8 per cent, on <£1,000,000
and over. The Radicals are delighted with the
programme, though payment of members is post-
poned.
Now whispered that Gladstone didn’t want
to resign, that he didn’t mean to resign, and that
he only did resign because he thought he wouldn’t
be taken at his word. He anticipated that a
weeping country and a shrieking party would
kneel and implore him to take it all back. Bub
the party was only glad to get rid of him, and the
country made no sign, and Gladstone has already
the mortification of reading in the newspapers
that the Government is really stronger for his
withdrawal.
Last year’s financial crisis has perhaps
more than anything else brought the life offices
of these provinces prominently before the public.
The manner in which they have stood by their
policyholders merits all commendation. In the
van stood that sterling little Sydney institution,
The City Mutual Life, which, during the past five
years, has by the application of energy and
economy, assisted by more than the average busi-
ness ability, steadily emerged from obscurity
into the front rank. Mr. Crowley seized the
opportunity to notify his policyholders that
those of them affected by the then prevailing
suspensions could on application have the grace
on their policies extended without charge, and the
act, trifling as it was, bore fruit a thousand-fold,
The City Mutual did not hesitate either to pub
its hand pretty deeply into its pocket to assist its
needy policyholders in a practical way, and the
crowning act was the intimation, some six months
ago, through every paper in tne colony, that any
rneinber who had paid three years premiums
could obtain a fully-paid policy equal to the whole
amount of premiums paid with compound interest
added. Such treatment goes far to justify the
rather ambitious title which Mr. Crowley has
patented for his office—the most liberal and pro-
gressive Life office m Australia, ihe Society
removed into its handsome new building—of
which we give a pioture-ab the intersection
of Hunter, Bligh and Gastlereagh Streets m
J anuarv last.
Whether the act was due to temper or
strength, Mr. Gladstone praetically
thrown up the sponge m the great fight and left
victory with the Lords. He has acknowledged
defeat, and the scene which has followed reminds
one forcibly of the events which succeeded the
defeat of Jem Smith, once champion of England,
by the famous black pugilist, Peter Jackson,
That was a scene with a moral. Up to the hour
of combat Jem Smith had been the object of an
amount of hero-worship which a victorious general
might have envied. High and low, rich and poor,
gentle and simple, gathered around him and gazed
on him with admiration, and he strode about
ine Pelican Club attended by marquises and
millionaires. When he left the ring a
defeated man and- came presently to the
bar, he was allowed to stand there alone,
and he rather loudly expressed his opinion of
the change of attitude assumed by the members
towards him. Up to that moment the boots in
which he fought Kilrain had been exhibited in a
glass case in a place of honour on the club pre-
mises, and it was stated on apparently good
authority that many of the younger members of
the club would stand before those boots occasion-
ally in an attitude of silent prayer. That night
the boots of Jem Smith mysteriously disappeared.
It was rumoured that they had been flung out into
the street. Is the political champion of England
about to share the fate of the pugilistic champion ?
Will the National Liberal Club hurl Mr. Glad-
stone’s portrait out of the window ?—London
Referee.
A woman named Cox has just buried her
eighth husband at Auckland, (M.L.).
As others write about us !
The larrikin of Australian towns and cities beats the
hoodlum of California to the ropes. Nothing is too bad
too bold, too infamous for him. A dozen of them will
hold a town in subjection. But his common drink is a
cup of tea or coffee. Only when anything is to be done
which demands a cooler head and steadier hand than
usual—some murder or outrage too shameful for record-
then ha likes a glass of—lemonade.
This is not irony; bub part of a serious argument
that liquor-prohibition will breed a criminal and
degraded race, in ’Frisco News Letter of Jan. 27
last. The larrikin should feel flattered i
Scene : George - street, Sydney, Two
sleeper-squarers doing the Block. Gus, who is no
end of a masher and “ get ’em all on ’’—coat, vest
and pants of different patterns—sees a nice girl in
a perfumery shop. “ Hi, Tom, here’s a pretty gel
—let’s get some scent.” So, after sampling and
mashing for half-an-hour, he tells the girl it is
nob strong enough for him, and turns to depart.
“Oh,” says she, “if you require turpentine, you
can get it at the paint-shop next door. Good day.”
“Turps.” is short for Augustus in the bush now.
If Chamberlain had remained a Radical,
he and nob Rosebery would be Premier of England
to-day. As it is, there is talk of a coalition be-
tween the Liberal Unionists and the Conserva-
tives, with Joseph at the head, and an Earldom
of Birmingham in the distance; but it is doubtful
if the Conservatives who admire, while they dis-
trust him, will ever range themselves willingly
under his banner. There is no question that his
is the most brilliant head in the English political
arena. His speeches are the ecstasy of his friends,
the despair of his enemies. _ No man living is his
match for clear, cold, luminous intellect as a de-
hater. Compared with him Gladstone is ponder-
ous, Balfour fantastical, Roseoery dull. But—
his coat is turned.
“The difference between the ordinary-
biac.wuard and the Parliamentary blackguard is
j n fl uence which saves the latter from public
execrat ; on anc i spares him from the lash of the
j aw> .._ Bx
“ A woman’s mission is to play the fool,”
confcipned Lady Mallinger, “and that is why she
oan on i y i ead a man so l ong as she does not love
him. On the instant she loves she must be honest
or die; she loses all discretion ; she quarrels when
tdf"pStyTe?';
cani b 10 > t flafct er, she cannot pretend; in fact,
do nothing bub love—and that beyond
sense ..>_ JoHN Oliver Hobbes.
‘, • .
There are three endings repulsive to a
man of to-day—suicide, the priesthood and mar-
riage. Suicide shows a lack of cuncsity which
shocks me; the one thing horrible in death is that
the curtain falls suddenly before the piece is
played out. The priesthood is a mere half-
measure: a suicide of the reason, with the flesh
left exposed to every natural vertigo. But mar-
riage is assuredly the most hypocritical of the
three solutions. As though fidelity to one woman
were not as difficult to observe as chastity to all
women I ”—Huguks Lb Roux.


GRAND DISTRIBUTION
AMONGST THE SHAREHOLDERS OF
The Melbourne Property Building- Society, Brisbane, Queensland.
(INCORPORATED ACCORDING TO ACT OF PARLIAMENT.)
Proposed Issue of 40,000 Shares of £1 each, to be paid in full on application. ]S T o Further Liability.
DISTRIBUTION OF 600 PROPERTIES AMONGST SHAREHOLDERS.
Share List Closes on tdtie 20tlx aay or May, 1894.
PROPERTIES TO BE DISTRIBUTED BY BALLOT ON THE Ist DAY OF JUNE, 1894, IN PRESENCE OF THE SHAREHOLDERS AND THE PRESS WHICH
WILL BE DULY ANNOUNCED BY ADVERTISEMENT. ’
SOLICITORS :
Messrs. MACDONALD, PATERSON and HAWTHORN, Brisbane; D. E. BRAYSHAY, Esq., 309 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BANKERS : OF* ICES : SECRETARY *
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, Brisbane. CENTRAL BUILDINGS, Edward Street, Brisbane. W. C. MACDERMOTT.
The Committee have secured the following properties, the whole of which, or a proportionate part
thereof, according to the number of shares subscribed, will be balloted for amongst the shareholders,
free of any deduction for commission.
FIRST PRIZE. A substantial Freehold Brick Building and Factory, together with the
Valuable Machinery and Engine therein, in the centre of the City of Melbourne, and three minutes
from the General Post Office. Also, at rear of same, a substantial Freehold Brick Building and
Factory, with Shot Tower attached 175 ft. high, the finest in Melbourne, situate in the centre of the
City, three minutes from the G.P. Office, together with the valuable Machinery and Lead Rolling
Plant inclusive, three engines in complete working order, and of a rental value of .£l2OO per annum—
.£22,soo.
SECOND PRIZE.—A Villa Residence, containing 11 rooms, Bath Room, Pantry, and a large Ball
Room, Stabling, Coach House, Cow House, Fowl Houses, Piggery, Dairy, Laundry, and Man’s
Room, Lawn, Tennis Lawn, and Kitchen Garden, with Orchard, together nearly three acres, situate
and having a frontage of 89ft. to Dandenong-road, three minutes from a railway station, and within
one mile of the Caulfield Racecourse—.£3soo.
THIRD PRIZE.—A Brick Villa at East Malvern, consisting of 10 rooms, standing in its own
grounds, and situate a few minutes from the Darling-road Station, on the Waverley line, with a
beautiful view of the Dandenong Ranges—,£2soo.
FOURTH PRIZE. —A very picturesque Brick Villa, containing 8 rooms and Conservatory, on
land 66ft. x facing Dandenong-road, and close to the railway-station—£2ooo.
HI I 111 PRIZE. —A Brick and W.B. Villa, known as “Riviera,” situate at Carroll-street, on the
hill, at North Melbourne, on tram-line, containing 6 rooms, and let to an old tenant at £75 per annum.
Total, 600 Prizes
SIXTH PRIZE. —Freehold Farm at Lilydale, consisting of 160 acres, let at .£75 per annum.—
,£l5OO.
SEVENTH PRIZE.—77 Acres Freehold Farming Land, Gippsland.—,£4oo.
EIGHTH PRJZE.—Land at Nicholson-street, Brunswick, close to the trams, 20ft. x 100 ft.— £225.
NINTH PRIZE.—Land at Victoria-street, Brunswick, 99ft. x HGft., close to the new bridge, and
near Moonee Valley Racecourse —£200.
TENTH PRIZE.—Land at Grant-street, Brunswick, 160 ft. x 110ft.—£240.
ELEVENTH PRIZE.—2| Acres of Freehold Land at Mulgrave, on the Fern Tree Gullv-
road—£l2o. J
TWELFTH PRIZE.—Land at Lyle-street, Brunswick, close to the Gas Works and Sydney-road
trams, 36ft. x 84ft. —£llo.
THIRTEENTH PRIZE.—Land at Koorang-road, East Caulfield, 100 ft. x 150 ft., close to the
Sugar Works—£llo.
FOURTEENTH PRIZE.—Land at Iris-road, Malvern, 50ft. x 130ft.—£100.
FIFTEENTH PRIZE.—Land at Toorak-road, Malvern, 50ft. x 131 ft. —£150.
SIXTEENTH PRIZE. -Land at Fairfield Park, 60ft. x 182ft.-£75.
*PRIZES 17 to 36.—20 Allotments of Land at £5O each—£looo.
*PRIZES 37 to 71. —35 Allotments of Land at £25 each—£B7s.
# PRIZES 72 to 221.—150 Allotments of Land at £lO each —£1500.
' *PRIZES 222 to 600.—379 Allotments of Land at £5 each—£lB9s.
£40,000
* A Cash Purchaser has been found for the purchase of the Allotments of Land Nos. 17 to 600, at
prices which can be seen at the office of the Society.
Clear Titles for the Properties to be distributed as Prizes are guaranteed to this Society. Trans-
fers will be obtainable by successful Shareholders immediately after the Ballot, free of encumbrance
of any sort.
For Shares and all particulars, apply to SECRETARY of SOCIETY,
CENTRAL BUILDINGS* Edward Street* BRISBANE;
Or, care of
LOMER, ANDREWS <Sc CO,
87 Queen Street, MELBOURNE, Central Agents.
Intending Subscribers should apply on attached form, and also enclose two stamps, one of which
will be nstal to return Share Certificate, and the other to send result of ballot. Register your letter,
and, until acknowledged, hold Post Office receipt.
Cut tills Oiit.
To the Secretary of
APPLICATION FORM.
(TMe (Melbourne property (Building (Society, (Brisbane, Queensland.
40,000 Shares of £1 Each. No Further Liability.
Please allot me Shares in the above Society,
in terms of attached Circular. I enclose for payment £\
also two% stamped envelopes for your acknowledgment of above and advice for result of ballot.
Dated this day of. 180 f
Name in full
Address in full
Occupation
+ Specify here if payment is by P. 0.0. or what. Please do not enclose stamps in payment of
Shares. N.B. —P. 0.0. preferred. If cheque sent, exchange must be added.
+ When enclosing stamps for reply-postage, if stamps be other than Queensland, do not attach them
to envelopes. Amount of stamps may be added to P. 0.0. or Cheques, etc.
Business Announcements.
-THE-
Wentwor th Hotel
sswr
CHURCH HILL, SYDNEY.
Moderate Tariff to Suit the Times.
Liberal Reduction for Families and Permanent
Boarders.
Mrs. HAYES ... Proprietress.
Telephone No. 1583.
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Bs. t»ci.
Ha*
%
f)EMRY HEATjfI
.TRADE MARK
Sole Agents for HENRY HEATH.
Price Os. Qd.
SfOEtt tftfMfr
A Splendid Hat for Boating-, Yachting, Lawn Tennis,
Bionics, Opera, and Travelling ; the Studio and Atelier.
They fall into two or three n6glig6 shapes at the will of
the wearer. Unlike many so-called pocket hats, this will
really go in the pocket It is made of the finest felted
fur, so beautifully felted as to have the texture of velvet.
G-. EC. SMITH & SOM,
HAT MANUFACTURERS,
302 GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
-A.. MZICHA.XJ,
Theatrical Wig-maker and Hair-worker to all Sydney
theatres. Amateur Clubs Liberally Treated. Ladies’
Combings made up at 2/6 oz.
78 THE STRAND (Ist Floor), SYDNEY.
WANTED, Complete Files of The Bulletin
of 1884 and 1887. Manager, Bulletin
Office, Sydney.
The Victorian Bar.
The end, or pause, of the most important case
which has yet come before the Victorian, if not
the Australian Law Courts, may stimulate a few
reminiscences on the manner in which the legal
profession has grown. The Old Court, for many
years, was ornamented with the large painting of
Chief Justice A’Beckett, in his scarlet robes, pre-
sented by Mr. Dennistoun Wood, There are a
few yet active practitioners who remember the
first Chief Justice —A’Beckett, one being Mr.
Frank Stephen, the father-in-law of Chief Justice
Madden. Clark was the leading Melbourne
attorney of 40 to 50 years ago, and had the repute
of immense wealth. Other good old crusty
names are those of Muttlebury, Duerdin and
Bronckhorst, while the most able of all has lately
disappeared in Mr. Malleson. Messrs. Klingender
and Attenborough are reminders of the times
when squatting and mining, in an inchoate state
of the law, combined with banking, to make the
legal staple.
Chief Justice Stawell lives in memory. The
writer must be allowed to set down an individual
opinion that Stawell was not in the very first line
as a Judge, and even to say the same of Chief
Justice Higinbotham, a yet more eminent man.
Stawell had too much temper, combined with too
vivid a conscience, speaking in a legal way. His
somewhat mischievous principle appeared to be to
fix the rights and wrongs of the case in his mind
(as the police fix theories), and then endeavour to
torture the law to meet it, a system to which may
be traced some of his defeats before the Privy
Council.
Molesworth, a supremely-able lawyer, was the
best Judge of a long-associated quartette, the
others being Stawell, Barry, and Williams. His
dreadful fist in the written judgments—the spider
crawlings out of the inkbottle, on little squares of
blue foolscap tied with blue ribbon —is still a
recollection.
That magnificent courtier, Judge Redmond
Barry, is destined to a kind of immortality, not
from his legal acquirements, but through his con-
nection with the University and Public Library,
the germ of which was a lending library nobly and
freely established by him, in his own house at West
Melbourne. It is understood that Barry was
annoyed by Stawell’s jumping the claim of the
Chief Justiceship, from Attorney-General. How-
ever this may be, their relations became only too
harmonious. Barry, in short, allowed Stawell to
do as much work as he liked, which amounted to
nearly all, in the highest branches, on appeals to
the Full Court. ' The first Judge Williams was a
most easy-going man, too, though wrongly stigma
tised as lazy. He would sit, in Full Court, coiled
up in his chair for hours, saying nothing, and
then come out with just one luminous remark,
which shot the light into the very heart and core
of the case.
What golden memories cluster round the Old
Court ! Speight v. Syme may obliterate its record
on the civil side, but it boasts the immortal Eureka
tria’s, and a criminal case one may hope never to
see paralleled—Ned Kelly’s. The Dick Ireland
style of barrister has departed altogether, but how
he used to irradiate the scene with his malicious
humour, and what an impudent fashion he had of
leering at the jury, having his spectacles pushed
up on his forehead, over his black, beetling brows,
while his bronzed visage exuded, as it were, oil
all over. The one word “ blarney ” would sum
him up.
Court frequenters, professionals, usually held
Aspinall to be an over-rated man. “ The style is
the man ” may be a false general maxim, but it
accurately measured Aspinall. He had the
most fascinating ways conceivable in a barrister
wherever he had to plead some cause of humanity.
Then there were the rich tissues of his voice, arid
his scintillant, superficial, but eminently taking
wit.
Mr. Fellows is still the standard, as the fore-
most member of the Victorian Bar, past or present.
He had his limitations, and carried no particular
weight with an average jury, but the judges were
under his thumb in Banco, with an implicit trust
that he would never mislead the Court. Fellows
was a tall, burly, chubby, rather rosy-gilled,
almost clean-shaven man, with the look of a high
comedian, ever a smile curling up his somewhat
Tartuffian mouth, which seemed particularly cut
for the reception of his favourite oysters and
stout.
Mr. Dawson wrought to the fore, though he
had a voice nearly as squeaky as Gavan Duffy’s.
He was the brow-beater of his day, a plunger,
desperately tenacious. Suave Mr. Billing was
never a really strong man at the Bar. Indeed, the
reporters would usually tip either Dawson or
Billing for the losing side.
Sir Archibald Michie is Marius amid the ruins
of Carthage. We conjure him up in a social case,
which it would be painful to outline distinctly.
He was the advocate of a lady plaintiff, of unim-
peachable character, in an action for assault of the
most delicate nature. The other side won—by
the arts of ridicule, after Michie had exhausted
all the resources of chivalry. This case is probably
more deeply burnt into his memory than any other
throughout his career.
The conscientious, ecclesiastical, old-maidish
Wilberforce Stephen, and the strenuous Webb,
were the happiest of associates in Equity, where
Holroyd would usually plod on the other ?ide,
supported, perhaps, by the rather fluffy Bunny.
If the writer may again insinuate his private
opinion, Holroyd’s is about the most judicial mind
Melbourne has seen.
Putting back the wheel of time for just over
twenty years, we do not find Madden and Purves
giving undoubted promise of the distinction they
achieved, as dividing the Bar leadership. Both
forged ahead slowly at first. The Chief Justice’s
triumph is the fruit of prodigious assiduity, allied
with his very pleasing address and a mellifluous
oratorio flow, in which he happens to stand alone
among his contemporaries, somewhat recalling
Mr. Higinbothara, in a grace which is purely
Hibernian.
Mr. Purves, far superior to Dawson, has yet
built more on Dawson’s lines than on those of any
barrister one recalls —Dawson with an infusion of
the acrid Martley. Purves admits (like Brougham)
his deficiency in law, and perhaps his German
education had something to do with it. Many
years ago he said, in Court, “My friend, Mr.
(Hartley) Williams, will be a Judge, but I never
will.”
The stamp of the barrister has changed, as with
the cricketer —and someone also tries to show that
crack racehorses have entirely altered in appear-
ance, being now mule-like, with heavy, lumpy,
slabby necks and big fiddle-heads. It is never
safe to be absolute, in a comparison of past with
present. The barrister, like the actor, has become
more natural. People can less easily be hum-
bugged—or oven bullied —than of yore, and there
is some ground for Bismarck’s contention that
oratory will disappear with ignorance. Ways
alter, but the ability remains pretty much the
same ; wherefore, with confidence, one pits a
Madden against an Ireland, a Purves against an
Aspinall, a Hodges against a Michie—although
Fellows will for ever stand out as the lustrous
pleader. There are many others who could be
written of, including Bindon, Atkins, Sewell and
Chapman, but this article is merely a dip into the
past with an eye to such reputations as have kept
alive.
“IMITATION
is the
SINCEREST FLATTERY.”
The articles most imitated are
CLEMENTS TONIC and
FLETCHER’S PILLS.
WHY?
BECAUSE they have the best reputation and
are most in demand by the public, consequently,
every dishonest trader tries to trade on their
fame and renown.
It is really wonderful that the Australian people
are so slow to see the truth as regards the un-
scrupulous quacks and charlatans who prey on the
credulity of the Australian public. Scarcely a
week ever passes but what the press exposes the
barefaced and shameful practices of some of these
harpies, yet in face of all they seem to thrive,
and the paper who hounds them down most thrives
fattest on their advertisements and cracks cham-
pagne over each balance-sheet. Clements Tonic
and Fletcher’s Pills have never yet stooped to
deception and misrepresentation. They are
scientific therapeutical agents, and evidence as to
their value can be found in every district,
and such being the case it is unnecessary to
further extol their virtues.
The Wool Market.
SYDNEY V. LONDON.
Some years ago Sydney wool sales were frequented
by numerous speculators, who purchased here and
simply shipped to London, on the strength of the
ample margin then existing between the two
markets. Gradually that margin has narrowed
down, until at present not one man is brave
enough to risk a speculation purchase, unless with
an odd lot of greasy, or a parcel of well-got-up
scoured.
This fact proves beyond question the advantage
growers gain in placing their wool on the Sydney
market and selling for the best price obtainable.
Representatives from all the manufacturing
centres of the world regularly attend the Sydney
sales, and, from the quantity they buy and ship
direct to the various ports of England, Japan, and
the Continent, they are enabled to make highly
satisfactory freight arrangements, and conse-
quently can afford to bid at our sales to the
highest possible value.
Several lots of wool were offered in Sydney last
season and “passed in’’ and shipped to London,
where they were knocked down for the same price
offered here. Add shipping charges, &c., and it
is evident the motto for the wool producer is
“ sell in Sydney.” Invariably the sequence will
shew him in a position to pat himself on the back.
The young and successful firm of M'Burney,
Wallis and Co. have introduced into their busi-
ness all the new methods which commercial
experience has proved safe and valuable. From
none can the wool-grower get more consideration
and attention to his special interests coupled with
the knowledge of experts in all branches of the
trade.


Prospectus.
Tho Coolgardie Public Crushing,
Gold Recovery and Battery
Supply Co., Limited .
Capital— £2o,ooo in 20,000 Shares of £1 Each.
1000 Shares to Promoters to be issued as fully
paid up, in payment of their interests.
17,300 Shares are offered to the public at 2s. 6d.
per Share on Application and 2s. 6d. per Share on
Allotment, the balance in Calls as may be re-
q nired.
1700 Shares to be given in exchange for a dry
crushing plant.
Provisional Directors:
The Hon Stu GEORGE SHE NITON, Knt.,
M.L C. (President of the Legislative Council
of Western Austi alia).
The Hon. H. \V. VENN, Esq., M.L.A. {Com-
missioner of Railways and Director of Public
Works).
WILLIAM TIIORLEY LOTON, Esq., M.L.A.,
J.P., St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
EDWARD KEANE, Esq., J.P.', Contractor,
Perth.
LORD PERCY DOUGLAS, Coolgardie.
VVM. DRIFFIELD, E-q,, Coolgardie.
W. S. PE ARSE, Esq., M.L.A., J.P., Fremantle.
Bankers:
THE WESTERN AUSTRALIAN BANK.
Solicitors:
Messrs. STONE & BURT, Howick Street,
Perth, W. A.
Brokers:
,1. S. READ, No. 1 A.M.P., Buildings, Perth.
C. A. RING & CO., King Williarn-st., Adelaide,
and at Coolgardie.
G. D- ME UDELL, Esq., 50 Queen-st., Mel-
bourne.
BORGIIARDT & BUTCHER, 114 a Pitt-st.,
Sydney.
Consulting Engineer.
W. A. MERGER, A.M.T.C.E., & M.A.T.M.E.,
(of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing & Co., London)
St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Secretary (pro tern.).
J. S. READ, No. 1 A.M.P. Buildings, St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
Objects of the Company.
This Company is being formed to supply a want
which is very keenly felt at the present time,, and
which will become intensified during the next few
months.
It is proposed to erect a complete Ore crushing
and Assay Flint replete with all the latest im-
provements for the treatment of Auriferous Quartz
of every description, and thus to supply a most
pressing want for the Coolgardie and adjacent
Goldfields.
The boon will more particularly be felt by those
owners who are individually working claims, and
who for lack of Capital or other causes are unable
to run a Battery themselves.
In this connection is is proposed to erect Crush-
ing Plants on approved Mines in exchange for a
percentage of the yield of Gold. 'Phis will un-
doubtedly commend itself to Mine Owners, and
with a minimum of expense will very largely
augment the Revenue of this Company.
Site.
The site for the Central Plant and Assay Offic 6
will be the most eligible that can bo secured aite r
a thorough examination of the ground, and as fa r
as possible to suit the convenience of Mine Owners.
Water.
It has now been practically demonstrated that
an ample supply of water for Battery purposes
may be secured at a depth of about 200 feet, and
this is altogether apart from conservation by rain-
fall.
Engineer,
It happens most opportunely for the success i f
this Company that Mr. W. A. Mercer, of the well-
known firm of Messrs. Bewick, Moreing & Co.,
of London, is willing to act as Consulting
Engineer, and will superintend the erection of the
Company’s Machinery, and to his matured judg-
ment may safely be left the securing of a Battery-
site at Coolgardie and the selection of any proper-
ties which may be brought to the notice of the
Directors of the Company, with a view to the
erection of machinery.
Cost of Plant.
It is estimated that a Central Plant, inclusive
of an Assay Office at Coolgardie, as well as four
smaller Plants at outlying mines, could he erected,
notwithstanding the present heavy freights, for an
outlay not exceeding £BOOO, thus leaving £2OOO,
less expenses of flotation and usual Brokerage
charges, to the credit of the Company.
Batteries aggregating, say, 40 Heads would
crush 300 tons per week as a minimum, thus—
-300 tons @ 15s. per ton —£223 per week, or
£ Li,700 per annum. '
Estimated Revenue.
Expenditure.
(The Consulting Engineer’s fees to be settled
hereafter.)
Thus yielding a net revenue of over £6OOO per
annum, or more than 50 per cent, on the entire
('ajita. of the Company.
Figures under rather than over estimated.
I t will be observed that the charge for treating
t he Ores, 15s. per ton, has been assessed at a very
low figure, and it may be mentioned that on the
Murchison Field, where water is said to be plenti-
ful, no less than £3 per ton is being charged.
Further, in calculating the expenditure care has
been taken to place figures at a high ratio, and it
may therefore fairly be assumed that the Revenue
will be augmented, and the expenditure consider-
ably reduced.
Not a Speculation.
Looking at the fact that the permanency of the
Coolgardie Goldfields is now assured, and that
water for Battery purposes may bo secured by
sinking, quite apart from what may be conserved
by' rainfall, the project now brought before the
public may be considered removed from the region
of speculation, and may be viewed as a first-class
and highly remunerative investment.
Early Application for Shares Necessary.
A large number of shares will certainly be
secured by the Capitalists in the Eastern colonies,
who are interested in the Ooolgardie Mines, as
well as by those living on the fields, and as it is
desired, as far as possible, to make this a local
Company, it is requested that early application
may be made for shares.
JJANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Half-yearly
General MEETING of the Proprietors will be
held at the Chief Banking-house, George-street,
Sydney, on MONDAY, the 30th day of April
instant, at noon, to consider the Report of the
Board of Directors, to be then made ; to elect a
Director in the room of James Milson, Esq.,
resigned, and whose place has been temporarily
filled by the appointment of Charles Smith, Esq.;
and to consider such other matters and things as
may then be brought forward in conformity with
the Deed of Settlement.
By order of the Board of Directors.
GEORGE MILLER,
General Manager.
By the 45th clause of the Deed of Settlement it
is provided that every Proprietor who shall be-
come a Candidate for the office of Director shall
give notice thereof to the Board of Directors in
writing fourteen days at the least before the day
of election.
Bank of New South Wales,
Sydney, 6th April, 1894.
Cellular JErtex Underclothing.
A Positive Safeguard against thills.
Recommended by Medical Faculty.
JUST OPENED :
MERINO and WOOLLEN UNDERCLOTHING.
Natural Merino Undershirts (halt sleeves), 7 6
~ ~ ~ (long sleeves), 8,6
Natural Merino Pants 8 6
This line is specially recommended as easily washed,
unshrinkable, and very durable.
Cellular Tennis Shirts, Day Shirts, Pajamas, Caps,
Hosiery, Belts, and Braces.
Sole Agents—
David Braßam & Co.,
75 King Street, and 305-307 George Street, Sydney
(Nearly Opposite Hunter Street).
Virtue —Vice’s banner.
Grace—Simulated unconsciousness.
They talk in Victoria now of opening up a
tremendous export trade in bacon, oblivious of the
fact that the local bacon is villainously cured and
abominably salt. Probably the Australian climate
will never permit of dead pig being treated to the
best advantage. In its present state it hasn’t a
ghost of a show against the pork and bacon of
colder countries, and Patterson, as an Irishman,
must know that.
Dear Bulletin, — Be t testimonials to public
servants. There is not much harm when the
servant retires. But when a rising man is pro-
moted he drags along with him those who have
scratched his back. An incident in my Civil
Service experience- the facts are within the know-
ledge of the present Master of Sydney Mint,
Johnny Robertson, late Collector of Inland-
Revenue at Manchester, was Excise officer at-
tached to Lochnagar Distillery, near Balmoral.
He courted a daughterof the distiller—who would
not hear of her marrying a beggarly gauger-
nothing less than a supervisor would suit Mr.
Begg. Johnny then had little prospect of ever
attaining that rank. But Queen Victoria and the
Prince Consort soon after visited Balmoral, and
distiller Begg invited them to look over the dis-
tillery. They were shown round, not by the pro-
prietor, but by the gauger—“ Yer ain servant,”
said the cute Begg, “an’ a word from Yer High-
ness to Somerset House would give him his due.”
In a few months, Johnny Robertson was pro-
moted. He married Miss Begg, and gradually
got to the top of the tree. —Yours, V.
A peculiarity of Grey is, that he is not a
newspaper-reader. “My friends,” he once told
the writer, “send me anything in the newspapers
that I ought to see, and, of course, I get all the
leading reviews. Do you know, promiscuous
newspaper-reading weakens the mental forces, and
I am sure it would weaken my power of express-
ing myself in English.” Not long ago a man cut
his throat, leaving behind him the most pathetic
hues on record : “ 1 can no longer work. I have
spoilt my intellect by reading the newspapers.”
The average man doesn’t speak English ; he only
gibbers journalese. In the papers certain sub-
stantives are always qualified by the same adjec-
tives. Every fire becomes a devastating confla-
gration ; business is ever stagnant; a site is always
picturesque; a fortune, princely; a citizen,
prominent; a cry, heartrending; a surgeon,
skilled; a theatrical performance, crowded from
floor to ceiling ; a detective, clever ; waves are
invariably rippling; darkness, Cimmerian; and
dawn, rosy. E. T. Gillon, of Wellington (M L.)
Post, has a list of “Terms not to be used ” pasted
up in the reporters’-room, and woe to him who
transgresses.
One Troubridge Critchell has been using
space in the London Standard to gird at Aus-
tralians for declining to make kangaroo the Aus-
tralian national meat. Mr. Critchell knows all
about the marsupial, and is positive that it could
be advantageously farmed, so as not only to supply
all Australia with flesh-meat, but also to fill up
a big export-trade. He ought to be fed for a
month on the regulation kangaroo-ham, as served
out to the regular Australian navvy, and surfeited
witli kangaroo-tail soup. He would soon call for
buzzard and black snake, both of which furnish a
more juicy repast than the long-tailed marsupial
which Charles Lamb styled the “spirit of Aus-
tralia.” Kangaroo sausage, moreover, already
rivals the far-famed Bologna, only it isn’t labelled
according to its genesis of manufacture, but is
known as Bungalow Scouse. Further, it may
interest Critchell and other curious English
scientists to know that the cross-breeding of
kangaroos and cassowaries, now such a profitable
squatting achievement on the slopes of the Wild
Waterfall Sierras in the Central Australian Desert,
has produced a variegated marsupial bird known
as the kangareemu, whose feathers yield six crops
a year, and, in beauty and value, surpass those of
the champion Takentottian ostriches. Australia
allows no English epicure to teach it its way
about either as to diet or dress. What Australian
dejeuner is complete without the scalloped wing
of the piebald kangaroo? What Xmas ball in
Australia has not its sacred kangaroo mizzletoe?
What but enough.
NOTICE.— Advertisements for Current Week
cannot be received LATER than 1 p.m. on
TUESDAY.
Nervousness Cured!
SEND to HERR RASSMUSSEN, 547 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, or any of his Inter-
colonial Branches, for his Free and Useful Pamphlet, entitled
«« /% Reasons"
A
TliousandL
Why Sufferers should immediately take
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Alf aline Vitality Pills!
Which are Registered and Purely Herbal. Cured many Thousands.
A GUARANTEED CURE for the most obstinate NERVOUSNIH,S, LOSS OI’MEMORY,
DESPONDENCY, MELANCHOLIA, NERVOUS DYSPEPSIA and IRRITaBILI I Y, WEAK-
NESS, and all Affections peculiar to the NERVES, SPINE and BRAIN. Ordinary course,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/-and 12/-, posted.
~FTTT~KrT~>T?.Tn~n THZQUSA3ND TSSTIMOIsTIAIjS I
Blood Diseases Cured !
ALFALINE LOCK CURE PILLS.
Registered, Purely Herbal. Cured over 100,000.
A GUARANTEED CURE for all kinds of BLOOD DISEASES, SKIN AFFECTIONS, SORES
FROM ANY CAUSE, OLD-STANDING BLOOD COMPLAINTS, BLOTCHES
ECZEMA, and other unhappy and unpleasant symptoms of the Skin and Blood. Ordinary couise,
posted, 23/6; special powerful course, 43/6; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/7, posted.
Opinions of the Press of Herr Rassmussen.
“Herr Rassmussen’s well known Herbal Remedies have |
been the means of performing many great cures, as his
numerous testimonials will prove.”—Sydney Bulletin.
“Herr Rassmussen has shown us some highly compli-
mentary testimonials, certifying to important cures
effected by his remedies.”- Evening News, Sydney.
“ Herr Rassmussen is a wonder. His wonderful Herbal
Remedies have cured more sufferers than all other reme-
dies put together.”— North Melbourne Advertiser.
“Herr Rassmussen manufactures some excellent Blood
and Nerve Remedies.” —N.Z. Times, Wellington.
“ Herr Bassmussen is a clever botanist.”— Daily True
graph, Launceston, Taa.
“ Herr Rassmussen’s press notices agree ns to the skill
he possesses as an Herba'ist, and the bona (ides of his
testimonials appear to be well established.”—S. A.
Register, Adelaide.
“Herr Rassmussen, we are glad to say, as a Medical
Herbalist holds the, highest place in the colonies, and
enjoys the confidence of many leading p ople of New
South Wales, Victoria, and Queensland.”— Cook town
Courier, Q.
WHAT IS BETTER THAN
<£1,000,000 ?
HEALTH!
You are always Poor
without Health, even if you are
Wealthy.
How did over 100,000 Sufferers
g( t Restored to
HEALTH ?
By taking
HERR, RASSMUSSEN’S
Alfaline Herbal Remedies.
The Australian Press is unanimous in praising up Herr
Rassmussen and his wonderful Herbal Alfaline Remedies,
and his name has become a much-cherished and lasting
household word in every city, village and camp in the colonies.
;■
W
a/':
HR:
m
■••• '•
i-
vsr.
SSG S
BMP
»
t'li t-iV
The wonderful success of Herr Rassniussen, and the ever-
increasing patronage extended to his celebrated Herbal
Remedies by all classes of society, is bona-fide evidence that
they are effective and genuine.
HERE It ASS.M ESSEN.
The Celebrated Danish Herbalist,
547 GrEORGB STREET, SYDnsrEX.
Discoverer and Sole Proprietor of the Celebrated and Registered
ALFALIIME REMEDIES!
Which have CURED OYER One Hundred Thousand Sufferers for Blood and Nerve Diseas. h,
Honorary Member and Gold Medalist of the Academic Parisienne des Inventeurs, France.
Honorary Member of, and Botanist to, the i.U.J.1.0.
Honourably Mentioned in “Centennial History of New South Wales” for Herbal Discoveries.
Awarded Gold Medal at Sydney, Bronze Medal, Melbourne, for his Herbal Remedies.
Author of “The KTatural D octor.”
HERBAL REMEDIES:
Alfaline Vitality Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Nerves, Spine and Brain.
Ordinary course. 23/6, posted ; Special Powerful
Double Course, 43 6 ; smaller boxes, 6/- and 12/-
Alfaline Rheumatic Pills.
Cure Rheumatism, Sciatica and Gout. Boxes, posted,
3/-, 6/-, 12 - and 23,6.
Alfaline Asthma and Cough Pills.
Boxes, posted, 3/-, 6/-, 12 - and 23,6.
Alialine Hair Restorer.
Guaranteed to eradicate Dandruff. Produces quickly
luxuriant hair. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Complexion Beautifier.
Beautifies the Complexion. 6/-, posted.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Oil.
Excellent quality. Bottles, posted, 16.
Alfaline Eucalyptus Fastillas.
Cure Coughs and Colds. Boxes, posted, 16.
Alfaline Ointment.
Cures Sores, Piles, Crags, Pimples, etc. Boxes,
posted, 1,6 and 26.
AI la Mix- Lock Pills.
Guaranteed Cure for the Blood. Purely Herbal.
Ordinary course, posted, 23 6; special powerful course,
43/6; smaller boxes, 6 - and 12 -, posted.
Alfaline Varicocele Powders.
Boxes, 6/-, posted.
Aifulilie Internal Pile Powders.
Excellent for internal use. Posted, 3,'- and 6/-
Allnline External Pile Powders.
Cure both Blind and Bleeding Piles. Posted, 3/- &6-
Alfaline Leucorrhcea Powders,
For the Whites. Posted, 3 - and 6/- per Box.
Alfaline External Invigorator.
Boxes, 6, - posted.
Porous Plasters.
Relieve pain instantly. Posted, 1/6.
Male and Female Syringes, Suspenders, and
other Specialties, kept in stock.
“ The Natural Doctor.”
Contains valuable Advice and Useful Hints. Posted
One Shilling.
IMPORTANT. —Make Cheques and Post Office Orders Payable to Hans Rassmussen,
whether you send to his Head Office, or to any of his Branches. Register Betters containing Money. All
Remedies sent unobserved, packed in plain cover. All Correspondence strictly Confidential.
HERR RASSMUSSEN’S
Chief Laboratory and Head Depot for all the Colonies;
547 George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
INTERCOLONIAL BRANCHES:
VICTORIAN HEAD DEPOT: 150 Eoukke Street, MELBOURNE.
"QUEENSLAND HEAD DEPOT : 160 Queen Street, BRISBANE
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN HEAD DEPOT : 154 Rundlk Street, ADELAIDE.
NEW ZEALAND HEAD DEPOT
.91 Lambton Quay, WELLINGTON.


DOMESTIC ECONOMY!
WHAT IS IT ?
DOMESTIC ECONOMY is primarily the art of feeding and clothing the family at as low a rate as possible,
without impairing the family digestion, or taking away the character of its members for being well and com-
fortably dressed. Domestic economy is not comprised in buying a bad article for sixpence when better can be
got tor sevenpence ; but if the ruling price for the best is eightpence, and somebody comes along and offers it for
sevenpence, then it’s domestic economy to close with the merchant so offering. _ By all means study this great
and glorious science of social life, because its due and proper observance cannot fail to make poor people rich, and
rich ones richer. What say you ? Will you do your business at
A WTHOKTY H ORDERN’S ?
ANTHONY HORDEKN-S ?
so THAT YOU MAY REALISE WHAT DOMESTIC ECONOMY ISI
BUY EVERYTHING at ANTHONY HORDERN’S, and if you dwell in the country, you
may do your shopping, through the medium of the post, on the same terms and getting the
same goods at the same prices as if you lived in town.
ONLY ADDRESS of the UNIVERSAL PROVIDERS:
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
HAYM ARKET (ONLY), SYDNEY.
(CLOSE TO THE RAILWAY STATION).
The point whereof is that his banner was The
Bulletin. Wherever diggers are gathered to-
getb"~ *here von will find The Bulletin.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's .. “The Lights o’London.”
Lyceum “The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray.”
Fillib’s Circus, Opposite Railway Station.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess's “A Woman’s Revenge.”
Theatre Royal “ Struck Oil."
Bijou “ Charley’s Aunt."
Alexandra “ The Octoroon."
Alhambra Variety Show.
A. W. Pinero’s play, “The Second Mrs.
Tanqueray," was produced by the Brough-Bouci-
cault Company at Sydney Lyceum on April 14,
for the first time in Australia. The cast was :
Aubrey Tanqueray Mr. Titheradge.
Caley Drummle Mr. Boucicault.
Sir George Orreyed Mr. Ward.
Oapt. Hugh Ardale , .. Mr. Renouf.
Prank Misquith, Q.C Mr. Carey.
Gordon Jayne, M.D Mr. Mclntyre.
Morse Mr. Hards.
Paula Mrs. Brough.
Mrs. Cortelyon .. .. Miss Romer.
Ellean Miss Noble.
Lady Orreyed Miss Temple.
“ The Second Mrs. Tanqueray ” was the sensation
of last year’s London season. It shared with “The
Tempter ” distinction as a play more notable than
any seen for years. One defied the cant of social
respectability ; the other, the cant of religious re-
spectability. Both broke with traditions of the
English stage as old as the century.
» # *
The merit of “ The Second Mrs. Tan-
queray ” lies less in its cleverness and brilliancy
than in its strength, audacity, and truth. These
qualities are perhaps more easily appreciated by
a Londoner than by an Australian. In Australia
we have Mrs. Tanqueray’s genus, but not her
species. In London, from any one of a score of
Piccadilly supper-rooms her counterpart might
walk straight upon the stage, dressed and painted
and dizened exactly as we see her. The man who,
moved by love and chivalry, sacrifices friends and
position for such a person, is rare, but not un-
known. The other characters come within the
scope of every-day acquaintance. The present
writer, who saw the play as produced at London
St. James’s, holds that the Brough-Boucicault
company have given Sydney a presentment of the
author’s ideas still more even and harmonious, if
in parts less striking and powerful.
* * *
Nevertheless, the Lyceum audience re-
ceived the piece with a distinct sense of dis-
appointment. Its wickedness had been so well
advertised that they came to “sniff the sniffy,”
expecting to be shocked. They found, with sur-
prise, that they could stand a much greater shock
than the play provided. It was naughty, but not
naughty enough ; and the revulsion of feeling went
to its discredit. Eor what is daring in England is
commonplace in Australia. We are as broad as
our island ; our forbears are narrow as theirs. We
have far less social hypocrisy than they. Aus-
tralian men do not hesitate to call a spade a spado;
Australian women do not blush to hear them. Aus-
tralian boys are certainly bold; Australian girls
as certainly precocious. Those who know them
best believe as little as Daudet’s heroine in the
existence of ingenues—comme si du monde ou pas
du monde, toutes les filles ne savaient pas de nais-
sance, de quoi il retourne. It would be unjust to
accord them less virtue than their sisters of colder
climes ; but they have nob the virtue of ignorance.
» * •
Yet, though to some extent it failed to
impress, “The Second Mrs. Tanqueray” remains
an impressive play. Shallow critics object that
the heroine typifies but one mood, in one tense, of
the eternal feminine problem which is the joy and
despair of existence. A profounder judgment
admits that the mood is permanent, and the tense
always the present. Every woman is a potential
Mrs. Tanqueray, to be made or marred by cir-
cumstances. Aubrey asks Paula to look back to
the time when she was like Ellean; quite as fitly
he might have asked Ellean to look forward to the
time when she would be like Paula. All Paulas
have been Elleans; any Ellean may be a Paula.
The gulf seems wide, but it is easily and
naturally spanned. There is in any woman no
absolute, no limitation so far as the emotional
faculties are concerned. Each has within herself
the capacity for infinite development. Virtue is
an accident : between nun and none there is only
a difference of degree. As the human embryo
changes t hrough all gradations of the animal king-
dom in its progress to maturity, so the woman
passes through all the stages on which womanhood
is built. Celia is arrested at one stage, Delia at
another; in Rosalind a phase of feeling tints a
moment, in Juliet it colours a life. There has
been a time in the life of every woman when she
longed to kick over the traces. In the memory of
that time, for women, lies the strength of “ The
Second Mrs. Tanqueray.”
* # #
For men, the interest is more critical, less
subjective. And a critic must say at once that
Mrs. Brough is out of her depth as Paula. When
the task is merely to represent the riotous humours
of a vulgar woman she is admirable. In the high
comedy of the first scene with Mrs. Cortelyon she
is admirable again. But when comedy deepens
into tragedy she furnishes a perpetual anti-climax
to herself. Her face is not the tragic mask ; her
figure is that of Thalia, not of Melpomene. She
does not fail in intensity, nor in art, and in
spite of natural unfitness she often plays effec-
tively. But Mrs. Patrick Campbell is still more
effective, and chiefly because she has not Mrs.
Brough’s personal advantages. Space just permits
to add that Mr. Titheradge was excellent, if a
little heavy ; that Mr. Boucicault was excellent, if
a little light; that Mr. Renouf’s bearing was not
sufficiently dignified, nor his manner sufficiently
earnest; and that Mr, Ward, Miss Romer, Miss
Noble, and Miss Temple command between them
a good third of the success of the piece.
* * m *■
“ A Wife’s Peril,” which is more like a
London Journal story, in four squeals, than the
average drama is wont to be, went up at Sydney
Royal last Saturday, with Miss Blanche Lewis
giving a convincing rendering of the imperilled
spouse in question. When you stage a highly-
moral play which is going to be a salutary lesson
to every Mrs. Smith who finds that Mr. Smith is
getting horribly tiresome, and who meditates
going off with the lodger, it is necessary, in the
best interests of morality, that the lawful (stage)
husband should be beautiful to the eye, and not a
lanky man who wants his ’air cut, as the im-
perilled husband did in the play under notice. It
might be unnatural to present hubby with his hair
curled and a dreamy look in his eyes, but think
how flattered the married men would be!
* * *
Albert Norman, as the Italian count dis-
guised as a sculptor, occasionally forgot that he
was an Italian ; bub he was a fine-spirited villain*
and when he returned to the charge disguised in a
beard seven shades lighter than his hair, the audi-
ence trembled lest the husband should recognise
him. Ivy Scott, whose energetic spelling lesson
is as good as a week at a night-sehcol to the enrap-
tured galleryites, makes lots of her little part,,
and Miss Lou Amey and Cyril Keightly did much
to lighten the sympathetic gloom of the sixpenny
gods when the last act had left the heroine faint-
ing on her mother’s grave at midnight.
» • •
“Nan the Good-for-Nothing ” preceded
the main dish, and with Polly Emery playing Nan
with too much abandon, it looked as if the title
was neatly put. The Bulletin saw Nellie Farren
play Nan at a matinee, and since then it has
failed to see any funny points about succeeding
hoydens washing their faces monotonously with a
bar of soap while the audience wonders whether
the ablutions will stop short at a Hck-and-a-
promise.
*# * *
The ever-mildewed drama, “East Lynne, *
which smells damp and mouldy from the tears
that have fallen in and around it, went up for one
night last Saturday, at Sydney Bijou Gaiety)
Theatre, although a wise and far-seeing manage-
ment would have kept “The Strategist” in the bill,
seeing how theatrical Sydney was given over to
gloom and remorse and the hopeless wreckage of
the Ten Commandments on that particular even-
ing. As the public couldn’t support the sorrow
of Lady Isabel (played with the right amount of
wet-raggishness by the pretty Miss Gladys Leigh)
for more than one evening the management fore-
went (heir intention of sluicing out the theatre
with her for the current week and revived the
merry farce, hereinbefore alluded to, for one night
(Monday) to close the season.
** * *
The present hilarious revival of the im-
mortal “Lights o’ London,” now being played to
top-heavy houses at Sydney Her Majesty’s, is a
proof how much the setting stars in that sort of
play, because the present caste is the weakest—
here and there—that ever struggled with the
large, damp drama. George Rignold’s hero, and
Watts-Phillips’ heroine, are as forceful and con-
vincing as of yore, but Kate Bishop has at last
struck a part which doesn’t suit her in the travel-
ling show lady; and although everything Miss B.
does she makes acceptable, still Mrs. George
Rignold must remain the best Mrs. Jarvis on the
road. A hard-voiced lady takes Emily Fitzroy’s
old part as Hetty Preene, and kicks her train out
behind her heels like a vicious two-year-old, and
H. Plimmer, as the villain, seemed to consider
that vice cannot go half a block without lighting
a cigarette. Mr. Plimmer’s legs, by the way, are
plump and pleasing, so when he talks in the front
act of “fatted calves,” it sound as if he was mak-
ing personal allusions to himself. The “Lights
o’ London” is certainly raking in the cash. When
you have seen it, even for the hundredth time, you
always feel as if you had really been to the
theatre. Going to the “Lights o’ London ” feels
more like going to the theatre than does going to
any other play extant.
** * *
“ A Woman’s Revenge,” the last of Henry
Pettitt’s melodramas, was produced at Melb.
Princess’ on Saturday. Hopes of a great literary
work had been excited by advance paragraphs, in
which the. public were told to prepare themselves
for a powerful tale that would spell-bind them
from beginning to end. Considered as a play
with pretentions to greatness, “A Woman’s
Revenge ” is a distinct failure, but viewed as a
neatly-written Pettittism, in four acts, it yields a
fair amount of satisfaction. The author’s attempt
to rise superior to the scene-painter is sufficiently
vigorous to indicate that he might have succeeded
later on had he not died three months ago.
Miss Edith Blande, in her eternal capacity of an
adventuress, is the woman who revenges herself
upon Miss Watson, by separating her from her
faithful husband, Sass. The thinnest of evidence
suffices to “wreck the lives” of this sus-
picious pair, soon after the birth of their
cheeild. Sass is supposed to have eloped with
Edith, while Miss Watson gets discredit from her
rather maudlin husband for an improper attach-
ment to Cosgrove, that improving actor being
leagued with W. E. Baker, his companion in
financial crimes.
• * *
After long years, Sass sneaks into his
virtuous wife’s cottage, and interviews his little
daughter alone; before he can sneak out again
the mother comes from an adjoining room,
followed by Cosgrove, who has been looking at
papers. Sass “suspects the worst” from this
compromising situation, and the audience, having
seen the situation sticking out beforehand, are
not surprised. The men quarrel, Sass wrenches
a pistol from Cosgrove, puts the weapon on the
sideboard, and departs. Cosgrove had slunk
away previously, like the proverbial beaten hound.
Then Cosgrove returns with the intention of
embracing Miss for the first time. _ He
chases the lady round the furniture until the little
daughter pops up in her nightgown and sees her
mother defy the bad man with the pistol afore-
said. Miss Watson is the next to go away. Her
departure is the signal for the arrival of Baker.
He comes attended by an awful stage tempest,
and the noise of somebody knocking thunder out
of a big drum is heard in the land. Baker grabs
the omnipresent pistol and kills Cosgrove after a
bit. He turns the lamp down, rifles the corpse of
much ill-gotten plunder, and rushes forth into the
thunder and lightning with a serio-comic shriek.
* * *
MissWatsonis arrested for the murder. Sass,
an illogical person, believes in his wife all round
by this time, and when she comes up for trial at
the Old Bailey the heroic Sass, who happens to be a
qualified barrister, appears for the defence. The
set of the Criminal Court shows careful attention
to detail, and is soenically convincing. The trial
itself is merely a solemn farce, loaded with impos-
sibilities, and abounding in proofs that Petti tt
considered the average playgoer to be even a
bigger ass than the law. Much was expected of
this Old Bailey scene. It was to save the piece
and bring the curtain down upon an impressive
spectacle. In truth it couldn’t compare with the
trial episode in a play performed at the Royal
some four years ago—“ A Man and his Shadow.”
Much of the acting in “ A Woman’s Revenge ” is
too tame for the requirements of such a purely
stage fiction, but this matter may be attended to
if the show should, by accident, catch on.
** * *
“The Octoroon,” embellished with a few
variety items, is calculated to do very well at
Melb. Alexandra, where performances are criti-
cised from the popular-price standpoint. Perhaps
this is Dan Barry’s best achievement up to date,
and seeing that the intrepid Daniel has been
working up a connection for the last 19 weeks,
it follows that “ The Octoroon ” is a liberally-
mounted and decently-acted old friend. Uncle, Tom
Easton shines on the present occasion as a giddy old
nigger of musical habits. E. B. Russell, D. Barry,
and E. C. Appleton fill their places, and Miss
Eilla Wilde, with all her faults, can sob like one
genuinely afflicted. Here and there one comes
across a member of the Alexandra Company who
ought to be reprimanded with a heavy mallet,
and prevented from singing any more, but fiends
of the same description are found at more expen-
sive theatres.
** * *
The Royal continues to be filled five
nights per week and crammed on Saturdays by
“Struck Oil.”
** * *
Beaumont, the baldheaded denizen of the
tank, is back at the Alhambra, also his wife has
resumed her familiar piece of stitching under the
water. “ Charley’s Aunt ”is said to be bringing
an improved cast to the Bijou for her farewell
week, commencing Saturday next, and manager
Garner has definitely decided to open his reign at
the same house on May sth. Walter Bentley is
engaged by the new management as leading man,
a position which the gifted child of Scotia will
adorn if he makes up his mind to do so.
At Poverty Point.
One of the Melh. papers gave an elaborate account of
Vi. Varley’s marriage to Joseph Tapley—the flowers, the
bridal party , and other supposed etceteras. As a fact,
Vi. herself was the only flower visible, and “ the party ”
consisted of her mother and sister, with Mr. and Mrs.
Amos Norcott (Ida Osborne).
That lift for squeezing Violet
I don’t think was so much to blame.
For all who had the chance, you bet,
Would just have done the very same.—M‘G.
There is a strong desire tor Miss Nellie Stewart to under-
take tuition. Her training has been highly scientific.
After long operatic experience, she studied under Ran-
degger. She would be at the top of the tree as a local
Marches!.
Myra Kemble left for England by the Oroya, partly on
business bent. She may now avail herself of some of the
opportunities neglected during her last trip. She returns
by the end of the year. Miss Kemble, by-the-way, says
she goes to London to consult Dr. Braxton Hicks. Hicks
is a coroner, by-the-way. The idea of consulting a coro-
ner for the good of your health recalls one evening when
the writer, who is near-sighted, hailed a hearse, thinking
it a ’bus.
Dear Bulletin,— Good old Kitts is credited with an
affection for the part of Devilshoof. Well, the part didn’t
much like Kitts, whose long body and short legs infused
an air of “ eminent respectability” into the moat blood-
curdling parts, and made his Devilshoof suggest a ‘‘right-
thinking person” shamming “ a bold, bad man.” By the
way, why is greasy respectability generally short in the
leg ?—A.M.
A certain tall, “show” member of a certain company,
that visited Australia some ages ago, earned a reputation
era voyage for general dirtiness of habits and repugnance
to cold water. It was such a great reputation that
passengers and crew feasted upon anecdotes concerning
the fairy, and took a strong personal interest in her
peculiarities. When the steamer got somewhat stuck in
the Suez Canal, causing mud to darken its slow water-
course, somebody anxiously enquired of the captain
whether they were aground. “ O, no; it’s only Miss
Blank having a bath,” said the captain. He had just
received news that the grimy actress was taking her first
wash since leaving England. It was considered, by those
most competent to judge, that she never committed a
similar indiscretion ashore.
Dear Bulletin,— Some of your correspondents are
rabidly patriotic, or rather chauvinistic. I was amused at
Steele Grey’s suggestion re the visit of an Australian
operatic troupe to England. It is true there are some
capable vocalists in our midst, but how many of these
possess the necessary qualification of a good actor as well
as of a singer? There is one true local artiste only whom
I could name, and her voice is already showing signs of
decay. And as to some of those enumerated by your
correspondent, I can but attribute the fact of their being
still on the boards to the good matured tolerance of their
audiences. What good would the invasion of England by
an Australian opera co. do except to show that we can
superficially imitate the veneer of an old-world civilisa-
tion ?— True Patriotism, Melb.
That magnificent travelling piety-show, organist Jude,
lately informed London Mornino Post that “in Adelaide
18,000 citizens petitioned him to stay another year, and
tendered him a free house, horses, &o.” News, indeed.
Jude was prolific in farewell seasons in Adelaide, and
after months of affliction the tired citizens presented the
pious organist with a travelling-bag. Anyone but Jude
would have taken the hint.
George Coppin passed out of his 75th year on Saturday,
April 8. His old pal, Harwood, is now appearing with
Thornton, in “The Private Secretary,” in Adelaide.
The Act 21 George 111., under which Sunday entertain-
ments in Sydney have been prohibited, provides that £2OO
to be paid by the hall-lessee, besides £lOO to be paid by
the entertainer, and £5O to be paid by each doorkeeper,
•errant, collector, &0., shall be handed over to the sue-
ceisful informer 1 What a free country !
Lalla Miranda’s mother is Miranda Hirst, whilom
eminent soprano, and her father David Miranda, who
gang Manrico, in “ II Trovatore,” at Drury Lane.
“She is Coming Back. Who?” Placard about Mel.
bourne. Not Antoinette?
The night Beerbohm Tree played “Hamlet,” W. 8
Gilbert was asked what he thought of his (Tree’s) concep-
tion of the character. Gilbert replied that he thought it
was funny without being vulgar.
An encore killed Madame Patey. Alas, it is the encore
that kills us all.
A Melb. paper corrects an impression that Maggie
Moore was born in Sydney. ’Frisco is her birthplace.
“The Octoroon,” in Melb., again demonstrates Bouci-
cault’s vitality, being the fifth of his plays acted in that
city within six weeks.
The late J. E. Kitts was in India during the mutiny, in
the U.S. during the civil war, in Europe during the
Franco-German war.
In the Williamson and Musgrove Opera Co., Misses
Yarley, Young, Osborne, Pollard, and Graupner have all
had their poses as prime donne.
Haresfoot: I oannot act the villain, because I abominate
cigarettes.
Hobart now runs its music-hall, called the Criterion,
after the hotel kept by the promoter.
From Melb. Standard: “Miss Nellie Stewart will re-
appear at the Princess’ Theatre this evening to fill the gan
caused by the absence of Miss Violet Yarley, who has
gone upon her honeymoon,” Not very complimentary to
Nellie, who-as it is only fair to say—could fill a couple
of such gaps and then have a bit of herself to spare.
People do say that a well-known theatrical amour of
long standing is likely to be dissolved shortly. But what
a blow for Mrs. Grundy 1
A Melb. suburban print: “There has been a disturb-
ance at the Theatre recently. It is said that the
cams belli is a baby.” Naturally 1
The world’s romance is not all shut between the covers
of its novels. In New York, Pierre Brady, hopelessly in-
fatuated with Mme. Jane Hading, deliberately crossed the
great divide, leaving an empty laudanum-bottle and this
letter:—“Madame, my last thoughts are for you. At the
moment of quitting this world I bid you a passionate
farewell.” A curious creature, a man. Even his Maker
must be astonished at him sometimes.
A Mascottist lately said that Florence Young made
prodigious studies, but found it was Ida Osborne.
Ooquelin £200,000 —is the world’s richest actor.
Irving—£l3o,ooo—comes next. Sara B. has earned more
than either, but is always in debt.
The Royal Comic Opera Co. took a plebiscite at Ballarat
to find the most popular opera, new or old. “Paul Jones”
headed the list-then came “Dorothy,” “Mikado’’and
•‘Maseotte.”
Presumably it is Mr. Travers Vale who sends The Bulle-
tin a Calcutta Sunday Times of February 25, in which
vengeance deep and dire is sworn against certain persons
in Sydney who are alleged t‘o have pirated that noble
drama, “At the Cannon’s Mouth.” “They shall pay
dearly,” says Mr. Travers Vale.
“ No woman shall appear on the stage unless she be clad
in a dress the skirts of which do not open at the side, and
descend to within four inches of the ground, and the waist
of the dress shall be so constructed as not to expose any
part of the bust. And no woman shall appear in visible
tights, nor engage in public in any exhibition of high
kicking, or fan, serpentine, hip or skirt dancing.” This
is a clause from a Bill for the Suppression of Indecency In
Public Performances, now before Massachusetts (U.S.)
Legislature. Massachusetts is the old Puritan state which
has its early history filled with page after page of records
that “ John Smith, for carnally kissing Mary Jones, was
adjudged to be whipped and put in the stocks.”
The latest London music-hall success is a song with the
refrain “No Crackling on the Pork.” It appeals to the
inmost soul of a nation which eats late suppers and has
nightmares.
“ Dodsen, of the Kendal co., tells me of a very nervous
man who awoke the morning after, ran his fingers through
his shaggy eyebrows, and muttered: “ That’s funny; 1
thought I got shaved last night.”—Ex.
Frank Thornton says Brandon Thomas first meant
“ Charley’s Aunt ”tobe a serious play. The humorist
always does fancy he was cut out for serious work and
vice versa. The writer knows an undertaker who com-
poses humorous verses on the way to the cemetery.
Rev. Stewart Headlam, a well - advertised London
parson, says he has seen every ballet at the Alhambra for
twenty years, and every one “contained much that was
beautiful.” Chiefly girls, presumably.
The author of the well-known Sankey hymn, “A Light
in the Window for Thee,” has just died of the horrors in
a Kansas (U.S.A.) gaol. The hymn-writer, like the par-
son’s son and the religious banker, has a wonderful
capacity for going to the bad.
Garner tickles the people with his moral ad. of the
Bijou. He has a turn that way, and astonished news-
paper readers with a sermonette when the Trades Hall
raised a cry that the Princess theatre fixtures were not
home-made.
Coppin, they say, has chalked out his next panto.
“Aladdin,” with Maggie Moore. ■»
Aubrey Bouoicault and Alice Thorndyke are both in
Coghlan’s Dramatic Co., U.S.
A N.Y. manager has added a nursery to his theatre.
Women carrying children can leave their babies in the
nursery while they themselves sit out the performance.
A business idea full of weird possibilities.
Editor Bulletin. Sir,—Will you allow me to correct a
statement made in last week’s Bulletin? Though no
doubt inadvertently made, it is calculated to do me some
injury in my profession. Your correspondent says that
“ I went to England last year for vocal studies, and had
returned weighted with disappointment, my voice, which
once promised so well, &c., &c., and for the present
meant to follow my family profession of dancing.” Now,
kindly allow me to say it is two years since I went
Home, during which time I finished my musical studies
under Mr. Sims Reeves and Madame Rose Hers6e, when I
unfortunately caught a very severe cold, and was ordered
by the doctors to rest for six months and reside in a warm
climate ; but I beg to assure you, Mr. Editor, that I have
no intention whatever of following the arduous profession
of a dancer.—Yours truly, Claire Duvalli. Melbourne,
13th April, 1891.
“Is there balm in Gillies?” Melbourne
people are asking.
Matthew Davies is now formally insolvent
—liabilities, .£281,083 ; assets, £32,709.
Printing paper is cheap now. ' A Sydney
daily has contracted for a big supply at l£d.
per lb.
The Sydney licensed drivers believe in
One-man-one-billet. They left Andy Kelly, M.P.,
out in the cold over the transit commissionership.
Attention is directed to the prospectus of
the Melbourne Property Building Society, adver-
tised elsewhere in this issue. The Society pro-
poses to distribute property valued at £40,000
among holders of £1 shares, which involve no
further liability. Pull particulars from the
Secretary, Central Chambers, Brisbane.
A Westralian correspondent to the S.A.
Register
One of the storekeepers at Coolgardie offered to sell one
of our party a lot of newspapers before we started, saying
that “the boys out there would be only too glad of them,”
and adding further that it was no use keeping them, as
Coolgardie was almost deserted. The newspapers were
bought, and they filled a couple of sacks. It was midday
on Sunday when we arrived at Kurnalpi, and a big crowd
was assembled playing a game of what is euphoniously
termed “ two-up.” The purchaser of thenewspapers rode
up holding a copy of the Sydney Bulletin in his hand.
Then there was a rush and a scramble, for the 800 diggers
gathered there had not seen a newspaper for weeks. For-
tunately the vendor was mounted on a tall camel, other-
wise he might have been torn to pieces. Half-a-crown was
freely offered for a newspaper, and at that rate Observers,
Australasians, Bulletins, and other weekly*publications
were all disposed of in almost a shorter space of time than
it has taken me to write this.


The Mutual Life Insurance Company
of New York.
RICHARD A. McCURDY, President.
Statement for Year ending December 31, 1893 .
Received for Premiums
From all other sources
Total Income
To Policy-holders ..
For all other Accounts
Total' Disbursements
INCOME.
DISBURSEMENTS
£6,898,221 7 0
1,716,387 12 5
£4,288,598 0 7
1,947,549 15 9
ASSETS.
United States Bonds and other Securities
First Lien Loans on Bond and Mortgage
Loans on Stocks and Bonds ...
Real Estate ...
Cash in Banks and Trust Companies ...
Accrued Interest, Deferred Premiums, etc.
Total Assets
RESERVE FOR POLICIES AND OTHER LIABILITIES ..
Surplus
INSURANCE AND ANNUITIES ASSUMED AND RENEWED
£8,614,608 19 5
£6,236.147 16 4
£14.976,657 11 7
14,523,601 8 5
1,539,466 2 5
3,714,562 7 2
2,226,836 1 8
1,357,209 2 4
£38,333,332 13 7
34,651,965 6 11
£3,636,367 6 8
£145,522,084 13 8
Note. —lnsurance merely written is discarded from this statement . as wholly misleading, and only
insurance actually issued and paid for in cash is included.
“ I have carefully examined the foregoing statement, and find the same to be correct.”
CHARLES A. PRELLER, Auditor.
From the SURPLUS a DIVIDEND will toe apportioned as usual.
Report of the Examining - Committee.
Office of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York,
2nd February, 1894.
At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of this Company, held on December 27 last, the undersigned
were appointed a Committee to examine the Annual Statement for the year ending December 31, 1893,
and to verify the same by comparison with the Assets of the Company.
„ Lie Committee have carefully performed the duty assigned to them, and hereby certify that the
otatement is in all particulars correct, and that the Assets specified therein are in possession of the
Company.
f In Making this Certificate, the Committee bear testimony to the high character of the Investments
0 * Company, and express their approval of the system, oi'der and accuracy with which the Accounts
and Vouchers have been kept, and the business in general transacted.
Robert Olyphant S. Y. R. Crugkr
H. C. Von Post John W. Auchincloss
Jas. C. Holden Charles E. Miller.
AUSTRALIAN DEPARTMENT :
i acx Jr*lace and JEPiUt: Street, Sydney
(Temporary Oeeices : .. .. 131 ITTT STREET).
Z. C. RENNIE, General Manager, ;
SKINS ON FIRE
With Agonizing Eczemas and other Itching, Burning, Scaly, and
Blotchy Skin and Scalp Diseases are relieved in the majority of cases
by a single application of the Cuticura Remedies, and speedily, perma-
nently, and economically cured, when phy-
sicians, hospitals, and all other remedies
fail. Cuticura Remedies are the great-
est skin cures, blood purifiers, and humor
remedies of modern times, are absolutely
pure, and may be used in the treatment of
every humor, from the simplest facial blem-
ishes to the severest diseases of the blood,
skin, and scalp.
CUTICURA
The great Skin Cure, instantly allays the
most intense itching, burning, and inflamma-
tion, permits rest and sleep, clears the scalp
of crusts and scales, speedily soothes and
heals raw and irritated surfaces, and restores
the hair. Cuticura Soap, an exquisite
Skin Purifier and Beautifier, is indispensa-
ble in cleansing diseased surfaces. Cuti-
cura Resolvent, the new Blood and Skin
Purifier, and greatest of Humor Remedies,
cleanses the blood of all impurities and poi-
V
sonous elements, and thus removes the cause. Hence the Cuticura Reme-
dies cure every disease and humor of the skin, from pimples to scrofula.
4®* “How TO Cure Diseases of the Skin, Scalp, and Blood,” 64 pages, 300 Diseases,
Illustrations, 100 Testim .ni:**, is wrapped around every bottle of the Cuticura Resolvent.
Cuticura Remedies are sold throughout the world Price, Cuticura, 50c. ; Cuticura Soap, 25c. *
Cuticura Resolvent, si. Prepared by Potter Drug and Chemical Corpora'! ion, Boston, U. S. / •
Pimply, Blotchy Skin,
red, rough and oily skin and
hands, painful finger-ends
with shapeless nails, are pre-
vented and cured by Cuticura Soap, incomparably the greatest of skin purifiers and beautifiers,
while rivalling in delicacy and surpassing in purity the most expensive of toilet and nursery soaps.
The only medicated toilet soap , and the only preventive and cure of inflammation and clogging of
the pores, the cause of pimples, blackheads, rough, red, and oily skin. i ■
Q VEENSLAND SADDLER Y.
\ LL in want of the above should call on or send for
price-list to
J. BLACKBURN, TOOWOOMBA.
Having a Tannery combined with his large Saddlery
Business, he is in a position to give the best value in the
colony. He keeps a large staff of skilled workmen, im-
ports direct, and makes a good article at a low price,
which has been his motto for the past 28 years. The trade
supplied with leather and ironmongery at Brisbane prices.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
“ Tales of the Early Days. 91
By PRICE WARUNG.
Bound in Boards, 2/4; (loth, 2/10, post paif.
“BULLETIN’' OFFICE, SYDNEY.
Public Notice.
The “ ECLIPSE ”
PATENT GOLD SEPARATOR
18. T. IB .A. ILL & CO.,
Sole Manufacturers,
C - oulburu.
PUBLIC CHALLENGE.
rpiiE above are prepared to meet the John J broke or
any other Gold Separator in a Public Trial to test
the superiority of either machine as a practical Gold
Saver.
We claim to be able to put through any class of wash-
dirt without preparing it—no separating of stones re-
quired. We can put through One Load in SO Minutes,
with less water than any other machine. We claim to
be able to save all the free gold. We have by far the
best all-round machine.
Before ordering elsewhere, call and inspect our
“ECLIPSE” GOLD SAVER, which can be seen at our
works, GOULBURN.
For Terms and Price, apply—
B. T. Ball & Co
Sole Makers, GOULBURN.
rjiHE
JOHN JERGER
Gold-saving Machine.
Orders for above received
by undersigned. “The Poor
Man’s Friend,” to put through
400 buckets of dirt per day,
ii!s f.0.b., Sydney. Cash
to accompany each order.
JOHN JERGER, In-
ventor and Patentee,
Goulburn, New
S. Wales.
“ Injustice may be done two ways—by force or
Laud, baud being the property of a fox, force that of a
lion ; both are utterly repugnant to society, but fraud is
the more detestable. But in the whole system of villainy
no i« is more capital than that of the men who, when they
most deceive, so manage that they may seem to be vir-
tuous men.” —Cicero on the inhabitants of Melbourne.
* • * *
The Citizens Life Co. reports, per medium of
the Queensland Government Gazette, that the assets of
its industrial branch are £152,951, and that the “ amount
estimated to be required to reinsure” all its existing
ri<ks is only £83,438, leaving a surplus of nearly £70,000.
X ,is looks good, but then who “ estimates ” the amount
required to reinsure, &0., and what is the difference be-
tween an estimate and a dead certainty ?
* ♦ • *
One Southern trade-assignee was, five years ago,
an in voice-clerk at 30s. a week. He has just built himself a
mansion. Another only assigned his own estate a couple
of jears ago, and was so impressed by the facilities
afforded his trustee to absorb all his assets that he started
on his own account. He now bets in fifties.
• * * •
N.S.W. Justice Manning; “I wonder if the
public is aware that when a will is made it can be lodged
immediately at the Registrar-General’s office? That pro-
vision is certainly a very great boon."
* * * *
A certain “gent one,” after “ducking” his
fellow-solicitors for a subscription to pay back purloined
moneys, has “ done it all in " at racing.
* * ♦ *
A ’cute person who, not long since, privately
assigned his estate, is credited with having run
a racing-stable, a bone-mill (ostensibly to treat
at cost price the crooks the racing-stable consisted of),
a timber-yard, a tinsmith, a urinal-factory, a lolly-
factory, a lime merchant, a building society (with a thou-
sand houses on its books), a biscuit-factory, a coach-
builder, a livery stable (for such racing crocks as were too
thin to go to his bone-mill ?). Lastly, he ran a couple
of banks into such thundering overdrafts that for a whole
year the managers are rumoured to have secretly hired
assassins to mutilate their customer’s right hand, so as to
prevent him signing cheques which they were afraid to
dishonour.
» • * *
Two brothers rent houses at Balaclava (Melb.)
One has a 10-roomed house, with two to three acres of
land, fruit and vegetable garden, &c., for 10s. weekly.
Tne other has also a 10-roomed house, with hot and cold
water laid on, four acres of land (one acre in vines,
b dance laid out in orchard and vegetable garden), &c.,
and two cows in milk—all for 6s. (six) per week. Boom 1
♦ ♦ • ♦
P.M.G. Wynne (Vic.) doesn’t like Maoriland
postal-notes. He says “ they are to all intents and pur-
poses bank-notes, with this difference, that there is no
limit to the amount issued, and no gold basis at the back
of them. What, then, becomes of the current coin paid
for them? It is simply introducing State bank-notes by a
side wind.” Of course it is, and it is a blow at private
banking enterprise, and several other things.
• * * •
N.S.W. Government proposes to spend .£lOO,OOO
in extending Sydney tramways. With twopenny ’buses
competing with threepenny trams, and a proposed line of
penny ’buses fathered by the plucky Saywell, to run
from Redfern Station to Circular Quay, the money is
more likely to be needed to makeup the loss on the work-
ing of the trams.
• * * *
At one time every respectable unemployed went
life-assurance canvassing ; now they all sell tea.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
One large Sydney manufacturing firm, with
many thousands locked up in reconstructed banks, was
recently about to throw up the sponge, but the banks
kind y came to the rescue and lent exactly one-fifth of the
annexed money at —8 per cent! So it’s not true that
business people are being unduly harassed by the banks.
* » * ♦
The cold-blooded manager of a big reconstructed
financial institution has got the board in a tight place, as
it has just discovered. In addition to being manager of
the new concern he is also sole liquidator of the old one—
the one which burst. The directors want to get rid of
him on account of his aggressiveness and his general want
of manners, but they find that though they could sack
him as manager they couldn’t shift him from his other
billet as liquidator. And if he continues to be liquidator,
after they have irritated the animal by treading on its
tail in its managerial capacity, he may insist on keeping
hold of the funds as they come in to meet possible claims,
and the new concern may go broke before the cash of the
old one can be wrested from him by legal process. And
meanwhile the manager, who understands the situation,
blasts promiscuously and makes himself practically unen-
durable.
• ♦ • •
Seven thousand Victorians are booked to ship for
Westralia before the end of May. They must represent
£120,000 solid capital at least. The departures of the
boats for the West are the only events which now occur
to stir up Melbourne. The vessels are generally crowded,
and so are the wharves, and when the emigrants move off
hearty cheers go up from both sides.
* • * *
Hampton Plains syndicate is said to want 25
p.c. gross royalty from Lord Percy Douglas for prospect-
ing on their 216,000-acre estate ; how much he will want
from commoners, Heaven only knows. Should Lord P.D.
aforesaid, find much gold there will be 10,000 men at once
on Hampton Plains, and no power on earth can keep them
off.
* ♦ » *
As soon as the Westralian Premier returns from
the Murchison a proposal will be made him to build a
light railway from Southern Cross to Coolgardie. The
place cannot live without a railway to take water there
and bring ore away. Millar’s proposal to rail the ore to
permanent water is bound to be adopted should more
water be not found at the deeper levels.
♦ ♦ - » *
Condensing is the solution of the W.A. gold-
fields water problem so far as it affects domestic supplies,
and by its aid the country will now be prospected as
far as the salt lakes extend, which is hundreds of miles.
The mines must depend on deep sinking and surface dams
for supplies.
» * * ♦
A Bulletin correspondent:—Premier Forrest
keeps a party of prospectors on camels travelling through
this (Coolgardie) district in his interest. They hail from
Hillgrove, N.S.W., and last year secured the Brilliant on
the Premier line lately sold to Messrs. C. and E. Miller.
They are now opening up a property further south on the
same line, which is so promising that they have doubled
their holding during the week. As soon as summer breaks
up they will start out-back, probably' in the direction of
Lake Beyerlee.
* * * •
The Australian Institute of Mining Engineers
has ended another conference at which certain excellent
papers on threadbare subjects were discussed. The
time would have been better used in an attempt to burst
up the great Australian dynamite-monopoly. Under a
convention dynamite is sold at Is. 9d. per lb. Its manu-
facture costs less than one-fourth that amount. It is
made and retailed in America at 6Jd. to 7d. per lb. If it
were sold here at Is. it would make an enormous difference
in the cost of mining, particularly on Bendigo and
Charters Towers. Not 5 per cent, of the quantity used is
made in Australia. It is time it was all made here.
* * « •
Ballarat School of Mines about to test Hannay’s
electro-cyanide process which caused a little stir in Lon-
don last year. If we don’t mistake, Hannay is the
scientist who first made diamonds. But he can’t make
big ones-only the sort that come out of Capt. Rogesr’
Monte Christo.
» • • ♦
Bendigo miners are full of fads. The latest is
horses and buggies—the result of cheap oats and hay. To
see miners drive to their work in a gig is a cheerful sight.
Said gig is tooled home and sometimes capsized by the
miner’s boy, who is again capsized when the old man has
finished his shift. A driving and riding professor ought
to do well on Bendigo.
♦ * • •
The writer predicted it. It is the usual result
of newspaper booming. N.S.W. again has the new-gold-
saving-machine-epidemic. It has the John Jerger, the
Eclipse, the Weeks, the Eureka, the Miners’ Friend ;
others are threatened. Why is poor N.S.W. always made
the victim? Why not try Victoria? The Bulletin will
advocate a Gold-Machine-Limitation Act—with a death-
penalty.
• • * •
A Sydney paper ventures the opinion that the
internal expenses of Friendly Societies are made to appear
abnormally big by the inclusion in the balance-sheets of
‘‘the salaries of the medical officers.” What supremely
unconscious sarcasm !
Five years ago, we are told, bricks cost 50s. per
1000 at the kiln, at Hoffman Brick Co., Brunswick (Vic.),
and all orders had to be booked two years in advance.
Now bricks can be had for 12s. per thousand. Men and
boys then averaged IOJd. per hour. Now the few
mechanics and labourers (there are no boys) average only
6d. per hour.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
A small land-owner sought to boirow .£5O from
a N.S.W. money-lender, on mortgage of a piece of land
that had cost £l3O. The loan-spider gave him (nominally)
£3O, but actually £27 155., charging an expense fee of
£2 ss. ; promising £2O more in a fortnight, but refusing
this when the stated time had elapsed. The borrower
was under the delusion that he had to pay the loan back
at his convenience, with 12J per cent, interest added. He
was also under the delusion that he had signed only a
mortgage. Within 12 months he had repaid £8 10s.
Then he effected a sale of the land and repaired to the
money-lender to settle up. “ £4B, please. You signed a
transfer, and I have had the property conveyed to my-
self.” The dupe went to a lawyer. “ Consents to settle
the matter for £23 175.,” was the legal shark's report, in
due season. Settled accordingly. But the lawyer’s bill
came to £26, so that it would have been cheaper to have
been robbed by the money-lender only. N.B. Srme
lawyers are money-lenders themselves; most Sydney
lawyers are directly interested, by invested moneys, trust
or otherwise, in money-lending institutions.
* * * •
The editor of the Mundic Miner (Georgetown,
N.Q.) isn’t one of those who sneak into Heaven by the
back door. There are hard times on the Etheridge now,
but he won’t recommend a day of humiliation and prayer
in the hope that the Lord will send a fresh influx of Eng-
lish capital: ‘‘The Etheridge diggings has never at any
period paid any attention to the behests of the Almighty,
not even during the periods of wild and lavish prosperity
when gold was plentiful and gutters overflowed with rum,
and that invisible and inscrutable Being is not likely' to sit
up at night plotting and planning for the relief of this
diggings more particularly when He is being worried and
tormented with prayerful humiliation from all parts of
the world. Therefore, it is useless to adopt the pious
dodge and invoke heavenly assistance. Man must trust
to the strength of his joints and the durability of his
nerves.” Tub Bulletin loves that editor. If all Aus-
tralia would put its shoulder to the wheel, instead of sit-
ting on its bunk and singing out for Jupiter, the cart
would soon move out of the mud.
• • * *
The Southern Cross mining Warden warns the
crowd that the Coolgardie water trouble will be very
serious if no rain falls in April. Too little has been made
of this curse of most Westralian goldfields. A few weeks
back nearly an inch fell at Coolgardie, yet the water
caught in Bayley’s dam would not give a week’s crush-
ing. Had it been immediately followed by .another inch,
ten times the quantity would have been conserved. Com-
panies with big capitals and big dams will live to see them
full; those without will probably all die of waiting and
wasting.
* » * *
Some miners say Wyalong gold is not confined
to quartz. By no means a good sign. Gold without a
defined matrix is usually precarious and patchy—Pambula,
to wit.
* * * *
The South African De Beers Consolidated
Mines Ltd.—that monument to the organising genius of
Caesar Rhodes—which practically controls the world’s
diamond-market, and restricts output to maintain prices,
has paid £4,137,175 divs. since its formation in April,
1888. Sales of diamonds for last year, £3,239,389. Esti-
mated present income, £270,000 monthly ; annual divi-
dend, 12£ per cent, on capital of four millions. (Please
gasp here).
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Current N.S.W. wages, as officially stated by
the superintendent of the Govt. Labour Bureau:—Farm
and orchard hands, 10s. to 20s. per week and found ;
station carpenters, 15s. to 325. 6d. per week and found ;
married couples, £5O to £BO per annum and found ; bush-
men, 10s. to 255. per week and found ; camp cooks, 12s. 6d.
to 30s. ; general station hands, 10s. 6d. to 275. 6d. ; handy
and generally useful men, Bs. to 20s. These prices repre-
sent reductions from the rates ruling last year of—farm
hands, 19 per cent. ; station carpenters, 21 per cent. •
married couples, 10 per cent.; bushmen, 22 per cent. ’•
camp cooks, 26 per cent. ; station hands, 16 per cent’
Last year’s wages for ‘‘generally usefuls ” are not stated".
* ♦ * *
For the March quarter, 17,917 tons were crushed
at Gympie for 21,4220 z. ; div., £40,083 ; calls, £20,518.
* * * *
Charters Towers gold yield for quarter ended
March, 54,7170 z. from 51,377 tons stone.
The latest idea “ with a view to the settle-
ment of the present difficulty ” between Premier
Dibbs and General Hutton is to appoint the
colonel who is the bone of contention to the
Inspector-Generalship of N.S. W. Police. Calm,
very calm.
The Crystal Palace Curling Club gave a
very Scottish dinner the other week. An extract
from the menu :
Bites i’ the Bygaum
Tacty whangs o' Cheviot HogreU wi’ Champit Tatties.
It sounds nice, but O, there are some bites in the
bygone which no language could express.
A Hoeburne (N.W. Australia) corres-
pondent writes to The Bulletin You have no
idea what this country is like. Talk about slavery
in the olden days ! I reckon it never was a patch
on this. Here you see niggers, old and young,
chained together, working on the roads and train-
lines, in the broiling sun-some even chained to
the wheelbarrows they are working with. The
labour is of the worst description in all Australia—
Chinese, Japanese, Malay, Indian, Manila men,
half-castes and all the mixtures and colours under
the sun. And these brutes can get work when a
white man can’t. The wages run from £2 10s. to
£6 a month, I reckon over .£50,000 a year goes
out of this country —to China principally. . . .
Take W.A. as a whole it is a miserable squatting
country. All the squatters in this part are stone-
broke. They have been squatting for over 20
years, and some of them during these last two years
have had to walk out without a stiver, leaving
debts, in some cases as big as .£30,000, on about
half as many thousand of sheep.


FINNEY, ISLES & CO.
Shipments of choice NEW GOODS are flowing into
our Departments weekly.
WE BUY FOR CASH, take full discounts, and strictly
maintain the system of selling everything at a small
profit and of thoroughly reliable quality.
DEPARTMENTS s
Household and General Drapery, Dress Goods,
Silks, Ribbons, Laces, Ladies' Underclothing ana
Baby Linen, Corsets, Umbrellas, Hosiery, Millinery,
Mantles, Costumes, Gloves, Handkerchiefs, fancy
and Oriental Goods, Furnishing Drapery, f urni-
ture, Carpets, Linoleums, Crockery, Glassware and
Electro plate, Men's Ready made Clothing, Hats,
Mercery and Tailoring.
LADIES, write for Samples (which may be kept)
and Simple Measurement Forms. The largest and most
recherche selection of materials in Queensland.
In our TAILORING DEPARTMENT, we combine,
with Lowest Prices, the Latest Fashions and best work-
manship.
Comparison Specially Invited.
We issue a little book on “ Shopping by Post,” which is
to be had for the asking. Send us a postal card, with
your name and address clearly written.
Send your orders to us, with a clear description of your
requirements, and remittance to cover amount, and you
may rely on getting best value procurable for your money,
and will be as v\ ell served as if in town to select.
Finney, Isles & Go.,
BRISBANE, MARYBOROUGH, Q.,
And 64 Basinghall Street, London, E.C.
THE BEST
- SARSAPARILLA
AYER’S
BLOOD
Purifier
AND TONIC
For Old
And Young.
TO
QUICKEN
THE
Appetite,
Remove that
Tired Feeling,
AND
Make the Weak
STRONG
USE
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell,
Mass., U. S. A.
Cures others, will cure you
jjgp* Beware of cheap imitations.
The name — Ayer’s Sarsaparilla —is
prominent on the wrapper, and is blown
in the glass of each of our bottles.
FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS.
MELLIN’S
LACTO-GLYCOSE
OR
MILK FOOD.
SPECIALLY ADAPTED FOR COUNTRIES WHERE
FRESH COW’S MILK CANNOT BE OBTAINED.
These goods are free from Animal Germs and keep good
in any Climate.
To be obtained from all Druggists & Stores.
Sold by Confectioners and Stores Everywhere,
51
BOftr
BUTTER ■ SCOTCH
(THE CELEBRATED CH.LOREN'S SWEET)
v/Ajy&S<rho£j>
Lancet.
(THE CEL
3 SWEET)
tC> jk
A
St. John’s Works, London. W.C.
Ladies.
We Post to any address in the Colonies a pair of our
handsome, engraved Bar Brooches for stamps, 2,6. Our
Auranian Gold Langtry Fob Chain for Ladies, stamps
2,9; equal to real Gold.
Faulkner & Co., 385 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
A. W. STEPHEN, L.S.,
HYDRAULIC ENGINEER.
Surveys and Estimates on Irrigation Works a Speciality,
MULGOA. N.S.W.
FANCY BALLS, Amateur Theatricals, &c.
Character Wigs on HIRE.
A. MICHAIJ, Theatrical Wig-maker,
78 The Strand (Ist Floor), Sydney, Gentlemen’s
Hairdressing Saloon.
QEAF" ESS
AND HEAD-NOISES
OVERCOME
and Perfect Hearing Restored.
Comfortable to wear and invisible. Illustrated
book of proofs and testimonials scaled, 2 stamps.
A. M. NAST, 43 ELIZABETH ST.. MELB.
Business Announcements.
Sportsmen Unanimous .
A CHORUS OF APPROVAL.
When sportsmen in all parts of the habitable
globe show unanimity in testifying to the marvel-
lous cures effected by a medicament, that medica-
ment must, indeed, possess most _ valuable pro-
perties. The virtues of St. Jacobs oil have elicited
from “sports” of every class in Australia,
America and Great Britain a chorus of approval.
The speed and efficacy with which St. Jacobs oil
cures and subdues pains and bruises of all kinds
are acknowledged by leading cricketers, foot-
ballers, pedestrians, cyclists, scullers, yachtsmen,
swimmers, shooters and “turfites” in both hemis-
pheres. The following representative sportsmen,
among many others, have, from personal experi-
ence, spoken to the merits of St. Jacobs oil; —
Charles Turner, Australia’s champion bowler.
A. H. Jarvis, the crack South Australian
wicket-keeper.
Arthur Coningham, the popular Queensland
bowler.
David Soott, the veteran Victorian cricketer.
Dan Mace, the famous champion double-team
driver of the United States.
Ex-Governor Howie, of Maryland, U.S.A.,
president of the Maryland Jockey Club.
William Beach,
Edward Trickett,
John M ; Lean ; and
Edward Hanlan, the renowned scullers.
The celebrbted Maori Football Team.
And so on, ad infinitum. While sportsmen so
strongly commend and recommend St. J acobs oil,
other members of the human race are quite as
enthusiastic in its praise. It will instantly relieve
and cure neuralgia, sprains, rheumatism, bruises,
gout, lumbago, sciatica, soreness or stiffness of the
joints or muscles, backache, and toothache.
• ZDIRinSTIK:
B OYEIL !
The Life Sustainer,
FOR THE MUSCLES. FOR THE BLOOD.
FOR THE BONE.
THE FORTIFIER FROM DISEASE.
The Great Giver of Strength
TO
CONSUMPf IYES & WBAKLIMG2
Consumed by Athletes and Men in Training
In Enormous Quantities.
Sold hy all Chemists and Grocers.
RANKIN A COT Sole Agents,
SYDNEY.
A BEAUTIFUL FABRIC.
THE CELEBRATED
LOUIS”
VELVETEEN.
dsf
LUSTROUS
BLUE
BLACK,
AND
EVERY
CONCEIVABLE
SHADE,
FOR
PRESENT WEAR.
‘LOUIS’ Velveteen
is essentially a ladies’
material, and surpasses
all Fabrics for the
adornment of women.
THIS POPULAR
AND
HANDSOME FABRIC
Is now in the Front
rank of Fashion.
KOTE WEIiU-Each yard of genuine
“ LOUIS ” Velveteen bears the name, and is stamped
with a guarantee of wear. Ladies should reject all
substitutes.
SQUATTER'S KNIFE,
With Special Wool Blade,
Post Free, 6s. 6d.
$-3 Size.
R. & G. HAWORTH,
Cutlers, 401 George St., Sydney.
jggT'’ Post your Razor to be Ground and Set—enclose 1/3
cromartt
MiiniiiiiwiiiHiiniii,'
ya7\
CROMARTY
Wisty
CROMARTY
WHISKY.
De Lissa & Phillips,
SOLE AGENTS
FOR .
AUSTRALIA.
Business Announcements.
GHAS. ANDERSON,
TAILOR,
30 & 32 Oxford Street,
SYDNEY.
Best Materials, Perfect Fitting.
MODERATE PRICES.
Patterns, Prices & Measurement Forms
ON APPLICATION.
NEWMAN’S ATELIER
FOR
ART PHOTOGRAPHY.
314 GEOEGB - STREET,
Between G.P.O. and Hunter Street,
is now in
ACTIVE OPERATION.
CALL and INSPECT the ROOMS and
EXHIBIT of PICTURES.
NO INFERIOR WORK.
CABINETS 15s. PER DOZEN.
JT. Htilaert IXTewman
(Late of Oxford-street), Proprietor.
Bodalla Cheese.
CATJTIOU.
It having come to the knowledge of the Bodalla
Company that certain persons are selling other
Colonial Cheese under the name of
BODALLA.
the public are requested to see that all CHEESE
SOLD as
BODALLA
Bears the Registered Brand of the Company
To be had of all Grocers.
Wholesale Agent:
JOHN SHEARWIN,
229 Sussex Street, SYDNEY.
*20055
LADIES’ HATS.
—)x(—
MADE TO ORDER
—)x(—
ANY WIDTH BRIM,
From 3s. 6d.
GrEKTT.’S TERA.I.
PRICE, Bs. 6d. and 10s. '6d.
With Puggaree, 8/- extra.
B. Mountcastle & Sons,
332 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
••THE LOUNGE HAIR-DRESSING CHAIR.
The most comforlab'.e ev‘er offered to Hairdressers or
Dentists, works easy, is a idee, light-looking chair, and is
a decided improvement upon any other chair. Used hy
us in our own saloons. Send for price. We always have
on hand a large and well-selected stock of Hairdressers’
requisites, including horsehair chairs, Archer’s chairs,
mirrors, shampoo basins, shampoo apparatus, hair-brush-
ing machinery, razor strops, hot water urns, razors,
barber's poles, razor hones, hair clippers, hair-cutting
combs, shaving mugs, combs, brushes, perfumery, shaving
soap and essential oils, hair nets, fringe nets, curled hair,
Crop hair, best English hair, all lengths, gauze, silk net.
wig blocks, curling irons, spirit lamps, &c.
A-MKIIH OH. Specially prepared for Barber’s
use; can be obtained by the pint or gallon.
CRAIG <sc AITKEN,
NEW SOUTH WALES BARBERS’ SUPPLY HOUSE,
680 A 683 George Street, Sydney.
TORONTO HOTEL,
Terms: 7/- and 8/- per Day; 30/- to 42/- per Week,
FIRST-CLASS ACCOMMODATION.
Access easy. Train- direct from Sydney or the
ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
LAKE MACQUARIE.
North.
H. A. BRETT, Manager.
PRICE-Is. : Per POST. Is. 3d.
In Praise of the Drum.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“The Salvation Army had as much right to
people in as the Church people had to ring them in.
“Colonel” DowdliE, at Melb. Town Hall.
Yes, there is no doubt about it, we can do just as
we please;
You can bet the Army’s got to make things hum.
Ring the church-bells from the steeple, if you like;
but with the people
The finest thing to fetch them is the drum,
Yes, the drum,
You can always fetch the people with the drum!
You may talk about the jew’s-harp, praise the
corpulent trombone,
Say the cornet has a tone that’s nyummy-nyum.
Admire the “ kist o’ whistles” from the land of
brose and thistles,
But we pin our faith upon the mighty drum,
Yes, the drum,
We will bet our bottom dollar on the drum !
See, your bishops sit in sackcloth, and your curates
ashes wear,
And your elders o’ the kirk look dour and glum ;
They would high as Hainan jerk us, ’cause we
emulate the circus,
And fascinate the people with the drum,
Yes, the drum,
The persuasive and ear-titillating drum.
Keep your anthems and your organs, keep your
surplices and bells,
Keep your candles and the rest that fill the sum:
For we’ve got, despite your railing, one great
instrument unfailing
That can always fill our sheepfold—that’s the
drum,
Yes, the drum,
0, we knock ’em with the him-hom of the drum !
STEELE GREY.
Heaven—The day after to-morrow.
Editor Bulletin, — Be Mr. M'Oooey’s
recent letter. The deaf- adder certainly has a tail-
sting, though whether he uses it for suicidal or
other purposes, or whether it is purely orna-
mental, I dunno. It’s a scarce reptile. I was
knocking about the bush for years I ever
saw one, and in three years, in one spot in New
England, within a half-mile radius, I killed seven,
and each one had a “ well-defineu and separate
sting. On one occasion I took some hurdles to a
lambing station, and, while speaking to a boy
who was there, a six-months’ pnp which
was with me kept up a barking, which I
thought was at the boy. There was little
grass about—in fact, the blades were M‘Cooeying
to each other, and I noticed that the pup had a
bead of blood on his nose. As I drove away, the
boy M‘Cooeyed to me to “ come and see if this is
a deaf adder.” I went, I saw, and I conquered a
brute over 4ft. long, with a sting on him like a
glorified horsehair sharpened to a point, and the
yellow which they all have at the tail about
l|in. long. The pup was chained up at sundown
as usual, and was dead and stiff next morning.
My theory is that he ran his nose against the
sting. If the adder had bitten him there would
have been two marks. It will take a more capable
man than Mr. M*Cooey to stamp out the belief
that the deaf adder has what can be seen with the
naked eye. The best way to set the question at
rest is for Mr. M‘Gooey to get a specimen and run
the sting into his finger or his thumb. If he dies,
it is poisonous; if he lives, it isn’t. I can, if
necessary, give the name and the then address of
the boy I have spoken of.—Yours faithfully,
Joynt M'Ginnis, North Sydney. P.S.—I am
inclined to think that, like a good many more so-
called scientists, your correspondent has never
been within M‘Gooey of a real deaf adder. —J.
M‘G.
’Frisco Examiner publishes an interview
with “The Man who was not Hanged.” It is
interesting in places. Here are a few extracts :
I saw the man who was not hanged on Friday. 1 saw
him at noon, the very hour he expected to die. The
man’s name is M'Nulty, John M’Nulty. He has been five
times condemned to death and five times reprieved#
Three times he has seen the gallows built for him. The
man who was not hanged is young. He looks not a day
over 25, and he is strong and full of vigor. His face is
round and not bad-looking. He has quiet, clear grey
eyes. His eyes did not tremble when he told the story of
his six years in the shadow of the gallows, and his voice is
clear and matter of fact.
“Yesterday, at this lime,” said the man who was not
hanged, “I thought my cell would be empty at noon
to-day. I have been in the condemned cell a good many
times, and 1 know it very well. Yesterday I shut my
eyes and saw it—empty. It didn t scare me, the empty
cell. It didn’t make me lose my nerve. 1 lose my nerve
a little when 1 wait and watch and hope for a reprieve. I
guess hoping is about as hard work as there is. Waiting
ain’t so bad, not when you know what you’re waiting for.
You can stand a thing when you know its coming,
eV “Do you believe it is right to tell a prisoner that he is
condemned—to let him know when he must die? 1 should
think hope” . , , , ,
“ I just said,” interrupted the man who was not hanged,
speaking quietly, but decidedly, “ that hoping is the
hardest work there is. I meant it. It would drive a man
erazv to keep listening for whispers every time steps came
near his cell. He’d think it was the sheriff come to get
him. If he knew it was for sure he wouldn’t care, but to
think may be —and may be not —that would be hard.
The man who was not hanged glances down the
corridor. ~ , ~ „
“There’s the place,” he said, “where the gallows
stood. I could hear them just as plain as if they d been
in my room,'* said the man. “ I could tell how far alonar
they were this time. I heard them letting the traps fall
to see if it worked all right. That was yesterday. I was
glad then that my mother was not here. The death
watch you hear so much about, I don t mind that; but
I’ll tell you what I don’t like. When the death watch is put
on a man the reporters come to see him, and they look at
him as if he was a wild beast. They say to the death
watch : ‘ How’s he eating ? ’ ‘ Does he sleep well ? Is
he breaking any ? ’ , , ... ~
“They never spoke to me, always to the death watch,
and it sounds as if they were talking of a dog or a horse.
I don’t like that. ... , , ~
“ It makes a man mad to have a lot of people watching
him to see how he acts when he knows he’s got to die.


SPECIALIST FOR BOTH SEXES.—Para-
lysis, Rheumatism, Spinal Affections, Locomo-
torataxy, Hysteria, Loss of Speech, Eyesight,
Deafness, Liver Torpidity, Dyspepsia, Cramp,
Varicose Veins, Debility, Neuralgia, Constipa-
tion, Writer’s Cramp, Exhaustion, Melan-
cholia, Stomach Distension, Local Weakness,
Sleeplessness, Impaired Vitality, &c.
NOTICE TO PATIENTS,-PROFESSOR
RICHARD, M.E., may be consulted Free of
Charge from 9 a.m. to 8 p.ra. in his private
address consulting rooms during his short season
here. Fees moderate for a course of private treat-
ment.
The ELECTRIC NEWS and Testimonials free
on application.
PRIVATE CONSULTING BOOMS
(Until May 15.)
UNION BANK C H A M B R U S,
BOLTON STREET,
One Door from Hunter Street, and close to
Railway Station (ground floor),
NEWCASTLE.
I CURE FITS
AND TO PROVE IT
will GIVE A BOTTLE of my remedy for
JL nothing, so that Sufferers may have an
opportunity of _ testing the truth of what I
fearlessly state."
Because others have failed to cure you is no
reason why you should continue to suffer. Send
at once for my TREATISE and a FREE BOT-
TLE of Medicine. It costs you nothing for a
trial, and IX WILL CURE !
MY AGENTS FOR AUSTRALASIA
F. J. EYRE & Co.,
98,O’Connell St.,N.Adelaide, S.Australia
H. ii. ROOT,
28, Endsleigh Gardens, Euston Road, London.
Hair Will Go Grey.
2C.
GOOCH’S
Eimic WASH
Restores Grey Hair to a
Black, Dark Brown or
Brown shade, and is as
harmless as water. The
ELECT HIC WASH is
simple and expeditious,
an occasional application
only being: necessary to
keep the Hair a natural
colour.
Sold by J. B. GOOCH, Ladies’and Gentlemen’s Hair-
dresser, 295 George Street., Sydney (opposite Hunter st.).
Importer of Human Hair.
Fringes, Coils, and Tresses of Hair in Stock and made
to Order.
and
mueerme
Wnrmfrer
IS INVALUABLE for Preserving
THE SKIN AND COMPLEXION
From the effects of
FROST, COLD WINDS, and HARD WATER.
It Removes and Prevents all
ROUGHNESS, REDNESS, and CHAPS,
And keeps the
SKIN SOFT, SMOOTH, and WHITE during
THE COLDEST WEATHER.
Bottles, Is. and 2s. 6d.
M. BEETHAM&SON. Chemists,
Cheltenham, England.
FELTON, GRIM WADE & Co., Melbourne.
ELLIOTT BEOS., Sydney.
'RUPTURE CURED)
-FOR FIFTY SHILLINGS!
Hilgard, Oregon, June 28,1893,
Dr. Pierce & Son.—Gentlemen: I am happy to in-
fform you that the Truss I bought of you last April has I
cured me of a very severe case of Hernia,
ffrom which I have suffered for over 18 years. I was
Jrather sceptical about your Truss when I bought it, as I
jhadtried several so-called Elastic Trusses wiihoutderiv- I
ling any benefit from them; but after using your Truss for I
f a short time I was convinced that it was the best lever
■had, as it was easy to wear, and seemed to stop the severe
pains that often prostrated me while weaiing the old j 1
Spring trusses; and now, in spite of my scepticism. I am r
Perfectly Cured, and can woi k w ith the Trussoffiflr
feci so disposed, but I still wear it loosely as it is not!
inconvenient. You may add the above to your otherl
j testimonials. Gratefully yours, FRED. HANSEN",
above cure was effected in less than tiirbb J
I months time, at a total cost to the patient of £2.9.5,
I Thousands of similar cures have been made. Pam-
phlet mailed to any address. Write for it TO-DAYI J
Postage, Address Magnetic Elastic!
I Truss Company, 704 Sacramento street, [
I San Francisco, U. S. A, Please mention this paper, /
Our Sydney Agents,
MESSRS. WASHINGTON H< SOUL 4. CO.,
of 158 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
Keep a Complete Stock of Dr. Pierce’s Celebrated
Trusses for Adults and Children.
Send to them for FREE Descriptive Pamphlet
No. 1, with Price list, etc.
LADIES I!!
Should consult the
Eminent Specialist in their particular ailments.
29 York Street,
Wynyard Square,
Sydney.
DR, SPEER
Female Pills for Irregularities, 1( s. and 20s. per box,
guaranteed O.K.
Travellers’ Tales.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
“ The biggest oookroaoh I ever saw was on the
Gilbert; he woke me up fighting with a bush rat.”
“ Which licked ?”
“ The cockroach, easily.” _
“.I never saw a cockroach as big asi that, but
I’ve seen some terrors of white ants up in the Ter-
ritory. By gosh ! they can build faster than a
jerry-builder. We were camped with a small mob
of cattle in white-ant country, one night, and they
had built a wall four feet high round the cattle by
the morning. Devil of a job we had to get them
out of it.”
“ I’ve seen spinifex grow pretty fast out west.
The worst kind grows in rings, and the horses,
when their shins get sore, jump over instead of
walking through it. I’ve seen a horse get regu-
larly pounded ; spinifex grew so fast that it was
as high as his head before he had time to jump out
again.”
“ Tell you what I’ve seen a snake do.”
Chorus O dry up about snakes.”
“No, but this is a fact. We had a cook in
camp who used to bake light bread ; and, one
night, he had set ‘ a sponge “ all ready to pop into
the camp-oven at daylight. It was up North,
and one of these pythons came prowling around
the camp and swallowed the cook’s sponge, dish
and all. We found him close to the camp in the
morning, with part of his body fit to burst, for
the dough had risen inside him. When we killed
and opened him we took out the finest batch of
light bread you ever saw, cooked by the heat of
his body.”
And then the meeting adjourned.
D.
A Maoriland penlady of at least 50, and no
beauty at that, describes how a Brisbane procuress
tried to ruin her two years ago. _ Some procuresses
evidently don’t know their business.
The Prince of Wales signified his recon-
ciliation with the Honourable Artillery Company
by attending their grand smoke concert. A
while ago, he withdrew from the honorary
“command” of this non-combative cockney
organisation, over some absurd matter, but the
suggestion of a grovelling orgie in his honour
brought the Heir Apparent round. Touching this
instance of royal forgiveness, a London paper
s -iya : “ A man past middle-age, a grandfather
who has sown many wild oats, and ought to have
finished farming as far as this crop is concerned,
who is in delicate health, who but recently lost
his eldest son, whose wife has lately been seriously
ill, might have found a better way of passing an
evening than puffing at an enormous weed in
a drill-hall, listening to music-hall artists.” Very
likely. Nevertheless, The Bulletin must protest
against the theory that Albert Edward ought to
be repressing his instincts out of respect to the
memory of a feeble son who died two years ago.
At that rate, the father of a consumptive family
would never get a chance to enjoy himself in his
own way. Let us be fair to His Future Majesty.
God bless him !
THEY SPORT WITH HUMAN LIFE.
I’ll give you the plain facts in the case, and you
shall help me to judge whether there was a mistake
made or not. _ . ■
It seems that some time in 1889 —in the winter,
no doubt—Mr. Strong, of Leicester, was taken
down with influenza, often called the grip ; and
truly a strong grip it has when it once takes a
hold. Well, lam glad to say he was able to fight
out the battle and get the best of it. But the best
wasn’t anything to brag of. The influenza hadn t
exactly beaten Mr, Strong, but left him in a very
bad condition. And here is where you and I
properly pick up the thread of the story.
His meals didn’t tempt him; the most savoury
of dishes had no charms for our friend. He had
lost his appetite, and in the long run a man had
better lose his money. He forced down something,
of course, but it gave him such a pain in the chest
that he wished he hadn’t swallowed a mouthful.
Then, naturally, he got so weak and nervous he
couldn’t sleep o’ nights. This, as everybody
knows, is the straight road to the graveyard,
through the madhouse. Lots of people are making
that trip all the time. We must eat and we must
sleep. If we don’t we are done for. Neuralgic
oains, too, made matters worse for Mr. Strong.
He saw a doctor, and what did the doctor do?
This is what the patient says on that point:
“ This doctor gave me all kinds of strengthening
medicines, but none of them did me any and
I continued to suffer for month after month.
Just what we might have expected. Mr. Strong
further says: “In October, 1890, my friend, Mr,
James Webster, of 28, New Walk, Leicester,
advised me to try a medicine called Mother Seigel’s
Curative Syrup, and I followed his advice. The
first bottle gave me great relief, and I began to
digest my food and to have an appetite ; and after
I had used three bottles I was quite another man.
I was completely cured. All my aches and pains
left me, my strength returned, and I have been
all right ever since. What astonished me was
that the Syrup cured me so quickly, and I shall
never cease thanking Mr. Webster for making it
known to me. You are at liberty to publish my
oasefor thebenefit of others. Yours truly, (Signed)
W, Stkong, 41, East Street, Leicester, December
30th, 1891.” ,
Now, was there a mistake in this matter, and
if so, what was it? Yes, there was a common
mistake made. It is an old and seemingly hope-
less blundor#
“The doctor,’’ says Mr. Strong, “gave me all
kinds of strengthening medicines."
Open wide your ears and remember what I m
going to tell you now ; remember it for the hour
of your own helplessness and pain: There is no
such thing as strengthening medicine, neither in the
earth nor in the waters which are under the earth.
That is the truth ; all the high-class doctors know
it. As for the others, well there ! the less said
about them the better,
Mr, Strong took “strengthening medicines,
and what happened to him? Why, he “continued
to suffer month after month.’’ Did you ever see
a horse made stronger and fatter by spurs and
lash-whips, leaving off the oats and hay ? I think
you have not. And that is what “strengthening
medicines ” do, and all they do. So-called tonics
are like making a sick man walk far and fast by
kicking him at every other step.
Nothing under the sun but digested food imparts
strength ; no drug ever does.
And herein is the perpetual success and victory of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup; it cleanses the system of
disease-poison and leaves Nature sweet and free.
The stomach then cries, “ Feed me,” and so power
and health come back like the green grass after a
shower. Do you see? Mother Seigel proclaims
“I destroy disease!” Nature responds, ‘ Only
do that, and I can take care of myself.”
The disease is indigestion and dyspepsia. Mr,
Strong had it and was badly treated. Should you
have it, trv the Syrup first—not last, for I have
told you why.
London, March, 1892.
EXPERIENCE
Dibbs in 1855.
(FOR THE BULLETIN.)
The early days of great men, generals, statesmen
and philosophers have ever possessed a thrilling
interest for the students of human nature.
In order to give Alexander, and Caesar, and
Peter the Great and other distinguished persons a
brief period of repose, it may be well to attract the
world’s attention to the youthful career of a still
greater man, the present G. Republican Dibbs.
In the year 1855 a tall, loosely-constructed youth,
about 24 years of age, was supercargo on board a
barque called the Monarch. His name was George
Dibbs.
The Monarch was then engaged by A. 0. Gregory
to take the “North Australian Exploring Expedi-
tion ” from Brisbane round the north coast of the
Victorian River.
The Monarch and schooner Tom Tough
sailed out of Moreton Bay on the 12th Aug., and
on the 28th the Monarch ran on a reef off Port
Patterson, and was not floated off until 10th Sept.,
after cutting away the false keel.
On the 18th the exploring party started to land
the horses at “Treachery Bay,” and on the 24th
Sept, the Monarch —Capt. Robinson —sailed away
for Singapore, carrying, among other valuable
cargo, the tall, loosely-constructed youth, herein-
before mentioned.
George was tall and apparently robust, but his
muscles had not developed in proportion to the
length of his legs, a fact well known to all on
board the Monarch, and when the boats returned
from the shore, the only way for the crews to
board the barque was by climbing up a rope hung
over the side.
This rope was intended solely as a trap for the
future Republican. The wiry, small men went up
that rope like opossums, and then Dibbs started
to climb ! As well might a giraffe have tried to
shin up a palm tree. Two long arms clutched
madly at the suspended rope; two long legs,
terminating in two vast feet, kicked wildly at the
empty air, one convulsive struggle to reach the
guard-rail, and the arms, legs, feet and the balance
of the supercargo slid back baffled and defeated
into the boat, amid hilarious demonstrations from
the irreverent persons on board the Monarch.
And no man laughed louder than the present Hon.
A. 0. Gregory. But even in the bitterness of that
trying hour, the sublime self-possession of Dibbs
never forsook him. The stern voice which, in
memorable after years, consigned Chicago to the
Infernal gods, was heard only to murmur —not
loud, but deep as an artesian bore —“ Oh, damn
the rope!”
And so the Monarch went on to Singapore,
shipped about 200 Chinese passengers for Sydney,
and caught fire on the return journey !
In the first stage of the conflagration, Capt.
Robinson called for George Dibbs and told him
to “ keep them blasted Chinamen under cover ! ”
And forthwith the valiant supercargo armed
himself with a capstan bar, stood over the hatch-
way and played the devil’s tattoo on Mongolian
skulls, until the fire was extinguished and the
Monarch was saved ! And the captain believed
that Dibbs would one day be a great general, or a
hero of some kind or other, for he was “ a young
fellow, Vi rave and reckless as a lion, and honest as
the i un.”
And now the rope-climbing, skull-cracking
supercargo is—Premier of New South Wales 1
Brisbane.
A. MESTON.
Artificiality—lack of vanity.
Naturalness —supreme egotism.
It would be interesting to know how much
an M.L.A.’s free railway pass is worth to the
barrister who goes on circuit.
The English Tories are hunting for a man
to beat Labouchere at next election. He is the
worst thorn in the Tory side, and if Northampton
would but throw him over, royalty and aristocracy,
from the Queen to the last baronet’s scullery-boy,
would go mad with ecstasy. But there’s no such
luck in store.
Probably Boulia (Q.) has the most cheer-
fully eccentric climate in Australasia. Summer
in that festive locality is pure, unmitigated Sheol;
winter (in the night) has an invigorating sniff of
Lapland about it. Recently (March) the rainfall
for three days was 12Jin. —exactly the amount
that had fallen during the preceding six years.
State socialism has worked out in an un-
expected way in U.S.A, The Union Pacific rail-
way is insolvent, and in the hands of Government
receivers. They couldn’t make it pay with cur-
rent expenses; so Judge Dundy, of Nebraska,
has granted an order reducing wages by 10 per
cent., coupled with an injunction forbidding the
men to strike.
A few days ago a well-dressed person was
convicted before a Wellington (M.L.) magistrate
of brutally and wantonly kicking and mangling a
small dog, and the P.M., fining him 405., re-
marked that the case was a bad one, and if
defendant hadn’t been a respectable man he would
have been gaoled “without the option.” Evi-
dently, in Wellington, a respectable men is a
person in new clothes who jumps on a small dog.
Formula for Georgian (U.S.A.) marriage
ceremony
By the authority vested in me as an officer of the State
of Georgia, which is sometimes called the Empire Stale of
the South ; by the fields of cotton that lay spread out in
snowy whiteness around us ; by the howl of the coon dog,
and the gourd vine whose clinging tendrils will shade the
entrance to your humble dwelling-place ; by the red and
luscious heart of the watermelon, whose sweetness fills
the heart with joy; by the heavens and earth, in the
presence of these witnesses, I pionounce you man and
wife.
Cairns and Geraldton are rival ports for
the traffic of Towalla (N.Q.) goldfield, midway
between them. Oairna had the better road, and
was leading slightly, when Geraldton made a new
road which cut off ten miles, and began to get the
trade. But this new road crosses the Johnstone
River, and the Cairns people, finding they
couldn’t win by fair means, tried foul : they
bribed a 15-ton alligator to lie in wait at the
Johnstone crossing, and attack all the Geraldton
trade. One Chinaman and three horses have gone
already.
Editor Bulletin,— -Re a par. as to extra
fees received by Bankruptcy officials, let me draw
your attention to the N.S.W. Sheriff’s bailiffs.
They get a fair salary with considerable pickings,
yet they never miss an opportunity of clapping on
the costs, and I know of cases in my district
where the bailiff has had two or more writs to
serve on people residing, say, 15 or 20 miles away,
and the full mileage was charged in each and every
case ! I have also heard the bailiff boasting how
much he earns-an income much more than is en-
ioyed bv hundreds of highly-educated professional
men When we consider that most of this money
comes out of the pockets of poor and distressed
people it seems to me that reconstruction is
needed in the Sheriff’s office. -Growler [A
shocking example of the callousness of legal ad-
ministration. —Ed. B.]
TO THE EDITOR OF THE COLONIST.
Sir,—The name of Professor Richard is per-
fectly familiar to me, he having lived in 1 ar k‘
lane, Mayfair, W., within a stones throw of
where I resided in London. The leading phy-
sicians there acknowledging the curative power of
electricity, sent to the Professor those of their
patients requiring electrical treatment; in fact,
Professor Richard is reputed to have made a for-
tune out of the London medical profession. He
is a man looked up to and respected, and worked
harmoniously with the scientific and leading phy-
sicians of the days. —Yours, &c.,
F. Buxton, C.E.
Nelson (New Zealand), February 27, 1894.
PROFESSOR RICHARD, M.B.
Professor Richard appeared at the Masonic
Hall again last evening, and his performance was
again most successful. The building was uncom-
fortably crowded, but the interest was so very
keen that the spectators bore all discomforts un-
complainingly, and displayed unparalleled en-
thusiasm. As the various patients were called to
the platform the audience appeared to look upon
it as a matter of certainty that immediate relief
would result, and their anticipations were borne
out in a most gratifying manner. During the
course of his opening remarks, Professor Richard
explained his system of applying the electric cur-
rent, and clearly demonstrated the great power of
the force at his command. He took the manage-
ment of the whole proceedings in hand, and
checked in the most exemplary manner a tendency
of certain persons in the rear of the building to
become noisy. He stated that the ladies and
gentlemen in the building were present as his
guests, and that he would not have the
harmony of the evening disturbed. If any
persons were restless, or desirous of creating
ferment they would be respectfully requested to
leave. If that request were not sufficient, the
services of the police would be brought into requi-
sition and ejectments would follow. The pro-
fessor also announced that he to appear
in the Masonic Hall again on the evening of the
19th inst., and would give an entertainment in aid
of the charitable institutions of the city. In the
early part he would give a lecture and treat a
number of patients free of charge, and the remain-
der of the evening would be devoted to an elec-
trical performance that could not fail to arouse
the mirth of every person in the building. The
charges of admission would be 35., 25., and Is.,
and as the gross proceeds would be devoted to a
charitable object, he trusted that the building
would be filled. He would remain in the city
four weeks longer, and would treat patients at his
consulting-rooms, Union Bank Chambers, Bolton-
street. If any poor persons came for relief he
would use his discretion about reducing his fee.
He then called for the first case.
The first case was that of a young man totally
blind. When he was seated on the platform the
Professor said many people .expected him to prac-
tically take people from their graves. This, of
course, he could nob do. He was there to do all
he could for the benefit of his suffering fellows,
but he was not endowed with supernatural powers.
In the case before him he would do his best, but
at that stage he could nob guarantee a cure. If
he succeeded he should be very pleased. The
patient’s mother was very poor, and if the son
could be sufficiently relieved to be able to earn his
living it would be a glorious thing. The patient
was recommended by the Mayor of Newcastle,
who said that the young man had been afflicted,
since he was four years of age. After making an
examination the electrician stated that the eyes
were completely dead, and all he could do was to
bring the whole of his skill to bear, and hope to
win his object. The treatment lasted a couple of
minutes, and the patient was then enabled to
distinguish a light held before him. The fact was
received with storms of applause. The Professor
stated that the case was curable. He would treat
the patient, and he hoped so successfully that he
would be able to see, perhaps not enough to read
or write, bub sufficiently to passthrough life with-
out assistance.
The next patient was stone deaf. He was a
young man, and had been recommended by the
Mayor of Greta. The cure in this case must be
regarded as phenomenal, as the patient, within
less time than it takes to record the fact, received
his hearing. The knowledge appeared to
thoroughly bewilder the poor fellow, and he stared
round in genuine amazement, and seemed to be
astounded at hearing the applause of the audience,
and the notes of the piano in the hall.
The next was also a deaf patient, and was
recommended by Alderman Thwaites (Mayor of
Adamstown), who stated that he had a large
family, and was so poor that he was compelled to
seek advice gratis. After the treatment the man
stated that he had come from Adamstown, and
had been deaf for 14 years. It is needless to say
that the success of the treatment created a furore.
The professor instructed the patient to attend his
consulting rooms on Sunday next, and he would
complete the cure.
An elderly man next walked on to the stage,
and the Professor tried to inform him that he must
wait till Sunday to be treated. The words were
uttered in stentorian tones, but the stranger still
held his position on the platform and seemed in-
capable of comprehending. As a way out of the
difficulty, and probably thinking it would be
quicker to relieve the patient than explain, the
Professor sab him in the chair and treated him.
Two minutes sufficed to bring about the desired
effect. The patient, who had been recommended
by the Rev. C. Whyte, of Newcastle, and the
Rev. J. Jones, of Lambton, was informed that if
he proceeded to the consulting rooms on Sunday
next the defect would be entirely removed.
The following case was an elderly rheumatic
patient, who had been crippled for three years.
He was recommended by the Mayor of Newcastle,
who stated that all efforts to relieve him had
failed. The man stated that he had been afflicted
for 10 years. The fingers of both hands were
badly contracted, and his legs were almost useless.
The treatment was wonderfully efficacious, the
healing hands scarcely having been passed over
the nerves of the hands and legs when the power
was restored. The subject manifested his delight
by skipping along the platform and up and down
the steps two or three times. He then seized his
bat, and walked out of the hall with youthful
agility.
The next and last case was also a rheumatic
patient, who had been recommended by Alderman
Kidd. He stated that he had been an acute suf-
ferer for eight years, and it was apparent, from
the assistance that was required to get him to the
stage, that his legs were in a terribly bad condi-
tion. The application was successful, and the
patient was given the use of his legs again.
The remainder of the evening was devoted to a
most amusing electrical entertainment, which
evoked shrieks of laughter and genuine admira-
tion.
—Newcastle Herald, April 12,1894.


Colemane & Sons’ Special Encal. Oil is A one.
Colemane & Sous’ Vic. Ointment is marvellous.
Golem ane& Sons’Eucalypte Ex. is the strongest.
GOLD MEDAL AWARDED
HEALTH EXHIBITION, LONDON.
BENGER’S FOOD
For INFANTS, CHILDREN, and INVALIDS.
“Humanly speaking, ‘Benger’s Food’ entirely saved
baby’s life. He could digest nothing until he began the
‘Benger.’ He is now rosy and fattening rapidly.”
EXTRACT FROM PRIVATE LETTER.
“ It is retained when all other Foods are rejected.”
LONDON MEDICAL RECORD.
In Tins at Is. 6d., 2s. 6d., 55., and lOs., of all Chemists, &c.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS— Messrs. Felton, Grimwade& Co., and Rocke, Tompsitt & Co., Melbourne; Elliott Brothers
and the Australian Drug Company, Sydney; Faulding & Co., and P. Falk & Co., Adelaide; Kempthorne, Prosser & Co
Dunedin ; Berkley, Taylor & Co., and Elliott Bros. & Co., Brisbane; and all leading Wholesale and Retail Houses.
The Knave of Diamonds.
( FOR THE BULLETIN .)
“ Documents of all kinds altered so as to
defy detection. Letters skilfully opened and re-
closed. Handwriting imitated to perfection ;
signatures a speciality. Moderate terms and pro-
found secresy! ”
To some such tune might have run Yee Wung’s
advertisements, had not that great artist been
debarred by an unfortunate prejudice of society
from letting his light shine before men. Upon
Yee Wung in the flesh no user of his skill had
ever yet set eyes, which was why—though most of
his clients had come, sooner or later, into disas-
trous collision with the prejudice aforesaid —the
accomplished Yee pursued his peaceful way, as
untroubled of the law as of his conscience.
Scarce ten feet square was Yee’s skylighted
den, be-shelved and pigeon holed from floor to
ceiling, and stuffy with tobacco, tea and opium.
The opium-lamp, in fact, stood ever on the table,
nor bad 30 years of smoking dulled one whit the
subtle intellect of this candle-coloured little man
with European-cut grizzling hair and a long
peninsula of thin grey beard.
A scuffle in the ante-room—an unwonted sound
of voices—and lo ! Yee Wung’s professional in-
cognito was broken at last! A woman walked in
upon him—tall, closely - veiled, and palpably
excited, but none the less determined. Behind
her grinned and jabbered Yee’s faithful sentinel,
taken thus for the first time off his guard. But
the ohl man’s wits were ready. In an instant he
had slipped round the table—thrust the intruder
in—the janitor out—locked the door inside and
put his back against it. The woman eyed him
through her veil, and quailed a little. The little,
bird-like man—long-clawed and bright-eyed—was
dangerous!
“No harm, John!” she said. “Only me
wantee you writee me something ! That all 1”
Yee Wung cackled. “Sit down, madam ! If
you wish to speak English—speak it! or Dutch,
or Spanish, or Malay !—I am at your service in
whichever you please ! Do I understand you to
say you want something written for you ?”
The astonished woman sat down. “Yes!” she
said. “ I knew that old idiot outside couldn’t be
the man I wanted, so I pushed my way in.”
Yee Wung came to the table. “Something in
Malay you want, no doubt; or is it in Chinese?”
The woman recovered her arrogance. “ Non-
sense !” she said. “It’s English I want written,
in a particular handwriting ! —in this !” and she
held out a letter.
The Chinaman took it “The signature?” he
a ked. “Do you want that imitated, too ?”
“Of course !”
“Forgery, madam!— forgery!”
“I know it! But I was told that you—if you
were well paid, of course ”
“Would risk 10 or 15 years of the Andamans ?
You have been grossly imposed upon, madam !
Let me wish you good-day—and better advisers !”
And Yee Wung unlocked the door.
Mrs. Harrison—the letter had told the China-
man her name—stared at him for a moment,
sprang up, and went without another word. Yee
Wung cackled softly again, took from within the
forgotten letter the pencilled draft of another,
absorbed its tenor at a glance, replaced it, dropped
both on the floor, and told his seneschal to admit
the lady when she came back, which would be
soon. In three minutes back she came, saw the
letter on the floor, snatched it up, and was gone
again ; whereupon Yee Wang took unto himself a
sturdy cane, called in the defaulting Ah Meng,
and, having batoned that unlucky servitor with
much spirit and satisfaction, kicked him out again,
re-looked the door, and mounted upon a step-
ladder to search an upper shelf.
Systematic to the ends of his claws, Yee Wung
kept stored upon his shelves not only cheque-
books of every bank in India, China, and the
Peninsula, and special stationery of every leading
firm in Singapore and Malacca, but also an indexed
multitude of letters, procured per medium of the
expertest sneak-thieves in the world—his Singa-
pore compatriots. Ere long Yee found what he
wanted—some headed paper of Harrison Bros,
and an autograph letter of the senior partner in
that great American concern. With these at hand,
Yee Wung sat down to commit to paper the words
of the pencilled draft he had glanced at.
Gentlemen,—Please deliver to the bearer—my wife—
the diamond bracelet completed last week to my order.—
Wilberforce F. Harrison. Messrs. Van Houten &
Groot, Jewellers.
Yee Wung lit his pipe and ruminated. Gay
dog, Wilberforce Harrison ! all Singapore knew
that! Bracelet not for his wife! Wife wanted
to get hold of it, and thus have a pull upon the
faithless one. “Now, wherein could all this be
manipulated unto the personal use and benefit of
Yee Wung? ” asked that ingenious Pagan of him-
self. Two minutes brought the answer, and then,
with several pens and various inks, the expert
addressed himself to the production of two docu-
ments which were to have important consequences.
In half-an hour the job was finished, and, solacing
himself once more with the “ drowsy syrup of the
East,” Yee Wung descended to his subjacent
cubicnlum, and there upon his ancient person
worked such wondrous changes that his mother—
had that excellent heathen lady been alive—would
have repudiated him as of an alien race. From
dirty quinceasolour he changed his face to brightest
lemon, shaved his beard, blacked his thin
moustache, and conferred upon himself an arching
pair of jetty eyebrows. He clipped close his
portentous finger nails, arrayed himself in snowy
drill and spotless topee, and, thus equipped, went
forth upon the warpath.
* * •
“ Messrs. Van Houten and Groot. —I had intended to
call to-day for the bracelet, but, as I have some unex-
pected business to attend to, I hereby authorise you to
deliver over the article to the bearer, Mr. Lathi Tal, my.
confidential clerk, who will countersign enclosed receipt.
—Wilberforce F. Harrison.
Letter and receipt were on the firm’s business-
paper ; the signatures were beyond dispute; and
thus, when to the acknowledgment the irreproach-
able-looking Bengali gentleman bad appended bis
sign-manual, the jewellers handed him the bracelet
without a qualm—the more readily that it was
already paid for. But, ten minutes after the
smiling Lathi Tal had vanished, like a thunder-
bolt upon the beads of Van Houten and Groot
descended the purport of a document which that
confidential person must have accidentally
dropped in their shop.
Received from Mrs. W. F. Harrison, upon handing over
to her a diamond bracelet obtained by me from Van
Houten and Groot, the sum of Rs. 1000 —Lathi Tal.
“ Der skoontrel!” spluttered old Yon Houten,
smiting hard upon his bald Dutch pate. “He
moost haf hat der rezeed all retty to gif dat
voman, und he never know he tropt it here!”
But Lathi Tal—which is to say, Yee Wung—
knew very well where he had dropped it, and had
calculated the result of the finding thereof.
Which was, that after Lathi Tal had proved un-
discoverable—which, considering he didn’t exist,
was not surprising—the disgusted Harrison, dis-
believing utterly his wife’s protestations, made no
further fuss about the bracelet, although, to soothe
his wounded purse and feelings, he sued the
jewellers for the price of the undelivered article.
“Delivered to his wife through her agent,” con-
tended those level-headed Dutchmen, and thus
arose the famous “Bracelet Case,” which, ridng
by degrees in courts and costs,’fizzled out at last
in the Privy Council decision that there could be
no decision, and that each side should pay its by-
that-time-prodigious whack of the expenses.
The bracelet long ere then was a bracelet no
longer. By way of Batavia it had found its way
to Amsterdam, from which emporium of diamonds
“its stones were scattered far and wide,” to the
ultimate satisfactory fattening of Yee Wung’s
balance with the Bank of Cathay.
A LEX. MONTGOMERY.
Richard Coles, undergoing a sentence for
burglary at Pentridge prison, stabbed himself
about the head in ten places with a pair of scissors
for fun. Sentenced to an additional term of
solitary. That man wanted the cat.
Springvale, Vic., agitates to have Melb.
general cemetery removed into its midst, and has
appointed a committee to bring the advantages o
Springvale, as a burying locality, before the autho
rities. Springvale is evidently a good place to be
found dead in.
Premier Patterson has got a whiff of real
glory. Having feasted considerably with the
Mayor of Williamstown, the Vic. dictator sug-
gested a State visit to the Austrian and Russian
war-ships in the Bay, where further refreshments
were served. A proper sense of Patterson’s
importance was instilled into the commanders of
both vessels, and when he put off for shore
“salutes were fired in his honour.” For some
few seconds Williamstown thought the capture of
Australia was at hand. Then came the reassuring
news that Patterson was being saluted, and joy
supervened.—
AT WILLIAMSTOWN. April 5th, 1894.
Cried the father to his son,
Also wife and daughter
“ Did ye hear the booming gun
Out upon the water?
Did ye hear the cannon roar,
Making windows shake ashore?
Such a din in time of war
Tokens human slaughter.
“Conies the foe to lay us low 1
Is the land invaded
That the windows rattle so—
Must we fight unaided ?
Daughter, son, and loving wife,
Partner in domestic life—
Run and get my pocket-knife,
New and douhle-hladed!”
“Stay your hand !” the neighbour cried,
Rushing in excited
“ Put the fear of deatli aside,
Look not thus affrighted.
None have come to slay and shoot,
Safe are we from foreign loot:
Patterson those guns salute !
When will he be knighted?”
All the town is in the street,
Never town was prouder ;
Hither comes the Man of Meat I
Boom his praises louder.
Patterson, from Castlemaine!
Bid the cannons roar again ;
Let his speechifying reign,
Smell of smoke and powder.
Chief Justice Madden re a Melb. Lunatic
Asylum difficulty : “No regulations will prevent
young men from kissing young women.” Try an
onion diet.
At a dinner lately given in Loudon some
turtle-soup was served which had been sent to
Robert Herbert over 20yearsago by Captain Towns,
at whose meat-preserving works on Brisbane
River it had been made. It was quite equal to
what is tasted at city banquets.
When the Matabele campaign was over
the whole list of wounded prisoners only
amounted to eight or ten. In the ordinary course
of events there should have been many hundreds,
but the flying column of the Chartered Co.’s
brigands couldn’t be burdened with captives, so
they were shot out of hand. The high-toned and
culchawed Briton wouldn’t do the butchery in
person, but the prisoners were handed over to the
Native Contingent, with a general understanding
as to the course to be taken, and when the crippled
heathens were killed and planted no one ever
asked the Native Contingent what had become of
them.
Curious that not one of the Australian
chroniclers who have commented on the minis-
terial retirement of Gladstone has remembered
against that statesman his anti - Australian
attitude in ’45-6. During that period, Gladstone,
as secretary for the Colonies, mooted the renewal
of the transportation of convicts to Australia.
He went so far as to draft a constitution
proclaiming the district of Port Curtis (now
named “Gladstone,”) and all north of it, anew
Crown colony to which British convicts were to
be deported. Political accident alone prevented
Central and North Queensland from being,
for a time at least, subject to all the
horrors of laggery. Gladstone’s Port Curtis
proposal may, however, be debited with having
borne some fruit, in conjunction with an insane
resolution of N.S.W. Legislative Council in ’4B.
That body actually agreed to a motion for the
renewal of convictism, with the hollow modifica-
tion that each batch of convicts despatched should
be counterbalanced by a number of free immi-
grants sent out at British expense. Earl Grey,
the then Secretary for the Colonies, took advan-
tage of that opportunity to revoke the Order
in Council that liberated N.S.W. from its British
chain-gangs, and renewed the old, unrestricted
system of transportation! And this was not
formally terminated till ’53.
Hordern Brothers, 203-11 Pitt street (only),
Autumn season, 1894. The autumn season has
now set in, and our novelties for the season being
all opened out, we are prepared to give our
numerous customers even greater satisfaction with
our new goods than we have ever given. Our
goods for the autumn season having been person-
ally selected by our homo buyer, Mr. E. Carr
Hordern, in the best home and continental
markets, is a certain guarantee of their extra good
quality and economic price. Write to us at once
for a copy of our Fashion Book of Costumes, for
autumn season, 1894. As we give all country
orders our personal attention, our country friends
are assured that their orders will go out the same
day we receive their letters. Parcels of drapery
sent to any part of the colony—free! free!! free!!!
Address your orders to Hordern Brothers, 203-11
Pitt-street (only), Sydney.*


“ Men I Have Smiled With.”
STAY at B ruton’s,
ATHnannoD
SOUTH BRISBANE.
The “PALACE FAMILY HOTEL” is a
Waterside Paradise.
MOUNT VICTORIA.
(BLUE MOUNTAINS).
THE GRAND (late Manor House) offers the
best Family and Tourist accommodation at Mt.
Victoria. Reasonable terms ; and special terms
for families. It stands in its own nicely laid-out
grounds. Coach to the Caves daily. Tickets
covering all expenses can be procured at the
Hotel, or office, 1a Hunter Street.
G. PI. COOPER, Proprietor.
MOSS VALE.
OODRIDGE’S ROYAL (opposite the Railway
Station) is where we always stay.
QUIRINDI.
O’HALLORAN’S TERMINUS HOTEL
Is Tip • Top.
ARM ID ALE.
Make no Mistake, and STAY at
Mrs. P. Wade’s
TA TTEJRS ALL’S HOTEL.
The Traveller’s HOME in New England.
BRISBANE.
HOTEL-BELLEVUE
This is the HOME of the ELITE
TRAVELLING PUBLIC.
Next to the Botanic Gardens, Queensland Club,
and Houses of Parliament.
Hennessy’s Queen’s Hotel,
TOOWOOMBA.
Acknowledged to be the FIRST HOTEL in
Queensland, and patronised by their Excellencies
the Governors of Queensland (Sir H. Norman),
and of N.S. Wales (Lord Jersey).
Blue Mountain Hotel,
Near TOOWOOMBA.
To Meet the Times, the Prices in this POPIJLAP
SANATORIUM have been Reduced to 42/-pc
Week, FREE use of Buggies and Billiards
Every Comfort as Usual. Conveyance meet*
trains at Harlaxton on receipt of Letter.
E. EVERINGHAM, Proprietor.
SOMETHING NEW.
THE CL JIB HOTEL ,
TOOWOOMBA.
(Under Entirely New Management.)
Acknowledged to be the FINEST HOTEL in
Queensland outside Brisbane. Buggy meets every
train. Private Suites. George A. Godsall.
Take VESPER’S COACHES,
Starting from' Vesper’s Hotel at Lawrence, for
Quickest Route from the Clarence to Casino.
GUNNEDAH.
CURLEY’S “ROYAL"
Is The Australia of the North-West.
T. CURLEY, Proprietor, and Patentee of
Volcanic Soda Machines.
MUSWELLBROOK.
Hullo, here we are, let’s stay at JIM GRREN’S
Hotel.
MILK. BUTTER. CREAM.
PROM
COUNTRY MILK CO.,
137 to 153 Palmer Street, Sydney.
6i rp
ALES of the CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE : ONE SHILLING.
Posted to any Australasian Address, Is. 3d.
BULLETIN NEWS. CO. (Limited),
24 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Medical.
lOST POWER REGAINED
HEALTH RESTORED. Va c r rf e
*»■ NO STOMACH DEUGQING.
Send six Stamps for illustrated treatise on URETHRAL
ireatmkxt. Every Weak, Nervous and Debili-
iii r n B „. IAN shouW rea(l it- DP- GEO. WALSH,
isl Collins Street, Melbourne.
“ THE BULLETIN’S ”
Missing Word Competition--No. 13.
Any purchaser of The Bulletin who can
correctly supply the word missing from the
paragraph on the subjoined coupon—which
coupon is to be cut out and forwarded to
The Bulletin, accompanied by one shilling,
will be paid the total amount received in
response to this advertisement.
Only one guess is allowed on each Coupon,
but competitors may send as many Coupons
as they please.
Coupons received to Saturday, 28th*
April, 1894.
The missing word is placed in a sealed
envelope in the custody of the manager of
the Bank of New Zealand, Sydney, and the
contents are known only to the manager of
this paper.
If the word is not named, the money will
be added to that of the succeeding com-
petition.
The sum of one shilling may be forwarded
by post-office order or stamps of any pro-
vince ; when the latter are sent, a penny
to be added for exchange.
“BULLETIN” NEWSPAPER CO., Ltd.
M The Bulletin’s ’* Missing Word Competition Coupon. —No* 13.
X X
Cut this out, fill in the missing -word, and forward Coupon, with
One Shilling, or 13 penny stamps, to Manager, “ Bulletin” Office,
Sydney, in time to he received by Saturday, 28th April, 1894.
The Wyalong gold discoveries, following on those at Coolgardie, the Mur-
chison, and elsewhere, have given Australia a lift which was never more badly
wanted. Some of these finds may prove only a repetition of the
delusion of Kimberley, but some, at all events, are genuine, and will do much
good to this distressful country.
Name
A ddress '
Missing Word ■
The person ivho fills in correctly the missing word will promptly get a cheque for the total amount
received —no deduction whatever being made. Should there be more than one successful competitor,
the total amount received will be divided pro rata amongst such competitors.
No replies will be admitted except' contained on this coupon.
N.B. Every precaution lias been taken to secure absolute secrecy and fairness, and to otherwise
conduct the competition in a manner worthy ot the reputation of the paper.
“ Bulletin ” Series, KTo. 1.
IN THE MUSS, AND SHORTLY TO BE BTtbIISHED,
SECOrtSHD EIDITIO^T
• OF
,C A Golden Shanty”;
Australian Sketches in Prose and Verse,
By “ BULLETIN ” WRITERS.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, Is. 3d.
«
Bulletin ” Series, 3%T0. 3.
ft
The Last of Six
Tales of the Austral Tropics.
By ERNEST FAVENG.
With Prefatory Note by Rolf Boldretvood.
99
Opinions of the Press :
“ The volume takes its name from one of the sketches, ‘ The Last of Six,’ though in point of merit they all stand pretty well on a par The-
author, who is familiar with life in Northern Queensland, writes with vigour about the doings of the whites and the natives in these farawav
parts. A strong vein of mysticism runs through his narratives, and there are ghosts in almost every chapter, and for those who aw fnna Z
realistic work the volume will prove attractive reading. ”-S.M. Herald, July 8, 1893. 6 £ond of
“ No writer has given the world a more vivid description of Australia and its wilderness than Ernest Favenc, and the secret of thp is tlni
he has, by many years’ experience of travel and bush life, acquired a knowledge of this continent which is possessed’by scarcely any other writer
He, too, possesses great descriptive powers. Whatever he puts pen to is certain to be good. In the stories under notice he has given ns «nme r.f
his best work. That they will be widely read is certain,”—Sydney Mail, July 8, 1893. g nus some o£
“ They present with force and vividness, as well as with the accuracy arising from long contact and keen observation striking pictures of
parts of Australia unfamiliar to most of its inhabitants ; they tell, sometimes with remarkable power, of incidents such as happen in wild nlaces
when human hearts are stirred by strong passions, and of weird imaginings that move the minds of lonely men. ‘ The Last of Six ’is a terrible
tale of cannibalism, treachery, and revenge upon the dead, which in other hands might be gross and hideous, but which Mr Favenc makes of
thrilling interest. ‘ The Haunt of the Jinkarras’ suggests Rider Haggard and his imitators to some extent, but is itself relieved from the
suspicion of imitation by faithful local colour and a grotesquerie of conception, in which Mr. Favenc here and there approaches Poe This
characteristic is especially noticeable in ‘ Spirit Led,’ which the great American might have written. ‘ A Cup of Cold Water ’is perhaps the
best tale in a collection that should be widely read, and which forms a worthy addition to'purely Australian literature.”—Daily Telegraph
July 15,1893. i '
“ ‘The Last of Six ;’ and other stories. By Ernest Favenc. (Sydney : The Bulletin Newspaper Co.) This is a collection of short but
graphic sketches by Mr. Favenc, the well-known explorer, who has a rare collection of Australian legendary lore. All the stories here are onod
and we can heartily endorse the recommendatory notice by Rolf Boldrewood prefixed to this collection. The present issue forms the third otTua
Bulletin scries of Australian reminiscences.”—Australian Star, July 15, 1893.
Price, ONE SHILLING; posted to any Australian address, is, 3d.


EPPS’S
GEATEFDL--COMFORTING
COCOA
Let it be Thoroughly Understood
THAT
JAMES STEDMAIM
IS THE
SB ole Maix’i facturer
OF THE
CELEBRATED
LION ”
I _ v-T//
JS
TRADE Mar^
QNvaa
Confectionery.
Warehouse: CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY
(Next the Grand Central Coffee Palace).
i ALES OF THE CONVICT SYSTEM.
PRICE-ONE SHILLING.
Box 1034, 8.1'.0.
Telephone 972,
W. MAMMATT & SONS
MANUFACTURERS OF
Silver and Electro-plated deeds
CUTLEB
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
SHEFFIELD.
Show Rooms:
EMPIRE CHAMBERS,
93 York Street, SYDNEY,
“ THE BLOCK,”
Collins Street, MELBOURNE
The IMPERIAL HOTEL,
WY3NTYA.RD SQUARE, SYDNEY
(Established over Thibw' Years). 1
The most Homely, Comfortable and Delightfully-situated Hotel in Sydney.
Inclusive Tariff, 10s. 6d. per Hay. WALTER SIDNEY, Manager.
NOTICE.
Readers of The Bulletin, when-
ever situated, will greatly oblige by
informing the Managing Director of
any locality where they may he unable
to ■ procure the paper, and naming
any reliable person v)ho would pro-
bably undertake its sale.
N.S.W. FRESH FOOD and ICE COMPANY (Limited)
-—FOR
BUTTER
In One Found or Half-pound Fats.
The CREAMERY RUTTER manufactured by this Co. is unequalled in Australasia. Brand—“ GOLDEN STAR.”
The Awards at the recent Royal Agricultural Show (21st March) were for;
BUTTER (N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.) — First Prize for ONE CASE, not less than 5 Olb. weight, for Export,
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co., Ltd.— First Prize for CREAMERY BUTTER manufactured for local consumption.
Tlxe PEIZE for Crestrrrersr 33‘dttei
Thus the S.M. Herald of 22nd March : “ The principal feature of this year’s Show of these products was the excellent quality of this butter,”
Butter forwarded to all parts of City, Suburbs & Country
Head Office, 25 Harbour Street, Sydney. H. PATESON, Manager.
Him THOUGHT!
Visit
MARK FOY’S,
Oxford Street (hyde park), Sydney.
SILKS
SERGES
BOOTS
SATINS
PLUSHES
CLOTHS
MILLINERY
SHOES
GLOVES
A journey to the Ladies’ Bendezvous will amply
repay you, and prove
A GOOD IDEA!
Mark Foy, Oxford Street, Sydney.
GROSVBNOR HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
First-class Accommodation. Tariff from 10s. 6d. per Day.
VISITORS CAN AVAIL THEMSELVES OF THE SEPARATE TARIFF. - 9
SINGLE ROOM, 4s. - - DOUBLE ROOM, &
Scale of Advertising
-IN-
“THE BULLETIN.”
An extra discount of 5 per cent, allowed for cash in advance.
NEW PUBLICATIONS.
‘Tales of the Early Days’
(By PRICE WARUNG).
Bound in Boards, 2s. 4d.; Cloth, 2s. 10d., post pa&
“Bulletin” Office, Sydney.
‘THE LAST OF SIX’
o
Price : Is.; per Post, Is. 3d.
